

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Piire,
therefore
Best.
t
V ,
“ The Standard
of Highest Purifv
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
“FOB—*
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& CO.,
BRISCOE. DRYSDALE
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briscoe & Co., Melbourne; Briscoe, Mac Neil & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe & Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, London.
INSIDE BEARINGS.
Fitting No. 106 for Fast Wheels.
part round and square
at ends, rivetted.
i.
A
% 5 #
O' tL O,
mm
v sill
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
BATTLE & C° ’’Bs Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
SAMUEL OSBORN & GO., SHEFFIELD.
Makers of R. Musket's Special Self-Hardening - Tool Steel
Machine - Cut Files, Mining Steel, Wheels, Rollers,
Sheaves, Spur Wheels, Pinions, Clutches, and other
Steel Castings.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire
A.ndL see that you get
Netting*.
it.
hi-
proof
n pi
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Eysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sgl
m
Chrqd.rs
$
THORNFS
A 1 WHISKY.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IN
. . * ELECTRICITY I
A Most Marvellous Invention.
r il:e only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
E. J. & D. CUFIRAM,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
After all, tiylUstL is the Best.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. a. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEEN SLAND,
should note that the
, Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms. .
G. FOX, Proprietor.
Interesting to Brandy and Whisky Drinkers.
rpHE imports of case Whisky during the' year 1897 amounted to 115,357 cases,
those of case Brandy to 43,723 cases. These figures exhibit a marked increase
in the consumption of Brandy, and show a strong tendency of the public to revert
to that spirit as their favorite drink. It was thought by many that the consumption
of Whisky was fully eight cases to every one of Brandy, whereas the proportion is
only about to 1. ... The wholesomeness of •
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
BOOMERANG BRANDY,
attested by the highest authorities, and its adoption by the House of Commons, the
War Office, leading hospitals and clubs, etc., has tended to bring about the above
result. In Cases, Casks, Flasks, and Half-Flasks.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales
and. Queensland.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp
EbISWAN
I i
ECONOMY IN - -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
the im & m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
Vol. 19.—JNo. 960. J
July 9, 1898 b
Registered at the G-eneral Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


T>Y APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
CrEOKGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. VICTORIA.
Young’s Grand Tactics of Chess, 18s, post 19s ; Stead’s
Blasters, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Conway’s Sky and Sledge, 7s,
post 7s 6d ; Banister’s Interludes, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Wilson’s
Electro Dynamics, 7s 6d, post 8s ; De Coubertin’s Evolu-
tion of France, 10s Od, post 11s; Huxley’s Scientific
Memoirs, vol. 1., 30s, post 31s ; Watson’s Heart of Miran-
da, &c., 6s, post 6s 6d ; Hewlett’s Forrest Lovers, 2s 6d
and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Bartram’s White-Headed Boy,,
2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Golm’s Old Adam, &c.,
2s 6d and 3s 6d, posi 3s and4s ; Warden’s Little Miss Prim,
2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Lyall’s We Two, 2s 6d
and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Oppenheim’s As a Man Lives,
2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Raine’s Torn Sails, 2s 6d
and 3s Od, post 3s and 4s ; Griffiths's Gold Finder, 2s 6d
and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s.
Just Published. THE MINER’S AND PROSPECTOR’S
POCKET GUIDE. A most useful compendium of in-
formation relating to Mineral Ores,. Metals, etc., of Aus-
tralia, with an easy method of Ascertaining Specific
Gravity. By T. R. Suttie, 16mo. 2s; post 2s 2d.
DEAD MEN’S TALES, by Charles Junor, A Story
of the Australian Desert, etc. Picture Boards, 2s ;
post 2s 4d.
To Arrive Shortly, Cheap Edition of Lord Roberts's
Book, FORTY-ONE YEARS IN INDIA : From Subaltern
to Commander-in Chief. By Field-Marshal Lord Roberts
of Kandahar. The New Edition will contain, in readable
type, the whole of the Text and Appendices which are
comprised in the two-volume edition, and will likewise
include all the maps and illustrations. The volume,
which extends to upwards of 600 pages, with a full index,
will be handsomely bound in scarlet cloth, and gilt-
lettered on the back. 8s 6d ; post 9s 6d.
ORDERS BEING REGISTERED.
GEORGS E.O 3EK.TSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,.
, George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
SMOK€
.. ...
CI<SRRETT€S,
BccaCi&e they are tbe Best.
No others arc half as good.
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
CAMEO CIGARETTES
THE BED PAGE.
As sweet as the breath that goes
From the lips of the blown rose,
As weird as the elfin lights
That glimmer of frosty nights,
As wild as the winds that tear
The curled red leaf in the air,
Is the song I have never sung.
In slumber, a hundred times
I have said the mystic rhymes,
But ere l open my eyes
This ghost of a poem flies;
Of the inter-fluent strains
Not even a note remains:
I know by my pulses’beat
It was something wild and sweet,
And my heart is deeply stirred
By an unremembered word t
I strive, but I strive in vain,
To recall the lost refrain.
On some miraculous day
Perhaps it will come and stay;
In some unimagined Spring
I may And my voice and sing
The song I have never sung.
Thomas Bailbt Aldrich.
Victor Daley’s book of poems, “At Dawn and
Dusk,” is published this week. Price , 6s. 6d.
posted from Bulletin Office.
A. Mesbon writes—
Re Lionel Johnson on Byron. Ten years agp I was
out on a creek at the foot bf the Bellenden-Ker Range,
where the mighty mountain descends sheer into the bed
of the stream. Beneath a beautiful “umbrella tree”
(Brassaia aotinophylla) I found an old blaekfellow digging
a hole with a yamstiek. He wore nothing except a dark
and melancholy expression. Six other myalls, in the
same costume, sat near him, and watched the perform-
ance. One of them informed me that the man with the
yamstiek was mad, arid had started to dig up the whole
range with the intention of throwing it into the seal
Above this infatuated black-skinned human inseot
towered the vast mountain, with its head hidden in clouds
that drifted over granite precipices three thousand feet
in depth, and the muffled thunder of many cataracts
mingled with the weird iEolian music that began when
the wild storm winds first swept through the foliage of
sombre Araucarias far back in the awful morning of the
world. On my ret;, rn journey the iconoclast had disap-
peared. His brother informed me that after I had de-
parted they had mercifully knocked him on the head
with a wooden sword, and dropped him in where a dead
scrub tree had decayed downward and left a hole ten feet
in depth. His friends would have eaten him had they
not believed that his flesh would infect them all with the
same frenzy!
And now you tell us of another human insect who has
started with his little goosequill yamstiek to dig up
Byron, and throw him into the waste ocean of oblivion!
Above that insect towers the mighty Byronian Olym-
pus, his head, too, hidden in thunder clouds drifting
over dark unfathomed ravines or beautiful sunlit heights
for ever “ radiant with the glory of the dawn,” where
slopes clothed with pines and cedars fill the rapt air with
everlasting iEolian, Dorian and Phrygian melodies of a
kind to which millions of human souls will respond, and
have responded, in joy or sadness—Deep oalling unto
Deep—from psalmist Asaphs to the far-off poet who shall
sing his final Epicedium to the last of the human raoe.
Oh, Heavens 1 will no one meroifully knock Lionel John-
son on the head and drop him into some unfathomable
abyss, so that this afflicted, long-suffering planet may be
relieved of one more of those insects who are mere
microbes of destruction—whether as oaries in the tusk of
the mammoth, as mad naked savages digging up moun-
tain ranges with a yam-stiek, or as an unspeakable Lionel
Jonnson foolishly scratching the base of the Fame Moun-
tain of a poet whose sun of glory shall set only with the
language in which it arose.
On the subject of Macaulay’s New Zealander
and “Creeve Roe’s” reference (18/6/’9B), E.
Wilson Dobbs writes —
In Dobson’s “Handbook of English Literature” (Lond.,
1880), p. 208, the genial Austin writes: “ If the New Zea-
ander, so often referred to by contemporary journalists,
should chance hereafter to extend his inquiries into the
historical literature of this age, he will probably arrive at
the conclusion that the writer, by whom he was praoti-
oally introduced to the public of this country, was the
most brilliant, and certainly the most popular, of modern
English historians.” The phrase “practically intro-
duced” well describes the genesis of the Macaulayan
pseudo-original slab of semi-scholarly stucco. For find-
ing it ready to hand—polished and all with former and
frequent use Macaulay plagiarised it for all it was
worth. The most famous of Macaulay’s versions of
the hackneyed image was the last. It occurs
in his review of Von Ranke’s “ Lives of the
Popes," and appeared in The Edinburgh, Review for
Oct., 1840. Macaulay thus writes of the Roman Catholic
Church: —“ She may still exist in undiminished vigour
when some traveller from New Zealand shall, in the
midst of a vast solitude, take his stand on a broken arch
of London Bridge to sketch the ruins of St. Paul’s.” He
had, however, previously employed an analogous ex-
pression in his review of Mill’s “Essay on Government,”
in 1829, and also in the concluding paragraph of a review
of Mitford’s “Greece,” in 1824. Less familiar are other
and former instances of the use of similar illustrations.
Shelley, in his dedication to “Peter Bell ’’ (1819), phrases
it as follows:—“ In the firm expectation that when Lon-
don shall be an habitation of bitterns, when St. Paul’s and
Westminster Abbey shall stand, shapeless and nameless
ruins in the midst of an unpeopled marsh ; and when the
piers of Waterloo Bridge shall become the nuclei of islets
of reeds and osiers, and cast the jagged shadows of their
broken arches on the solitary stream, some Transatlantic
commentator will be weighing in the scales of some new
and now unimagined system of criticism the respective
merits of the Bells aud the Fudges and their historians.”
In Mrs. Barbauld’s heroic poem entitled “Eighteen
Hundred and Eleven,” published in 1812, she, too,
prophesies that at some future a traveller from the Anti-
podes will, from a broken arch on Blaokfriars Bridge, con-
template the ruins of St. Paul’s. Shelley’s “ habitation of
bitterns" and “ islets of reeds and osiers ” were probably
but the echo of Kirke White’s “The bittern booming in
the weeds” (noted by “Creeve Roe”), which occurs in
his poem “Time,” published in 1803. In 1791 Comte
Con Jantin Volney published his “Ruines, ou Meditations
sur les Revolutions des Empires.” The following is a
translation of a passage therein contained [Nee below].
It is, however, in a letter written by Horace Walpole
to Sir Horace Mann (November 24, 1774) that we seem-
ingly get the germ of the Macaulayan reference. “ The
next Augustine Age will dawn on the other side of the
Atlantic. There will perhaps be a Thucydides at Boston,
a Xenophon at New York ; and, in time, a Virgil at
Mexico, and a Newton at Peru. At last some curious
traveller from Lima will visit England and give a descrip-
tion of the ruins of St. Paul’s like the editions of Baalbec
and Palmyra ;—but am I not prophesying contrary to
my consummate prudence and casting horoscopes of em-
pires like Rousseau?” Are all these allusions but sound-
waves vibrating from the chords struck by Lucan in the
middle of the first century a.d. “ Tota teguntur. Per-
gama dumetis : etiam periere ruinoe.”
J. K. Murdoch writes—
The following is, in my opinion, the source whence
both liiike White and Macaulay drew inspiration:—“l
recollected its fields so richly cultivated, its roads so
admirably executed, its towns inhabited by an immense
multitude, its ships scattered over every ocean, its ports
filled with the produce of either India; and comparing
the activity of its oommerce, the extent of its navigation,
the magnificence of its buildings, the arts and industry
of its inhabitants, with all that Egypt and Syria could
formerly boast of a similar nature, I pleased myself with
the idea that I had found in modern Europe the past
splendour of Asia. But the charm of my reverie was
presently dissolved by the last step in the comparison.
Reflecting that if the places before me had once exhibited
this animated picture, who, said I to myself, can assure
me that their present desolation will not one day be the
lot of our own country? Who knows but that hereafter
some traveller like myself will sit down upon the banks
of the Seine, the Thames, or the Zuyder Zee, where now,
in the tumult of enjoyment, the heart and the eyes are
too slow to take in the multitude of sensations? Who
knows but he will sit down solitary amid silent ruins and
weep a people inurned, and their greatness changed into
an empty rime?" This is from Volney's “Ruins of
Empires,” and was penned in 1785, on his return from
Syria. Volney lived 1757-1820 ; H. K. White, 1785-1806 ;
Macaulay, 1800-1859. Evidently priority of olaim rests
with Volney.
* * • «
G-. McA.—
To my mind, Macaulay’s idea is a direct plagiarism of
the following extract from the translator’s preface to
“Labillardifere’s Voyage in Search of La pub-
lished by Stockdale in 1800; —“ Whether, as has hitherto
generally happened, the advantages of civilisation may
not, in the progress of events, be transferred from the
Europeans, who have but too little prized them, to those
remote countries which they have been so diligently ex-
ploring? If so, the period may arrive when New Zealand
may produce her Lockes, her Newtons, and her Montes-
quieus; and when great nations in the immense region of
New Holland may send their navigators, philosophers and
antiquaries to contemplate the ruins of ancient London
and Paris, and to trace the languid remains of the arts
and sciences in this quarter of the globe. Who can tell
whether the rudiments of some great future empire may
not already exist at Botany Bay ? "
Shelley also wrote, in 1819, in his introduction to “ Peter
Bell the Third ” [see above}.
Charles Junor—
Re Andrews’remarks on “Aguerra’s Bride.” Proofs
of the first edition of “Dead Men’s Tales” were not sup-
plied to me. English printers do not keep their type
standing for three months, or more, awaiting authors’
revisions. The illegibility of my MS. —especially in the
matter of line-divisions, commas, and small (though im-
portant) details, while exonerating the printers, has left
me responsible to, and at the mercy of, the rule-of-thumb
critic, like A., who evidently is unaware that what he
terms “ artificial ’’ inversion, in English, is the natural
form of expression in Spanish, and that the line-accentua-
tion and rythm he professes to dislike are strictly in keep-
ing with the characters, incidents, and surroundings pour-
trayed. The narrator (in imagination) simply accommo-
dated his metre to the “ loping ” of the Argentine horse
across its native heath. The other objections urged are too
trivial to discuss ; and the alleged digressions from board-
school prose are not only admissible on the grounds of
poetic licence, but are justifiable on the score of irre-
proachable precedent. And, as for Mr. Andrews’ phrase,
“ the use of a common noun without an article or qualifi-
cation is against the genius of the English language,” (1)
to me it is absolutely meaningless. Who, which, or what,
pray, is “ the genius of the English language,” to whom,
or which, I—a cosmopolitan—am to conform ?
♦
“Owata Wanisha”: In reply to “Omega’s”
request for the “Whaler’s Rhyme,” the following
is the Warrego version, sung to the tune of
“ Paddy’s Land ”
[This is printed verbatim as received from a correspon-
dent at Blythdale, neav Roma, Q. It looks like patch-
work by several hands at several times —also, as if it
wasn’t worth patching. But ’tis precisely the class of
folk-song which is moulding minds and tuning ears out-
back in “ this great country.”]
More Australian slanguage—
“Dipso” : Concerning blanky, otherwise bloody.
The word was originally a sort, of semi-religious invoca-
tion, or emphatic assurance, as the case may have been.
When England was a Catholic country, a frequent form
of emphasis was “By our Lady!" meaning, cf course,
the Virgin Mary. In tire midland counties, this became
corrupted to “By ’r Lady ! ” By the time England was
Protestant mainly, Yorkshire took the honor of twisting
it into “ Bloody ! ”
But Brewer (“Diet, of Phrase and Fable,”
Cassell, 1895) lias this note —“ Bloody, tun das an exple-
tive in such phrases as ‘ A bloody fool,’ ‘ Bloody drunk,’
etc., arose from associating folly and drunkenness, etc.,
with what are called ‘Bloods,’ or aristocratic rowdies
[like ‘The Cabbage-Tree Mob,’ in fact]. Similar to
‘Drunk as a lord.’” And he quotes Dean Swift, in
“Journal to Stella,” letter xxii—“lt was bloody hot
walking to-day.”
Yet the word has been so often applied histori-
cally that tlie transference to colloquial use would seem
quite natural, without need of special derivation. “ Raw
head and bloody-bohes ” is still a proverbial bogey ;
Otto 11., of Germany, was called “Otto the Bloody;”
English-army Devonshire regiment of to-day was called
“the bloody Eleventh” (litli) up to a time within this
century; Sr. Bartholomew’s Day was “ the bloody wed-
ding ” ; Jeffreys’ assizes of 1685 “ the bloody assizes ” ; 31
H enry VIII., c. 14, which made death the penalty for
denying the transubstantiation-dogma, was “ Che bloody
bill ” ; Paris Communists’ week ending May 28, 1871,
“ the bloody week ” ; and so on. One of Beaumont and
Fletcher’s tragedies is “The Bloody Brother.” These
references are all detailed in Brewer aforesaid. Surely,
with so much bloody in the air for centuries past, it
would be wonderful if it had not got into the vernacular
—especially seeing that it has such a compact, sonorous,
hammer-swing—is, in fact, such a damned ingratiating
word.
C.H.F.: Issue June 4 gives “ all cush” and “all
cigarnette ” as N.S.W. slang-words meaning “all right.”
Here (Brisbane, Q.) the street and school slang is “ cush-
in-all ” and “ cush-’n-’andy ” —and “ all-segarnio. ” All
three would appear to be derived from your examples, or
vice versa.
V.F.R. ; “So long” was used in Californian
digging days—possibly equals “ May it be well with you
long I ” [Or (?) “It will be so long till we meet again.”]
“ All-oigariiette ” should be “All Sir Garneo,” or “All
Sir Garnet.” It is a cockney expression referring to Sir
Garnet Woiseley. [Good. TIkJ ir.’s on all-fours with
“ all serene’’—said to be from Spanish serena, used in
Cuba as a countersign by sentinels. “All serene” equals
“ All’s well ” ; and a British sentinel in the Ashantee war,
or in the Egyptian campaign of ’B2, might easily transmute
“All’s well” into “All's Sir Garnet.”] Derivation re-
quired of “ entering for the brusher stakes,” or “ giving
them brusher,” much used in Centralia for running up
a bill at an hotel, and then leaving without paying.
[Barrfere and Leland quote the collateral “ brush ” with a
“ run away ” meaning ; and say it’s old.]
Jiff (E. Melb.): “ All-cigarnette ” was origi-
nally “all Sir Garnet,” meaning “ above reproach,” and
no doubt it refers to the fame of Sir Garnet Woiseley as
being strictly honorable. Current meaning, “alright
originally a Cockney expression.—“ Cush,” meaning
good, first-rate, had a great vogue in Vio. some six or
seven years ago. From German Icauscher, excellent (?).
[Current German koscher, pure ; from Heb. kosher —vide
Sydney Kosher Meat Co.] The word is now never heard in
Melb. “push” circles, having given place to “alright,”
“all gee,” “snorting,” “shying,” etc. —all expressive of
good quality. “Hnorco ” is more often heard in Melb.
than “ hooray,” though the latter is a common greeting.
Unsung Verses .
I have been dreaming all a summer day
Of rare and dainty poems I would write:
Love-lyrics delicate as lilac scent,
Soft idylls woven of wind, and flower, and stream,
And songs and sonnets carven in fine gold.
The day is fading, and the dusk is cold ;
Out of the skies has gone the opal gleam,
Out of my heart has passed the high intent
Into the shadow' of the falling night—
Must all my dreams in darkness pass away f
I have been dreaming all a summer day:
Shall I go dreaming so until Life’s light
Fades in Death’s dusk, and all my days are spent ?
Ah, what am I the dreamer but a dream 1
The day is fading, and the dusk is cold.
My songs and sonnets carven in fine gold
Have faded from me with the last day-beam
That purple lustre to the sea-line lent
And flushed the clouds with red and chrysolite }
So days and dreams in darkness pass away.
I have been dreaming all a summer day
Of songs and sonnets carven in fine gold;
But all my dreams in darkness pass away ;
The day is fading, and the dusk is cold.
VICTOR J. DALKY.
The song that once I dreamed about,
The tender touching thing,
As radiant as the rose without,
The love of wind and wing ;
The perfect verses, to the tune
Of woodland music set,
As beautiful as afternoon,
Remain unwritten yet.
It is too late to write them novr»
The ancient fire is cold ;
No ardent lights illume the brow,
As in the days of old.
I cannot dream the dream again ;
But, when the happy birds
Are singing in the sunny rain,
I think I hear its words.
I think I hear the echo still
Of long-forgotten tones,
When evening winds are on the hill
And sunset fires the cones :
But only in the hours supreme.
With songs of land and sea,
The lyrics of the leaf and stream,
This echo comes to me.
No longer doth the earth revifcl
Her gracious green and gold ;
I sit where youth once was, and feel
That I am growing old.
The lustre from the face of things
Is wearing all away ;
Like one who halts with tired wings,
I rest and muse to-day.
There is a river in the range
I love to think about;
Perhaps the searching feet of change
Have never found it out.
Ah 1 oftentimes I used to look
Upon its banks, and long
To steal the beauty of that brook
And put it in a song. . . .
But in the night, and when the rain
The troubled torrent fills,
I often think I see again
The river in the_hills ;
And when the day is very near,
And birds are on the wing,
My spirit fancies it can hear
The song I cannot sing.
HENRY KENDALL.
When shearing comes, lay down your drums,
Step on to the board, you brand-new-chums,
And when you cross the briny deep
To gammon you can shear a sheep.
Chorus —With a ra-dwrn, a ra-du m, a rub, a dub, a dub,
Drive him back to the tar-boy’s tub.
There’s brand-new-chums and cookies’ sons,
They fancy that they are great guns ;
They think that they can shear the wool,
But the beggars only tear and pull.
They tar the sheep—they’re nearly black—
Rollup! rollup! and get the sack.
Once more, once more on the wallaby track;
Once more to look for shearing.
The very next thing they undertake
Is to press the wool—they make a mistake.
They press the wool without a bale,
When the joker sings out jam his tail.
And when they meet upon the road
From off their backs throw down their load
Then at the sun they’ll take a look
Saying it’s nearly time to breast the oook.
We camp in huts without any door,
And sleep upon the dirty floor;
A pannikin of flour and a sheet of bark
To wallop up a damper in the dark.
Three little johnny-cakes, looking nicely cooked ;
A nice little codfish hanging on a hook;
Tea and sugar-bag looking very plump,
And the blessed old flour-bag lying on the stump.
It’s Home, it’s Home I’d like to be—
Not humping my drum in this country ;
Sixteen thousand miles I’ve come,
To march along with a blanket drum.


RS
«=§;:
■.,1
iiiiii/iiiiiiii
1.1 M
■ .iB ' -
AND
Sydney’s Leading Specialists,
WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
rn-tTTQ re * oppTmTS TVT A r P f T I T , T7. a man who has lost his will-power, by continually
J 5 hLfif^KhaW unfit him for nearly■ ,11 the
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, e ®XP ' . .. ’ . *
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have open y en > . J 1
perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
which has restored them to a
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
tcfyou that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the remarkabie treatment
which has made both fame and fortune for Drs. EREEMAJN &
WALLACE.
In the Laboratory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains ?
Do you feel fatigued ?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy ?
Do you have ringing in the ears ?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
NervousJDebility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep-poorly ?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor ?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating ?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has'the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
p mi
All Trams stop at the Door.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks tothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properlv to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City-
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
A
Ip jf PE. *tWorK
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Ml
OMA MVS
¥VZ.\ -
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Eree on application.
ReScCifd at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORE of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300_ pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer —in fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs. ;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
S3m>3NT3E3'3E'_
FUase mention this Paper when writing.'] Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a i e o g
study o f PRIVATE NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing liow all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your ease requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, ia writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
■having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST;
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Kapidly Cured by
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE. —Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. —Yours
truly, E. SMlTH,'Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. ” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 69
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE
'ml&v
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorootne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
‘ ‘ Light a,ncl Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and. the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TEIUMPH,' P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Pa-inless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
Wm. LANGSTON, M.8.C.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
FaTROPHY in Menl
Wa ted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacaum Process.
Instant benefit —-A benefit that you feel, know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
Address-
fclb - A
criptive book, posted sealed. 6 stamps.
k J. HINTON-WH-LIS
sV Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts.,
RUPTURE
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-
lief from pain; security from Strangulated
Hernia, and a permanent cure if possible.
Please investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic
Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at
what you will learn. This Truss positively
does the work, and is worth £lOOO to any
ruptured man or woman. If you want the
BEST, call or send 2d. in stamps for free
Pamphlet No. 1. It contains full information. NAGNETIO
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H.
SOUL & CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €ri)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S Crpbrocatioo-


TATTERSALL’S
.>. Monster Prize List.
REGISTERED
ADDRESS,
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart
Australian Waterloo C. July 12.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
• ! • ,-j • V
To TATTEESALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
ADELAIDE G.N. HURDLE. August 13.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
METROPOLITAN S. September 13.
50,000 Sntoscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address.
CAULFIELD C. October 15.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me__— shares in the above.
Name_
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
Name
.shares in the above.
Address
Ror full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Price Reducers
‘friends of the family’
—AND—
Up-to-date (Derchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
QjU C'V-wiXn Q-' 4 '* £
>tW’
4iOw ; ** u
qUjlaa^^
'thjL 4jloM
cus&t t*'*^* AA ££2fy
£\tcXCiWC
‘KOKO’i
l Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the'
I Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly |
> Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating,
,nd its unique testimonials prove it to be
) undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
I Hair, i , 2/6 and 4 16 sizes, of all Chemists,
[ Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
> THE KOKO MARIGOPAS CO,, LTD,,
> 16, Bevls Marks, London, England.
The Greatest Curative of the Age!
AFTFR EIGHT YEARS’ TRIAL, PUBLIC 'OPINION
AFFIRMS that it has EFFECTED MORE CURES than
any Ointment or Embrocation m the World. For
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Aches & Pains
it is an INFALLIBLE REMEDY. For DISEASES in
horses, CATTLE, &.C.,
there is no equal to it extant. tfT Purchase a Jar and
111 Test its Value.
Lumbago Cured.
Desicating Works, Flemington, 11th June, 1896.
Messrs. S. Cox & Co., 422 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Dear Sirs,—l obtained a pot of Solomon Solution on re-
commendation, and applied it to the Parts m which I was
iffected with Lumbago, and have found it to be an abso
nuTE OURK. I removed that unpleasant disorder on a few
applications. I strongly recommend it to persons affected
S Lumbago, or any complaint nature.
F. HAIRE.
Wholesale Agents:
W ft CAVE & CO., Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. LEARMONTH & CO., Fremantle, TV A.
Vnlrl hv Chemists, Saddlers, and Storekeepers.
Tf obtainable in your locality, send 3s. to the
Tf 11 Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
SOLOMON COX AND CO.,
422 BO RKE ST., MELBOURNE.
mALES OF -THEOONVICT SYSTEM, by
I Price Warung. la- 3d -
New York has a restaurant for dogs,
where hot “plucks,” paunches and skewered
meats and things are served from 11 a.in. till
8 p.m.
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. o<l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
, i! n hieh. or lower, silver dash, oom-
SULKIES, as shown, 8 SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
plete, with lamps, £Bl7s. 6d : b , () . Double-seated Buggies, £2O.
£l6 165.; Buck-board Buggies, B uGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
DOl p l er l sek UG ßest
(best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
11. SILLIER,
135 & 137 Suss ex-street, Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of S rin g s e tc. Send for a Catalogue.
Vehicles and Saddlery, Sarven HiM« » i 9 to be seen on nearly all good saddles “^eTfrom
Saddles or Ladies and Gen *' e “®"-, it v exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do FO$°A CATALOGUE.
colony. The price is low : the quality •> « station in the colony. SEND iUHJL
this advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or ra y
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buckboaras,
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Setr. _ ,
/pr Send for Price List. TS&
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOUBNE-ST., CONOOBD,
Best Quality CANVAS HOESE BUGS, check lined, 8/6.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
=• SiS“ s =“r
First-class Workmen. . s
3ETXF WAR D.S
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Broducer # Bedtorcr
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for ToUet Hs
IS> “HARLENE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
'of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
World.
W.C.
imiiiiiiiiiiiHniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiimiiiHiitiiiimit
01S3HJLNI o£cfOHq
S Si
Pi
33 SWV3IO
MICK SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
No Extortionate Prices.
We give Value for Money.
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars
Best Value
in N S.W.
LAWRENCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter.
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
r
A
/A
m
m
1
m
*0
f'
11
kf.
m
s
£
£
F
F
£
£
D
I
N
G
FOR
COUNTER
USE.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
Miclc Simmons, Haymarbet, Syciixey-
THE
‘ Plum ’
tn
Piu
THE
‘Plum
GENTLEMEN who find their
V* “f- Zfi" pKS tradesmen »e know the
kind ot edge that” ri3 to emure I easy shave, and, haring had them m use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
y The “ Plum ” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s bd.
“ Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake. _ . .
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, lft.. 6d.Pair, in beautiful
{Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle? m beautiful case, dOs.
Sole
Agents
' Beaistered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
LOOK at our prices -
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Onr BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9 los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
„ , » ■» IfcT C? XXT
£8 18. 6.
possible prices. . Co Br"own-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Note Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Man"facturmg atalogue .
neud for Our Illustrate ■ . V:. - j
OUR SPECIAL
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLEIN.]
The Play.
The theatre was packed. The play
Sped onward to act three.
A winsome maiden —led astray.
All seemed reality.
Amid the audience sat a pair •
Betrayer and betrayed ;
She watched the drama of a life,
The like of which she played.
And tears, unbidden, down her cheek
Flowed silently and free ;
She bowed her head ; she could not speak ;
This play was agony.
At length, he whispered in her ear,
“ Why flow such tears, I pray ?
Forsake such petty, girlish whims,
For life is but a play.”
She answered him, not then not there ;
But morning of next day
Dawned on a corpse, self-slain—O God !
And thus did end the play.
H. GRFFITH.
Where Happiness Lies.
In boyish ambition
We wandered the Barth;
Too narrow to bound us—
The Land of our Birth.
The hills in the distance
Were barren and bare ;
But could we cross over,
O Life was so fair !
So ever we sought it
With jubilant eyes—
That land o’er the mountains
Where Happiness lies —
Until we passed over
To Valley and Plain,
Thro’ infinite phases
Of peril and pain.
And now that our searching
Hath yielded us naught,
Not even a glimpse of
The bliss that we sought,
A longing hath seized us
To wander again,
Back over the mountains
To speed us amain,
To seek what we dreamt of
In glorified guise—
That Land o'er the Mountains
Where Happiness lies I
Q.
P. LUFFTIC.
The Interlude.
Grey twilight is cooling the somnolent dell,
But the heart is aflame and red passion is
throbbing
Through every muscle, in every cell;
And my pity is dead to the plea you are
sobbing.
I dread not the power of Heaven and Hell,
Not the fiends below and the angels above :
What is life to me in the rapture of Love ?
The darkness is gone, it is morning at last.
O, entreat me no more! lam man, I am
human !
Should I now, when foemen and fighters are
massed,
Should I soften my heart in the tears of a
woman,
Imperil my strength with a thought of the past ?
I have Fate to face where the tempest is rife :
What is love to me in the battle of Life ?
VON KOTZE.
The Wreck.
Across the night a gray moon fell
Through bars of drifting cloud, to set
Where iron reef and white wave met
Sullenly at the doors of hell.
It saw the great ship’s dying throe,
As one with dim, drawn face who sees
A dumb beast in its agonies,
And may not help, and cannot go ;
And peering still from cloud-wrought caves
It watched amid the swirl and strife
Unlovely atoms, each a life,
Tossed on the uproar of the waves.
Sick to the heart with fear untold
Of that mad slaughter half descried,
It crept behind a cloud, and died.
Then the black night was icy cold.
Last, out of chaos calmly bright,
Day dawned ; and, with a greeting roar,
Triumphant Ocean flung to shore
His broken playthings of the night.
I.D.


TVOstraliai) fV\(it(ial „ 7
m * The 01dob . t Mutual Life Assurance Society established * SOCI CtV ■
n Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DEO LAKES A BONUS EVERY YEAR '
THOS. LITTLiaoHN l E^q ßls0 A i ’’\V O MJ^PKS I 'F A ‘’ ’ JAMES R - HILL . Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq q ' ’ GenYr'sl MnS ’» BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.’; j! T. WALKER. Esq.
Anniml Tr,^ mr . ' General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A..F.F.A., F.S.S.
/ Accumulated I Funds ’ * " Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
The CASH ronitq fm- tv " •• Fourteen and a-Hrlf Millions Sterling.
° ne Yea 1 r . 1^ 97 ,( after niaking unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835 000 ’ ’ J h
Heaci Office : 07 Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON. Secretary.
HOTEL -
AUSTRALIA.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
Arams, efee. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night-advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
o the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES: 12/6 per Ray upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
/q i,i , p . . . . cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
Sw? f °' VS a SaVlng of 7 ' lot te “ ™age charges on ?he
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
F'C
P
s^riy
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD.,O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W Sandford & Co., Adelaide.
Geo. Ross, Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
Schiedmayer & Soehne PIA.DXTOS
The
Sole Agency
for these
Delightful
Pianos
is held by
Messrs.
Nicholson & Co.
Firn> of SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE has
been established over one hundred years.
Tbcse PiaQOS bear the very best reputation for
workmanship and beauty of tone.
Tl)€ ToClcb'is unexcelled by any other maker.
Tb€S€ P i a I)OS will stand the most trying climates.
Messrs- Nicbolsorj $ Q©. have a la
stock of the SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE Pianos
on view.
r K€S f° r these superb instruments are most
■ moderate, also they can be had on the Time-
payment System.
George Street, Sydney.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
And sif IjrmiUNE and PERTH. "
SOLE ,
AGENT?.
bar,
. . PITT STREET, SYDNEY . .
In the heart
of the city.
ONE OF
THE SIGHTS
OF AUSTRALIA !
Within 100 yards or less
of four leading theatres and G.P.O.
Massive Marble Columns.
Superb Oil Paintings.
Handsome Decorations.
Illumined by Electricity.
Every Visitor says
W. *J. AD/VJLS, Maxaokr.]
: “ Do not miss The Marble Bar.”
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
THE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
W ithout Flutes, by tyieutis Jiviflt/cioovlc,
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address-
es King-st., Sydney
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite
Ladies.— Call and
see our CHEAP
MACHINES,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc.
S. EOWLEY 8s CO.,
New Markets, SYDNEY.
erij
CHWH
RIETOK
ILLEH
B
DINBURfi
m
Trade
Mark
PDbtiuers CortPAnvt? I
P" EDINBURGH.
SK*
31
Rt &uC//iJ
Drink
moderately.
Take a little Whisky
“ for the stomach’s sake ’’;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get; “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated. or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L.’
THE LAST_OF SIX.
PRICE Is.; . . per Post Is. 3d.
Sydney Lager and Bock Bier.
BEST
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD. MEDAL at the
last N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all coiners.
CHEAPEST -
Costs LESS than any other Lager in the market.
is
a Perfect
Winter Lager.
Quality,
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney, in
is analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol. J
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour
Brewed and
Bottled by
- Try it -
Obtainable in draught or
Bottled Bock from all Grocers.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld.,
Manager, Aug. J. Metzleb.
1 at all leading hotels.
Wine and Spirit Merchants.
Moore Park, Sydney.
Sec., T. H. Jackson.
mM
■O, |V ** l"""*
■ »• X ■
rr
IS
.
1. ■ -
'
««#*
*»«8J8|
S»gg«
£
s:.V
I
|o the Smokers of Australia--
, * V . \JF ■ * / 1


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 960.
SATURDAY, JULY 9, 1898.
Pbice, 6d.
THE MARINS OF FEDERATION.—ACCORDING TO TOBY BARTON.


The Bulletin
Tin? National Australian Newspaper.
u Australia for the A ustralians. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 1% o
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
•; NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Ofice Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Direc'ar.
Literary Communications to be addressed J- 1
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor loill carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other A rtic.es.
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand, that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jtlaclt and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reprodne-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to he re-drawn —will he
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the oflice of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 H 00l Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<i- Co., Cornhill.
Sourn Africa. — B. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :-F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 22 Bout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith <£r Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Austral in,
Westralin and Maoviland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage. . .
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this ride.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of IW. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— l£d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynnc-
paper edition o/'Thu Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
7j/ie xhzZ2e£toi.
SATURDAY, JULY 9, 1898.
Blood and Jingo.
ITe hart hoped the speech would have contained some
reference to the disturbing foreign news that had been
cotning to hand for some weeks past. He was astonished,
when it could be seen that at any time the British Em-
pire might he launched into a struggle with Russia and
France, yet there was no expression of willingness to
send help from this, the mother colony, though he was
aware that if the Premier had attempted to put in the
Address from the Throne some suggestions for a contri-
bution to the defence of the Empire otherwise than
from United Australasia, it would have been bandied
about as a sinister blow aimed at Federation.—L. F. Hey-
nos, M.L.C., m N.S. IV. Legislative Council.
Once, a long while ago, The Bulletin had a
heavy pork supper and a dream. It dreamed
that L. F. Heydon, M.L.C., had a huge case
on hand —the very biggest law case that ever
existed in Australasia. It was expected to
last 1724 days, and the brief weighed 6cwt.,
and was marked at 160,000 guineas. And
the night before that case started the per-
fectly new small boy who swept out
Crick’s law office —Crick had just sacked
the old small boy—called round, and
pounded on L. F. Heydon’s door till that
eminent lawyer came down in his night-shirt
to see about it; and when he came down
Crick’s office-boy assured him that he (the
boy) would give Heydon all the assistance
in his power, and would gladly advise him
on any knotty point that might arise, and
that he would see Heydon through with that
case or bust. Then there was a hurried,
indignant chase down the garden-path, and
a well-meaning youth was severely whacked
on the lower coat-tail as he fled over the
fence.
4> • •
That old dream comes back to The Bulle-
tin somehow in relation to the above speech.
There are some 40,000,000 British altogether.
Behind them, as a second line of defence,
there are at least 40,000,000 out of the vast
Indian populations who may be reckoned as
about the best fighting material—the Turks
alone excepted —that ever grew in warlike
Asia. There are millions more of strong
and gritty butchers in Britain’s African
possessions, and in the land of these dark-
skinned warriors wages are, so low that Is.
per day looks like illimitable wealth, and
the miserable pay of an ordinary British
private would buy them by thousands—
probably by tens of thousands Also,
behind them all there is the biggest fleet
and the biggest pile of ill-gotten wealth in
the world. Even all these resources would
be little enough—perhaps they would be too
little—in a death-grip with the tremendous
Muscovite on his own element. Still, when
Heydon asks why New South Wales, with
its 1.300,000 people (which people have
already a slab of Imperial territory about
four times the size of Great Britain to
defend), doesn’t bang at the door of the
mistress of all these legions, and bring her
down out of her warm bed, with her hair
in papers, to assure her that New South
Wales will stand by her —well, it sets men
wondering at the shrieking foolishness of
this shriekingly foolish world.
* 9 * *
If Britain, by any chance, gets into war
with France and Russia, Australia will
almost certainly have to fight, in any case
That is providing it doesn’t stand out of the
scrimmage by throwing off its allegiance and
declaring itself independent. Australia is so
large and so ill-defended, and Britain would
have so much else on hand, that, if Hey-
don's suggested war with Russia and France
did ensue, this country would have every
chance to be casually raided somewhere.
There is nothing unusual about this position ;
Heydon’s especial section of Australia is in
exactly the same situation as all the other
places in the empire ; they all have to take
their share of any trouble which may come
their way. But that is no reason why New
South Wales should be the one ridiculously
boastful drunk among the crowd. What is
wanted is that it should do any really neces-
sary fighting that comes in its road ; not
wave its coat-tail frantically in time of peace
and yell about the valor it is going to show
and the unnecessary fighting it is going to
do. Australia has more territory to defend,
in proportion to the number of defenders,
than any other important place in the em-
pire. Its defences, by reason of the six
separate commanders, and the three different
railway gauges which make speedy concen-
tration impossible, and the want of any rail-
way communication at all with the west and
north, are far weaker even than they might
be, considering the means at command.
Looking at the matter from Heydon’s own
standpoint—the purely British and imperial
standpoint of a man whose patriotism con-
sists in hollering for the remote land where
titles and gewgaws come from—the idea of
a country in such a state offering assistance
to Britain is wildly ludicrous. In case of a
real war Britain would probably be glad to
know that Australia could see its way to
defend itself, and would be very much sur-
prised also. But an offer to help defend
Britain as well in a really serious war—not
a mere scramble with the spearmen of the
Soudan —would probably evoke a query as to
which lunatic-asylum New South Wales had
freshly escaped from.
* *
It is just about 1000 chances to one that
Britain doesn’t want any more Australian
soldiers in real war. The Australian soldier
in the Soudan was a raw recruit burdened
with a ridiculous quantity of potted tongue
and condensed milk. H was badly officered ;
there weren’t many of him ; he arrived with
a tremendous amount of advertisement when
a good part of the row was over and left again
long before it was finished. As an advertise-
ment, he may have done something to im-
press foreign powers, but he was of no parti-
cular use. If New South Wales tried another
such experiment, as Heydon advocates,
it would presumably have to borrow the
money from Britain to start its little cam-
paign—New South Wales never starts any-
thing without borrowing the money from
Britain ; and it is just possible that Britain
couldn’t conveniently lend just then. Then
New South Wales couldn’t send enough
troops to make any serious impression on the
huge armies that would be raging. If New
South Wales were attacked while its army
was away, Britain would probably have to
send troops in their stead to defend it. For
reasons of its own, Britain would probably
put up with this and only curse internally.
That country is very proud of having this
continent among the component parts
of the empire. It is the only em-
pire that includes a whole continent,
and it doesn’t want to needlessly aggravate
its continent and make trouble. So it would
perhaps feel bound to treat the straggling
band of volunteer heroes with a certain
amount of consideration. It would hesitate
to tell them what an awkward squad they
were, and to kick and harry them into shape
with the vigour usually shown in real war,
and to shoot the man who stayed behind by
way of encouraging the others—lest it should
cool the loyalty of a very big country that
owes it a very large amount of money.
For these reasons it might smile out-
wardly and blaspheme very hard in the
recesses of its innards at the sight of the
Australian contingent with its vast supply of
potted provisions. And in all likelihood it
would be glad to swap them for as many
cheap Mahommedans whom it could hustle
without ceremony, and with no risk of aggra
vating six Parliament!? and six Governments,
and being severely condemned in 160 papers,
and having six Agents General calling round
to remonstrate.
* * » *
Even a personally unwarlike lawyer with
a wild desire to send someone else to perish
in the tented field should be able to recognise
that Australia’s first business is to defend
itself. Looking at the matter from Hey-
don's purely British standpoint, it boils
down to this : If a big war comes, Australia,
under existing conditions, must either defend
itself or howl to Britain to come and defend
it. It is undignified to howl, and it might
be useless as well ; therefore Australia
should be able to defend itself. From Hey-
don’s point of view it should do so, if only
to lift a load off Heydon’s “ beloved mother
country ” It can’t defend itself to any ex-
tent worth mentioning until it has a strong
Central Government, a uniform railway
gauge to enable troops to be rapidly shifted
from place to place, and an army with one
head, instead of six small squads with six
contradictory bosses As Heydon raged all
over the country to prevent Federation being
arrived at, The Bulletin assumes that he
doesn’t care whether Australia is decently
defended or not. It is easier and cheaper
and more grovelsome to make absurd offers
about sending a fragment of useless assist-
ance to Britain than to lift one load off
Britain’s responsibilities by putting this
country in the best possible condition to
protect itself. Also, it is louder, and
more sensational, and more likely to
lead to a title. The Fleydon variety of
patriot sees no lack of logic in shrieking
that the Anglo - Saxon in England is a
brother, and that it is the duty of New
South Wales to tighten the bonds which
unite it to him ; and that the much nearer
Anglo-Saxon in Westralia and Victoria and
S.A. and Tasmania is a robber who should
be regarded with the utmost suspicion and
not united with any more than can possibly
be avoided. Also, a perpetual union with
the remote Anglo-Saxon is called being loyal
to the beloved mother country, and a per-
manent union with the adjacent one is called
selling New South Wales into “bondage
and taking a suicidal “ leap in the dark.
But, then, titles come from London —not
Melbourne or Adelaide.
* * •
Further, it seems a fair thing to ask if
Heydon proposes that the cost of the mili-
tary assistance which he wants to offer to
Britain shall be defrayed by extra taxation-
say, an income-tax of 6s. in the £ —and if
lie will cheerfully stand his fair share, with
perhaps a little over, seeing that he gets the
whoop and glory of being the originator of
the idea. War is a fearsomely expensive
thing nowadays. If New South Wales pro-
poses to take a hand in a serious British
campaign in a far-off' land, the extra ex-
pense, as compared with mere defensive
operations in Australia, would be a large
item. In a very moderate campaign it
would easily run into several millions.
The Bulletin doesn’t suppose for a moment
that Heydon, M.L.0., proposes to go and
fight personally. If the cost of the cam-
paign is to be added to the public debt and
left to posterity as usual, he doesn’t propose
to pay personally either. And if Hey-
don’s British patriotism simply means that
he wants somebody else to go and fight
at somebody else’s expense, then it doesn't
think much of Heydon’s British patriotism.
Of his Australian patriotism it thinks nothing
at all. The last Australian politician who
started assisting Britain sent other people to
do the fighting and left the bill to posterity,
and all he did was to take the gewgaw which
Britain handed out as a reward. As he is
dead it is, perhaps, unnecessary to describe
his conduct as it deserves. But L. F. Hey-
don, M.L.C., hasn’t the advantage of being
dead.
* * * *
Anyhow, Britain has no war with France
and Russia at present. There is no reason,
apart from the loose whooping of a few
jingoes, to suppose that there is a war any-
where in sight. There is no visible casus
belli of any importance on hand. If there is
to be a war Britain will, probably, have to
scrape together 800,000 men to see it
through, and even if N.S.W. went jingoing,
which isn’t likely, it would probably send
along not more than 1000. Under these cir-
cumstances, if the military yell which Hey-
don desires his province to give vent to had
been put in the Governor’s speech, Britain’s
most probable desire would be to spank the
meddlesome person who put it there. When
the big lion who is running the show is
making his arrangements quietly, he doesn’t
want the small, self-appointed, stuffed lion,
who is in the far background, to start roar-
ing prematurely. And the Governor’s speech
isn’t an “ Address from the Throne,” any-
how ; a mere Governor sit on a
Throne. Thank Heaven !
The Cornstalk Balance-Sheet.
The N.S.W. Government goes to the country
very shortly to appeal for a renewal of its lease
of power. It asks this because, among other
things, it has put the public finances straight,
and saved the country from national bank-
ruptcy, or something like that. Considering
that the finance of almost every Australasian
province is rotten and dishonest in the extreme,
and consists mostly of borrowing money so as
to put off the evil day and to shunt the respon-
sibility along till to-morrow, an honest Govern-
ment with brains and courage enough to face
its responsibilities is a valuable thing, and
something to be carefully preserved in alcohol
for future use. Therefore, Tmh fiilLtETft?
offers the public some rlreary statistics to show
exaotly how the Reid Government has put the
finances straight.
■ • « •
The financial year ended 30th June, 1898,
closes with a moderately real-looking surplus
of ,£2119. This is so far as is known at present,
though the auditing process may alter the
figures. The results for the last few years, in
the days when Reid was saving the country,
and the previous days when Dibbs was losing
the country, are as follows :
Dibbs Government (3 years):
Expenditure. Revenue. Surplus.
1892 ... £9,931,411 £10,173,967 £242,196
Deficit.
1893 ... 9,931,658 9,499,252 432,406
Surplus.
1894 ... 9,178,706 9,300,743 122,037
Deficit.
£29,041,775 £28,973,562 £68,213
Reid Government (3| years) :
Expenditure. Revenue. Deficit.
1895 (4 year) £4,844,299 £4,478,515 £365,784
1896 ... 9,523,057 9,074,778 448,279
1897 ... 9,140,625 9,107,496 33,129
Surplus.
1898 ... 9,480,015 9,482,134 2,119
Deficit.
£32,987,996 £32,142,923- £845,073
The figures for 1898 are taken from the official
accounts published in the Sydney daily papers
on Saturday, July 2. All the previous figures
are taken from the latest issue of the N.S.W.
Statistical, Register, pages 786 and 787. If
they don’t agree with the figures previously
published in this paper (notably in its issue
of Bth May, 1897) this paper declines
all responsibility. These previous figures
were taken from an earlier issue of the Statis-
tical Register—the latest then available ; and
the new r issue contains quite a different set.
Apparently it takes a long time to get the
N.S.W. finances fairly settled down, for even
the figures for remote 1892 keep altering. But
so far as they go they show that the Dibbs
shortage averaged under £23,000 a year and the
Reid shortage has so far averaged over £241,000
a year. This year two awkward facts appear
in the accounts. One is that the municipal
subsidy, which is an obligation fixed on the
Treasury by Reid’s own Act of Parliament, and
which amounts to £65,000, was not paid, but
has been postponed till next financial year.
This alone would have turned the surplus into
a deficit of £63,000. Another is that the
revenue from land sales increased by £85,000 —
partly, at all events, through the sudden rush
made to auction the public estate in time to in-
clude the proceeds in this year’s revenue.
* • * *
During the year the Reid Goverment got
through £1,707,972 of loan money, which is the
biggest thing in this line since 1893. In N.S.VV.,
as in all the other provinces, practically any-
thing may be put into loans which a dishonest
Treasurer is dishonest enough to put there,
and any kind of accounts may be made to look
square by putting enough of the expenditure
into loans. The following (N.S.W. Statistical
Register, page 792) is the amount of borrowed
money spent on public works by recent N.S.W
Ministries :
1891— Parkes £4,750,167
1892 Dibbs 3,014,680
1893 „ 1,913,580
1894 ~ 1,330,046
1895—Reid (Jyear) 656,625
1896 „ 1,270,898
1897 „ 1,548,105
1898 „ 1,707,972
Dibbs inherited a vast amount of unfinished
public works from his predecessor, the gorgeous
spendthrift Parkes, but when he paid them off
the loan expenditure showed a steady down-
ward tendency. Reid didn’t inherit any such
load, as shown by the very small loan expendi-
ture in his first year, when he had his prede-
cessors’ public works liabilities to meet. And
his loan expenditure has moved steadily upward.
• * * *
The great financial art of making ends meet
in N.S.W. consists in paying as little of the
public works expenditure as possible out of
revenue, and charging as much of it as possible
to loans, and leaving posterity to pay for the
wharves and bridges that have worn out and
vanished, and the dredging that has silted up
again, and the other things that have been
used up and forgotten in bygone ages. The
following is a statement of the amount of public
works expenditure paid out of revenue since
’92, so far as the figures are available, and it
reveals another feature of the Reid economies :
Public works paid for
out of revenue.
1892-3-4 Dibbs (3 years) ... £3,251,321
1895-6-7 Reid (2 \ years) ... 2,302,631
These figures stick out conspicuously on page
792 of the N.S.W. Statistical Register, and
they show that while Dibbs providedk£l,oB3,7oo
per annum of the public works outlay out of
revenue, his successor cut down this item to
£921,000. Which simply means that a bigger
sum w’as charged to the ever-convenient loan,
and passed on to burden the bowed shoulders
of that weary, patient ass, Posterity. But in
the meantime the Reid finances look better to
an average extent of £162,000 annually. And
the one essential is to make the finances look
well, for it is thereby that the boss financier
keeps his billet and his screw, and grazes
peacefully in the Ministerial paddock, and
hasn’t to go and hustle for a living on the hard,
busy globe outside.
* * * •
Premier Reid makes a special boast concern-
ing the large amounts he has paid in reduction
of the public debt. But in this respect he
only paid the smallest amount he could —like
any other Treasurer. Certain old N.S.W.
loans have sinking-funds attached, and the
weary public financier pays a reluctant contri-
bution thereto. Some of them, however, are
more weary and reluctant and know how to
dodge the contribution better than others.
Premier Reid w’as the first Treasurer, however,
who conceived the idea of bragging about these
payments, as if they were a special voluntary
effort on his own part, and a thing entirely of
his own invention. Also, while he did all the
grunting, he actually did less of the lifting than
his predecessor, for, by altering the date of the
financial year, he managed to evade the most of
one half-year’s payment. According to the


Statistical Register (page 787) the amounts
paid out of revenue in reduction of these old
debts by various Governments were as follows
up to the last date for which figures are avail-
able :
, 1888 ... Parkes ... £44,588 "I .
1889 ... „ 49 519 Average
1 890 ... „ ... 39,203 f 677
1891 - ... 105,400 I P e r y^r.
1892 ... Dibbs ... 115,196 1 Average
J 8 ... » ... 111,897 }- £111,531
1894 ... ~ ... 107,502 J per year.
£of 1895 ... Reid ... 21,561 Average
J 896 ... „ ... 111,752 1 £99,770
t 897 ... ~ ... 116,113 J per year.
* * • *
Reid’s further boast is that he has paid
£150,000 a year off the old deficit, which is
quite true, barring the fact that he dodged one
half-year’s payment. Parkes and Dibbs before
him also paid up their £150,000 a year regu-
larly, but without any dodging ; that weary
£150,000 a year is fixed by law, and no Trea-
surer can get away from it, unless he wriggles
very hard indeed. And, while Parkes and
Dibbs and Reid paid their £150,000 a year off the
deficit with one hand, they added their own new
deficits on with the other, so that each one, despite
his vigorous paying off, left the cash-shortage
much the same as. he found it. As Premier
Reid truthfully stated in the speech at the
recent opening of Parliament, his Government
has paid off some £900,000 of old debt, and it
might have been as truthfully added that it has
stuck on some £845,000 of new deficit—but it
wasn’t. Still, in all these occasions Premier
Reid is mostly the creature of circumstance.
He had to sacrifice revenue, for he gob into
office by buying the support of the Sydney im-
porters with promises of a reduced tariff. He
couldn’t put on enough direct taxation to make
up the deficit—his friends, the Sydney im-
porting gang, wouldn’t have endured it. He
had to profess to make ends meet and to reduce
expenditure because his political stock-in-trade
was mostly the alleged extravagance of his pre-
decessor ; so he did it by paying things out of
loans that used to come out of revenue. He
had to keep up an alleged show of prosperity
by way of demonstrating the advantages of
Foreign-trade, so the loan expenditure grows
steadily bigger in order to find work for the
unemployed. He can’t tell the solid truth
about these things; it is more than his billet is
worth. And the Foreign-trade papers which
support him can’t do it either ; if they told
the truth about Reid’s accounts the country
would heave him out, and the Foreign-trade
policy would go out with him. Altogether the
path along which G. Reid wobbles to the
accomplishment of his destiny is a pretty
difficult one.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The House of Culverts.
This small item from Temora (N.S.W.) in-
dependent is simply bursting with significance:
Mr. Hickey said he was told by Mr. Trefle that Mr
R. E. O’Connor had decided to contest the Young- elec-
torate. They wanted a roads and bridges member. Mr
O’Connor would not suit. He was too much of a toff.
1 hat remark is a whole 10-volume encyclopaedia
of comment on The Bulletin’s theory that
i here should be a powerful and liberaliy-paid
Legislative Council, elected on the widest
possible franchise by the whole province votine
as one constituency. N.S.W. "has the road'-
and-bridge disease much worse than any other
province, because it has no effective system of
Local Government So far as concerns 99 per
cent, of the country, all roads and bridges and
culverts come from Parliament, and therefore
99 per cent, of the country doesn’t want a
statesman, or a genius, or a patriot for its
member, but a Colossus of Roads, a blatant
bagman who will deafen the Ministry with his
demand for roads and bridges, and sell his soul
and his honor and his country for culverts. The
man who is too full of great ideas concerning
the good of the country at large to keep his eye
constantly on the local pump, and who won’t
promise to batter incessantly on the door of
the Works Department, isn’t required. So
the big men either drop out of politics or never
come into them, and the people with the surest
seats, who come back unfailingly at one election
after another, are Brunner and Jake Garrard,
and Gormly and Levien, and Lyne and
Young, and their kind. Therefore there is
room for an elective, democratic Council, where
a big man can sit as member for N.S.W. He
shouldn’t be thrown bodily out of politics be-
cause he is too big to be member for Smith’s
Curse only, and he shouldn’t be regarded as
absolutely unfit for public life if he can’t con-
scientiously promise to keep his eye alwavs on
the local culvert. There should be some place
in politics where a really big man can go to.
Moreover, in all fairness, N.S.W. should
be represented in N.S.W. Parliament. At
present, the Rocks and Botany, and Gun-
dagai and Dubbo, and Yass are all sepa-
rately represented, but N.S.W. as a whole
is not. There isn’t a soul in the whole awful
Parliament who is sent in by the people of
N.S.W. to look after the interests of N.S. W.
as a whole. The one place wdiollv unrepre-
tented in the N.S.W. Legislature is N.S.W.
itself. Such an Upper House as The Bulletin
suggests would supply this remarkable want.
Its members couldn’t be returned in the roads-
and-bridges interest, because they would repre-
sent no locality in particular, and no one road
or bridge more than another. They wouldn’t
necessarily be rich men—a rich man would be
quite as unable as a poor one to stump such a
constituency as all N.S.W. ; it would simply
consist of men who had the confidence of the
country in general as distinguished from the
men who had the confidence of Cow Flat in
particular. It would be a House to which the
country could send a Barton or a Higin-
botham when David Storey or the “ h ’’-less
and bear-like Tom Bent had driven them out
of the constituency variety of politics. And,
in addition to these things, it would be a
House that could afford to be honest. The
present sort can’t; it has to pass the fraudu-
lent accounts and whoop for the dishonest
appropriation of the loan funds, because its
bridge is involved, and if it wilfully throws
away its bridge in the interests of honesty its
seat goes with it. The Bulletin suggests,
with all due respect, that it isn’t good for
politics to be quite all culvert.
♦
A Democratic Programme and a Pad.
Judging by the programme with which S.A.
Parliament opened, Premier Kingston intends
to keep his province what it has been for some
years back—the most Democratic of the six
Australian States. It is proposed to extend the
Council franchise to every householder and his
wife. A State Fire Insurance scheme is also in pre-
paration. Since the S.A. Co. sold out, a few
months ago, the province doesn’t possess a s ngle
■ fire insurance office of its own; all the profits
of the business go to other provinces or to
Europe, and this state of things makes S.A.
the best province of the seven (YVestralia only
excepted) for the first experiment of State in-
terference with the combustible nature of
things. There are no local vested interests in the
way, and in the absence of Federation the vested
interests of the other provinces don’t count.
S.A. can make the fire-insurance business a
State monopoly if it likes without serious oppo-
sition. A State Labor Bureau is to be estab-
lished, and the only private railway in S.A.—
the Glenelg line—is to be taken over by the
country. It is proposed to establish the Refer-
endum ; and to follow another of Maoriland’s
wonderfully-successful Democratic ideas by giv-
ing the State power for the compulsory pur-
chase of large estates for closer settlement. If
this idea is adopted it will probably shift that
great British landlord incubus, the South Aus-
tralian Co., out of the province at last, and re-
move a dead weight that has camped on the
country’s chest since the earliest days of S.A.
settlement. It is also proposed to abolish the
sale of Crown Lands ; and behind all these
bright ideas comes Kingston’s weird and wholly
unaccountable fad for abolishing the present
tenure of the Assembly, and establish-
ing a policy by which half tne mem-
bers will retire every second year This
looks like retrogression of a rather bad quality.
It extends a member’s term of office to four
years—though, perhaps, that doesn’t matter
very much. It also does away with the power
01 dissolution—though whether that matters
or not it is difficult to say. But it will almost
certainly diminish public interest in politics.
Nobody can take so much interest in half an
election as in a whole one. The reason why that
section of' the community which is not too tired
goes to the poll at all is that it hopes to capture
the Legislature, and put or keep its own side
in. power, and impose its own policy on the
country. Under the half-Assembly system,
an election might give a huge majority against
the Ministry and yet leave it in office ; if the
Government commanded 44 votes out of 54
before the halt-election took place, and then 27
members went to the country (22 Government
supporters and five Opposil ionists) ; and the
country having lost confidence in the said
Government, returned 20 Oppositionists and
only seven Government supporters, the
Ministry, despite that awful stampede, would
remain boss of the situation. It would have a
majority of 4 instead of 34, but it would still
have a majority. It would know that it had
lost the confidence of the country very badly,
but it would be fixed for another two years just
the same, til. the next halt-election was due,
for the party which the country had confidence
in would still be in a minority. The half-dis-
solution system is a device by which the
country can say what its views are without
being able to enforce them with any certainty,
and, under these circumstances, it seems to
knock a very large dent in a valuable demo-
cratic principle.
— +
A Casual Lie.
Two noteworthy extracts from Sydney Daily
Telegraph
The coal-mine-owners of Newcastle or Bulli or Lithgow
could not be more effectively legislated against if the
Victorian Govt, imposed a protective duty against their
coal equalling the difference in freight charged on the
Vic. lines. It is only by means of coddling in this fashion
that the inferior coal of Gippsland has become a competi-
tor with the high-class product of our own mines in the
Vic. market. It is only at the expense of the Victorian
public THAT OUR OUTPUT HAS BEEN DIMINISHED SO SERIOUSLY.
—Daily Telegraph leading article, 2/Jh May, 1898.
The mining records for 1897 now published tell us that
while, as a whole, the value of metals and minerals won
in N.S.W. increased nearly £230,000, when, compared
with the previous year’s records, the result was not by
any means due to general progress in our mining indus-
tries. Under three heads only could it be said there was
distinct expansion in the output, those three being coal,
copper, and opals, The coal output was by far the
HIGHEST OF ANY YEAR SINCE THE INDUSTRY WAS FIRST
established, but the price was the lowest. The previous
record year in coal-mining was 1891, when 4,038,000 tons
were raised. The average price at the pit's mouth then
was Bs. Bd. per ton, whereas last year, with 4,384,000 tons
raised, the value was only ss. 7d., and the total value of
the output was therefore found to have shrunk by up-
wards of half a million sterling. Our colliery-owners and
miners have had to face increased competition and seri-
ously low prices, and have so far met them successfully
that they have extended their operations. This year,
too, if strikes are avoided, there is the prospect of a more
pronounced revival, as the demand for coal in Asiatic
waters is exceptionally great, and something in the way
of a better price is possible. But this may be said of last
year that, though the price was twopence per ton lower
than in 1896, the value of the output increased by about
£105,000, and there is good reason to look for'a more
marked expansion in 1898. Daily Telegraph leader, 27th
June, 1898
The first of these articles appeared just before
the Federal Referendum, when the Telegraph
was howling night and day in the interests of
provincialism. At that time it was heaving
every available combustible into the fire of dis-
sension, and when it had told every possible
and imaginable and unimaginable Ananias
about the Bill itself, it set itself to inflame the
provincial fury of the N.S.W. people against
the other provinces on any side-issue which
turned up. Among other things it tried to
rouse their parochial rage against Victoria, and
to make them kick against the proposed union
with that province, by telling them that the
N.S.W. coal output was being “seriously
diminished” by Vic. competition. Then, when
its end was served, and the next business on
hand was to show the marvellous prosperity of
N.S.W. under the Foreign-trade regime” it
cheerfully admitted that the story about that
“ serious diminution ” through the unfraternal
conduct of the Victorians was all a lie, and the
coal output was really larger than it had ever
been before. Which is a solemn warning to
that weak-kneed and easily-gulled community
which so cheerfully swallowed the mean paper’s
mean inventions, and voted so largely as it told
them to do on Referendum Day.
+
The Gospel of Anti-Bill.
Beautiful letter contributed to the S. M.
Herald by an anti-Billious person named J. A.
Dobbie :
As one who fought against the “ Bill,” and as one who,
as a native-born Australian, ardently desires to see
Federation accomplished, it occurs to me, seeing that
even Mr. B\rton admits the necessity of the amendment
of the “ Bill," that there should be no real obstacle in the
way. Had the “ Bill ” been a trifle more elastic, I, with
hundreds of others, would have enjoyed the pleasure of
working with Mr. Barton. Now, however, Mr. Reid,
whom I have long followed as my admitted political chief,
has suggested certain amendments which, to my mind,
solve the whole difficulty. Where, then, is the need for
further friction and acerbity of speech V I, in common
with thousands of other Australians, want Federation,
but on the lines of Mr. Reid’s proposed amendments.
Why can’t we get it ?
That outburst is the whole gospel of anti-Bill
in a sentence. Dobbie’s political leader in
N.S. W. has fixed up certain amendments which
seem to suit N.S.W. N.S.W., Dobbie thinks,
will accept these amendments as quite agree-
able to N.S.W. ; and, N.S.W. being satisfied,
why can’t N.S.W. get Federation? And if
j-veid, as Premier of N.S.W., offers amend-
ments which are quite satisfactory to N.S.W.,
then why shouldn’t N.S.W. re-elect him with
acclamation as Federal leader ? The only diffi-
culty in the way is that N.S.W. can’t federate
by herself. If the other provinces don’t like
Reid’s amendments on the Bill, then even if
N.S.W. accepts them unanimously things are
no further forward. If the other provinces
didn’t like them then there is no use submitting
them to the N.S.W. people at all—except that
the list of concessions which Reid is going to
ask for may attract votes and help to keep
Reid in office. So far, Reid has refused to
burst the beautiful bubble by ascertaining
whether his amendments will be accepted by
the other provinces. Turner, who accepted
Reid s invitation to hold a conference in the
matter, is still waiting for that conference, and
his request for particulars of the amendments
desired is still unanswered. Even N.S.W.
doesn’t know much about these particulars ;
such a statement as
(2) Some of the financial provisions to be recast
is hardly information. Anyhow, Premier Reid’s
attitude in the matter could be condensed in
his election manifesto as follows :
Electors of N.S W — These are the concessions I want.
They, are vague so as to allow of alteration and so as not
to pin me down to anything in particular. They are
large, so as to catch votes. I haven't asked the assent of
the other provinces first, for they would probably refuse,
and if it was a dead certainty that we couldn’t get these
concessions then I couldn’t catch votes with them. More-
over, if I asked the consent of the other provinces first I
would have to explain exactly how I wanted these finan-
cial provisions recast, and I don’t know yet. By leaving
things like this Want and I, when we get back to hoffis ”
as poor old Parkes used to call it, can either ask
just as much recasting of the financial provisions
as we can get, or can ask so much as to make
Federation impossible—whichever way suits us best
E ther way, we can say that we have the mandate of the
people of N.S.W. behind us. The people being mostly
utter fools, a great many of them will have an idea
that these concessions have been already agreed to by
the other provinces, and it only requires their consent to
make Federation complete, and they will decide that they
are very beautiful concessions and will vote for them—
and Mb. Also they will vote for Jack Want. Mr. Want is
the gentleman who said that his idea of Federation was
that N.S.W. should control the Parliaments of all the
other provinces, and he and I are the only real Federa
tionists in N.S W J
♦
Wrixon’s Shock.
Vic. Legislative Council is at present taking a
fortnight’s rest to recover from the awful shock
of H. J VVrixon’s speech. Almost as soon as
the Upper House re-assembed after its long,
slumbersome recess, Wrixon burst forth in the
character of a comparatively red revolutionist.
Taking the Federation Bill for his text, this
unexpected reformer besought the drowsy con-
gregation of Fat Men to bow to the inevitable,
and place themselves upon the proposed Federal
Senate basis. They had been willing to accept
the idea of a Federal Upper House, to be selected
on the one-man-one-vote principle, with no pro-
perty qualification whatever, with payment of
members, and a dissolution in deadlock crises,
iliey swallowed this part of the Federation
plan, and barracked for the Bill as a whole,
and now, in the face of Victoria’s overwhelm-
ing vote, there is nothing left for them, said
Wrixon, but to wind up their old Tory busi-
ness and reconstruct the Council on national
Senate lines. W r ßixoN’s announcement that
he would “ support a proposal by which
the Council would be elected in four divisions
of 10 members each, under a system of propor-
tional voting ” was rather less democratic
than his previous remarks, but it sent a
thrill of horror through his paunchy listeners.
Nobody, up to then, had dreamed of such a
disgraceful proposal. Thirty stout gentlemen
nervously picked their handkerchiefs from
inside their black silk hats and wiped the beads
of cold sweat from off their hairless heads. Two
or three of them drew up their knees, and
leaned forward, as though the full force of
the argument had struck them in the stummiok.
Then Solicitor-General Cuthbert solemnly ad-
mitted that his brain was in a whirl, and the
foundation of the House was rocking, and
everybody wanted time to think—time to think
—think, think ! “ At .10 minutes past 8 o’clock
the House adjourned for a fortnight.”
+
The Honest Auditor.
Now that N.S.W. Parliament has met, and
there is a possible chance to do something in
the interests of public honesty, The Bulletin
again calls attention to the story of John
Groves, late municipal auditor for Rookwood.
If it could think of anything more disrespect-
ful than the things it said in its issue of 15th
January last it would say them. As it can’t,
it reprints these bygone observations :
John Groves panned out quite differently from the
usual slummocky individual who audits ' municipal
accounts, and certifies to their correctness year after
year, until it is found out that the money had been regu-
larly embezzled for a quarter of a century or so, and wlio
attests to the correctness of books, some of which were
never added up, or were never show,n to him, or never
existed. In the first place, he refused tosign the abstract
of accounts until he had gone through the books and
ascertained that the abstract was correot. Also he re-
fused to go on with the audit unless all the books and
accounts were placed at his disposal as provided by the
Act, and the audit was suspended for a considerable
time, and there were long arguments and appeals to the
Colonial Secretary before this difficulty was got over.
Then this quite unusual auditor proceeded to actually
audit the accounts. In his report he pointed out that
many receipts were unstamped, that many documents
were not properly signed, and that a multitude of small
discrepancies made the accounts confused and incompre-
hensime. He also pointed out that some of the general
rates were wrongly appropriated to pay for the site of a
new town-hall; Chat the cost of Jubilee decorations was
improperly taken out of the money for road repairs, &e. ;
that there was a wholly unlawful payment for law ex-
penses, the item not having been sanctioned by the Coun-
cil ; that certain small sums were not properly accounted
for; that the bank-book and cash-book didn’t agree in
some respects; that the purchase of a piano on
credit was a wrongful expenditure of ratepayers’
money ; that 34 pages of one account-book were wrongly
added: that the Council had a wholly illegal overdraft;
and many other things. And this surprising auditor,
John Groves, actually refused to certify that the ac-
counts were correct when, in his opinion, they were a
long way from that condition, though apparently a co-
auditor was willing to sign in the usual perfunctory
fashion. The overdraft matter is especially notable.
About half the municipalities in N.S.W. have illegal over-
drafts, and their auditors —except John Groves—always
state that everything is right; and the Government, in-
stead of enforcing the law and making the aldermen per-
sonally responsible for their grossly unlawful conduct,
passes every year a retrospective Act to protect them
against any legal consequences of their wrongdoing. Any-
how, the Rookwood Council summoned its auditor before
Parramatta police-court, under an Act which is said to
have been repealed. A Government auditor, called as a
witness for the prosecution, admitted, according to the
printed report of the Cumberland Times, that there was
an error in the balance-sheet, and he himself wouldn’t
have signed it in its present condition, and Groves’ co-
auditor admitted, according to the same paper’s report,
that he had signed the incorrect balance-sheet and had
his attention drawn to its incorrectness afterwards. And
then the Bench fined John Groves £2 and £2 2s. costs
for “neglecting to sign and certify to the correctness of
the balance-sheet,” which apparently wasn’t correct
according to the prosecution’s own witnesses. This is
good, solid encouragement for the Honest Auditor.
All that requires to be added to the above
statement is this. The Government took abso-
lutely no notice of all appeals for a remission
of the fine. The utterly disgraceful Parra-
matta J.sP. who fined an auditor for not telling
a lie by saying that the admittedly incorrect
accounts were correct, and for not slurring over
the muddlement of the Rookwood councillors,
were not fired off the Bench. Nothing hap-
pened, so far as The Bulletin knows, to the
Government official who went up and passed
the incorrect balance-sheet, and admitted after-
wards in court that it was incorrect. And the
Treasury still hangs on manfully to Groves’ £2.
+
Q. Labor-member Kidston on the Byrnes
Govt:—
Like that other blessing—the tick—the Government
seemed to have the faculty of hanging on. It had struck
quite a new line in Constitutional Government—what he
(Mr. Kidston) might describe as Government on the Aunt
Sally principle. It was not necessary to say how the
game of Aunt Sally was worked. They chucked
stones at a figurehead until they knocked it down;
then the man who ran the ‘ show- ’ stuck up another;
then when that was knocked down he put up a
third ; but the same man ran the show all the time.
(Laughter.) That was the principle on which Queens-
land seemed to have been run in recent years. In 1890,
Griffith went into office and formed a coalition
with Thomas MTlwraith. But within two years
he so utterly discredited himself that he was afraid to
face a general election ; so the party took him down and
put him on the shelf with a good, fat billet, and put up
in his stead Thomas MTlwraith. MTlwraith came
out, and the people were asked to give him a show-, and
he would save the Queensland National Bank. (Laughter.)
The people gave him a show, and he went in. Very soon
he went down in the ruins of the bank, and became as
much discredited as Griffith. Then he was taken
down. Nelson w-as put up, and the people
were asked to give him a show. (Laughter.) Next
Nelson was so completely discredited that he was
taken down, and put on the shelf with a “ screw ” of
£lO9O a year. Now- Mr. Byrnes was put up, and they
w-ere asked to give him a show. It was the same old
game carried on by the same old crowd. (Laughter and
applause.) He (Mr. Kidson) remembered at one time
there w-as a fine fleet of passenger steamers on the
Clyde, and there was also one old steamer that w-as so
slow- that it lost all its passengers. The owners, in a
desire to get something out of her, had her painted,
gave her a new name, and set her running again. Sure
enough, they got some passengers ; but, by-and-bye, the
passengers found that the name and the new coat of paint
didn’t make her any faster—that it was the same old tub,
after all. (Laughter.) The people who told them to give
the new Govt, a trial knew quite well that, in spite of the
new name, and the thin coat of paint and Democratic
promises, the Govt, w-ere the same old, unprincipled, cor-
rupt, and pledge-breaking crowd that the provincWiad had
since 1888. The people w-ere asked to give the Govt, a
trial, but, all the same, Govt, were going to take a trial,
w-hether they got. it or not. (Laughter.) If Mr. Byrnes
had been very anxious to ask them to give him a trial,
why did he not go to them direct when he accepted the
Premiership ? Why did he and the new Ministry not, im-
mediately on taking their appointments, follow out the
old and very good rule that a Minister, on taking a port-
folio, should consult his constituents in the matter? (Ap-
plause.) That would have been the honest and fairway
of consulting the people whether they were to have a
trial. But no fear ; that w-as not the way the present
Govt, did it. It w-as going to take the trial first, and ask
the people afterwards. (Applause.)
+. — :
A Ei,bourne articled clerk applied to Chief
Justice Madden, the other day, for permission
to earn money as an auditor out of office hours,
and apart from his duty to the solicitor to
whom he is articled. His Honor reluctantly
permitted the ambitious youth to follow out-
side pursuits for 60 days of the year, and, in
reply to liberal arguments setting forth the
disabilities of poor men struggling to become
lawyers, declared that the rigid rules applying
in this matter were all drawn up “in the in-
terests of the public.”
The idea was, that law- students, during the period of
their articles or study, should devote the whole of their
time to the learning of the theory and practice of the
profession.
And the public replies “ Rabbits ! ” and begs
to contradict the C. J. flat. The law doesn’t
worry about the “ idea” whether the student
devotes all or half or any of his time to learn-
ing the law. It simply requires that he shall
be rich enough to pay for his articles, and to
lean up against a hotel or else play football
during their currency. It never inquires
whether he devotes his time to working at his
profession ; it only wants to be dead sure that
what time he isn’t working at it is spent in
loafing and not in any profitable employment.
If he can prove that he has been only attend-
ing dog-fights in his spare time, and can scrape
through his examinations, all is well; if he can
get through his examinations with honor but
it is found that he has been working instead of
attending dog-fights in the hours when he
wasn’t studying, then the hon. profession won’t
have anything to do with him, unless- he gob
special permission from the court to work in-
stead of attending dog-fights. That’s the
whole story.


The MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
of NEW YORK.
Australasian Department: 25. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company's Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
A FEW COGENT REASONS why you should Insure in this Company in preference to
any other :
BECAUSE
it is the
BEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
SAFEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
LARGEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
CHEAPEST.
It is PURELY MUTUAL. All Profits go to the Policy-holders.
In its Fifty-five Years’ Record it has no compeer.
It is subjected to Annual Examination by the Insurance Department
of the State of New York, a thoroughly independent authority.
i
Assets, December 31, 1897 - * * j£52,112,204.
It has returned to its Policy-holders, or holds on their behalf, after
payment of all expenses of management, about 14£ millions sterling
more than it received from them.
For detailed information concerning the most profitable forms of investment insurance policies, apply
at any of the Company’s Branch Offices or Authorised Agencies.
Telephone 2761.
(LATE OP MELBOURNE)
TAKES THE LEAD
[ifelike and Artistic portraits.
NEW STUDIOS :
308 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
OVER LLOYD & COLLINS’.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEIL
feoYAL “ White Heather."
Her Majesty’s “ The Little Minister."
Lyceum “ Indiana.”
Royal Standard. Henry’s Dratnatio Co.
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The American Girl."
royal “The Middleman.”
Bijou Myra Kemble Co.
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Town Hall Lemmone Concert Co.
Bland Holt’s new drama, “ White
Heather,” commenced on Saturday night with a
roar of great joy, and it should continue to be a
loud lion on the shores of literature for a while
to come. Very few Royal productions have been
calculated to strike the public in so many places
at once, and on top of its literary merits Bland
Holt has piled a decent-sized fortune in scenery
and other glories. The story which runs through
the piece has something to do with a Scotch mar-
riage, as Scotch marriages used to be in the land
of the Mac Haggis and the MacParritch until a
few years ago. A poor and battered Scotch duke
has an heir who rushes for his daily crust on the
London Stock Exchange, and this heir, in his
younger days, had married a nice Scotch girl on
board a yacht. One witness falls overboard and
is drowned, and the written record sinks with the
yacht, and the other witness disappears. Then
the heir grows tired of pursuing the furtive wild
cat for his daily bread, and, having a chance to
marry a gilded maid of high degree, he drops his
Scotch wife. She pursues him in the law-courts,
and is defeated. Her father tries to undermine
him by being a bear on the Stock Exchange, but
he is a poor, ineffective bear, and falls down dead
and insolvent, and the depraved husband is left
pursuing the wild cat in triumph. Sometimes he
nearly overtakes that fleeting animal, and some-
times the deceptive cat puts on a spurt and gets
ahead. But one evil day the enemy locates the
wreck in which is the marriage record. The re-
sult is that the bad man and the other one meet
at the sea-bottom both groping for a case with a
book in it, and there they batter each other till
the bad man is left dead to be a kind of assistant
cod on the wet sands for ever after. As for the
other man, he is hauled up dying with the evi-
dence in his hands. And the Scotch girl has her
character cleared and lives happily ever after-
wards. And there is wailing as wJll as porridge
and cold east wind in a draughty castle in the
Highlands. And the wild cat has one active pur-
suer the less, which is just as well, for that ex-
hausted animal will be all the better of a rest.
« * • *
Nobody could do much more for this play
than B. Holt has accomplished. The sea-bottom,
and the drowned ship lying on its side, and the
two figures lumbering around in their tank-like
helmets, and battering each other silently in the
presence of the unresponsive herring, and flap-
ping each other with the tin-case contain-
ing the evidence, are about the biggest
effect. A steamboat is made to travel
rapidly on a painted river because the painted
bank hurries by, panorama fashion. A vastly
expensive ballroom scene is thrown in casually,
as if it were a halfpenny; and miles of what is
described as “Caledonia’s rugged breast,” are
heaped up here and there. Baker dives for the
book, by the way, by the simple process of the sea
rising till the tops of the waves are raging up in the
flies. His pursuer rains on him afterwards from
above, the way that fleets of lost ketches drop on
the mermaid, and flatten her out just when she is
dressing in the morning, and trying to get her
boots on her tail.
* * * *
Fifty-three people are mainly responsible
for keeping “ White Heather ” going. The Bul-
letin is tired, and means to leave most of them
over till next week. Miss Frances Ross, about
the most graceful and the best-d ressed actress in
Australia, fills her part as though she had been
melted and poured into it. Mrs. Bland Holt is a
Scotch lady (she struggles under the awful name
of Lady Janet Maclintock) with a large heart and
a temper that goes smash regularly, and the
Scotch lady rushes herself through in a bright,
brisk fashion. Miss Watson’s heroine is_ respect-
able and sometimes a little more, but she is always
respectable. And Baker, Cosgrove, Norman, and
Bland Holt are so generally satisfactory, and it is
so difficult to choose among them, that they are
hung up for further consideration next week.
** * *
The “French Maid,” revived with great
success for one week only at Her Majesty’s, comes
to an end to-morrow (Friday) night, and will be
followed on Saturday by Australia’s well-
beloved Pattie Brown in the “Little Minister.”
That brief pastor will also be supported by Cecil
Ward, Sweeny, Oily Deering, Catlicart, Misses
Claudius and Eloise Juno, and other artists of
merit. As regards the present fleeting show, it is
the same light and airy frivol about anything as it
always has been; a few changes have been made
in the cast, but the result doesn’t differ much as
a consequence. The hulking gendarme of Howard
Vernon hulks no longer, and Richard Vernon —a
smaller cop. with less chest—runs in the wrong
person on suspicion in his stead. Also Charles
Berkeley takes Coleman’s old part as the weak
menial in the hotel. Berkeley makes quite as good
a menial as his predecessor, which is saying a great
deal. The only other variations in the glitter-
some, fluffy trifle are that it is trimmed here and
there with new songs, especially a bitterly-
patriotic song about Bullanjonathan, who are still
supposed to be brothers at heart. The glorious
flag of Uncle Sambull waves at the critical point
of the melody, and its general tenor is that
Btiterica is standing firm, and the Biiterican
Government at Washinglondon means business.
Australia is more or less mad just now over the
country which has sold it so many heartbreaking
works in 126 monthly parts, and it hasn’t a speck
of gratitude for the little nation which has so long
supplied it, in a quiet, unpretentious way, with a
good cigar for 3d.
** * *
A moderately interesting brown trio,
Rawei, Hine Taimoa, who is Mrs. Rawei, and a
bronzy maid called Hari Taimoa, have lately
occupied Sydney i’alaoe Theatre with a mixed
show, part music and song, part lecture, part
panorama. The subject is Maoriland and the
Maori—not the plain Maori, who is only moder-
ately nice to know and associate with, but an
ideal colored Maori whose life is a poem and who
has great, dreamy thoughts beside his native cata-
ract. The two brown ladies do their musical part
reasonably well, and the brown gentleman is
learned and eloquent, and illustrated with much
beautiful picture. But the present writer has
drunk and swopped fish with and lent tobacco to
the common or earthy Maori, and had his pro-
visions looted by him, and he has hugged his
daughter— at least he started doing it till the
smell of her hair-grease struck him, and made him
drop Hinemoa with a brisk thud on her native
soil and light out for a breath of fresh air. And
he takes Rawei’s ideal Maori with reservations.
#- * * #
The glorious 4th of July came along in a
•casual way last week, and the American com-
munity in Sydney celebrated the anniversary at
the Lyceum. It was a great occasion, only par-
tially disfigured by the news that the American
and the Spaniard had come to close quarters on
land, where the Dons of Spain were keeping up
their end of the fight with bitter vim, and making
things very sultry for the blue-coated legions,
and bursting large shells in the middle of the
star-spangled banner. The American community
took “Indiana” in good part, though it would
have been a fair thing if the numerous colonels
had organised themselves and charged the Haw-
kins family, and driven Acts 111. and IY. off the
stage with great slaughter, The present writer is
still wondering how any sane dramatist came to
invent the dirty old lady with the corkscrew ring-
lets, who says she never had a bath in her
life, or the loutish son who talks for a weary
half-hour about his corn, and puts his large
■cow - hide boots on a respectable citizen’s
•dinner-table. And when the lady who never
had a bath marries Frank Harcourt, whose
genial, groggy nose makes him rather a favorite,
and one considers what a very objectionable
person she must be for any clean old warrior to
have in the house, it is shuddersome. When any
•dramatist feels he must put a thoroughly dirty
woman on the stage, he shouldn’t allow her to
marry and hand down her grimy habits to pos-
terity. Or, if she must marry, she should be
washed first. And she shouldn’t be introduced
into the hero’s house, or be allowed to look with
virtuous scorn on the perfectly clean and whole-
some girl who has committed bigamy. If the
loamy mother, when she says she never had a
bath, was emphatically hustled out and put in the
•dog-kennel where she naturally belongs, she would
at least serve to point a moral.
** * *
The Terry Sisters shake a collection of
cheerful feet nightly at Sydney Tivoli, and George
Beauchamp, “ one of England’s greatest character
comedians and comic singers,'’ has arrived. Miss
Peggy Pryde also shakes two cheerful feet at the
audience, and Peggy’s brisk, snow-white under-
standings are things which cannot be passed over
in silence. Partly owing to Peggy, and partly
owing to the fact that the recent perpendicular
moisture has left off, there is a rush at the Tivoli
these times.
** * *
To-morrow (Friday) and Saturday nights
certain well-meaning amateurs will butcher “ Les
Cloches de Corneville ” as little as possible at
Sydney Criterion. Also, the co. at the Royal
Standard is attacking “Shamus O’Brien” this
week.
** * *
Pattie Browne, being an impulsive little
woman, gave the game away to a Paunch inter-
viewer. “ There’s one thing I would like to men-
tion ; I think it most unkind the way the press
here have spoken of Mr. Barrie’s dramatisation of
* The Little Minister.’ It was his own novel, and
surely he could dramatise it as he liked ! I did
think the Scotch people in Melbourne would have
stuck up for their present-day national novelist.”
Which means that Miss Pattie did think that the
“Meenister” would capture the Scawtish vote,
and that all the Macs in Melbourne would wave
their phillibegs and claymores, and cry, “Eh,
mon, but it’s gran ! ” merely because the scene of
the play is laid at Thrums. But perhaps the
eternal appeals to Scotch sentiment have begun to
make the community in general very tired. The
thing is overdone. R. S. Smythe imports a Scot-
tish tenor as a Scottish tenor, to sing Scottish
songs and talk about them. The Scottish
ticket is always being worked from the con-
cert platform, and sometimes under absurd
circumstances. For instance, Madame Alva, who
looks very Jewish, is said to be English by birth,
and is essentially Italian in her vocalism, sang
“ Auld Robin Gray,” at Melb. Town Hall, not
from choice, for she was all abroad in her render-
ing of it, but to catch the Scotch sympathies.
And the tenor, a typical Londoner, gave them
“Loch Lomond,” which baritone Pauli (of the
Albani co.) had given them the first time lie ap-
peared in the same hall. Years ago, the word
went round professional circles that the Scotch
people in Australia would invariably “ stick-up
for everything Scottish, and the Caledonian policy
of managers was more-or-less successful until
quite recently. Pattie Browne’s expectation of a
“ Little Minister ” boom was based on her know-
ledge of the country as she left it.
#* * #
“Sweet Nancy,” in which Miss Patti 0
Browne and co. are finishing their six weeks at
Melb. Princess’s, is a freakish comedy by Robert
Buchanan. The first act promises an unconven"
tional treat in dramatic literature, and the other
two acts proceed to disappoint expectation. Robert
Buchanan is built that way. After starting to do
many things well, he has almost invariably degen-
erated into failure. The Nancy of the first act is
a bewitching young creature in a pinafore and
sun-bonnet, beloved by a tall Sir Roger, old enough
to be her father. Nancy and her relatives form a
convincing family group. There are a disagreeable
“ pa,” a beautiful elder sister, a brother from col-
lege, and three younger children who might have
been drawn by Du Maurier, in his best day, for
London Punch. A young man, _ who hangs
around the beautiful sister with a view
to capturing artless Nancy, incurs the re-
sentment of the olive branches, and adds
to the general interest. This first acts grips
the audience. But when Nancy has married
her father’s old schoolfellow because he is im-
posing, and gentle, and rich (and also because she
finds it comfortable to rest her sun-bonnet upon
his shoul ler), the story weakens. The action is
forced ; impossible misunderstandings arise; in-
credible stupidity on the part of the young man
has to be assumed, and the three Du Maurier
children drop out of the business. The character
of a grass-widow is introduced for the sake of
making mischief in Nancy’s domestic circle, but
her character remains an uncertain quantity all the
time. Moreover, Nancy ceases to be really sweet,
and is put into the shade by her sister, who gets
finally left lamenting the discovery that she has
wasted her affections upon the young man afore-
said. Australia, spoilt by a generous diet of
picked plays, is not likely to warm towards
“ Sweet Nancy.”
* * * »
Miss Pattie Browne, in the first act, scores
the biggest success of her Australian life up to
date. She brings her full battery of smiles,
glances, and sympathetic voice inflections to bear
upon her grey-haired admirer. Afterwards she is
less exceedingly delightful, owing to the change
in the nature of the story and the character of her
costumes. All the same, Miss Pattie 8., in her
soubrettish way, is a good emotional actress. Miss
Beatrice Day (who took the part of a French
lady’s-maid in “The Little Minister ”) plays the
elder sister with much charm and quiet force.
The author has given her chances to be pathetic
in one or two conventional situations, and she
takes them very naturally. Frank Macvicars, as the
husband, is a tall, manly bit of realism ; Cecil
Ward is an active and intelligent brother ; Walner
Gregory looks important, and performs not badly
in a thankless character, whilst Miss Rose Conroy
and the three growing children are quite at home.
* * * *
“ A Bit of Old Chelsea,” manufactured by
the lady who wrote “ Little Lord Fauntleroy,”
follows “ Sweet Nancy.” It is an artificial trifle
composed mainly of conversation between a
philanthropic artist and a ragged gal. The artist
brings her starving from the street at 1 a.m. into
his studio, and feeds her, and finds her an
embarrassing stranger. She ends his difficulty by
slinking off the premises after he has fallen into an
unnatural slumber on the sofa. The plot is saved
from utter rnawkishness by the incidental over-
throw of another artist who wants to hug the gal,
and perhaps a less substantial gal than Pattie
Browne might make it appear less stagey.
** m x
To-morrow (Friday), the Princess’s has
the front door closed. On Saturday, it re-opens
for the first production of “ The American Girl,’
which deserves a good send-off, and looks certain
to get it. “ The American Girl,” by H. Temple
and A. R. Moulton, will be the first Australian
musical show that has taken the floor in bold com-
petition with the imported article. “ Lelamine,”
by the same composer, had an amateur company,
headed by an earl, but this is a professional
matter, which appeals to the public at large, and
doesn’t make a personal claim upon sassiety.
“ The American Girl ” is bound to be tuneful, and
the outline of the libretto looks new and striking
on paper.
** * #
Miss Myra Kemble is out of the bill at
Melb. Bijou, but Miss K.’s forces continue the
attack in a hopeful spirit. On Saturday they
undertook “ His Terrible Task,” a four-act drama
by one C. Retrac, which means Carter spelt back-
wards. The mark of inexperience is stamped
upon this fragile structure, and there is no visible
reason why a well-meaning co. should struggle on
its behalf. A lurid Italiano villain lays plans in
broken English for the removal of the brother of
the heiress’s stepmother, and carries his fell design
into India’s darkest jungle, where he shoots the
heiress’s brother and charges the offence against
the brother of the stepmother of the deceased
man’s sister, who is also stepmother of the deceased.
The crime tries hard to be exciting, but the contem-
plated thrill isn’t there, neither does the downfall
of the tall villain amount to much. The fragments
of his broken accent are swept away, and the step-
mother who knew him long ago helps to straighten
out the family complication, and the drama at
the finish looks rather sorry for having been
started. Seeing that it was started, there is no
excuse for the villain’s conduct in going all the
way to India to shoot the wrong man, considering
that he was in a position to assassinate the other
fellow and secure the daughter of the erring step-
mother’s husband by a former marriage. Orlando
Daly, Roy Grenfell, F. C. Appleton, Miss Med-
way, and Miss Fraser perform the bulk of “ His
Terrible Task,” and perform it very fairly well.
Tom Cosgrove and the balance of the co. likewise
toil respectably, and the fittings, including the
Indian jungle, are in advance of the drama. Next
Saturday, or later, Miss Elsie Lander will raise
her ’Murkan standard at the Bijou.
** * *
The Royal opens again on Saturday for a
few final appearances of the Cartwright co. “ The
Middleman ” is advertised to inaugurate the
brief season, with “ The Idler ”to follow. Unless
Melbourne’s taste in drama at popular prices has
become hopelessly vitiated, the tale of Cyrus, the
E otter, will boom this time as it ought to have
oomed years ago. Cartwright, in “ The Middle-
man,” is a mighty strong circumstance.
** * *
At the Opera House, a new sketch by the
Poluskis is a bright particular joke, and the last
nights of John Coleman loom large on the bills.
Biondi, the much-expected “lightning-change ”
artist, is due in Melb, about the same time as this
Bulletin, and will appear on Saturday. At the
Gaiety, a trapeze lady has been added to the
overwhelming mass of attractions ; and at St.
George’s Hall a capable little crowd of singers are
endeavoring to act “Maritana” as far as the
dimensions of the stage will permit them to act
without banging themselves against the fittings.
** * *
Four hearings of Lemmone’s concert co.,
at Melb. Town Hall, have established the fact
that Madame Alva is a quite brilliant singer of
Italian opera numbers, and Miss Adela Yerne a
fascinating young pianist. Also, the new tenor
commands respect, and Lemmone’s magic fluting
is reckoned to be better than ever if there was
any room for improvement in it. The old original
scale of prices seems to have kept a lot of Melb.
public away from the Town Hall on the middle
nights of last week, but the crowd rolled in freely
for the fourth concert, wherefore a fifth and last
one is promised for Saturday next (9th). Bendigo
is being stormed by the new co. meanwhile.
At Poverty Point.
Three Misses Verne figure at the Lemmone concerts.
One of them plays second piano to the brilliant Miss
Adela in concert pieces, and the other supplies accom-
paniments to songs and lends an air of family-circle to
the scene. The soloist is seemingly the youngest of the
trio.
Wilson Barrett, to Perth interviewer : “ I am glad to
say that, in Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide, the press
thanked me for the instruction my Hamlet had conveyed,
and said it was an absolute help to the community.” O
these mummers!
IN MEMORIAM.
G. S. T.
Let mem’ry now its verdict pass,
Tith’s “ King ” was Silver,
Barrett’s Brass.
B.E.
“ Haresfoot” : Titheradge must echo Macready with
“my wretched profession ! ” A bumper house is over-
joyed, quite delirious, at Meib. Royal, to see him off. He
tells them he only goes, only leaves, his comfortable
home, because he has got no work to do. Of course, the
Firm would far rather engage him than somewhat of the
Beautv-Bradfield type, but Tith. cannot do the music-
hall, and so he roust go to London—with universal hypo-
critical hullabaloo.
Veteran and vegetarian Grattan Riggs broke his arm
in Tasmania the other day, and has been much afflicted
since his return to Melbourne by the cheap sympathy of
acquaintances who want to know how it happened. No
old-young man in the theatrical line of business cares to
talk about his damaged limbs and general health, and
Riggs is very young and sensitive for his age. So he
carries a pack of cards giving a full account of how it
happened. He tripped over a loose plank at the back of
the stage at Strahan (Tas.) theatre and put himself hors
de combat, but the doctor says he will be all right again
shortly, etc. Any man stopping old man Riggs in the
street with a “ Sony to hear of your accident; how did
it happen ? ” is presented with a card of explanation. The
card concludes with some harmless jocular vanity in the
way of geographical detail—“ Strahan is the shipping
port for Zeehan. Zeehan is famous for its great silver
and lead fields. Strahan is famous for being the scene of
my accident.—G.R.” In the midst of trouble a showman
can always find an advt.
The editor-owner of the “Thunderer” in the capital of
the province of Flira Flam notified the chief of the staff
that he intended to “ do ” the Wilson Barrett season him-
self. Some godless wretch entered it in the “ duty-book”
for the opening night: “ Grand Theatre .' a . Wilson
Barrett Co. . . . Mr. Bony Synifax .... Good notice
wanted.” The chief of staff said nothing—just rubbed it
out; but the yarn was too good—it leaked.
In John Coleman’s farewell speech he said that at the
end of six months he intended to return with his mother
and settle in Australia, “ which always seemed like a
home to him.” George Titheradge, one night later, re-
marked, “going home usually means going to England,
with me it will mean returning to this country.” Latest
accounts of the Broughs tell of great triumphs in India,
“ but we definitely intend to be in Australia by Easter,
’99, our real home.” The Bulletin was just thinking
that this sunny south must really be “ Heaven’s reflex,”
when it received a rude shock to its system by a cable-
gram from Melba : “Cannot think of visiting Australia
this year.” Ada Crossley also appears to be “ well set.”
Is it that the land of one’s adoption is dearer than the
land of one’s birth, or—can it be—is it that whe*-» the
treasure is, there will the heart be also ?
The amateur “La Perichole,” at Melb. Bijou, will
bring £6O, or more, to sundry charities, although it
wasn’t run on the charitable-subscription ticket.
Titheradge, Junior, appears in “ A Terrible Task,” at
Melb. Bijou.
Hear Bulletin,— lie the suggestion by a Melb. musical
critic that Marshall Hall plagiarised a little bit from Bee-
thoven in his “ Alcestis ” music. Wasn't it rather foolish
of your correspondent to call the critic in question “a
silly man ” because he didn’t know the plagiarism was in-
tended as a “ quotation ” ? Allowing that Wagner, Men-
delssohn, and Beethoven were allowed to plagiarise in a
“quotational ” way, it doesn’t quite follow that Hall is
privileged to do the same thing without apology.—Onyx.
The study of theatrical advts. is an education in the
small worries of management. There is the “star”
question to be considered, especially where musical
dignity is concerned. Remarked that the new concert
people were the “ Alva-Verne Concert Co.” (in the advts.)
until they landed at Mdb., whereupon the title changed
to “ John Lemmone’s Concert C 0.,” with Mme. Alva’s
name in commanding type, and the others on a dead
level. Seeing that Lemmone had preceded the co. one
may assume that handsome Madame A. was responsible
for the alteration.
The sinful comp, added to his sum of iniquity last week
when the “ Sundry Shows ” notice of “ Alcestis” made it
appear that Marshall Hall’s music was interpreted by “ a
full orchestra of 80 Liedertafel voices.” “Of” should
have been “ and.” The Liedertafel men do sometimes
supply humming accompaniments to songs, but they
never impersonate a full band.
The last Sketch pourtrays the son, daughter, and grand-
children of Ellen Terry. ‘ They are the offspring of her
union with demised architect Godwin, editor of the
Builder. Before this, she was the spouse of Watts,
the artist; and afterwards she married the late Chas.
Kelly, a good actor, associated with her in “New Men
and Old Acres.” And of late years—well, Ellen has had
much m atrimonial experience.
“ The Little Minister ” looks just about strong enough
to carry Pattie Browne round Australasia. Interest in
book and play is bound to grow as the advt. rolls along.
“Paradis”: I find the charm of Cecil Ward’s Little
Minister in that he reminds me, at every turn, of a theo-
logical student I knew, who came out of the sweetest
home in the country—a mother’s boy, as Gavin Dishart
must have been. The resuscitated Cecil is quite a bril-
liant success in the part. The gloss of novelty is upon
him.
«« Melb.” : The Turn-Verein, emboldened by Jos. Symes
charging on Sabbaths, has begun Sunday peps, in a way,
one being given this week for a benefit. Frank Clark was
threatened with the withdrawal of his license at the
Opera House for Sunday concerts with collections. Just
what Pastor Edgar does over his Pleasant Sunday After-
noons. Last Sunday he had 8000 people at the Exhibi-
tion, drawn to hear' Spada and Newbury sing, w-ith a bit
of cackle thrown in for a blind, and the inevitable collec-
tion totted £7O.


A. E. (50LPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OP —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLT.NER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MBBCHAITTS,
82 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CH EMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors
JJ
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists ; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-,
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
R. BELL &, CO.’S VESTAS
—ARE—
BRITISH VESTAS.
Aus. I
Reps, j
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/36%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Minins Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William Street
Mklbournb ;
11 Piit-at., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; Queen-et., Brit*.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Victoria closed its financial year at 30th June,
1898, with a revenue of £6,886,663 —£256,446 better than
last year’s returns and £82,446 more than Treas. Turner’s
estimate. The expenditure return is not yet published ;
in Victoria the expenditure side of the account is gener-
ally kept open for a month or two after June 30th to give
time for outstanding claims to come in. What the Vic.
Treasurer reckons the best feature in the accounts is the
increased income tax receipts, which are £186,217 —£6874
more than the returns for ’97, and £45,411 more than the
receipts for ’94 when the tax was first imposed.
• ¥ * *
The N.S.W. revenue for the year ended 30th
June, 1898, was £9,482,134 —an increase of £164,986 as
compared with last year. The expenditure was £9,480,015,
leaving a surplus of £2119. This is so far as the accounts
show at present, though when things are definitely
squared up they may look better. The £65,000 due on
the municipal subsidy was not paid, but left over till next
financial year. The loan expenditure was £1,707,972,
which is £159,366 more than last year’s total, and the
biggest loan expenditure since 1893. Also, £2,558,533 was
borrowed during the year, which is the biggest year’s
borrowing since the Parkes boom season of ’9l.
* * * •
According to the Auditor-General’s report, the
funded debt of N.S.W. at 30th June, 1897 (a year ago)
was £58,590,764, and the unfunded debt (Treasury bills)
was £2,483,734, making a total of £61,074,498. Also,
something over £3,000,000, borrowed out of trust funds,
makes the total about £64,000,000. The same authority
estimates the deficit at 30th June, 1897, as £3,186,873.
About £668,000 of this is put away separately and called
“ Suspense account,” but the name makes no real differ-
ence, and the actual, complete shortage is as above. This
is saying nothing of the deficiency of about £1,250,000 in
the Civil Service Superannuation Fund which the Reid
Govt, has promised to make good ; if this is regarded as
an acknowledged liability the deficit runs to over
£4,400,000. This more than equals the combined short-
ages of Victoria, Queensland and S.A. N.S.W. professes
to pay off its back debt at the rate of £150,000 a year.
Victoria pays £250,000 a year, or tries to. Tasmania,
with a shortage of only about £700,000, has no fixed
annual payment, but has been paying off as much as
£BO,OOO in one year. S.A. makes a little progress, but
not much.
• * * •
Queensland’s revenue for the pa3t 12 months
was £3,768,152, an increase of £155,002 on last year’s re-
ceipts. The surplus is £20,724, which goes towards re-
ducing the defieit —and the awful revelations about loan
expenditure will come in later on.
* * * *
Tasmania’s revenue for June (.£67,221) is .£9567
better than that for June of last year. Tasmania closes
its financial year at 31st Dec., but with only six months
gone the income is already £51,793 more than for the
corresponding six months of 1897. Treas. Fysh dreams
of paying £lOO,OOO off the old deficit during 1898. This
year longitude 140 seems to be the place where prosperity
stops short. East of that Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria,
Tasmania, and Maoriland all show largely increased re-
venues. West of it there are the two slumps in S. A. and
Westralia—especially the latter. If there was any place
further west than Westralia it is awful to think what its
probable condition would be.
* * * »
The year’s revenue in South Australia was
£2,561,520 as compared with £2,620,049 for previous year
—a drop of £58,529. Expenditure is not yet made up,
but a deficit seems almost certain. South Australia is the
luckless Cinderella of .the Seven Provinces. It produces
hardly any gold, no silver, hardly any coal, and next to
nothing in other minerals. Its whole mineral production
averages about one-thirteenth that of N.S.W. Then on
top of this it owns the worst drought country in Australa-
sia, and how it lives and keeps even moderately prosper-
ous under these conditions is a marvel.
* * * *
Droughts and low wool-prices still sit heavily
on these great joint-stock wool magnates, Goldsbrongh,
Mort and Co. The year’s gross earnings to 31st March,
1898, are 1131,229, as compared with £131,405 at March,
1897, and £124,258 for nine months only to March, 1896.
Therefore things are still moving downwards somewhat.
The “ B” debenture-holders get no interest at all on their
£1,234,350. Last year, they got one-quarter of their
interest, and the previous year they got all of it, so things
are growing considerably worse with the “ B ” debenture-
holders. And, after working expenses ami interest on
£1,491,400 of “ A ” debentures are paid, there remains the
very narrow margin of £6Ol, therefore a very small further
slump would make things rather awkward for the " A ”
people also. When Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. recon-
structed in ’93, and wrote off 1225,000 capital and £235,000
reserve fund, and various other things, it renewed its
great mass of debentures at 5 per cent, interest. Then,
when it made its second reconstruction in 1895, it was
agreed that the liabilities should be divided into “ A ”
debentures at 4 per cent., and “ B ” debentures at 3 per
cent., and the “B” debentures were only to receive
their interest if profits admitted. In the absence of suffi-
cient profits the “ B ” crowd have to go without, and at
present they are going without. The present situation is
that the co. has to earn £37,030 per annum more than it
is doing at present before it can pay interest to its “B”
debenture-holders. Then it has to earn another £23,202
more per annum to pay 3 per cent. div. to its preference
shareholders before the ordinary shareholders have any
prospect. After it has done both these things, and paid
3 per cent, to ordinary shareholders also, one-half of any
remaining surplus may be used to reduce the huge load
of debenture liability. The following summary of the
liabilities about sums up the prospects :
Ordinary capital £171,258
Preference ~ 773,429
“A” Debentures 1,491,400
“ B ” „ 1,234,350
Mortgage .. 70,000
Miscellaneous Liabilities .. .. 299,929
£4,040,366
In other words, out of the £4,040,366 invested in the busi-
ness about £945,000 is the shareholders’ own money, and
over £3,000,000 is borrowed. Which is the whole trouble
boiled down, and with the condensed grief carefully
skimmed off the top.
• » * •
That large and over-weighted beer enterprise,
Carlton Brewery Limited (Melbourne), reports that for
1897 (or, rather, for 13 months from 29th November, ’96,
to 31st Dec., ’97) things have improved somewhat, but are
still looking very bad. The profit, after allowing £3927
for bad debts, is' £3550, which equals about 13 per cent,
per annum on the paid-up capital. This would be a splen-
did return but for the appalling dead weight of boom
liabilities. When the big beer speculation was floated,
away back in the times when all Victoria was painted red,
the goodwill alone was taken over at £150,000, and the
real estate attached to the business was valued at the
gorgeous price of £671,354. Then, as the co. put com-
paratively little capital of its own into the affair, it bor-
rowed about £792,000 on debentures and mortgages.
After that the great slump came, and the real estate lost
£355,000 of its paper value, and the £150,000 worth of
goodwill was worth just about nothing. The balance-
sheet at 31st Dec., ’97, boils down to this
Liabilities.
Paid-up Capital £20,540
Small debts .. 26,599
Debentures .. 687,530
Mortgages .. 105,390
£846,059
Assets
Cash and miscellaneous
visible assets .. £121,185
Keal Estate .. 317,122
Goodwill (alleged) 150,000
Deficiency .. 257,752
£846,059
There is no need to detail all the processes of
writing-off and reconstruction by which the Carlton
Brewery, Limited, got there ; the interesting fact is that
it is there. All the remaining paid-up capital is £26,540.
The goodwill just now is practically nil ; a business that
is so woefully embarrassed is just about unsaleable on any
terms. For all immediate purposes the shortage is
£400,000, or nearly 15 times the capital, and the
visible assets are not very much over half the
liabilities. With the steady improvement in the beer
trade, the Carlton Brewery can pay all interest and have
£3300 a year over to reduce the principal of its debts ;
probably it will have a good deal more later on, and its
goodwill may be worth a lot of money by-and-bye, and
its real estate will probably recover in course of time—if
it can only get time. The co. reckons that if its deben-
tures were extended so as not to fall due for about 30
years it could, by putting away £2500 a year at compound
interest, build up a fund which would then cover them,
and in that case its prospects would be all right.
Unluckily the terrific mass of debentures is due for repay-
ment in 1902, and by that time the concern doesn’t look
like being able to pay one-tenth of them. And, so far,
the holders have refused to extend the date of repay-
ment, so the situation is interesting. If they don’t renew,
a co. which is earning 13 per cent, on its present capital
will presumably have to close up.
* * * *
The Haymarket Permanent Land, Building and
Investment Co. (Sydney) shows some small signs of con-
valescence after a very bad experience. Profits for the
last four half-years are :
May, 1897 £292 May, 1898 £223
November, 1897 160
Even the improved profit of the last half-year only equals
12s. 8d. per cent, per annum on the paid-up capital,
and, considering that the Haymarket Co. pays interest on
its deposits at the very low reconstructed rate of 3 per
cent., said profits may be said to range from bad to awful.
Still, the co. is gradually getting ovpr its many difficulties.
When it got a nine years’ renewal of its deposits in 1894
they amounted to £83,313. Since then it has reduced
them to £59,167 and its other liabilities have been reduced
from £49,870 to £45,215. The principal assets are £167,000
of land and bricks and mortar ; £42,000 of mortgages and
£6400 cash. Presumably there is a good deal of paper
value about the land and bricks and mortar, and the
£34,647 of reserves which are buried among these assets
would be rather hard to find just now. Yet the Hay-
market Co. will be able, bar accidents and commercial
convulsions, to pay off all its outside liabilities in a few
more years, and the present shareholders’ children should
have a show of getting dividends. In fact, a healthy
shareholder who doesn’t drink may live to get dividends
himself.
* • • *
What objection is being offered to the purchase
of the Tarrawingee tram-line by the Govt., recently dis-
cussed in Tub Bulletin, comes indirectly from the Silver-
ton Tramway Co.—that huge monopoly which for years
past has squeezed and sucked enormous divs. out of
Broken Hill. The Tarrawingee line is simply a continua-
tion of the Silverton line, and the co. which owns the
latter knows that the purchase of the extension will
mean that the original line will be taken over at first
opportunity. And when that happens Broken Hill, in its
joy, may appropriately look out for a big window to
smash. Meantime, it seems to be Broken Hill’s business
to insist upon the Govt, getting, as it were, a leg in.
* * * *
A. Bargigli, who represents an English co.,
ready to provide Ooolgardie goldfields with water, makes
a serious indictment against the proposed Govt, scheme.
The cost, he declares, will be nearly half-a-million beyond
the estimate, and to make the scheme complete will in-
volve four millions. The working expenses, not including
interest or sinking fund, will be £199,000 a year. So many
points of leakage must necessarily exist under the plan of
construction that, it may be even greater than the quan-
tity of water pumped, and is sure to amount to 60 per
cent, of the total. He quotes the Engineering and
Mining Journal to show that such a continuous
riveted pipe-line has never before been attempted, and
that the strain on pipes exposed to the sun of West
Australia must cause loosening, and leakage at the
riveted-joints, and that the Commission in London de-
clined to recommend the use of these pipes until they
had been tested on a large scale. On the other hand, his
co. guarantees the success of a different system, using
metal pipes, and the completion of the-scheme in three
years, to give seven million gallons a day instead of five
millions proposed, that the maintenance will not exceed
£30,000 a year, that the pipes will be made locally, that
the cost will be much less than the actual estimate of the
Govt, scheme, and the co. will take payment in Govt,
bonds.
* * * *
, Cobar is by a long way the most go-ahead
mining-camp of N.S.W. Two hotels of over 40 rooms
each are about to open—an undoubted evidence of pro-
gress—and a number of shops are going up.
The Great Cobar Co. is now treating upwards
of 12,000 tons a month for about 300 tons of copper, with
variable quantities of gold and silver, according to the
amount of ore received from the Peak mine. Two rail-
way sidings put into the works, one to take coke, &c., in,
the other to take matte out. Heap-roasting is going on—
one little heap of 7000 tons will be alight in a few days,
and when it gets fairly going, should make strangers
cough and spit; their language should also be very sul-
phureous.
The Cobar-Chesney is putting out a lot of good
ore, and should soon become a big copper-and-gold pro-
ducer. The big copper-mine—Great Oobar —hasan excess of
iron, and it is getting heavier still. The Gobar-Ohesney
has, up to date, a deficiency in iron, but has now several
ore faces equal, if not above, the parent mine in copper-
and-gold contents. The two ores will blend beautifully ;
one will bring up the other’s matte in copper value. Why
not blend the two ores’? Best face in the Cobar-Chesney
is that in the drive south of the main shaft, where the ore
is averaging 7 per cent, copper and 3dwt. gold, while its
character is exceptionally good for direct smelting. It
looks like becoming a big mine, and there is nothing to
stop its sending to the Cobar smelters 100 tons a day, if
terms can be arranged.
The reconstruction, in London, of the Cobar
Gold Mines Co. (old Fort Bourke) has gone through, and
a big sum of money is now entrusted to the new manage-
ment. Fox, the new mining manager, made a name in
Bendigo, at the Lady Barkly, by paying divs. from 4dwt.
stone. Also, be did some big and good work at the New
Moon, which got him a large salary to go and manage a
miserably poor mine at the Norseman, W.A. Fox could
not stand a rich screw from a poor mine. He has now no
trifling- contract on hand, but makes no bones about the
value of the mine. A main shaft has been started.
Ovanide-and-slime plant and man are coming—plant from
London, man from South Africa; the American boilers
are to be got rid of, and a big Australian one of a different
type put in to save fuel; also, other changes are con-
templated. Meanwhile, the little cyanide plant is still
working on the “ American modern mill tailings, ana
the 100-head mill is a sad, silent spectacle..
The person who had the Occidental under offer,
not having come up to time with the purchase-money, the
deposit has been forfeited, and there is much disappoint-
ment in Cobar, for the sale was thought a sure thing.
Another offer was made to take a short option at the same
price with a bond of £5OO, but the directors declined to
recommend it unless the deposit was made nearly 20 per
cent, of the purchase-money (t 4000), which the intended
buyer thought far too steep. The co. is now left to work
out its own salvation, and some arrangement is about to
be made for the cyaniding of the tailings, the value of
which is well known. But to put the mine in shape for
regular divs. from so low-grade an ore will waut more
money than is likely to be found in Cobar.
The Cobar Great Western is the worst-managed
mine in Cobar, for which the directors in Sydney (not the
mining manager) are to blame. For the last three years
it has been pig-rooted for divs., and has almost got into
the condition that Cousin Jack describes as “ fitchered.
Some slight sign of reformation is the starting of a main
shaft. Splendid copper and gold ore has been found
in the deepest workings, and as soon as “ assays” showed
some 30 per cent, copper and several ounces gold instruc-
tions were given to the “boss” to send 12 tons without
delay to Sydney. This rich “ tack ”is a very small part
of the lode, and the picking out of the 12 tons will take
much more time than the directors imagine. Many
N.S.W. managements want new mines. This one wants
new management.
* • • •
The Young Australia, Cobar, has also got down
to copper level —chiefly in the form of native metal. The
cyanide plant is doing good work on the tailings-heap;
the clean-up for last month’s run was over 500 oz.
* * * *
Berribungie—a five-acre block surrounded by
the Cobar-Chesney ground—has a good prospect of be-
coming a copper-producer, but, so far, is not sufficiently
developed to warrant the erection of a blast-furnace, as
once contemplated. Now intended to further open up
the ore body—a sensible proceeding.
* * * *
Not much known of the returns from the Peak
Freehold mine since its purchase by the Oobar tributors for
£25,000. The ten-head battery is kept running on low-
grade gold-ore, and hundreds of tons of ore very rich in
silver are sent every month to the blast furnaces. So far
the tributors have had no reason to regret their purchase,
and if they ever find the source of the wonderful ore
“ chimneys,” Cobar will have another great mine, and the
big boom which, under other circumstances, .it would
have had already.
* * * *
The old tailings of the Cobar Chesney have
again been thoroughly sampled by the sinking of a num-
ber of holes from the top to the bottom of the heap—for
an average of over 6dwts. They measure over 24,000 tons
and have a value in gold of over £30,000.
* * • *
Two sensations reported from Lake George
camp, N.S.W., in one week. A lode has been found in
the Lake George North mine, whereupon the shares
boomed up to “a bob.” Considering that the working of
the lode in the parent mine has sent the shares from 70s.
down to 45., the shock of striking it in the adjoining mine
must have been very great indeed ! Trewenack, the
manager, having resigned, W. J. Collins undertook the
task of ejecting him from the co.’s premises. After doors
and windows had been removed Trewenack shifted him-
self. These two used to swear by each other. They are
evidently now swearing at one another.
B.H. South looks a little better lately. There
is, however, some loose ground in places and it is causing
anxiety.
* » * *
B.H. Block 14 Co. temporarily takes over the
long-disused Junction furnaces at Pt. Adelaide for sul-
phide treatment. The Junction’s concentrate product is
mostly going to the lllawarra works at present.
* * • *
The New Pinnacle Group S.M. Co. issues a
queer balance-sheet, the period covered being the 17
months from Jan. 1, ’97, to May 31, ’9B. What cash the
co. had to begin with isn’t apparent, and it is not easy to
make out what resources it had on May 31. This much
can be made out: that, from ore-sales, £9496 was realised,
while maintenance, general expenses, directors' fees
(> 350), law costs (£380), mine wages and salaries, fuel,
&c., consumed £12,336. The profit-and-loss account,
which on the cr. side shows only ore sales, discount, and
“ balance forward,” £4542, shows on the dr. side, not Only
mine expenses, but flotation expenses also —£1250 being
down against that item. But on mine operations proper
the co. seems to have got behind to thfe extent of about
£3OOO ; and as it is a no-liability co., and is already making
calls, how it is going to pay for its concentrating-milT;
assuming that the Luhrig people are putting up the plant
on the company’s account, is by no means apparent.
Taking all the circumstances into account, and notwith-
standing that the mine contains a great deal of fairly high-
grade ore, it isn’t at all surprising that some shares have
already been forfeited.
The Pinnacles Co. hopes to have its Luhrig con-
centrating plant ready by December ; the mill’s capacity
will be 100 tons per day. Several other mills hitherto
tried have failed to deal effectively with the sulphides
peculiar to this mine, and it is not stated that bulk par-
cels have been successfully separated by this particular
process. In those circumstances the co. is wise not 'to;
take credit for the ore now raised and awaiting treat-
ment ; only, if credit is not mentally taken for this ore,
the outlook, in view of the debit balance of £4542 shown
by profit and loss account, is gloomier than ever. The
Pinnacles is one of the few mines which require a handy
working capital—enough to put up a mill and run it at a
loss until adjustments have been made ; and yet this was
precisely the co. which began without any capital to speak
of —it couldn’t have had more than €5OOO. And out of
that quite extravagant sums have been taken for extra
mine expenses —law costs, travelling expenses, fees, &c.
But, then, it is a Sydney silver-mining co.
* * * *
On the offer of a reward men went into the bush
at Girilambone, N.S.W., and found an ironstone body,
which the D.T. mining reporter says will be the salvation
of the mine.
» * * *
A party of tributors in the Llanberris mine,
Ballarat East, have had a lovely spell recently. After
long pegging away at their tribute, making grub, and not
a pile of that, they suddenly ran into a nest of nuggets,
three of which weighed 750z.,680z.,and560z. respectively.
A week later they fished out another beauty scaling lOOoz.
—£l2oo worth of lumps in a few days ! The Llanberris is
perhaps the oldest going concern in Australia. It dates
back over 40 years, and has had a career of surprises.
* • * •
The last chapter—or what looks like the last
chapter—of the Mt. Deddick story is pathetic : 1000 shares
(afterwards spread out to 20,000) of the original co. were
reserved for issue at a premium, and a few months ago,
when the £3 shares had been “ whispered ” up to £l6, the
directors dreamed dreams re the increase of- working
capital to be obtained by calling out those reserve
forces ; 10,000 of them are now on offer to shareholders at
2s. 6d. each — i.e, the first holders of Deddicks at £3 can
get some more original shares, if they want them, for 50s.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Seems to me that geological
assurances a? to an abundance of copper in the Chillagoe
Proprietary Co.’s properties are beside the point. Can
the geologists guarantee construction of the proposed
railway at the estimated cost of £500,000, and can they,
furthermore, say that appearances promise mineral yields
which, after providing for working cost, will pay good
interest for many years on a capital of £1,800,000? Does
jhe history of copper-mining justify a public rush for
Ohillagoes ? If Ohillagoe were one great mass of copper a
hundred fathoms deep, how low would the price of copper
descend? What has been the lowest market quotation
for copper within the past 20 years, and how can any
geologist certify to the possible “richness" of the Ohillagoe
field, unless he can fix a minimum value for the ore afore-
said ?—A COPI’KK-IIBADKD JCOOINS.
• * • •
Dear Bulletin. — Re two Bulletin pars, on
Ohillagoe, “J.L.” says: “No true lode haß been dis-
covered" in the district, which is absolutely untrue.
What are the Griffith, Girofla, P.P.A. No. 2, Labrador,
Harper, Atherton, and Penzance but true lodes? Is the
Mt. Garnet, proved to 70ft. wide, 3 chains long, and 150 ft.
deep, a lode or not ? Certainly the colossus of the mines,
the Ruddigore, is a deposit, but a lode by any other name
will crush as well—when it is 6 chains long and 2 chains
wide and proved to 100 ft. deep. Likewise “ J.L. wants
to know, if the Ohillagoe Kailway and Mines, Ltd., is
not a “have” of the worst kind, why Queenslanders
didn’t discover it before. Well, a thing is discovered or
in this case proved and exploited will be a better term
when the right man and the right time come. Broken
Hill was sneered at in 1884-5 because plenty of people had
known the Hill for years before, and their familiarity pro-
bably bred a contempt of it. The par. preceding ‘ J.L.
says that to pay 7 per cent, the railway and mines would
have to earn £125,000 a year profit. Mt. Lyell, low
grade as it is, badly situated as it is, with expensive
haulage of the rock over 1- in -12 grades, with a
system for the carriage of supplies that simply eats
money, makes £BO,OOO a year. And with 20 proved
mines—two or three of them bigger than Lyell or Broken
Hill —your correspondent will not admit a profit-earning
ability of 50 per cent, more than low-grade, badly-located
Lyell. All your professionally pessimistic paragraphists
to the contrary notwithstanding, I say that in the Chu-
lagoe Railway and Mines, Ltd., is contained the certainty
of the biggest mining and industrial success Australia has
ever yet known.—Yours, Randolph*Bedford.
* * * *
From Ohillagoe, and from a man who so far tias
shown that he knows his business :—“ At £20,000 I reckon
the Ohillagoe scheme was a fair enough venture, but at
two millions it is not. Of course it will take from a half
to three-quarters of a million to build the railway, and
the balance of the million to open up and equip the mine
and see what they have got and can produce. The rail-
way and electrical power portion of the scheme seems to
me to be a good commercial undertaking, which, on cheap
lines of management, should pay from the start and lead
to the country being well opened up, so that itself is a
justification for the mining part. But it is no use their
trying to ram down my throat about the enormous quan-
tities of ores they have in sight. They are emphatically not
in sight, and the new management has to go and look for
irregular and uncertain bodies of ore without having
had the experience of working out the richer surface
bodies. Most of the old workings are in such a state,
either full of water or timbers burnt, that no one can get
down to see them, and I don’t suppose Stewart went
around with a divining-rod, so he has, I presume, practi-
cally seen little but Moffat’s seconds and a lot of
open cuttings. Some of the deposits in limestone worked
bv Moffat are pipes of ore, notably one near the Queens-
lander that a 6 x 8 tent would cover. Two or three of the
boomsters here are undoubtedly clever, but they forget
that ‘ ex nihilo nihil fit,’ and if they can make copper-
mines out of most of their leases, then this child will drop
the business and go rabbiting. Position and outside
blocks have been pegged out all over the place. One
boomster took up 1000 acres without even going to see
what had been pegged for him. What poor, deluded
idiots the mining public are ! ”
* * * *
Croydon items : — A 300-ton crushing, estimated
to go fully 12oz. per ton, was, at latest, going through
from the locally-owned No. 7 North Golden Gate. Re-
ported sale of Rogers’ No. 1 to the Finch-Hattons, for
England. Owner, Rogers, gets £lO,OOO and retains one-
fifth interest. Also rumored that the Jubilee, a Bull-
owned, is reconstructing, and will have £26,000 extra
capital to develop mine. Co. has splendid plant, with
poor reef of great size ; expected that rich shoot will be
struck in sinking. Golden Gate Consols, after pro-
longed exemption, resumed sinking, with favorable pro-
spects. Mine close to famous No. 7 North Golden Gate.
Mountain Maid line, now lying practically idle,
returned 16,2340 z. from 20,477 tons crushed from its im-
mense quarries of ore up to ’95. Quarries still there, but
capital isn’t—yet. Query : If this return could be ob-
tained by primitive appliances and treatment, what would
result from competent management backed up by money ?
—Geologist Rands reported adversely on Ophir block,
but Croydon public now says “ Rands can’t see into the
ground no more’n an ornery miner.” Result : strong
local co. formed to prospect for fabulously-rich Iguana
reef, which, if discovered, will boom Croydon muchly.——
Outside Croydon mines promise handsome returns in
near future. Owners are now sticking to them like grim
death, waiting for the windfalls to come when Bull finds
that such a place as Croydon exists, and spends a little of
his superfluous cash there. Normanton and Cloncurry
land-grabbers recently sent M.L.A. Sim to Croydon on a
private-enterprise-railway conversion mission. Croydon-
ites laughed at Sim, and asked him to send some private
enterprise along to work their mines. Sim said a private-
enterprise railway from the Norman to Cloncurry was
what the Croydon miners wanted, but the miners blanked
the railway and its missionaries, and Sim smiled sadly as
he-slunk sorrowfully homeward.
* * * •
A Kalgoorlie syndicate lias undertaken to test
outlying Kanowna country for deep leads by boring.
* * * »
The West Australian Smelting Co.’s Fremantle
works, which were sufficiently near completion at the
middle of June to be shown to a Ministerial party, consist
for the present of four furnaces and 380 ft. of flue, de-
signed to operate on oxidised and telluride ores. Kohler,
now assistant general manager of the B.H. Prop., will
take charge during this month (July).
* * * *
Mt. Lyell Consols in its prospectus for the issue
of 10,500 of reserved shares at ss. per share, appends a
report from Muir, oft he’North Lyell, and as a prospectus
report it breaks new ground : “ The main tunnel has been
driven 600 ft., the first 545 ft. being through hard con-
glomerate wall rock, when the solid hematite was cut (it is
compact and well defined and 13ft. wide), the balance of
the distance being schist. No payable ore has, so far, been
located, but the drive now being extended in a southerly
direction along the hematite is in 20ft., and is in nice
country. I consider the prospects of the mine most
favorable. The Mt. Lyell Tharsis Company are getting
ore of fair grade near the company’s boundary.. I recom-
mend shallow prospecting along the western side of the
property, and a crosscut south from the North Mt. Lyell
Copper Company’s old tunnel in the ore there proved.
This will prove the ore at three different levels along the
hematite out-crop, and payable results must follow.” Why
must payable results follow ?
» * * •
Since the insurance companies have climbed
down a bit Melb. Harbor Trust has rescinded its resolu-
tion not to insure. One member stated that in England
excessive fire-rates were being kicked against, but, as he
is of the Fatman order, it must have been by a slip he ad-
vanced such a strong argument in favor of State assur-
ance. m m


A
d
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
rmiE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY ot
the U.S. is renowned for its liberality to its Agents,
and invites applications from gentlemen to repre-
sent the Society in Country Districts in Aew South
Wales and Queensland; also in Sydney and
Brisbane.
Liberal terms to those possessing experience in the
procuration of new business.
Credentials must be enclosed with applications.
Apply to MANAGER,
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Harrington & Co. Ltd.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC • •
MERCHANTS ■ • •
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
and 64 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Have the Latest Kinds of . . .
Lenses,
Plates,
Mounts,
Papers,
Chemicals,
Shutters,
Cameras,
Sundries.
iST Send for a copy of Our New Illustrated
Catalogue (now in the press).
It contains full particulars of them all. [2
SOCIETY
A sad-looking old lady who wanted her
husband to pay 3s. 6d. a week for her maintenance
appeared in North Melbourne court last week.
“I worked on the land for 20 years,” said the
pathetic little woman, “and then he sold it for
some thousands of pounds and went to England as
a saloon passenger for the benefit of his health.
We have only one acre of land now. He turned
me out of my home and brought in a fisherman
and his two daughters, and he bought a buggy.
He bought a dog for £5 and gave ss. for a collar
for it. He has been keeping a woman for 40 years.'
He took my wedding-ring and gave it to her, and
bought her a set of false teeth.” That last item
completes a beautiful picture of domestic happi-
ness. Think of keeping the other woman
till she is so old that you have to raise
the money for her false teeth by the hard
economy of firing out your own old woman ! The
other woman should never be kept till she grows
old enough for that. The only excuse for the
other woman’s existence is her youth. When she
has to lead her victim astray with the shine of her
shop teeth, and the victim knows that they are
shop teeth because he bought them himself, then
vice hasn't one gleam of joy or romance left in it.
Every woman ought to turn Respectable when her
front teeth go.
Vic. Judge Hood recently deplored from
the Bench the disinclination of girls for domestic
s ;rvice as compared with factory or sewing-work,
at lower wages. This state of things Mr. Hood
attributes to the vulgar gentility which makes a
girl prefer being “ Miss Jones ” at ss. a week to
being plain “ Mary Ann ” on higher wage and
better keep. May be so ; but the feeling is exactly
the same kind as that which makes Miss Money-
bags work heaven and earth for an invitation to
Guvmentouse. Either no aspiration after social
distinction is vulgar, or all of it is !
* * » *
A large proportion of “ subjects ” for the
dissecting-room at the Medical School, Sydney
University, are forwarded from the Govt, institu-
tions, and are returned for burial when finished
with. On a recent occasion the officiating clergy-
man was horrified at the rattling of one of the
coffins, and, insisting on its being opened, he
found that the weight had been made up with
empty beer-bottles.
• * * *
A descendant of one of the cats specially
cultivated by Lady Jersey, when helping to govern
N.S. Wales, changed hands the other day, in
Sydney, for £5. The cat doesn’t look its price,
but it was sold with its pedigree, inscribed on
parchment, about its neck.
* • * *
Some months back a N.S.W. Govt, de-
partment received an application from a mother
living at Mungundi, on the N.W. border, who
wished her son sent up to her. As a proof of her
fitness to have him, she announced her recent mar-
riage to a local resident. A doubting official
wrote for a copy of the certificate to the Kegistrar-
General, Sydney; none could be found and the
application was refused. In a fury the applicant
journeyed several hundred miles to Sydney to
demand her rights, and was coldly received with
the reply “no certificate, no boy.” Having
exhausted her time and patience, the mother re-
turned to the baekblocks with an unprintable
opinion of Govt, procedure. Quite recently, the
mystery was explained. The wedding party had
walked up the main street to the scene of the cere-
mony, and unwittingly were married in Queens-
land. The registration had been forwarded to
Brisbane, where, of course, a copy was soon ob-
tained For nearly ten months the poor woman
had been parted from her son by the accident of a
“ Surveyor’s Line.”
• * * •
Butter-factory manager replying to address
on leaving district: “ Gentlemen, I made a lot of
notes for my speech ; but I put ’em on greasy
paper and they’ve slipped off.”
* * ♦ *
Dear Bulletin. — lie the contribution by
the Undeserving to the material prosperity of the
“ reputable ” and “ deserving,” do they not also
merit consideration as the hacks upon which the
holy and virtuous ride to the Happy Land ? No
sinner, no saint! —that is obvious. What
credit would attach to the immaculate
if the antithetical element did not
exist? And if the unre-
generate necessitate the
lawyer, the policeman, the
_ gaol, and the gallows, do they not
also indirectly support all religious in-
stitutions ? What show would the holy
circus have but for the sinful opposition
show ? How vindicate its necessity but by the
existence of the ungodly? Since clerics have
found that the faithful are getting weary of mere
dogma, they have fallen back more and more upon
pointing the moral with the “Undeserving,” to
whom said clerics owe their very existence as a
class of well-fed drones.— Old Jack.
* * * *
The surreptitious interview is ever the
best. The one everybody relishes in a newspaper
is that which causes the interviewer to flush crim-
son, crunch up the rag, and jump on it. Such,
you may be sure, is a malicious interview with
Salvationist Herbert Booth, which has just crept
into a Melb. paper. The operator caught him in
a first-class railway-carriage, and gently evoked
OF THE SAME SPECIES .
“ Oh, you — YOU ARE a duck.”
“No, you don’t—my wife says I’m ad-rake.”
his opinion that the Melb. Conservatives were a
lot of snobs—not his words but their effect. Then
a Salvationist flunkey came round—from the second
class, of course —and took reverential charge of
the Panjandrum.
♦ * * *
Murray Prior, someone remarks, has been
removed from a pleasant damsel to an unpleasant
damp cell.
* * * *
The record to date. S.M. Herald advt.,
27/6/’9B: —
A GENTLEMAN will give £lOO to secure a good
billet in city, no agents. W.P., Herald.
■£loo !!! And, next day :
A GENTLEMAN with many years’ experience in
city mercantile office, and accustomed to keep
merchant’s D.E. books, will give £5O for billet in
merchant’s office or good accountant's office.
No agents. C.S., Herald.
■£so for a job ! Think of it! —ye impecunious
unemployed ! ■
» * * *
The gipsies now encamped at Largs Bay,
S.A., are the first real representatives of the
Romany race who have ever visited Australia.
How old George Borrow or Charles Leland would
have delighted to interview them ! Australia is
rapidly becoming old. We shall have the Dancing
Dervishes and the Hindoo Fakirs here next.
* * * •
The Argus has begun slaughtering the
Vie. detectives. The ever-grievance is that they
take so much delight in being recognised by
everybody. In the painful discharge of his duty
the D. lounges at a public bar, twiddling his
watch-chain, while people whisper, “Do you know
who that is ? ” “No.” “ Hawkshaw, the Detec-
tive ! ” Then the great man, who knows what
they are saying, glows with inward glory as he
imbibes an eleemosynary threepeny beer from
another admirer. Not the fashion of Melb.’s
yoretime Eason, Black, and Jack Williams.
* * * *
Melb. Argus is attacking Vic. detective
department on very much the same lines as ex-
Constable Crowe when he expended his retiring-
allowance in running the Alert newspaper in order
to let his late officers know what he thought about
them.
* • * *
A bright young Australian at Perth, when
his father killed his mother and suicided, sup-
pressed the news for several hours while he tried to
trade “awful tragedy ” copy to the Perth news-
papers. His enterprise missed cash, for they
wouldn’t deal. Fancy such a boy being wasted on
a community of sandgropers !
A hitherto unpublished, but equally authentic,
incident occurred up North about five years ago,
forming an interesting parallel to the above.
The charming daughter of a highly-respected
business-man became engaged to be married.
Lately her widowed mother developed an incur-
able complaint, and the daughter suddenly
decided to get married, for no other reason, ap-
parently, than to be out of the worry of the ill-
ness. Before leaving on her honeymoon, however,
the thoughtful girl made all the funeral arrange-
ments and ordered the family grave to be opened,
so that there should be no fuss when the end came.
While the sweet young thing was enjoying her
trip to the full, the mother died in a hospital quite
alone and uncared-for, as the daughter had even
neglected to give the address of the hospital to the
other relatives of “tjie poor thing.”
* * * *
Amid the clamor for palatial church-build-
ings with which Australian pulpits resound Sunday
after Sunday, and which produces annually crops
of more or less insane Crottys, one humane voice
—that of R.C. Archbishop Dunn, of Brisbane—is
heard piping : “Better than building churches or
schools is it to build good houses for the working
classes and provide happy homes for the rising
generation.”
• * * *
“H.M.”: Am relieved to hear that
the doctor easily beats the editor for the Most
Tired distinction. People complain about the
medicine-man’s faint attention to their acheful
recitals, and his generally bored aspect while
scribbling out the chemist’s billet-doxix. A
momentary awakening only happens when the fee
is being forked over. This professional lassitude,
however, doesn’t attack the quack, who patiently
listens to the tale of woe, and thereby profits
muchly.
That Melb. bomb business
recalls the fact that more people
are fond of fooling with ex-
plosives than is at all suspected.
It isn’t long since a boarder at a
big Melb. hotel had to shift his
quarters owing to the chance dis-
covery that he was experi-
menting with nitro-glycerine
and gun-cotton in his bed-
room. Evidently not
his first compulsory
move-on either, for
he resignedly ob-
served that
Melbourne
people
were far
too parti-
cular, any-
how,about
such tri-
fles. Ab-
out a
week af-
terwards;
he mira-
culously
e s capedl
death in,
the blow-
ing-up of a,,
small house he-
had hired in a,
country town.
♦ * *
The libel law is.
f a quaint animal. Im
Maoriland, the OTAGO)
Daily Times a n dl
Christchurch PRESS;
published the same
alleged libel in the same-
words. One jury decidedl
it was a libel and gave damages and costs against,
the Times. Another decided that it wasn’t,,
and discharged the Pkess without an ink-
blot on its character. The Times appealed
for a new trial on the ground that the Press,
verdict showed the paragraph was not libel-
lous. Plaintiff appealed against the Press ver-
dict on the ground that the Times verdict
proved the paragraph was libellous. Both ap-
peals were dismissed with costs by the same
Pull Court, so the Full Court decides that the
same paragraph is libellous in the Times and not
libellous in the Press. And the paper from
which both these organs borrowed the paragraph
wasn’t prosecuted at all.
*** • *
H.S. : “ Seems to have been forgotten that
the book the R.C. Church (which is trying to
stick to the late Crotty’s money) calls the Word of
God, threatens the most terrible retribution
against him who plunders the widow and the
fatherless. Divinity, like everything else, is
downed by the dollars ! ” The Bulletin, how-
ever, does not despair of a reasonable arrangement
being yet arrived at with regard to the Crotty
will. Archbishop Carr (absent from Australia
just now) is a good man of the world, and so far,
to do him but bare justice, appears to have mad -
few mistakes either of head or heart.
THE MATTER WITH SOAKER.
“ I see Soaker’s given up drink!”
“ Ah, indeed—gold cure?”
“No. Copper—he’s got three months.”
Question set candidates at recent Melb. C.
of E. ordination. “Write a description of voui-
intercourse as a minister with some person iiu
whom you have been specially interested, or to.
whom you have been spiritually useful. State the
method you adopted, and the apparent results of
your efforts. Give the date of the events to.
within a year or two.” The publication of the
replies to this priggish production would probably
result in assault and battery ; and in any case the
fair sex will now fight a lot shyer of the mild
curate, lest awkward little things might slip out
when he goes up for his ordination exam.
TOO LATE
[FOR THE BULLEIN.]
Life- is a passing cruel oame- at - best*. I
1 gleam ©f happiness, and then we lapse '
Irvld the old , unendtng , hopeless ojuest" -
AacJ we met" ejears ago - who knows? ferhaps. 1
T i
_L Saw a pose TodaLj - a^^sJLuJafowTr^cpse,
Mar beauty I'mnolina'with her
Dreaming of other us one who knowixX
Thar nVohf has come ,cmd feels dp pro acVunodi
decFFh . ~ °I
I stood enthralled - th e n carefully , lest thieve#
rob me of the Treasure
1 had found
AhV hand wenfouf lb gather hen-
- and leaves Q
Ard peTats f (atferad Tadino'' v
To the ground I
Von Kotze
EPITAPH—TO THE SOUDAN DONKEY.
(Died, June 23, ’9S.)
No need to tell your tale in carven word
On polished stone or marble effigy ;
Long since, when lust of martial glory stirred,
We raised a golden monument to thee.
Dead ! —still ’twould idle be to tell anew
Our country’s loss (cood gold, spent all in vain),
And of our prize—beloved donkey, you,
Who led our scarless warriors home again.
T.D.


■s^\
mi-
fig
as
R
You
_Forgot t^
TilEMi,?,?!'
Things to adore: Locks, Hinges, Dooi’-
knobs, and Knockers. Pointed facts: Tacks,
Nails, Screws, &c. A short cut: Lawn Mowers,
Scythes, Sickles, and Reaping Hooks. Around
the Globe: Chimneys, Wicks, Burners, and Lamp-
ware. The only Federated Hardware Firm, we
can supply any of the above lines at rock-bottom
prices. M'LEAN BROS AND RIGG LTD.,
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, and George-street,
Sydney, and Perth, W.A.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
■DOSS’S CELEBRATED
BYS LOTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, ‘2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. Open all Night
also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Markwald,
178 YVilliani-sfc., Melbourne
11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane.
KINDLY DISPOSED.
NIPPER (to fish vendor):
“ Got any dry Ash?”
FISH VENDOR: “ Yes!"
NIPPER : “ Well, give 'em a drink."
In Westra-
lia the old leg-
iron spirit
crops up unex-
pectedly in
strange places.
At the Bould-
er the miners
going to and
from their
work were ac-
customed t o
take a short
cut across the
railway. After
a while the
railway pre-
mises were
fenced in and
a locked gate
put on each
side, but to
save a long
detour the
miners devel-
oped a habit
of scrambling
over. After a
while the locks
gave way un-
der the weight
of so much
human meat,
and new locks
weren’t avail-
a b 1 e because
the loan was
exhausted, so
the authorities
borrowed two
pairs of dis-
used han d-
cuffs, and secured the gates with them, and were
quite content. The old handcuff, red with rust
because the sandgroper is too tired to take it in
out of the rain, is the appropriate symbol of W. A.
Perhaps the
least useful man in
the Baratarian civil-
service is one, say,
Bunsby receiving
very much a year—
whose whole work is
done by a junior -
clerk at 30s. a week.
Bunsby, however,
has influential friends
in both Houses of
Parliament, and, a
few months back,
when it was suggest-
ed that a Depart-
ment for, say, the
Encouragement o f
Bunyip Culture was
urgently needed, a
deputation w a ited
upon the Premier,
and, after descanting
on the advantages
o f improving the
breed of bunyips
the head of the de-
putation suggested
that Mr. Bunsby
would make an ex-
cellent secretary.
The Premier glow-
ered : “ Oh, if you
think the work of
the department co uld
be efficiently done by
Mr. Bunsby, that
settles it. Any de-
partment that could
be run by Bunsby
isn’t worth having !
Good morning! ”
* *
“Melb.”: The
tram-conductors and
grips visibly decline
amid the marriage-
able maidens. They
are below the par of
policemen and post-
men, with all these
medical statistics.
In his report for 1897, the Comptroller-
General of Prisons says that there is but one life-
sentenced prisoner in N.S. Wales, which is surely
an error. Possibly he means the man sentenced,
some years ago, by Justice Innes, to penal servi-
tude for the term of his natural life, for the man-
slaughter of Const. Hird, at Canterbury. There
must be many other “lifers,” including Willoughby
Andrews and M‘Crow, &c.
* * * *
Be goods lost in transit. Some years ago, a
popular commercial traveller was accidentally
killed, near Parkes, N.S.W. His brethren sub-
scribed sufficient to place over the grave in the local
cemetery a handsome monument. This was selected
in Sydney. A suitable inscription was placed
upon it, the article carefully packed, and con-
veyed to the railway station for transit to Parkes.
The carrier got a receipt (produced), but after that
the monument was never seen or heard of, all
inquiry proving fruitless.
♦ * * *
“Scribe” : About reporters wearing bell-
toppers. A Melb. pressman habitually wore a
shabby white one, and so did Snowball Henderson
Afrieanus. Another journalist said, “Snooks
old man, you really must be on hand outside St|
GOOD ADVICE ,
THE SMALL BOY : “ I say, mister, keep a tight holt on his head, and when it
comes to a turn —let HIM turn! ”
George’s Hall this evening at 8.” “Why?”
“Well, the Governor is going, and Henderson is
sure to be there.” “What has that to do with
me? ’ “Let me tell you now, as a friend, there
is a rumor that you and Henderson only have one
hat between you ! ”
» * * *
“To encourage the others ! ” in the re-
porters’ room of a Perth daily, is a notice :
From this date, any reporter making a mistake in his
report, whether by accident or not, will be instantly dis-
missed.
Journalism in the western capital is still princi-
pally in the hands of the sandgropers, who can
never bring themselves to forget that they are not
still rounding up oonviots and niggers with a
whip.
* * * *
“Melb.”: Where do the journeymen
bakers sleep ? On the flour bags, in the stable, out-
house, or loft; with no opportunity for a bath, the
.stable bucket being the only bedroom-ware avail-
able Clothes none too clean, and habits superior
V 0 use of handkerchief do not stimulate ones
desire for the staff of life. j
\ * • * * '
v “ Holdar M.”: The tram, already over-
loaded, stopped again to absorb a few more passen-
gers. A buxom woman with a baby forced an
entrance into a compartment, female-packed, with
the exception of a benevolent-looking elderly gent,
wearing the kindly white whiskers of a guiltless
past. The seated “ lydies ” resented their baby-
burdened sister’s intrusion as she stood awkwardly
between their serried ranks, but presently the
mild male proffered his knees and was blush-
fully accepted. But anon baby began to agitate
for nourishment, and the modest mother, placed
upon the dilemma of the compartment of smokers
in front, and the paternal-faced benefactor behind,
chose the latter, and swinging round, placed
nature’s fount at her infant’s disposal. And the
old gentleman, despite the whispering of the ad-
jacent cats, stood to his guns like a hero. He was
a hero, don’t you think !
* * * *
In a recent Melbourne robbery case the
police got their first clue to the identity of one
man engaged upon the job from the fact that his
“ donah ” was reported to have suddenly acquired
the golden wherewithal (J;30) for buying an illegal
operation.
* * * *
At least three well-known European-born
actors have lately expressed their conviction that
Australia is the most homelike place on earth
viz., Brough, Titheradge, and Coleman. Yet, on
the other hand, Melba, Crossley, and other Aus-
tralians seem perfectly content with the fogs and
flattery of the old world. “ There’s no place like
home ” —if one only knew where to find it.
It was at a N.S.W. Caledonian ball,
and thev had adjourned to drink the health
of Macscrabble, the newly-elected presi-
dent. When whusky had gone round a
couple of times, Mac, becoming dimly con-
scious of an obligation, carefully put down
half-a-crown. “That’s only enough for
five drinks, mon,” he was reminded ; “an’
there’s nine o’ us here.” “Eh, weel, lads,
it’s all we’re gaun to have —but there’s
plenty o’ watter in the jug ! ”
Also, when a certain particularly canny
Scot was elected president of a N.S.W.
country Caledonian Society the members
were agreeably surprised by the abundance
of wliusky provided to celebrate the occasion.
The disagreeable part of the surprise arrived
with the reading-out of the expenditure-list
at the annual meeting. The president had
booked his “ hospitality ” to the Society !
* * * *
“ H.S.R.” : lie black-fellow-and-
eigarette incident. Some years ago, when
I was working in the bush, there were
several blacks about, who were always
cadging tobacco, and, to prevent them
from going to camp and stealing it, I used
to give them some. It was rather expensive,
at 6s. or 7s. per lb., so I got a few pounds
of sheep-dip. But, no fear ! they wouldn’t
touch “ plurry colonial.” Although bad
judges of rum, they’re all there with to-
bacco.
* * *
Lovely woman is a creature of in-
tuitions. T’other day a girl was brought
into a Q. hospital suffering from a pain in
the chest; confessed at last that she had
swallowed her false teeth during her sleep.
Doctors could find no trace of them, but
the girl herself could locate them exactly. . .
A few days after, a relative came in to
the hospital with the teeth, which he had
found hiding between the mattress and the
bed-post. Always trust your intuitions--
especially if you’re a woman !
In one of the Melb. Block music-shop
windows is a somewhat a opal ling oil-painting of
Her Gracious-a present for the Jubilee Hospital.
The artists deserve some little credit for an at-
tempt to depict our Sovereign Lady not as she
ought to be, but as she is-a rather querulous-
looking old dame. There is much excuse for her
expression in this case, for on the table before
her are cards bearing the names of sundry ladies
who are responsible for the Jubilee present. The
Christian names run-Viva, Jeffery, Eilla, Neil,
Queenie, Arnicia, Ruby, Dorris, Bertie Fritz,
and Glory Spain. Which last is surely the most
astounding combination ever inflicted on an un-
fortunate infant.
m 4 t
* ci i , , r> i
A Sydney street-scene Poorly clad and
feebly hurrying through the crowd that surged
down the rainswept street, she met a milkman,
who, at sight of her, clanged down his pads with
savage alacnty : Aha, Missus . thought you d
diddled me nicely, didnt you . Now, out with it.
Pay up ! The poor half-starved anoient stood
trembling: Really, Mister > , e or dy m
the world ; don t take that and leave me stone
broke. 111 pay you when I can. And she looked
round imploringly at the gathering crowd. I ay
u Pj you old swindler, thundered the cow-juice
man, glaring at her. And the frightened old
creature was feebly opening her purse, when
“Strike me pink if I can starnd this! Run,
missus— while I sit on ’im ! ” And a stunted
knight-errant gripped the burly bull-grease man
round the middle and rolled with him into the
gutter. The crowd yelled with delight, and by
the time the milkman had wrenched himself free,
got the muck out of his eyes, and knocked the
stumpy knight into the middle of next week, the
rescued one had vanished.
• * * *
A certain Ballarat hotel proprietress de-
serves well of the State, anyhow. Five orphan chil-
dren whose mother had one time been in her employ
were left unprovided for and the Bonifacess came
to the rescue. She didn t pick the prettiest or
the youngest, or the two youngest, and leave the
less desirable orphans to the S ier s
society at large but she took the whole quintet
and adopted them m a bunch.
* * * * .
In S. M. Herald recently appeared this
advt. : “Chemist’s business for sale; healthy
suburb.” Recalls the auction advt. of Tom
Stubbs (Melb.) : “There is not a doctor living
■Within five miles.”
' * * * *
At a recent meeting of Brisbane Council
it was elicited that a certain cancerous cow,
referred to by the chief stock-inspector, had, prior
to receipt of that official’s warning, “ been sold to
a firm of butchers at South Brisbane, verbal
advice of which had already been given. The
Mayor added, at the meeting, that Mr. Gordon
had bfien put on the track of the cow, and he be-
lieved Mr. Gordon went to look after it.’ Pursuit
of the diseased meat into the stomachs of the con-
sumers looks a bit too subsequent, but the average
Brisbaneite is too tired to care much what he
eats, as long as it looks like meat and lies quiet
on his plate.
» * » *
A Sydney bookseller says that lie took
over If2oo from the Jap man-o’-war lately in port
—mostly for expensive technical and scientific
works.
* * * *
How they combine cheap labor and piety
in-Sandgroper Land:
JAPANESE MISSION,
Perry’s Buildings, Murray-st.
MISSIONARY FAITHFUL MICAH
Has a Number of Young Japanese,
Capable Cooks arid Others,
Accustomed to Domestic Work,
Whom he Desires to Obtain Situations for
With Persons who will endeavor to improve their
religious life.
Particulars can be obtained at the Mission Home.
The Little Brown Man is cheap and the Little
Brown Girl is cheap and pleasant to look upon,
and complaisant as well. Therefore, the boss
’Groper would rather employ them anyhow, and
when, in addition, he can feel that he is “ en-
deavoring to improve their religious life ’’— why,
that settles it. No one ever applied at any Mission
MACHINATIONS.
“ Why did you leave the club? ”
“ Well, I worked hard to be elected treasurer, and
when I got there they put in a cash-register!"
Home for particulars about the white Billjim, 01
improved his religious life. Billjim hasn’t any.
If there was only an element of mild snuffle cast
over the white bushman - if you could go, for in-
stance, to a Mission Home kept by Faithful Bill,
and he “supplied” you with Mitchell (Henry
Lawson’s Mitchell, who tells dog-stories out on
the plains), and allowed you to take away that
meek believer (who would be too 'umble and too
deeply convinced of Sin to kick about his wages),
with his hymn-book and his tract, on condition
that you promised to work him hard and look
after his spiritual improvement- how different it
all would be !
* * * *
At a recent Melb. suburban fire in a small
side street the owner of the burning house hopped
round excitedly amongst the firemen, shrieking
orders, threats, and curses, and behaving very
much like the frantic knock-about Milesian of the
music-hall stage. The house was in full flame,
and the owner whooped, and skipped, and tore
his chin whiskers. “ Aisy now ! ” “ Moind
fwhat ye’re doin’ ? ” “ Aisy wid that roof ! ”
“ Och ! ye murtherin’ villains, look ’at ye’ve done
—look ’at ye’ve done ! ” and he rushed a promin-
ent fireman with murderous intentions. “Oh !
ye bla’g’ard,” he yelled—“ ye've broke me windy I ”
They had to pull him off the fireman, and hose him
into submission.
THE SECRET OF SEX.
“ Bring forth men-children only,
Eor the unsugared nitrates should compose
Nothing but males.”
SOHENKSPEARE.
Or again, on a more modern banjo :
Dainty bride so fine and fair,
It behoves you to beware
Of the very slightest trace of saccharinity :
For, if sugar you secrete,
You are bound to have a sweet
Little atom of intrusive femininity.
If your mate desires a boy,
This device he must employ,
Though upon your finer feelings it may grate a bit —
Give you nitrogen and fat,
And not very much of that,
For he simply, must reduce your darling weight a bit.
Take the tip, and you will thank
The research of Dr. Schenck,
If there hasn’t been a sad mistake by rumor made :
Should the worst befall, and Fate
To your prayers be obdurate,
At the least, you’ll be the mother of a Bloomer-maid !
P.D.Q.


FIT_
We find ourselves to-day selling more Gentlemen’s
Boots and Shoes than ever. There’s a reason why,
of course. And it’s this. . . .
We understand just how to FIT a Gentleman’s Foot
with that nicety and exactness that a particular man
must have.
Perhaps you are thinking of getting a well-fitting Boot
now. Kindly call at 395 George-st., Sydney.
CALLAGHAN & SON
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TEAS have w °
Ateherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 5, 1898.
My Deak Myke—
At the Annual Meeting of the Seaman’s Insti-
tute it was truly touching to witness Rev. T.
H. Morgan’s (chaplain’s) appreciation of Arch-
bishop’s Smith’s speech, every word of which he
(Mr. M.) had very possibly written himself.
There was not even any energy or enthusiasm
about the delivery of the same, and the way in
which the concluding words were uttered, “Cast
your bread on the waters and you will get your
reward, partly perhaps in this world, and partly
in the next,” suggested that the idea in the
speaker’s mind really was, “ and it will be all the
same a hundred years hence if you don’t get it
anywhere.” Their Excellencies Hampden and
Pearson appeared to be far more conversant with
the ways, religious or otherwise, of J ack Tar on
shore than did the Archbishop ; but then his lord-
ship always exhibits an extraordinary amount of
“that tired feeling” for one born in vigorous, brac-
ing England. “ I can’t be hurried,” seems to be the
perpetual expression of all his reverend move-
ments.
You will be glad to hear that our delicate, sus-
ceptible colonial society is to be put into a Blue
Book, and hermetically sealed from the outer
world’s nasty air. I am proud to say that the
patentee of the notion is a woman. Yea, and one
guinea is the infinitesimal sum this charitable lady
asks for boons which begin by placing the Blue
Book under Lord and Lady Brassey’s patronage,
and end it with the alluring promise. “ It is our
intention shortly to embrace the whole society of
the southern hemisphere.” And, if the promise
sets anyone regretting that the editress is not an
editor, let me put forward a little belief of my
own, that no man could possibly know who’s whe
by the scent of the guinea. Which is what this
lady is bound to do. Else, how is she to know ?
While on the tender subject of society, I
want humbly to recommend to Blue Book aspirants
a capable compilation of dialogues of the day by a
member of the aristocracy. (George Robertson
has the work in stock). Commit this book to
memory, and anyone may see his title clear to
mansions in Belgravia, or even in St. James’,
next door to the Queen. Of course, all the
dialogues are not suitable for “ the colonies.” For
instance, two pages are devoted to a man asking
his partner to have supper. Now, I take that to
be a purely English conversation, for not even the
top Australian row would so wantonly postpone its
oysters and champagne.
But the cruellest injunction is the one that for-
bids us to address any person by name. It seems
that the one and only correct caper now, is to
call everyone “you.” Nice for those whose family
names call up bygone counter memories, but a
hard knock on the head for the Devereux-Joneses,
the Mulligatawney-Brownes, and the Cholmon-
doley-Smythes.
Rain, and the remoteness of Paddington Town
Hall, made no impression on the three big dances
of the week. The Woollahra Benevolent Society
had a very prosperous-looking crowd on Tuesday.
The Artists’ Ball was a big, bohemian crush on
Wednesday. Commodore Hordern contrived a
brilliant state of fashionable and political things
on Friday. And yet the comments of river and
railway suburbs were not conducive to extra perki-
ness on the part of the Paddington structure.
From various remarks, I gathered that a more
central hall should soon be a hated rival. The
chance of missing a 'bus, a tram, and a train, is
not a deadlv fascinating game to play for at mid-
night.
The Armats’ Ball was a big, brightly-tinted
sketch with pictures on the walls and many frocks
in outline. I must say that a glance round the
room betrayed the male artists’ pronounced
artistic failing for pretty faces. And the
fair dancers returned the compliment in a
highly-frescoed manner. In frocking, fancy
had its way and fashion was nowhere.
L’here were guileless gowns sewn over with
violets, rosebuds, and forget-me-nots as big as a
inn’s head. As each flower was sewn on sepa-
rately, I should imagine the ball was arranged
the beginning of last year. The pretty wife of a
young artist robed herself in cornflower blue, with
a garden of forget-me-nots in her golden hair, and
the usual fresco.
Another unusual dress was of a dear old
dimity bed-hanging pattern, notes of festivity
being introduced in red velvet slashings, and
silver embroideries, and bunches of roses and car-
nations hanging from the neck-knob over the left
shoulder. There was one pink satin with a high
Elizabethan collar, and innumerable pink satins
that were not high anywhere. But I was dis-
appointed in the artists’ hair. In fact, the only
male with flowing locks was pointed out to me as
a successful camel-owner from Kalgoorlie.
The Woollahra Charity Dance had lots of
s iciety people to brace things up. Mrs. Prender-
gast came late in a princess robe of pale grey with
pink embellishments on the corsage. By the way,
this lady is one of the woefully few who can wear
a princess gown with distinction. Mrs. Edwards,
the other secretary, was in black. So were the
two treasurers, Mrs. Caro relieving hers with red
chrysanthemums. The energetic Miss Summerbelle
transformed wallflowers into sunflowers with ad-
nnrable briskness, and Mi*s Annie Summerbelle
played her pretty Almida Waltz in a white satin
frock. And with no brooch to placard the name
or her most successful effort.
But why should waltz-writers have the monopoly
of this particular decoration ? Maud Fitz-Stubbs
has The Heather writ large in a letter brooch over
her chest; Sylvia Blackston brands herself with
The Eruba. Why don’t authors blaze the names
of their pet books in gold across their breasts ? I
approve of the idea. If only for the sake of seeing
Marie Corelli placarded, The Sorrows of Satan !
To go back to the three dances, the Commodore’s
was naturally the most brightly-gilt of the
bunch. It had no suggestion whatsoever of any
other globular triplets. Big political men frisked
gaily through the lanoers, and for schoolboy en-
thusiasm it seems you can’t beat Reid in his eye-
glass. Mr. and Mrs. Premier wore black, one
eyeglass between them. Mrs. Hordern, whose
likeness to another pretty society dame is quite
conspicuous, wore a lovely grey confection, with
any amount of diamonds, and a turquoise note in
her hair. Little Miss Hordern was a gay bon-
bon figure in a short blue frock with pink frill-
ings. The most successful dress of the evening
was Mrs. Ferman’s pink brocade, with frilly
chiffon sashes, green velvet bolero, and a
remarkably well-cut skirt, planned on the latest
skirt lines. A frill creeps out just below the hips,
and continues to widen after it has reached the
ground. This style is a success in ball dresses,
But as it requires to trail on all sides if the
wearer is not to present a cut-in-half appearance,
the street is a less popular misc-en-sctne.
I saw Serpolette in the street the other day. A
very attractive-looking little being, with big dark
eyes and a chic arrangement of her hair. As far
as I could see, there was no trace of the bicycle-
face on her girlish features. I understand that
she refuses to race men, and is still awaiting a
challenge from our women cyclists.
A bicycle-face and a toupee nearly sent an
adoring lover to Callan Park last week. They
were out for a spin, and she rode on in front in
neat skirts, sailor hat and toupee. The wind was
strong, and blew her hat aside. The toupee
loosened, and suddenly, without warning, slipped
down over her face. When it passed her nose she
opened her mouth and caught it wildly in her
teeth. And at that moment he came alongside,
to see two eyes gleaming desperately out from
between a rakish hat, and a great peroxided beard.
I believe he cried “ Jo-Jo ! ” and fell in a heap.
But her sufferings were not ended there. She
tore the toupee from her faoe, tied it to her handle,
and started for home. On the way she passed
two bullockys, who had noted her and her light-
haired swain an hour before. They paled percept-
ibly as she flashed by, and she heard them cry,
“She’s scalped her bloke ! ”
Mr. Rawei, from Maoriland, at present lecturing
in Sydney with his wife, had a quaint experience
some time ago, in London. A lady patron en-
thusing greatly over the brown-faced couple’s
entertainment, hired a fashionable hall for the
night, and sent out 2000 cards of invitation to the
loftiest people in England. They were very
swagger cards too, cost a penny each to produce.
The aristocracy rolled up heavily—the Duke of
Westminster himself came along. Everyone was
delighted. Then the plate went round. Count-
ing it latter, 900 pennies revealed themselves. The
old tenet of their childhood, “ A penny for the
poor heathen,” evidently gripped those dukes and
duchesses hard this particular evening.
There is an exorbitant amount of lovely gowning
in “ White Heather,” Bland Holt’s latest pro-
duction. I hardly know which of her three fine
frocks is the most graced by the swan-like Frances
Ross. She is a dream in yellow chiffon, with a
big black plumy hat, and long black gloves, and a
dream within a dream in a dinner-dress of black
brocade. The long-trained skirt of this achieve-
ment is slashed with vivid green beyond the knees,
the bodice is green velvet, jetted and sequined,
and toned down finely with nasturtiums at the
shoulder.
Miss Fitzmaurice Gill gives over being a poor
starved waif, and blossoms out in—well, now I
come to think of it, in very little. As Lady
Godiva, her costume consists of pink chiffon angel
sleeves, and a couple of dozen wigs of flaxen hair,
all managed with graceful insouciance. Another
of Miss Gill’s sensational costumes is the very
baldest bloomer suit in existence, briefly made up
in white serge, white capped, but, I fear, not
whitewashed in the eyes of the good old Scotchies
who are bound to patronise this play.
Popular Mrs. Bland strikes her loudest note in
a deep red velvet, slashed up over cream lace, and
crowned with a big creamy feathered hat. Miss
Watson gets no chance to wear her best clothes
until the curtain is about to fall on the last scene,
the brilliant Fancy Dress Ball in Shetland House.
There she suddenly flashes forth as Mary, Queen
of Scots, in a black velvet, and a regular snow-
storm of white net. That pretty scene, when the
society-girls rehearse their parts for the amateur
ballet, reveals some adorable frocks in plisse silks.
But, if I were the Potteresque maiden in an ex-
quisite tone of mauve, I would drive the lady in
brick-red to the other end of the apartment.
When they sit side-by-side on a sofa, they kill
you nearly as effectively as they kill themselves.
The cruel blow has fallen. A certain beautiful
much-to-be-married theatrical has saved himself
from all further matrimonial arrangements by
announcing a wife and several children across the
sea. It was his only way of escape. Dante’s
famous lines may now be written over his theatre.
Speaking of marriages, reminds me that there
was a rare show in one of our draper’s windows
last week—the wedding-dress of a Queen. Crowds
gathered round all day to gaze at the immense
masses of white finery that are to deck the bride
of King George, of Tonga. The frock was built
of ivory satin, with a brocade train that will reach
from the altar to the church door. It there are
any pages or bridesmaids, they will have to stand
out in the street. Yards of real Brussels lace
draped the .skirt gracefully, and a white moire
parasol completed the costume.
I’m sorry I can’t tell you the name of the bride-
to-be, but it seems that George doesn’t quite know
himself yet. I hear that he has fixed upon three
likely princesses, and to save time he sent over an
order for the dress to be made while he was
making up his mind.
En route to Melbourne, the Cartwright co. wiled
away a lazy day or two in Sydney. Their Bris-
bane trip was a fairly successful one, Newcastle
less so. The press notices of the latter city were
highly amusing to the co. They alluded to Miss
Lamb as the belle, and in a mention of “The
Idler ” remarked that it was staged in a style of
most luxurious magnificence. As a matter of
fact, the only play of Cartwright’s that has been
staged at all was “A Marriage of Convenience.”
One carpet, one lot of chairs, one red-shaded
lamp, and two pairs of curtains, did their
best to look like different carpets, chairs
and curtains in half-a-dozen different plays.
The small warm coterie of Sydney admirers was
much disappointed that the co. couldn’t a
theatre to fill for a night or two —or to empty. For
there is no reason to believe that the public taste
has been to school in Cartwright’s absence, and
acquired a new edge on its blunted palate. On
Tuesday, the co. left for Melbourne, then on to
Perth, and so back to London.
Ada Reeve, as the French Maid, made a lot of
Frenchy fun at Her Majesty’s during the week.
The fascinating little Ada Willoughby is still first
favorite in this role, but I fancy that Ada Reeve
puts in more clever business than the other. Ada
Alice Leitch warbled sweetly in white satin, and
a pretty cloak of pleated apricot chiffon. It seems
a little hard on this lady that she should follow
Ada Reeve’s skit on a concert singer with such a
very similar style and song.
It is alleged of a certain Sydney professor, who
is unfettered by matrimonial ties, that Charity by
no means begins at home in his case, and that by
far the greater part of his fairly-large income is
given away by him in private and miscellaneous
alms. His left hand truly does not know why his
right hand bought his beautiful house in the
country, except for the benefit of others, because
so full is it of visitors at all times that the learned
gentleman has only a nodding acquaintance with
the interior of it. When visiting that part of
the world he has to put himself to sleep in the
garden-shed, or the bathing-box, or anywhere else
that will not disturb the comfort of the temporary
owners.
The penlady who recently wrote a touching
anecdote, about a housewifely girl with a taste for
dressmaking selling her piano to buy a sewing-
machine with the proceeds, and immediately
setting to work on frock-building, exalts unduly
the useful over the ornamental. There’s no more
virtue in buzzing a machine than in desolating an
entire terrace with “ Susie-usie-ue ” on an iron-
framed upright grand. Both implements of torture
make hideous noises, and both are tools in the trade
of showing-off. Also, the moral of the fable is bad
in every way ; the girl who set to work after her
marriage to make her trousseau, is a lazy young
person of dilatory habits, and if there wasn’t
enough money between bride and bridegroom to
buy a sewing-machine without putting up the
music-box, it couldn’t have been a very flourish’ng
financial life-partnership. Another result was the
joy of the husband, who told all his friends the
sort of wife his was, whereby “her four sisters
were all married within a month.” That was a
distinct score to the wily bridegroom, for it cleared
four interfering single sisters-in-law out of his
road, but he must have been a prosaic person who
could thus contentedly translate all his pre-
nuptial dreams of love and music into cheap dress-
stuff and the click of a sewing-machine.
One of those futile little penny periodicals called
Home Tattle or Fireside Fooleries, which tell
interested readers how to evolve fern-baskets out
of old belltoppers, and bicycle bloomers for Maudie
out of brother Bob’s back-number dress-coats, has
a recent contents-list grimly giving bane and anti-
dote, cause and effect, in two lines of large capi-
tals : Easy “ Lessons in Cookery : How to Make
Pastry.” “ What to do till the Doctor Comes.”
Mrs. Brown-Potter’s daughter recently made
her debut in New York society at a Fifth Avenue
ball. The press next day expended itself in
delirious gush over the young lady’s appearance,
“ high-bred manner ” and her many accomplish-
ments, amongst which is a knowledge of three
European languages. One paper mentioned that
Miss Potter’s social advent recalled her mother’s
brilliant entree into society 20 years ago, and took
occasion to rake up all the ancient history con-
cerning that lady’s infatuation for the stage and
her desertion of husband and children whom, it is
stated, she hasn’t seen for over ten years.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The Madden beauty-show was in full bloom at
the opening of Parliament. The C.J.’s array of
plump pretty girls made a charming group ; and
their mother looks quite young and handsome,
more like an elder sister, in fact. Fashion usually
turns up in force on these occasions to see the
ceremony and enjoy the President’s tea and cake ;
and really the Madden ladies come off easily first
for good looks and style. Besides which they
have good manners—a not over-common quality in
Melbourne sassiety,
“Some people are worried by their relations.
They do say that a society-leader, much tried by
a recent terrible family trouble, is harrowed afresh
by the love-affairs of a spinster relative. The lady,
greatly to the mortification of her clan, has twined
her mature affections tightly round a youthful
Romeo, and, rather than hear of giving him up,
she has shaken the dust of her relative’s mansion
off her feet and gone into lodgings.
“ There has never been a son born in any of the
picturesque professional residences round Melb
’Varsity close. The few boys in that small,
academic community all first saw the light else-
where. Maybe Melb. Alma Mater is not singular
in this respect. Most dons, proctors, deans and
so on, I fancy, have quiverfuls of daughters.
Strange, the erratic dress tactics pursued by some
women. Maud Jeffries, for instance, delightful
to behold on the boards, was generally floppy and
rag-tag in private life, her hair all elf-locks and
rat tails. Pattie Brown looks a daintier little
person in the street, than she did as Lady Barbara
Ruitoul. Melbourne’s most prominent matron
(exclusive of vice-regalities) is arrayed to perfec-
tion in ball-rooms or on Flemington lawns. Meet
her some morning travelling to or from Hubby’s
country-seat and ten to one her soiled gloves are
torn and her skirt gaping away from the belt of a
passementerie-laden brocade blouse.
“ H. H. Champion, socialist, agitator, journal-
ist, ex-artillery officer, and English gentleman, is
to be married shortly. His engagement has been
known to more intimate friends for a few weeks,
but now it may be public property. The lady is
Miss Elsie Goldstein, a comely and brainy dam-
sel, who has long been one of the devoted band of
admirers of H. H. She is the daughter of Colonel
Goldstein, who runs the labor colony as a hobby in
behalf of the Government. This event will mean
the anchoring of Mr. Champion in Melbourne. A
little while ago he was thinking of going ’Ome
again, but had fears for his health. Some years
ago in London a marriage between Champion and
the only daughter of Janies Knowles, critic of the
Nineteenth Century, was talked of, but it didn’t
come off. Probably Champion was working for
some one more closely related to the Twentieth
Century. The lady he has taken to his somewhat
frigid and middle-aged bosom is of that sort, being
an up-to-date kind of girl.
“ It is told of a certain popular Judge that he,
one morning, startled his fellow-passengers in the
Hawthorn to Melb. train by appearing in a hat
(he wears square-cut * boxers ’) which gave not the
least shelter to the top of his head. On an ac-
quaintance directing his Honor’s attention to the
vacant space in his apparel, he explained that his
wife, after much vain imploring of him to buy a
new hat, had removed the crown from the one in
use.
“ Those clever ‘ Verne ’ girls (of the Alva-Verne
concerts), one hears, live, when at home, in
Brighton (Eng.), with German Vater and Mutter
Wurm. Pianiste Adela’s business-like platform
methods certainly suggest Teutonic origin. None
of your deportment airs and graces. Armed with
good looks and a bright smile, she scuttles to her
instrument, apparently on her heels, and, once
arrived there, revels gleefully in frolicsome allegros
and suchlike.
“ At the third Alva-Verne concert (June 30th),
tall pale Madame Alva managed to look willowy
and mystic despite her gold-flowered crimson
gown, to all intents and purposes high-necked and
long-sleeved. Pianiste Adela Verne, too, thanks
to musical vim and youthful charm, triumphed
over the disadvantages of the school-girl frock of
creased white silk. As for her performance, she
coquets with, teazes —in a word, gives cheek to, the
bond-slave piano, bullied by Mark Hambourg,
coaxed and caressed by gentle Elsie Hall.
“ Tenor Sam Matthews, so far as looks goes, sug-
gests somehow a singer unearthed from church or
Sunday-school choir. Something lordly m the
way he stalks off with his accompanists scurrying
meekly at his heels, though, to do him justice, he
dots pause to hand the weaker vessel unsmilingly
down the steps.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Victor J. Daley will be 40 next sth
September— eheu fut/aces / Why do poets grow
old—surely their youth should be perennially
renewed like the sea-gull’s ? Not that 40 is old;
but the ardent twenties of Byron, Keats, Shelley,
and many another seem to have indelibly marked
the poetic calendar. Think of Shelley at 40 !
how many wrinkles would there be on his fore-
head and photograph? For if the poet in a golden
clime was ever born, it must have been a very
little clime, very long ago. Nowadays, he has to
draw commercial breath in a clime of copper, with
occasional breezes of silver, and one good golden
day in a thousand or thereabouts. Hence, no
doubt, some wrinkles; and, for the rest, the
common lot of mortals is Wo—which looks even
greater without the final letter. Of troubles
Victor Daley has had his share and a little
over since he first breathed Irish air in the
early autumn of ’5B. His birthplace was in
Armagh County, two miles from Armagh city,
in the fairy country of Navan. Navan Rath, near
by, was a glowing centre of Celtic legends.
There stood the palace of Ernania, the central
scene of the story of Deindri and the three sons of
Usna ; and a little further was “ Creeve Roe”
(Craoibh Euadh, the Red Branch), •/ here abode
the Red Branch Knights led to danger in Moore’s
song. Fairy thorns studded every Navan vista ;
and on May eve fairies danced on the bank of
Navan Lough till the snake who lived in the
Lough, guarding a brooch of gold, would
writhe out to scare them away. Such was Daley’s
childish environment. Older, he went to England,
and attended school at Plymouth ; older still, he
began the life-struggle as a railway-clerk ; after
three years he came to Australia. Here he has
played many parts—clerk, station-tutor, sporting-
reporter, country editor, metropolitan jour-
nalist ; and at 40 the world is still his
oyster. A boy who sees fairies is rewarded
with fairy gold, which shines in the head
and turns to dead leaves in the pocket. The
Daleys were always a bardic sept. Through
his father Daley is pure Celtic, a verit-
able O’Daly ; but his mother was a Morrison, of
Scotch descent. So that in the strife between
Austral-Scotch bards (Stephen--', Gordon, Pater-
son, Ogilvie) and Austral-Irish (Daley, Quinn,
Farrell) here is a flaw for a lance to fasten. And,
to make an end : at least four-fifths of Victor
Daley’s poems have already been appreciated by
Bulletin readers ; and a warm welcome is assured
to these and others on their collective republica-
tion this week with the title “At Dawn and
Dusk.”


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
Cutanea?
fames
O
§
ess
CIGARETTES.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Liverpool agd Lopdop
®<S lobe IpStirapce Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Pounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1863.
Empowered by Act N.S.W. Yio. 28, 1865.
FIRE INSURANCE
On EVERY DESCRIPTION of PRO-
PERTY, RENTS, and INTEREST.
LIFE INSURANCE
IN ANY FORM. See Prospectus and
Special Table D.
Local Directors:
Walter Cummins Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Kater, Esq.; and
Eric H. Mackay, Esq.
M. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Office Australasia—
-62 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
An enthusiast had his child christened
“Majority Rule -say—“ Snooks,” at a Redfern
church, last week.
David Henry, Melbourne biggest money-
lender, just dead, had one amazing weakness. A
short, squat, heavy man, he raddled his cheeks
like an out-of-date ballet-dancer.
Chief Justice Way has a library containing
over 10,000 valuable books, and is now having
them catalogued. The collection is ultimately to
pass to Adelaide University library.
On May, 1897, there were in Biloela gaol,
Sydney, six men whose convictions averaged 104
each, and six women who averaged 160 each. One
individual had been convicted no less than 351
times.
Apropos a recent “big” will. Religious
mania is said to run in testator’s family. Two or
three members of the clan are alleged to have
suffered for their faith by getting into a lunatic
asylum.
An inferential slur on Parliamentarians
was cast by Wood, Labor M.P. in the recent S. A.
no-confidence debate when he said- “There is
no disgrace in honest work. I have done it before,
and I may have to do it again.”
Object-lesson for young authors. The
estate of Geo. Robertson, publisher and printer,
Melb., pays A 10,843 probate duty. James Payn,
a prolific novelist, editor, contributor, and pub-
lisher’s reader, left =£Booo in all.
The appointment of General French as
Commandant of N.S.W. military forces will ter-
minate in April next. It is presumed that Lieut.-
Col. Neild (whose jump from plain “ Mister ” has
been laughably rapid) will be offered the coveted
billet.
Pow Chee, converted Chinaman, lately
occupied the pulpit of West Maitland Presby-
terian Church, and the local editor found himself
under the spell of “ a man of education, culture,
and simple childlike piety.” ‘‘Childlike!” —
ah ! —“and bland !”
According to English papers, the life-long
attachment between Gladstone and wife appeals
particularly to the English nation’s “ innate, love
of the domestic virtues.” The assumption of
speciality in this respect is, at all events, a fine
specimen of the English nation’s innate snobbery !
The political engineer of the S.A. Labor
party is Guthrie, M.L.C., a Scotch mariner.
Owing to the fact that he fills up Price, M.P.,
with information which the latter blurts out, no
matter how unpleasant it may be to the hearers,
the two are christened “ The sailor and his
parrot.”
John Mitchell, an alleged survivor of the
Charge of the Light Brigade, summoned a Malvern
(Vic.) dairy farmer for wages the other day. The
farmer had employed him as general rouseabout,
but reckoned that the run of his teeth was suffi-
cient remuneration for his services. The Bench
ordered the milk-raiser to pay the hero arrears of
wages at the rate of ss. per week. The paths of
glory lead but to the Benevolent Asylum.
When old Arch-
bishop Bolding
went to the
enical Council at
Rome he left a cock-
atoo, of which he
was fond, to the
care of Dr. Forrest,
principal of St.
John’s College,
Sydney. And there
the bird learned
many things from
the students. When
the Archbishop re-
turned he enquired
eagerly after his
bird. It was
brought to him.
“Oh, cocky, cocky!”
said the dear old
man. “ Have you
missed me ? ” and
he stroked his crest.
“ Garn,” said the
cockatoo, “garn.
You’re a rip, a rip,
a rip. I know.
After the girls.
Oh, you old sin-
ner ! ” And tin n
the demoralised
creature chuckled
malevolently. “ 01),
dear, oh, dear! ”
ejaculated Dr. Pold-
ing,aghast—“where
have you been?”
“Hell! ” said cocky.
And that settled it.
The bird was ban-
ished the ecclesias-
tical presence, and
the good old priest
was left to cogitate
upon the hard-shell
fact that original
sin is pretty evenly
distributed th rough-
out animated na -
ture.
Lumley Hill, the once-wealthy backblock
Queensland squatter, who with Oscar de Satge
and Boyd D. Morehead wrecked a MTlwraith
Ministry, is again back on the waterless plains
battling for a subsistence. He threatens to turn
over to the Labor-party in hopes of thereby wring-
ing from Govt, fair play for the man who “ goes
upon the land.” A quarter of a century ago
Lumley sold his Western properties, bought houses
and land in Brisbane, and gave himself up to
politics. But he has found that there are worse
places than the bush.
“Jack Shay": Be that N.S.W. railway-
clerk. stabbed to the brain by his own lead-pencil.
An equally strange 'death occurred in 91 at
Tatiara, S.A. The victim lit his PJP e &nd
mounted his horse, and, whether he fell or was
thrown, he was picked up speechless. JNobody
oould diagnose his injuries, and his signs to them
were futile. He died quickly, with all the sym-
ptoms of choking. Autopsy revealed the stem
of his pipe driven right back through the throat;
the pipe-bowl was afterwards picked up where he
fell.
The ’9l election in Murrumbidgee was a
time of record floods. Squatter Oily Cox, a noted
and fearless practical joker, was driving Dibbs
from TJrangeline to catch the tram for Wagga.
There was a creek (which he could have avoided)
in high flood. And when they reached it he said,
“We can’t take a trap over here, Dibbs—we 11
have to ride. You take the little horse youve
got the longest legs.” The water came up to G.
Republican Dibbs’ waist, but they got safe across,
and when landed he said, “ Well, old man,
whether I’m returned or not you shall have a
bridge here.”
Ned Devine, known as “ Cabbage - tree
Ned,” was an old-time Cobb’s driver, between
Geelong and Ballarat. He was very much given
to practical jokes. Once, at a performance
at Geelong theatre, for the benefit of Lag-
laise, the tenor singer, Ned undertook to
translate the remarks made in French
by the beneficiaire, in response to
the call of the audience. “I’m
afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that
I daren’t tell you all this gentleman
has said. It might spile yer sup-
pers. But thisjnueh I might say,
that Monsieur Lasrlaise considers that,
of all the confounded geese he ever sang
to, the Geelongeese take the cake ! ” And Lag-
laise had to get police protection.
The late David Henry’s usurious “ tough-
ness ” led to fortune in one instance. He held a
bill of sale over a widow’s furniture, &c, and when
she defaulted, he sold up every stick, compelling
tier to abandon the precarious existence of a board-
ing-house keeper, and take the position of house-
keeper to a rich, old squatter. The lady being
highly educated and amiable, the squatter married
her, and, after about 12 months, died, leaving the
whole of his big fortune to his wife, who had done
all that mortal could to soothe his sufferings dur-
ing a six months illness. *
Now that Barton, Bruce Smith, R. E.
O Connor and Wise are recognised as the leaders of
the N.S.W. Federal movement as against the
Reid-Want push of badly-disguised provincialists,
the M‘Sh irry arbitration case is being run for all
it is worth in N.S.W. Assembly. The formula is
for oneof Reid's hangers-on to rise and inquire how
much Messrs. Barton, Smith, Wise and O'Connor
got from the State in this case, and for the
Treasurer to upheave himself with a shocked ex-
pression and say he really doesn’t know. If the
Federalist lawyers got more out of the M‘Sharry
case than their services were fairly worth then the
inference is Treas. Reid was either an incompetent
fool to let them have it, or wilfully wasted the
public money from motives which are kept care-
fully concealed. That’s about the size of it.
CARE REQUIRED.
BURLAR (to terrified, one): “Is it loaded?"
FRIGHTENCED ONE: “ Ye—ye yes .”
BURGLAR: “Well, be careful; it might go off!"
Was Bennett, whose whereabouts Mr.
Levien so dramatically asked about in N.S.W.
Assembly the other night, a spy in the B.H. mine
owners’ pay during the strike ? The Bulletin
doesn't know, but it was thoroughly unlikely.
The only scrap of evidence connecting Bennett
with the alleged conspiracy was given by Mr.
Kohler, the assistant manager of the B.H. Prop.,
and consisted of the report of the interview which
Ilennett had with him and Mr. Howell, during
which he warned them of a possible attack on
their houses. And it was hardly likely, as this
was not evidence against the others, that they
would have put their own spy away like that. The
“warning” was given just when the strike was
collapsing (and only the defence committee, in-
cluding Bennett, and a few others knew how near
it was to collapse), and it was this fact which
convinced the strikers, rightly or wrongly, that
Bennett had simply resolved to save his own bacon
at any cost. And the only immediate payment
he got was three months gaol.
The late DAVID HENRY, Melbourne “financier."
N.S.W. Ex-District Court Judge McFar-
land this month celebrates the jubilee of his call
to the Bar in Dublin in ’4B. Brother D.C. pen-
sioner Dowling was called in J 43, and a third,
Wilkinson, in ’5B. Judge Forbes, who started his
pension on Ist July, joined the horse-hair brigade
in ’59.
In Sydney Equity Court, last week, it took
six counsel learned in the law and five firms of
solicitors to obtain leave under the'-will of William
Charles Wentworth, “first of first-born Austra-
lians ” to lease a portion of the Vaucluse estate for
coal-mining purposes, fronting our beautiful
harbor!
M‘Caughan’s little libel-action against the
Argus will cost the foolish journal .£750, it seems.
The victorious plaintiff is more remarkable than
ever since he got his verdict—glossier hat, tighter
pants, brighter spats, and an even larger deport-
ment than before. And the Argus has to grin
and bear it.
“ Melb. ” : Almost the only non-Hebraie
pawnbroker, if not the only one ever known in
this city, was the venerable little Browning, who
lately passed to his reward —-whatever that may
be. He was a great man in evangelical circles,
and seemed to value his profession as a means of
doing good.
Australian birthdays for July :—Dean
Cowper (Sydney), 88 on 3rd ; James Lee Steere
(W.A.), 68 on 4th ; John Downer (S.A.), 54 on
6th ; the S.A. Advertiser, 40 on 12th ; Trenwith
(Vie.), 51 on 16th ; Bishop Dawes (Q.), 55 on 24th;
Jack Gordon (S.A.), 48 on 26th; and Andrew
Clarke (Vic. Agent-General), 74 on 27th.
In a N.S.W. country town there is a thriv-
ing barbering and hair-dressing establishment r~n
entirely by a smart woman. She gives to the
heads of the yokels quite a “ Sydney-toff ” appear-
ance by reason of her deft and clever hair-cutting ;
also she shaves smartly and serves out polite con-
versation to every client in unlimited supplies.
That kindly and much-respected old gentle-
man, District Court Judge Forbes, begins his
pension with July 1. He makes the fourth N.S. W.
D.C. Judge on the pensioned shelf. Dowling
has been there since 1889, M‘Farland since 1891,
and Wilkinson since 1893. Only one N.S.W.
Supreme Court Judge—Foster—is now drawing a
pension.
F. B. Suttor, now fighting Sydney Smith
for the Bathurst seat, is the only Australian poli-
tician who turned his private house into an Execu-
tive Council Chamber. When Minister of the
Crown, he entertained Gov. Loftus at his home
near Bathurst, and, a matter of urgency arising,
called an Executive Council there and duly ful-
filled the law.
Q. Premier Byrnes, ’midst his multifarious
pledges, also promises a return of the swollen head
which was so painfully reduced in ’96. From his
Gympie speech : “ Commencing as I did a native of
the soil at the lowest rung of the ladder and climb-
ing to the high position I now occupy, I say there
is no tnan here, who ought not to be proud to
acknowledge me his countryman.”
The Soudan donkey, which died in Sydney
Zoo. the other day, survived most of the prime
actors —Dailey, Stuart, Strickland —in the mid-
summer madness of 13 years ago. Governor
Loftus still remains, as do half-a-dozen politicians
whose wilted brains were unequal to saying “ no”
to anything Dailey and Loftus championed. Not
since Gov. Phillip read the table of laws for his
subjects on Circular Quay was N.S.W. so close to
a dictatorship as in the months symbolised by the
deceased Zoo. donkey.
Dr. Manyard Pain, one of Sydney Uni-
versity’s most promising medical graduates, has
offered himself for foreign missionary service.
This seems a sinful waste of good, Christian doctor,
more especially when we remember the blood-
thirsty disposition and unregenerate condition of
the inhabitants of the adjoining provinces, so
forcibly depicted by Mr. Federalist Jack Want.
This surely would be a wider field than either
Papua or China ; and perhaps safer for his future
wife, who is also a volunteer.
Even Barton could hardly eclipse the
record for hard work set up by John Norton.
Within a few months John has continued his
labors as a journalistic thorn in the side ; has
carried on a lay legal practice big enough to
satisfy aQ.C. ; has worked into the Sydney City
Council and acted the municipal hornet; has
fought his way into Parliament and amused him-
self by getting politely handed out by the attend-
ants. But the eruptive period of a human vol-
cano like Norton is short, of necessity.
It was pretty generally said during tht
Broken Hill strike of ’92 that the leaders were
notoriety-hunters ; yet of the score of promm -
men only three-Sleath, lerguson, and Ihomas,
who reached Parliament-have been heard of pub
lioly since. Of the rest, three or four have been
(and perhaps still are) managing mines in Wes
tralia and elsewhere in this country andanothe
secured a similar position in South Africa whic
is some sort of proof that the best of the workmen
were leading the men. Sleath was a miner (thougn
he had been acting for some time as miner■ gi sec-
retary), Ferguson an engine-driver, and Inom
(who escaped trouble by being sent fund-begging
to Queensland) a mine-manager and assayer.
Shortly after the death of the Prince of
Wales’ eldest son, the “loyalist” citizens of Bal-
larat subscribed for and erected a marble memorial
in their Town Hall. Whilst the men were fixing
the affair in position an old lady from Creswick
way (Creswick is near Allendale, and is in tne
constituency represented by Peacock, of the
Dreadful Laugh) enquired what they were doing,
and what the marble slab was for. One ot the
men briefly replied that it was in I] 9 e in or 3L o *, e t
Duke of Clarence and Avondale. the Dook ot
Allendale,” said the old lady with some surprise—
“ oo’s that? ” “ Oh,” said the man, Peacock, of
course ; didn't you know old Mr. Peacock was
dead?” “Is he now,” said the old lady, and I
ackshally never noo he was a dook ! ”
Some recreations : Premier Turner, swim-
ming; Alfred Deakin, French literature and cycl-
g ; Premier Reid, sucking lollies and turning
is coat ; surgeon T. Naghten Fitzgerald, racing,
tennis, and “ operations ” ; Conventionist Paddy
Glynn, hunting, and learning passages from
Shakespeare ; Acting-Gov. Madden, boxing and
curling his moustache ; Brassey, yachting and
falling off something ; Gov. Buxton, cultivating
his Nonconformist conscience ; Labor-leader
Trenwith, billiards and cigars; David oyine,
billiards and scientific cattle-breeding ; editor
Willoughby, pasting up cuttings and indexing his
scrap-book; R. E. O’Connor, Q.C., early-morning
skipping ; Barton, vainly endeavoring to live up
to his reputation as champion lazy man.
An ancient gent, in Maoriland claims to
have devised an apparatus, small enough to be
carried in an ordinary knapsack, by which he can
fling for three miles a blast of withering fire that
will utterly consume even the rocks. He, is keep-
ing the thing dark, though, for England s salva-
tion at Armageddon. At Auckland he boarded the
Orlando, was introduced to the Admiral, and shown
all over the ship. Being asked what he thought of
her, he replied : “ Oh, very nice ! —for a pleasure-
boat ; but as for trying to bombard Auckland,
why, thank God, I could melt her in 50 seconds.
But then I’m a modern man. The Admiral was
interested, but the old gent, refused to offer his
secret to the Imperial Govt., as his crowning
ambition is to walk up a small hill while Arma-
geddon is in full swing, and blast to ashes every
man, animal and thing unprotected by the flag of
Britain.
JUDGE DOCKER .
N.B.W. Judge Docker has just celebrated
his silver-wedding. Suggested appropriate pre-
sent —a liver-colored stone jug.
Steve Barker, of Melb. Trades’ Hall, is
just now flooding the local press with flowery
letters signed “Stephen Barker, J.P.,’’ and in
the window of his shop (a tailor’s) appears an en-
larged photo, of himself similarly inscribed and
with the addition, “ President of the Melbourne
Trades’Hall Council.’’ Scattered round are the
newspaper letters aforesaid mounted on card-
board !
Jack Want’s engagement to defend Sleath,
Ferguson, and the other Broken Hill strike “con-
spirators ” in ’92 came about curiously. Mr.
Want, had, in Parliament, joined as vigorously as
usual, in denouncing the “outrages.” and other
things in connection with the strike ; and when
Levien offered to act as solicitor, it was learned
that Want would be willing to defend. Now, the
complaint made daily by the leaders was that
newspaper accounts were mostly gross misrepre-
sentations, and certainly they were seriously
affecting the contributions ; therefore, though B.
li. Wise was the man who was in favor among
those who had the choosing of counsel, it was at
once seen that if Want took the job the strikers
would say—“ See, a man who damns us on news-
paper reports defends us when he knows the facts.”
And so the choice fell on the Q.C., though the
cordial contempt on both sides was never more
thinly disguised.


THREE GOOD THINGS«
. . Madh in England. . .
(C
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
Worcestershire
Pure English
Pure Malt
Sauce
Pickles
Vinegar
I <
68 PRIZE MEDALS."
Holbrook’s Sauce has been awarded more Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
Holbrook’s Vinegar
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
. 13 BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
BP MILTED tOCOM.
Guaranteed Pure Cocoa and Extract of Malt.
Aboriginalities.
1 1 My missus always accommodates herself
to circumstances,” is the boast of a Gippsland
(Vic.) storekeeper, and in proof of it he is rather
proud of relating a little story : “ We’ve known
each other for close on fifteen years now, an’ we
get along splendid. I first met her on the mornin’
when she walked into my place, and said, ‘ Look
here, Mister ; your wife has run away with
my husband, an’ my husband has run away with
your wife. Seems to me that we two ought to
make the best of the situation.’ I thought it over
for a long time—ten minutes ’r more—an’ then I
said, ‘ Righto 1’ an’ if anybody’s lived to regret
that little ohop an’ ohange ’tain’fc me, an’ I swear
’tain’t my missus.”
» * * *
“ Deep Lead ” : Knew a fellow that came
in from the Golden Corner to Milparinka some
years ago. He had been on a cattle-station for
nine months during a drought, and the manager
had not been able to get stores. In the first four
months that station-hand wore out all his shirts,
so went without; wore his hat out, and, having
longhair, went without other headgear; walkedand
rode through his boots, and then went without.
Just as the drought broke, he was gliding through
his last pair of pants, so he left. Arriving in
Milparinka, he went to the Wild Bushman Pub.
and got a room. For the first time in nine months
he saw himself in a mirror, and almost died with
horror. The local blacksmith was a bit of a
barber, and, with a pair of shears, got most of the
hair off the head of the wild man of the woods ;
also he shaved him with a trimming-knife. Then
the wild man went to the store and got some
clothes. He was late coming in to supper, so
found the publican and wife at the table. When
about half through the meal Mr. Publichouse
asked the waitress if that low, ruffianly-looking
fellow who took the room had been in to supper.
Waitress replied no, whereupon the publican re-
marked that their new lodger was no doubt blind-
drunk at the opposition pub., and that they would
see him no more. The wild ruffian did not
“crack,” but finished his supper and went for a
walk. Next morning he didn’t leave his room
till publican and wife were at breakfast; then he
opened the bedroom door and stood staring at
them. The look of wonder on those three faces
as he took his seat at the table and said, “ Ex-
cuse me, boss, my name’s Fred Western,” will be
with him to his dying day.
* * • »
“ Kosciusko ” : Lately visited a big abori-
ginal camp on a N.S.W. western river. Found
the men, as a rule, well-made and powerful, some
rolling fat; gins only middling; children awful
weeds. Explanation:—Govt, supplies a full
ration of flour, tea and sugar to every old man and
each of the gins and children. Able-bodied men
are expected to find food for themselves, and they
do—at the expense of the others. They secure the
bulk of the rations. The flour is made into paste
Miss ADELA VERNE, the brilliant young pianist of
Lemmone’s concert co.
Photo., London Stereoscopic Co., Regent-street, W.
and eaten with sugar. The gins get their share
when their lords are satisfied, the children come
anywhere, and everything from a toddler upwards
is supposed to look after itself. No wonder the
poor little beggars die off like rotten sheep ! When
the rations are done, then, and not till then, the
braves go out hunting kangaroo and emu, and,
when they make a capture, camp and gorge for a
couple of days before thinking of bringing a few
scraps back to the others. Morality is a dead
letter among these nigs. Young gins are annexed
by the elder warriors without regard to the full
stock already in the harem, but the young braves
have relations with them all the same ; white men
occasionally settle down in the camp and take
possession of any of the gins without hindrance
from anyone. Incest is common.
MADAME ALVA, the dramatic soprano of Lemmone's co.
Photo., Talma, Melbourne.
“ Nunawading ” : At my father’s place,
only eight miles out of Melb., there were any
number of snakes. A little Frenchman in our
employ ate them. I remember his terrier dog
capturing a snake, which he fried, and it was
delicious-looking white flesh, like Maoriland frost-
fish ”
* • * *
Dear Bulletin. —Had been on the track
some time and was a bit meat-hungry, when a
crow hove in sight. This was the nearest
approach to mutton I had seen for days, so I gave
chase, and used to start him going with stones
whenever he rested in a tree. On the morning of
the third day he showed signs of weakness; in
the afternoon he was completely knocked up, and
I captured him, but was not repaid for my labor,
as he was awful tough and d d hard to digest.
Still I feel a certain amount of pride in claiming
to be the only liar in Australia who ever ran for
three days after a crow.—H.H.
The bushman is a tough,
much-enduring mortal. Doubtful,
however, if the toughest of tough
bushies ever much surpasses the
following feminine feat. A poor
woman of weak intellect, a few
years ago, was in the habit of
carrying her son, a big lump of a
boy, 11 or 12 years of age, from
Rockhampton to Mt. Morgan,
and back again. The road (one
part of it) is remarkably rugged
and hilly ; the woman was a frail
little body. An old resident of
the district can vouch for this.
♦ * *
Jimmy Gibit.—The head
stockman on a lower Barcoo sta-
tion (Q.) when looking for stray
cattle found his horse completely
knocked up at dark ; and, while
lying smoking on the saddle-
cloth, and cursing horses, cattle,
and everything, bushy gets bitten
on leg. Jumps up ; loses matches;
turns over saddle to get some
out of pouch, and finds big mulga
snake making off. Night dark ;
horse hobbled out with stirrup-
leather (no bell) station 27 miles
away. Makes up his mind that
once he sleeps he sleeps for ever,
but nature beats him, and in the
morning he is surprised to find
himself still alive. Examines bite,
but finds nothing but a little red
swelling, and tumbles to the fact
that it was a green-head ant that
had bitten him. He told the yarn
at the station with the result that
it’s no use his rounding on stock-
men now. They say “ Can’t
take orders from a dead man ! ”
• • * •
„ ... , . „ w
Smithkins . More cockatoo. Writer
knew a Brisbane bird which, concealed by veran-
dah-creeper, practically blockaded his owner’s
residence for a week by imitating the voice of the
, , , nv , , , ...
domest,c > and telling the butcher and baker that
neither bread nor meat was required. One of his
P e t aversions was the family cat, and anybody
petting her would be bitterly informed, “Confound
her! I don’t like her.” His owner was an editor,
and the leading articles were said to be the joint
productions of man and bird, but no one outside
the family circle ever heard the latter discourse on
war-clouds or tariff questions.
Dear Bulletin.— The
other day, whilst out shoot-
ing, I saw a jackass pounce
down on a rabbit, catch it
between the ears, and swing
it against a gum-tree till it
was lifeless, and then begin
to eat it. Is this common?
—Chokebore.
* • *
Gable to London Stan-
dard
Cannibalism in New Guinea.
Brisbane, May 6.—lntelligence
has reached here that 14 es-
caped prisoners from Mana
Mana, New Guinea, have at-
tacked a friendly village and
killed and eaten 18 men.
Will 18 go into 14 ?
• * *
O.P. : Once followed
a thrasher with a man who
stuttered horribly, and the
trouble was that, the more
urgent his information, the
less|power he had to deliver
it. He was “ cavey,” and
used simply to spit like a
cat and look desperate when
a belt came off or a bear-
ing ran hot. Then the boss
would say “ Sing it.” And
the result was howlingly
funny. Sample Harry,
oovered with green dust
and with neck stretched out
like a goose’s, warbling,
above the hum of the drum,
to the first bar of the “ Gip-
sy’s Warning”: “ Tne
blanky—belt’s—hawf—haw-
haw-haw— hawf!”
“ Tui Ovalou ” : Re Bulletin’s references
to “oika” (theka). Have had considerable ex-
perience of it here (Levuka). A solution of lgr.
of corrosive sublimate in 6oz. water will, if used
as soon as the premonitory, gritty feeling is
noticed, prevent further developments. Bathe
with warm water once daily, and apply lotion
with piece of soft linen, which must be destroyed
immediately, as the disease is most contagious.
Nitrate of silver should only be applied by a
medical man. For advanced stages the following
lotion, used as above, is a dead certain cure for
either cika or sandy-blight: Boracic ac. 60gr.,
sulphate of alum 4gr., sulph. zinc 4gr., corros. sub.
lgr.—in 6oz. water.
“ Jinda ” : Camped at
a deserted hut out on our
back boundary t’other night.
Galvanised iron tank, half
full of water, at back door.
About 2 a.m. was awakened
by gnawing, scratching
noise. Struck a match and
reconnoitred. Three go •
annas scuttled off, and on
inspecting the tank, I found
three punctures—just where
the bottom is fixed on. The
water was running out. The
tank had been patched up
half-a-dozen times, and the
overseer could never find out
what made the holes in it.
Goannas must have watered
at the tank, off and on, all
the summer. No surface-
water within five miles of
hut.
* *
“Snowy River”:
“ Dipso ” refers to bulrushes
growing round artesian
bores. Through the whole
of the back of Queensland
they almost invariably ap-
pear in the vicinity of the
bores in the course of a
few years. It takes but
a few weeks, though, after a
bore has been running for
small fish to put in an ap-
pearance. These grow
rapidly and thrive in water
which, in some instances, is
too hot to place one’s hand
in. Both seed and spawn
can only reach the localities
per medium of aquatic
birds. Not generally
known that the true Murray
cod exists plentifully in one
part of the eastern water-
shed of Australia — viz. , the
Clarence and Richmond
Rivers and their tributaries.
This, again, can be attri-
buted only to the action of
water fowl. Both rivers
take their rise under Mount
Lindsay, in the Macpher-
son Ranges, on the opposite
side of which (in the head waters of the Darling)
cod is freely found. A bird could fly the in-
tervening distance in 20 minutes.
In a N.S.W. country town recently two
men found, on pub. premises, a pocket-book con-
taining notes and a cheque, and agreed to wait
until some claimant gave a correct description,
when he was to have it back if he “ shouted.”
The town-bummer, however, had “ witnessed all,”
and promptly posted a more plausible loafer than
himself as to the description to be given. The
finders, being satisfied, gave up the spoil, and re-
ceived from supposed loser and a caution not
to blab lest he might be “had” for the money.
After a day’s jamboree in the same pub. and the
spending of all the cash, the “ loser ” was reduced
to presenting cheque. Tableau / —it had been lost
by the publican 1
* • • •
Thus a Far-Northern correspondent of a
Queensland paper :—“ The other day a smart,
young local European stockman, well-connected
down South, led to the altar, not his blushing, but
his ‘ dusky ’ bride. ‘ Maretha,’ asked the officiat-
ing Registrar, ‘ wilt thou have this man to be thy
wedded husband, to love?’ &c., &c. ‘I will,’
replied Maretha, shaking her dark ringlets, and
looking tenderly at her lord and master. The
bride was neatly attired in ‘ black velvet ’ and
pink flannel, and three little anticipatory children
were present to witness daddy and mammy being
joined in wedlock. Briefly, the why and the
wherefore of this ceremony : It appears that this
young stockman, like many others out here, had
the misfortune to live in a place where women of
his own color are scarce. Hence his keeping the
LUCID.
MALONEY : “ Now, there's Tim Hoolan, he can run if you Wee.”
HOOLIGAN : “He can’t. I could run twice the distance meself in half
the time that he would be running a quarter the distance
in three times as long, an ’ when I was his age I could last
twice as long in the same time as he ever could.”
company of an aboriginal woman. Three children
being the result of this attachment, and the
father, doubtless, having a natural affection for
these children, and being afraid that they would
be taken away from him under the new Abori-
ginals Protection Act, took the course to my
mind the most honorable under the circum-
stances. Better do that than burden the children
on the public. I only hope that some form of
statute will make others, similarly placed, do
ditto, or otherwise support their half-caste off-
spring themselves. Plenty of them out here.”
The manufacture, after this fashion, of ‘ 1 square-
gin ” may be highly honorable to the hubby in
question, but it is an awful example, nevertheless,
of what may happen in the wild, weird North to
young gentlemen “well-connected down South.”
9 * * *
Dear Bulletin . — lie ex- Que e nsland er Ra w -
son’s boomerang-throwing at Palace Theatre,
London. I once saw his equal in N.Q. I was
standing outside a Oooktown hotel, when up came
King Billy from over the Endeavor, boomerang
in hand, and, entering the bar, called for a drink,
Ernest Favenc : The Bulletin’s par. re a
house being burgled in Melbourne while 13 people
slept in the room above, none of whom were dis-
turbed, recalls to me a personal experience in
Blackall (Q.) almost exactly 20 years ago. Things
pastoral were booming in those days, and there
was a race-meeting and stock-show on. Beds
were at a big premium and everybody slept just
where he could. Amongst those in the principal
pub. were some men whose names are well-known
to old Queenslanders. At that time they were in
the prime of life, and any one of them would have
been a match for two or three ordinary thieves.
Among them were Sylvester Browne, Tom Rome,
Alex. Jardine, Lumley Hill, Spicer Briggs, Adam
Mossman, Bell (from the Hunter River), and many
others whose names I forget. All the little bed-
rooms opened out of the big dining-room, and on
that night the dining-room, table and floor were
filled with sleepers. Bell, who came into the
township late, was, I think, camping near th»
door. Some thieves, number and names unknown
to this day, went through the whole crowd foi
money and watches —mostly from under the heads
of the slumberers or from the dressing-tables in
the rooms. They took a valuable gold watch of
Hill’s, which, some year or two afterwards, was
found planted in an old hut near Roma. It was
ensrraved with his crest and initials, and they had
not been game to get rid of it. The man who had
been clerk of the course that day had a narrow
escape. He had about £330 in notes in his trousers
pocket, a lot of it stakes he was holding. He had
thrown his garment carelessly down when he
turned in, but just before dropping off to sleep he
thought of the money and took it out and put it
underneath his mattress. The thieves collared
his trousers, so it was evident they had been
watching him. No clue was gained, but it is prob-
able that they mingled with the crowd and made
their beds down on the floor amongst the others,
then when the time came made their haul and
vanished. If they came from outside they would
probably have awakened Bell, who had taken the
only vacant place near the door.


Tears —Woman’s water-power.
“Made in Germany”:—The Anglican
Church, by Martin Luther.
T*v»f» Famous Fre’icli
Chocolate.
CHOCOtHTdICIHER
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents :
Win. Cameron & Co.,
249 Georye-st., Sydney.
A Stop's Bottom Covered with Barnacles.
As a ship’s bottom becomes covered with bar-
nacles after long voyages, that impede its progress,
so the inner lining of the stomach becomes changed,
unnatural, and its action after years of abuse,
obstructed. This always results if the liver is
weak, torpid, and sluggish. That is why Warner’s
Safe Cure, in toning up the liver, and removing
the sluggishness, soon cures these distressing
symptoms of dyspepsia. Note this well-known
lady’s experience. Beatrice Grace Margaret
M‘E)onald, Albert-street, Chewton, V., 14/2/’9B,
writes : —“ For the public benefit I desire to testify
to the merits of Warner’s Safe Cure. For a period
of txuo years I was a great sufferer from indigestion
in the form of chronic dyspepsia. What I suffered
from vomiting, pains in the chest and head, hys-
teria, and impoverished blood, I cannot describe.
I consulted three doctors, and tried many so-called
remedies, but without deriving any benefit what-
ever. In the end I was persuaded to try War-
ner’s Safe Cure. I took several bottles before I
found it doing me any good, but I kept on, and
when I taken my fourteenth bottle I was com-
pletely cured. This is now fifteen months ago, and
ever since I have been in perfect health. I feel that
I owe not only my health but my life to this
medicine.”*
It is astonishing what a large and ever in-
creasing demand there is in the market for “Three
Castles” Cigarettes. Everybody smokes them
and they are to be had everywhere.*
A Melbourne paper says Emperor William
of Germany inherited his love of yachting with his
English blood. But, where does he get the Eng-
lish blood ?
SUN HATS & HELMETS
free by post.
Qu AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS— White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
E MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SoftCaO'/as Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per throu gh-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 6/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. BIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
which, as he had no money, he didn’t get. There-
upon he came outside, took his bearings, and let
drive that boomerang. Immediately then lie
caught me by the arm, and dragged me to one
side —just in time —for a second afterwards the
returning boomerang darted through the doorway
and cleaned the top-shelf of bottles, scattering
glass and whisky in all directions; then came
back, knocked the barmaid silly, darted out again,
and the last I saw of it, it was chasing a dog
down street. —Tinlip.
« * * •
“ Tay ” : A Hawkesburyite has been
boasting loose in Sydney D.T. on the proud posi-
tion his electorate occupies -in that by its vote or
3 to 1 against the Bill it has put its hob-nailed
boot on Federation more effectually than any other
N.S.W. electorate. Deniliquin voted 16 to 1 /or,
and writer knows both these electorates well.
Whether it is that the old convict-leaven is
stronger there than elsewhere, or for some other
occult reason, the inhabitants of “The Oxberry
are a people apart, and like no other to be found in
Australasia. Taking them by and large, they are
selfish and narrow-minded ; the stranger, unless
well-heeled and promising good pickings, is looked
on as an interloper. Their standard diet is corned
beef, pumpkin, and prayer, and their intellectual
development is just as luxurious. The Deniliquin
people are the very opposite of this ; none more
generous in thought or action are to be found on
this imperfect sphere. Let a stranger visit Denili-
quin and he will receive a remembersome lesson in
open-handed hospitality. By their contiguity to
Victoria they are fully in a position to judge of
the alleged nefarious designs of that province.
• • * •
Dear Bulletin. —x -* put-up” in a hash-
mosque lately, and, being a stranger in the town
and an orphan, I generally stopped in and dis-
cussed politics with the lady who ran the show.
One night, over a bottle of stout, she hinted that
she was dissatisfied with her husband (he wasn’t
her husband), who had a bad habit of turning up
very much drunk and scaring the lodgers away,
and what she wanted about the house was a man
of my stamp. I took the hint, and said I was
willing enough to fire the old man out, if she gave
me the management of the hash-tower. She
agreed, and, having arranged what to inform him
in the morning, T retired just as the old boy came
rolling home. What happened during the night
I don't know, but what I do know is that, on the
following morning, as I came down-stairs with
mv little speech and best fighting humor, his nibs,
with a big club, was in the passage), and, point-
ing - to the door, said if I didn’t “get” in the
shortest time on record he would dance a jig on my
corpse. The lady backed him up with an umbrella
and language, so T left hurriedly, and my traps
came after me—but through the window; and, ever
since, I have been wondering if my slowness in
paving the board-bill had anything to do with it.
Also, I,keep wondering if the lady put up a joke
on me out of pure cussedness, or whether she
meant it at the time, but afterwards decided that
she loved her unwedd 'd beer-wreck too much to
part with him. Or did she have a hidden objec-
tion to both of us, and hope that we would
slaughter each other in the passage that cold
morning in the interests of some unknown third
party, who wasn’t big enough to fight the old man
himself ? Women are a mystery, especially
middle-aged women who keep a hash-exhibition
and are unmarried to their husbands. — Geoege.
• * * *
Told of oid Sam Walker, of Sorghum
Downs, Q. He had bought a team of bullocks
from Macintyre, of Dalgonelly, and, on his way
home, had a little difference with his new pur-
•hase, whereupon he began to walk up and down
A BACKBLOCK FASHION-ITEM.
(The family table-napkin has gone astray.)
MRS. BACKBLOCK : “ Oh I nivir moind, me dears, a-looking for it, these here
sleeves is just as handy!"
the line. “ Now, please, don’t think you belong
to that blanky old crawler, Macintyre, now. You
belong to me—and, if you don’t believe me (show-
ing each individual bullock a piece of paper), here s
the blanky receipt for the money ! ”
Jim Crotty’s Will.
“H.A.C.” writes as follows :
Pardon me, friend Bulletin, for thinking your stric-
tures in issue 25th inst. a regular tissue of inaccuracies as
well as of fallacies. Devisor was not “in his declining
years," as you put it, but evidently full of life and vigor.
(2) He could not give “ his pile to the Church while he
was living,” for the simple reason that he hadn’t a pile
to give, of a certainty ; it was only prospective. You
make this apparent further on when alluding to the pro-
bable “ slump.” It was only within the past few years
that his mining interests became tolerably sure, and it
would appear that his visit to the old country was to con-
solidate these interests.
In his letter to Rev. Father O’Callagiian, of Mount
Lyell, dated 21st Jan., 1898 (thirteen months after date
of will), and recently reprinted from the June Austral
Bight by Agb and Argus, he says “ I am, as you know,
a cosmopolitan, and have no permanent interest in any
parish, but this matters little to me, for I am always
most desirous of promoting the interests of my Church,
and contributing to the support of its pastors wherever
I may be or wherever opportunity or necessity demands,
so far as lies in my power. No matter in what part of the
earth a Catholic Church or Catholic priest is in difficul-
ties, I consider it my duty to assist if I can, without
reference to location or associations, but simply in the
name of, and in the service of, the universal God. In my
uphill fight for Mount Lyell I know there was a super-
natural power which assisted me, and to that power, which
is God, I owe my extraordinary success, not to any human
being. . ~ TT .
"This fact I feel and fully recognise. I owe all to Him,
and it becomes the duty of my life to make Him all the
return that lies in my power, even to the surrender of
that life if necessary. lam not done with Mount Lyell
by any means, my projects are vast projects, and they
■will be carried out; when they are, Mount Lyell will be
one of the most important places, not alone of Tasmania,
this would not be saying much, but of Australia.”
These be not words of world-tired or sick-enfeebled
man, are they? (or one with a past, either, to be afraid
of). Are they not rather the brave utterance of a well-
educated (Trim Col., Dublin) level-headed man of the
world —and admittedly the foremost scientific miner in
these colonies. And, best of all, a sterling Irish Catholic
“ to the back-bone and spinal marrow."
Now, if the bulk of this “ pile ” went to the undirected
or personal use of the Church or any of its clerical mem-
bers, there may be some excuse for (some say) the absurd
attacks on the will in question. What are the facts?
The major portion is to be expended in completing the
magnificent Cathedral of St. Patrick’s, giving, thereby,
£60,000 worth of good solid employment to artisans,
etc., mostly non-Catholic, to judge from past experi-
ence, and putting, in the second place, a finishing-touch
to an architectural beauty-spot in this, for its size,
sadly deficient city of smug Town Halls. Then the two
charitable institutions to benefit (Little Sisters of the
Poor and the Surry Hills Orphanage), although under
Catholic management, make no distinction whatever
between creed, country or color. Truly Catholic in that.
Surely The Bulletin hasn’t relented in its antagonism
to the Fat Man (or Woman) species, that it wishes to add
possibly to the number of the already too numerous
social excrescences. In fine, does it favor the horsey,
whisky or Flossie way of spending an honestly-earned
pile in' preference to “ Jim” Crottt’s way of well-thought-
out benefit to the general community ? See yesterday’s
Argus re the “entering a Convent” bogie.
* * * •
If this is the best case which can be made out
for Jim Crotty’s soul, then it is a remarkably
poor one. Crotty had a pile to give, else he
couldn’t have given it. His Mount Lyell in-
terests would have sold for a very large sum
any time within the last few years ; “ H. A.C.”
says : (1) that he had no certain pile to leave,
and (2) that for a few years back Crotty’s pile
was “ tolerably sure.” Any time within these
few years Crotty could have sold out and re-
tained enough to leave him with a sure ,£lOO a
year as his wife is now left, and given the rest
to the Church. Only to do it he must have
sacrificed his ambitions, and he wouldn’t do
that ; he only sacrificed his wife’s ambitions
and her comfort. Nothing can get away from
the fact that Crotty hung on to his pile all his
own life, and then denied his wife manfully in
the good cause
of religion.
He didn’t
deny himself.
He didn’t give
his'ownmoney
to ’ St. Pat-
rick, for a
man’s money
is no longer
his own when
he is dead.
Crotty felt
that he “owed
everything to
God,” and it
was his duty
to make God
all the return
in his power,
even giving
up his life if
necessary.
Well, he did-
n’t give up his
life for God a
minute sooner
than he could
help. And he
didn’t make
God all the
return in his
power; as-
suming, a s
Crotty did,
that giving
his money to the gaunt spires of St. Patrick
was giving it to God, it was in his power
to donate his Mount Lyell pile and he
didn’t. He only made his wife do it.
He didn’t “ sell all that he had and give
to the poor ”; he sold all that his wife
had. He didn’t take up his cross and follow
the Lord ; Crotty lived comfortably all his
days, and left his wife to hump the ponderous
implement of crucifixion after he was gone,
and he followed the Lord by bis agent. Mrs.
Crotty is his agent in this matter.
* * * *
As for Crotty’s past, every man has a past.
As for his not being sick, if he hadn’t been sick
he wouldn’t have died. But he wasn’t “world-
tired or sick-enfeebled ” when he wrote that
letter. At that time he was a physically strong
man, who hung on vigorously to his heap of
money (except that he sent a small cheque to
the Church), and said he was willing to give
his pile to the Lord, but didn’t. And, as
VICTOR J. DALEY,
Photo., Balk Studios, Melbourne.
for the £60,000 worth of solid employment
which he gave to the builders of St.
Patrick’s, De Lesseps with his futile Panama
canal did more than that. So did the men
who built useless Victorian railways which
had to be abandoned. So does the man who
pays another to dig a hole and then. fill it
up again. So does the man who builds an
empty pyramid, or constructs a ship and sinks
it or buys £60,000 worth of gunpowder and drops
a match in it. If £60,000 is spent in building 30
miles of railway where it is much wanted in
the mallee country, it means making about
400,000 acres of land accessible for settlement
and for the support of perhaps 1000 families;
and the addition of at least £2OOO a year to the
State revenue for ever ; and the permanent em-
ployment of a large number of people, who are
thereby enabled to earn their own living and to
enrich the country as well. The same amount
spent on a cathedral means no revenue, no new
settlement, no addition to the public wealth.
The cathedral is a worse speculation even than
the pyramid, for there is a large opening inside
the cathedral, and the country has to pay
quaintly-attired men to holler there for ever
afterwards. These quaintly-attired men cost a
lot of money ; they are so much force taken
away from the productive power of the com-
munity, and, therefore, so much dead loss ;
and, even granting that the world w r ants a reli-
gion, there are enough fanes in Melbourne to
hold the church-going population twice over,
without building new ones, and far more than
enough men in pompous attire to address all
these people without hiring any more of them.
* • * »
Putting it shortly, the man who builds a
cathedral puts a tax on the community for ever
afterwards, or at least for as long as that
cathedral endures, and until it is abandoned
and sold for a gaol or a butter-factory. For
the gaudy proceedings inside it have to be
maintained somehow at the public expense.
He supplies £60,000 worth of work to begin
with, and he costs the community a great deal
more than that. All the good he does is to
uselessly ornament the city, and he could orna-
ment the city quite as well and much more
profitably if he left his money to widen and
improve an ugly thoroughfare, or to build a
bridge or a decent railway-station, or to re-
claim a swamn. And he could ornament a
whole county if he left his pile to make a
good road or some irrigation works. Only in
common decency, if he declines to let the
money go till he is dead and doesn’t want the
income from it any longer, he shouldn’t let it
go till his wife is dead also. The Bulletin
dislikes the Fat Man as much as ever ; it also
dislikes fat churches.
Liberty—The enslavement of License
Sweet item from a London weekly
“ The Duchess of Teck will be much missed
at the forthcoming Richmond flower-show,
where she was wont to be most affable to
those local tradesmen with whom she dealt.
How easy it is for a Duchess to be
missed 1 The grovelling shop-keepers got her
gracious smile once a year or so, and it
haunts ’em still.
“Old Jack”: The first attempt to
organise an expedition for the exploration
of Papua was made by Keith Collins, an old-
time bush whacker, native of Gundagai,
N.S.W. He lectured on the subject to an
audience of Fatmen in the Freemasons
Hall, York-street, Sydney. I wrote the
screed, and got most of my information
from Capt. Watson, an ancient mariner who
traded up Papua way in the twenties. How-
ever, the thing hung fire. Jack Robertson,
then in office, sat on the idea. The next
adventure was essayed by a number of dead-
beats who chartered an old brig called the
Maria to take them to the happy land. I
was one of the crowd, but backed out
when I’d had a few drinks with the skipper.
The result verified my prescience. The brig
was run on a reef off Hinchinbrook Island,
and of the whole lot, some ten individuals
managed to get on to the N.Q. coast. There,
several were knocked over by the niggers.
I think the skipper escaped. But the fiasco
turned thought to the big island, and in-
duced its settlement some years after-
wards.
The King of Siam, in investing an Italian
artist with the Grand Cross of Siam -which en-
titles the holder to marry 12 wives—said :“It is
an order Ido not often confer; I trust you will
take full advantage of it! ”
A few kanaka statistics : In December, ’96,
there were 8444 Polynesians in Queensland; in
Dec., ’97, the number had dropped to 8224 —a
decrease of 220. Tommy Tanna is essentially a
thrifty mortal; 2677 boys have £21,280 4s. 9d. to
their credit in the Govt. Savings Bank, lhe
death-rate goes steadily upward. In ’96 it ran 31‘62
to the thousand; in ’97, 32'83 per thousand. And
this in the healthiest province of Australia, a pro-
vince that boasts that its white population has
the highest birth-rate and lowest death-rate on
the continent.
There seems just a chance that the long-
delayed Melbourne-Collingwood railway will be
bail at last. A curious little stump of line ex-
tends from Heidelberg to Collingwood; then it
ends suddenly, and for the other two miles into
Melbourne the passenger can take a cab. When-
ever it was proposed to make this lost scrag-end of
rail a workable and payable affair by extending it
into the city the adjacent suburb of Fitzroy rose
to declare that it must have a railway, too, and
the result of the bitter feud between the two
suburbs -was that the subject has been dropped
everv year for 15 years. Now there is a
majority for Collingwood, unless Fitzroy manages
to upset the scheme again. It is the tale of the
Sydney city railway over again. Every time
that has come in sight about 70,000 property-
owners have risen to demand that the extension
should go right through their back-yards, and as
it couldn’t go through everybody’s back-yard, the
subject has died away again every time.
Above is a portrait of the man calling himself
KARL LUDWIG VON VELTHEIM, who lately
murdered Woolf Joel at Johannesburg. “Veltheim"
is said to have lived in Australia, and this photo, is
reproduced on the chance of his being recognised by
some “ Bulletin ” reader.
In the last 22 years, N.S.W. Parliament
has created 45 Royal Commissions, or somewhere
over two a year. In few cases have the results
been appreciably beneficial; in many, they were
abortive, and in some issued in error. The expenses
ran from .£194, in the Deasy Inquiry case of 1889,
to £6418, in the Public Service Inquiry of the same
year. The Dean Commission cost .£3015, the Rail-
way Bridges Commission .£5806, the Water Con-
servation Commission £6347, and the Coal-mines
Commission £3397. The Public Service Inquiry
lasted two years and a half, and several ran between
six and 12 months. The Deasy Inquiry took only
two weeks, while the results of theMeymott Com-
mission were never reported to Parliament at all.
The N.S.W. Federal Referendum official
returns were delayed three days until the figures
for Langawirra were received. Many explana-
tions were offered in Sydney for the delay;
mostly the blame was alternately given to drought
and floods. But Langawirra, which is in the
Wilcannia district, and only a long day’s journey
from Broken Hill, hadn’t been cursed with
either drought or flood. Nobody had come up
to vote, and there didn’t seem any occasion to
hurry along with the two noughts. Fort Otway,
same electorate, did not record a vote either.
Half-a-dozen others sent along about seven each ;
a few less. It is out there, where the secreoy of
the ballot is most wanted, that half the time the
voting might as well be open ; for when the boss’s,
and the overseer’s, and the storekeeper’s “ reli-
able ” votes are counted up, the rest can be pretty
well analysed.


it) R^lec'
,
l PrL> /• Ca tiif* orj .
< %fi->P"Z 'S’
Po V'
- v $ 4-t;
d°’'
<£«o t -
° r *b Ul, 't '.
>ll' J, '^Z a X 4 /''ZT **%'&
? s Se.’ ,**of , b r <‘Dr < ,° f ti 0 '> a c .. *<V
V».f tpMaJ •’ «(,„4® <*a „ r '4 0
* n, ‘‘icy tJlmr p r eat, Oa t ', ,Ja <‘rea h ' er *u t>f>e; -
° r Dn**°»t ‘‘H 0t th * Ur -
P <2<y‘ r
* Ct <o a
,-j PZJ 'tj^ U & Ye § ’ • -f'-^
vfccrftVis <* uie^
r s cou \y o/cv
| slowly^
“
Qo j
tfOPS 6 0 t \
t*£** ,»\X' of>® \
*> && $ •
fe e*’ ft * oV eV,c wV^°
1> , e \t -a®",
O ,V v
X
a r^» a '
T)oV cee 9 0 A
>^4-
fe-s f' c£
|\ *
Another very substantial addition to the re-
venue was made yesterday, when probate
nduty was' paid on the estate ©f the late
gMr. George Robertson, of Prliices-Btreetf St.
BK.ilda, formerly of the well-known firm of
sGeorge Robertson and Co., publishers and
stationers. The estate was valued
Sat £106,420 155., but the amount found avall-
iable for duty by Mr. Poole, the officer for
iprobpte, was £108,455 Bs. lid. On that sum
Ztheduty, at 10 per cent., amounted to £10,848
llQs. lOd,, and a cheque for that amount was
grece|v*d at tjie Probate Office yesterday. .
i ~ . ■ - „ rtic
jattitudo of Mr, Higgins ind Mr. Hau-
Icock has yet to be-dlselogfed. They may
[accept the pronounced and unmistak-
able finding of the country, or they
may be content* to fight on vwwwwwwwv
’^BHHjHpppp^
fh hen came the revelation that
lln^ eUt , eDant Was orl S ,na »y elected for Col-
was °h OW,DS t 0 thc fnct that his captain
speeches? “ Utllor ° f b ' B
SeU P f “?, W,,hoUt
ot bis discarded ™hlei *“t *f* w , ords
hlndiy.' v* to °k “ is gruel
s lyj>
—a ii4eci.
MELBOURNIANA.


<77 <s^ a c-<- ft* r/^s.
Vtemperance lessons in public
i\ SCHOOLS
LONDON, Friday.—The Egyptian Govern-
ment, in order to preserve its attitude of
neutrality, has prohibited the vessels of the
Spanish squadron under Admiral Camara
from coaling at Port Said from their own
colliers.
Minister desires that teachers will ,
- - give their pupils such instruction on
„,o,<,»c temperance a. IST,
•mtout commuting „n,“on et
of extreme views on the
total abstinence." /|
wlt'er °! several women In the
Isaacs rt thls mornin S caused Mr.
at vere’ presi^ed > to make some
the fair “L ” res,ard JO the presence of
ratter vV lie , caaes of an immoral cl*.-*
ratter were being
Stfrid he could
“Sdfe.'M^r* 6 ® u PP° sed that all.
court while 8 f \ these days—remained in
corn: while such cases were being heard
£j e ‘ r , own sense of decency should prevent
o 1 , 1 s sssrSH
mß’iSj h,m “ h,;ar th ™ mile.
sj -g ,sxr ™
7f Coma ( /fas
fto/- 6<?orye 'ftfict
/hro/nisQcl To
/n a, Syo/nan's TZfoZTc
Zs>r . 7 "
/Zfa s !f*o F
Woman s
-
ot<^ss
*iy-
Aff-licfion Sfif-e, fong ke bore. .
DEATH OP THE “SOUDAN DONKEY.”
That Soudan donkey is dead. He departed this
life on June 29, and "bis obituary notide was
read at yesterday’s meeting of the council of the
Zoological Society. -V" jo Ar/rs
//z ; s 77 ** s-fo/fed - *0 4, ts a long Ar
% jAar a- c£a* Seed's J
He had hoped the speech would have contained some
reference to the disturbing foreign news that had been
coming to hand for some week’s past. He was astonished,
when it could be seen that at any time the British Em-
pire might be launched into a struggle with Russia and
France, yet there was no expression of willingness to
send help from this, the'mother colony, though he was
aware that if .the Premier had attempted to put in the
Address from the Throne some suggestions for a contri-
bution to the defence of the Empire otherwise than
from United Australasia, it would have been bandied
about as a sinister blow aimed at Federation.—L. F. Hey-
don, A/.L.C., in N.S.W. Legislative Council.
"'Sv- *
,
\ oZc{ £/t<£?&nols »-//%
/7 CoESar, 7£o u
CARTOONLETS.


“ Oroson ” orx Melbourne general ceme-
tery i
Was unwillingly compelled to put in an hour or two
last week in Melbourne general cemetery, so I investi-
gated. The concern is in charge of half-a-dozen trustees.
The whole place is run under strict rules and regulations,
notices re smoking, removing flowers, or observing
funerals too closely being stuck all over the ground.
The ground is enclosed by an iron-spiked fence Bft.
high, the top of which is further guarded by a
fringe of barbed wire. Once in the cemetery theytdon’t
find you a resting-place for nothing. Scarcely ! For a
block Bft. by 4ft., if chosen by self or relatives, the figure
is £3 35., no less ; but if the late-lamented be planted
where the trustees think fit, it only costs £l, but th*e bed
is not quite so large, only Bx 3. Then for digging the
aforesaid pit the charge is anothej £l. If burUd on
Sundays a further guinea. Permission to erect a monu-
ment will cost you £2 2s. more, but a simple name-plate
only runs to half-a-crown. [I am thinking of opening a
ptivate burial ground myself ; it seems to be as profitable
to the promoter as a brewery or a boom bank.] All graves
must be kept in order at the cost of the owner. The
trustees further require that all epitaphs must be sub-
mitted for their august approval. They plant very closely
in this ground, only about 9in. of clay lying between the
foot of one and the head of his neighbor in the next row,
a similar distance separating shoulder and shoulder. If
one of the departed should take to snoring in his long
sleep, he would assuredly wake at least 20 or 30 fellow-
sleepers. They seem to have been pressed for room
lately—so much so that in one block when the graves are
full there will be about 4500 bodies in an acre. Certainly
they are somewhat “ adjacent ” in the matter of ground.
There were about 20 open graves, though only nine
funerals that day, but they dig them a day or two before-
hand when they get notice, and sometimes when they
don’t, on the off-chance. Then, if it’s wet weather, they
place a tent-like arrangement above—that is, if it’s a pri-
vate grave : a three-guinea grave, you understand. An
ordinary grave —one of the row aforementioned—doesn’t
matter. Should a foot of water get in and lie on the
clay bottom (as I saw in one case) the departed
may be a Rechabite, and take it as a delicate compli-
ment. In any case, the cemetery being on a slight hill,
the germ-laden water eventually finds its way through
North Carlton, Fitzroy, and Collingwood to the lovely
Yarra —via Reilly-street drain. There are quite a number
of Chinamen buried there ; apparently very few are re-
turned to the Yellow Land. John does not run riot in
the matter of monument. Mostly a small, plain slab of
marble, or, more often, sandstone, embellished with sun-
dry hieroglyphics. But one grave is an exception to
this rule. It is a large, square plot covered with slabs of
stone and railed off. Over the head is a kind of altar
surmounted by a stone covered with Chinese remarks—
probably complimentary. At each of the foot corners is
erected a sort of furnace with firebox, flue, and chimney
complete, and these bake-houses (each about 9ft. high)
have at some time been used—presumably to roast the
fleshy fowl and the savory sucking-pig or puppy, which
are supposed to nourish the dear departed on his long
journey. Anyhow, it is a pleasing monument, and a
change from the eternal broken-column or rounded slab
with its everlasting “ Sacredjto the memory ” or “ R.1.P.”
But if all these Chinese epitaphs come before the trustees
what a time they must have! After considering the
denseness of its population, I have concluded to carefully
avoid Melb. Cemetery, and am thinking of becoming a
Buddhist or Mahometan, and getting decently and
cleanly burnt down at the Red Bluff.
“ASK AND YE SHALL RECEIVE.”
The best is worth asking for. “ D.C.L.”
Whisky is the best that Scotland produces, and
you are not likely to get it unless you specially ask
for it—“ D.C.L.” Whisky, please.*
COLONIAL PREMIERS
while in England have seen Ogden’s Guinea Gold
Cigarettes at all the clubs and fashionable resorts.*
Sugar, pure Silver-plated, 22s od.
With covers, 30s.
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
16c. Oold „ „ 455.
sa'jji
Pure Silver-mounted Purses,
Vs 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
New Style, Love Bird and Chain,
Oold, 8s 6d.
A. Saunders.
2-bar Gold Brooch, 3 Pearls, 12s.
16c. Oold, 22s fid.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubios and 4 Pearls, £Bss.
6 Diamonds, £i 4s. Very strong brooch.
A Saunders.
New Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
Bed, Blue and White Stones, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
150. Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2los and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Cut Dia-
mond, £3; smaller
Diamond, £2, £2 los,
fin. wide.
Send for Price List.
IBc. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2 ; 15c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
18c. Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamond, £5 6s ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
9c. Solid Gold Dia-
monds, 2 Red or Blue
Stones, 10s 6d.
18c. gold, 3 Sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Dia-
monds, £3; Double-
cut Diamonds, £3los
and £4. Send for
illustrations.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15a, 20s, 255; 18c.,
265, 30s, 355, £2.
A. Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 6s 6d.
A. Saunders.
9c. Chased Links, 22s 6d.
16c. Gold, 40s. Silver, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 10/6,12/6,16/-, 20/-
A. Saunders.
Entree pistes, pure Silver-plate, on Hard White Nickel,
67s 6d (4 pieces). Other houses charge £4 4s same articles.
WE SELL DIRECT FROM THE MAKRR.R
Highly Recommended.
WATCH
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
Old Jewellery
RE-HADE
to any Design.
The 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases,
£4 4s, 15 years’ guarantee ; ditto, 14c. Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £3O watch.” Ladies’,
“beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
The Utmost Satisfaction.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
£4, £4 10s, £5. 100. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £l\
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
Sugar Scuttle, Pure Silver-plated,
16s 6d, ‘2os, 255.
A. Saunders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch,
13s 6d ; 16c. Gold, 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Butterfly Brooch, 108.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made edding Rings and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, ns 6d, 7s (id, Ids each ; 15c. Gold
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for -ard.
D
Quite New.
9c. Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond, and Redstone, 355.
Gold Baby Brooch, with Safety Pin, 5s 6d.
15c. Gold, larger, 12s 6d.
Send for our Complete Illustrated Price
Book of Watches, Clocks, Jewellery and
Silver-plate. POST FREE.
A. Saunders.
Quite New Gold Bird, White Pearls and
Amethyst Heart, 21s. ; 15c., £2.
A. Saunders.
Butter, Pure Silver-plate,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra Strong, 10s
15c. Gold, 15s. ; 18c. Gold, 20s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
SlQl
A. Saunders.
150. Gold, Pure Diamonds, Rubies,
or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Dress Studs, 12s 6d.
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphires, other styles
3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
Gold Heart
Locket,
Plain, 8s 6d.
Chased, 10s.
Child’s Oups, 10e 6d
15s 6d, 20s. Pure Silver-
plated. 15s 6d and 20r
are in Silk Oases.
‘mannvs ‘v
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, 815 George-street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Answers to Correspondents .
Vo notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
W.P. : Pooh ! Scores of London newspapers
nave no other raison d’etre than the “ puff or duff ” busi-
ness Bush Echoes: Too vague Philammon : The
motto, “ When you itch poetically, scratch an editor,” is
mighty rough on the editor Philip O. : Thrice-strained
tea-leaves J. (Melb.): Sorry it wouldn’t interest our
readers Yindex : Intangible C.P.Q.C. : Dull as
Methuselah at 968 L.M.D. : “Boss” draggles—try and
get it in half space; perhaps “Mashed.” E.M.T.C. :
Empty; see? Magpie: Is nothing—does nothing-
says nothing. G.T.J. : Not brief or lively’’ enough.
C.E.M. : The text was bright and interesting; your
gloss isn’t Thedane : Fear allusion too vague
H.D.M. : You want to know (immense question !) what
sacrifices a man should make for the sake of recording his
vote. It’s a question for the man. One can generally
combine duty to the community with duty to one’s-
self. When you can’t, please yourself Chaput: Well
put together, but interest not enough for length
J.B.L. : Interesting, but style too matter-of-fact. The
heavy weeklies would accept . .. Percy: Ranji subject
“off.” Kobar : Thanks J.J. : Don’t care for
“Finer.” .... E.W.L. : Simply absurd to amalgamate the
offices of Sydney city solicitor and Sydney town clerk.
The work attached to either position is quite enough to
keep a competent man going O.W. : The gentleman
conforms to the rule that mighty leaders are unlike their
followers A.R. : You write good pars., but fail at
literature. You produce pearls, but don’t know how to
string them into necklaces K.K. : Wealth in a nation
is of no use if, before it can be defended, it has to be
•hanged into means of defence J.F.N. : “ Almost
jiou persuadest us !” Alice M‘K. : Try that horror on
the dog ... Zero : Good way above that! .... Irlandais :
Neatly-worded trifle Wilcannia : Afraid still too groan-
some and ghastiferous J.B. : Letter temporarily mis-
laid. Should have to consul! a lawyer ourselves for in-
formation you require Geo. H.M. : Affecting simpli-
city, but no publishing value A.W.J. : Disjointed
nightmare about a conflagration that didn’t happen, and
a dog tffo-t wanted to worry you. Sensible dog... .W.E. V. :
Your screed has scored another wrinkle on our weary
brow Adam Hasbeen : Please send name
W.J.H. : It is absolutely impossible that the person
named can be making a success worth mentioning
Anti-Prof. : If your yarn refers to Marshall Hall it is
probably a lie, with malice aforethought Ethelle :
May re-cast W. Brenta : “ Pickles ” to hand. “ Hard ”
•lready dealt with A.W.K. : Enough said on subject.
....Fred B. : “ Fluke,” in that case, comes from billiards ;
origin not clear Leg: Nothing in longer one Steff
O. : Such lies of no interest unless artistically mendacious.
Ohas. W. (Melb.) : Nothing in treatment to carry off
triteness of situation E. Bland : Anyhow, had Victoria
possessed a Grown Defender, the case of Whitton (re-
cently released as innocent of an offence for which he
had been convicted) would have been brought to light in
time to avoid the expense of his trial and the contempt
into which justice has brought itself over the matter. No
community, in any case, has a right to call itself civilised
which does not admit that it is as incumbent upon Govt,
to prove, if possible, an accused’s innocence as it is
to establish his guilt Mirani: Please call
E.H. (Pad.) : “ Points of View ” will serve as a suggestion
jr illustration. Is it absolutely original? Joseph
6. : No, Joseph, we don’t pay for that kind of thing.
Also, we advise you, as a matter of expediency, never to
sign your full Christian name, but always let it stand at
«j. ” inasmuch as “there was never anyone named
Joseph who was an entirely satisfactory person.”
Squid : Thanks. But that restitution joke would get us
two years Enco : Chamberlain’s Americanism is per-
haps partly explained by his wife being of that nation.
H.X. : We sacrifice your clever story with regret.
But it's publication would much pain an estimable and
/e ry widely-known family in no wise accountable for the
circumstances related Cecil A.: Is that Braidwood
Syrian story a true bill, or merely a variant of the old
M.L. yarn about the Chinaman who, to overcome white
prejudice against the acceptance of his tender, changed
his name to Macdonald? F.E. : It looks merely malevo-
lent Brigalow : Thanks ; would probably be interest-
ing Ala : Not quite class enough Hazelcop : Tame
handling of regulation murder-mystery A.H.T.: Sheer
waste of time N.O.M. : Idea excellent. Sorry not
skill enough of workmanship. May do better with prac-
tice. To your question—yes Seebohm : The mistake
is often made of expecting different action by a nation
from that which might be expected from its average
member. Thus a nation, say with 40,000,000 of a popula-
tion, appears to be expected to possess a forty-million
man-power intellect. Whereas, if you would forecast
national action, you must judge by what the mediocre
member of the community would be likely to do in any
particular juncture. A middle-class Yankee shopkeeper
and a Spanish moneylender, quarrelling about their back-
yard palings, would have done just as their respective
nations have done ...X.S. (Sydney): No; thanks
Gladstonian: Westminster Abbey, in the light of a
National Pantheon, is fraudy, like the Acadernie, s an?
Molibre and Balzac. Some day, an artistic Messiah will
go into the Abbey and chase out all the myriad nobodies.”
Mac.: But the Bijou was crowded every night for a
week, quite recently. Adam: The use of a bed, in a
woman’s book, seems to be not so much for the heroine
to sleep in as for her to bury her face in and “ burst into
a storm of sobs.” How would it be for these virginal
couches to be fitted up with some few feet of fluming, a
tank, and a rain-gauge, and let the indicated inches
certify the emotion-power? Kiawarra : Good, but out
of our unholy orbit Sigma : Fairly well-written, but
motif overworked Redlight: “ Taken-dowrt ” may be
used—after much trimming. Paleface : Humorous, but
not brisk enough for “ B. ” Yang A. : Sorry “Vigil”
unsuitable. You should easily be able to dispose of it
otherwise “Mistaken Identity”: Idea unprintable.
“Good Ship Death”: Flat; also t’other. . Vaji:
Kindly send it to “ Aurora Australis, the quarterly
magazine of the Presbyterian Ladies’ College”—a chaste
copy of which has just been solemnly dropped under the
table. You would feel at home in Aurora Australis. ...
Polype : Flat Naknar : Doubtfully grit enough to go.
M.R. : We mourned you as dead, and now you say
you’re not dead. Please be dead, and all will be forgiven.
Momus : The wit of it would go in a pin-hole ..
J.M. (S.A.): Tedious... .G.E.S. : Frightfully long-winded
—your lungs must be 200-gallon tanks J.P. : “Prize-
fight”—stopped by office police . . W.A.P. : Not enough
foroe or novelty L.R.B. : Three pages—worth a bright
ten lines V. G. : Great Heavens ! to think a man can
write like that and live! A.G. : Not up Camiro :
Less up... E.J.C. (W.A.): Way down ...Mach.: Dull
ballade M.A.P.: Woman with a deluge of words...
W.P. : You make good practice ; but the artillery’s a
little light Gormen : Wasn’t used for want of finishing
touches Pelican: “Yarra Bank” lacks interest
Capt. Jinks : Can only account for poem by supposing
that a comet struck a cemetery Rapho : “Eyes” a
trifle insipid W.M.F. : “ Lamb-marking ” undis-
tinguished F.G. (Melb.) : Rhyme as tired as the egg
of the auk that sang in the ark .... Boulderite : Testi-
monials no use ; let’s handle the copy M.J.B. : You
yearn ; we yawn J.K. : Thanks Nuggets : No ;
pyrites E.W.O. : Expect a duke to rhyme like that ;
no common fellow can afford it A.J.C. : Take influ-
enza, six months, anything W.D. : Bunyip ! how the
rhymes rain down I—and1 —and that would knock a hole in an
iron roof. (We dodged.) Patria : White arsenic
is’ good for that melancholy feeling. Dose, Jib
“ Bristol Athlete ”: A pinch for stale news Cea : Too
improbable. If the doctor could borrow the instruments,
he could surely have borrowed his fare Kati: Things
in this world are very circular. For instance, if old maids
decrease, cats become fewer; sparrows increase; grain
is scarcer ; bread is dearer. Dear bread means a decline
in marriage rate with consequent increase of old maids
and cats Zad.: Wail too like Mahomet’s coffin. Anchor
your wails Al. Mack. : Comment difficult, and bit late.
Alone: “ Heavens ” dull Old Guard: Unsuitable.
R.D. : Wants interest; returned Roscoe : Not
bright enough Gantibar : Not up .. No. I. : Stale
idea ; forceless handling Constant Reader : The only
man who needs sudden death more than “our respected
fellow townsman ” is “ our own correspondent ” A. B.:
Why this grief about the woes of a junior clerk ? It’s a
good deal better than being a preacher or a pirate
E.V.B. : Raving lunacy, or else rum-snakes E. Mac-
kenzie : Joke older than antiquity’s grandfather O.L. :
' -fust one Instance " isn’t an instance at all. Also, it isn’t
an interesting instanoe Deena M.: Hardly good enough,
Would it not sound better, by the way, if you called it
“Gory termination to the successor of St. Peter?’’
Robert Prior (Rue Australia): You were arrested in
Paraguay on a charge of assault on a woman and the
Paraguayan magistrate promptly heard and dismissed the
case. And you want the British consul and the govern-
ment to wreck Paraguay over it, and shriek about
the rights of a British citizen. In Australia, if a
woman charged you with assault, you would have got
seven years on her bare assertion. And if you heard of a
South Amencan being charged with assaulting a woman
m Sydney, you would simply decide that the beas ,y
foreign scum required suppression. Ihe average Bn
°u A }] at ™ l, t n ’ wh , e , n i R0 w.n broad ’.
should be above all law Will.vania : Aery poor ve s .
And what do you mean by :
The Stars and Bars and Union Jack
. Will tnurnph o eruhe world .
The Stars and Bars—the old Confederate flag which went
down in 65 when the Slaveholders Rebellion went bung
and Jeff Davis fled disguised in a bonnet and petticoat
Battler: Trail of the amateur over it all Ranp.
‘‘Hospitality only about 12-carat interest JExperto
C. : Good, light touch ; sorry too , er '"’ t, c for pnnt- n ..
Ermo : Nothing in par. Yarn as vigoi P •
. Rex : Pretty, b»t Sunday school.sh Marie S
PrincHial merit is brevity. _ back of expe ence is
v hat s the matter. A b . ■ p ... . f
of literary skill E Mac : Brands well-invented, but
crude ‘Tramp” too tomls. Onlys You hit
hard, but -V 0 *;? le w° e u J - c ... p . 2 i l)a v
u£ - P ‘3 ‘'blank’ verse “ 2 V blank ■ 4 mediocre ’ W
use, 3, blank verse v ey ’ p ’ .
r H-Bi-Bothtwaddlesome T.S.?'Rather neat, but
lacks force P. Abott: “ Lil,” may use. Other, .funny,
but too long-drawn W.H.F. : Photo, no special inter-
est, except for impossible feature. As suggestion, it
doesn’t matter which is used. Pro rata .... Banool :
Doesn’t “ shock our religious sense ’’-only our metrical
sense. Extract par’d .... L.R.8.: Stories not dealt
with yet. Suggestions were probably unusable
Gordon D. : Pars, received. Don’t undertake to acknow-
ledge suggestions. Send along sketch for settlement
Ruby : Unimportant Disgusted: Common or daily
horror ... Splodger : Not splodging at present . ..A.G.F. :
In Neutral Bay ... A. Lewis : Certainly not. If there
were 80,000 for the Bill and 90,000 against it, the Bill was
lost. And if there were 79,999 for the Bill and nobody
against it, the Bill was lost. It had to get 80,000 votes
and a majority as well, so Provincialism had two chances
to one The Wandering Jew : You are mixed. In one
place the Scripture says Judas bought a paddock. In
another, that he threw the money back and the authori-
ties bought a paddock with it J.A.B. (Darlinghurst) :
Some fine spots in poem, but wants more spots The
Owl: There is some etiquette about half-masting Govt.
House flag—it is done only at the death of eminent red-
headed people with one eye, or something like that
Scotic : Partially illegible Scotch item on thin paper that
tore before we could read it S. Barker: The whole
mistake lies in assuming that because all existing
Councils—being nominee or property-elected—are Tory,
therfore everything that is called an Upper House must
be Tory. The Federal Upper House, with its liberal
suffrage, would have been more Democratic than any
House now existing. And your crowd actually prefers
to remain under the domination of the 48 Rich Landlords 1
What kind of majority rule have you in Victoria ?
G.D.R. (Paddington): Thanks for letter The Interior :
Lyne isn’t exactly a wriggler. That slow person is too
wooden to wriggle Unity : Haven’t time to hunt up
the point. You can trace it in the back files of the
Herald Cosmos : Good in places, but not good enough
in enough places Eko: Thb Bulletin and Argus,
working together on the Federation question, reminded
you of the wolf and the lamb. And you want to know
which is the wolf ? Well, Higgins and Heydon working
together reminded us of the Devil and the Deep Sea, and
we don’t really care which is the Deep Sea Maori-
lander : Thanks Old Hand : The beak is supposed to
leave his “ personal knowledge of the parties ” at home.
But he has so little knowledge that he wants all he has.
Disgusted Reader : Glad we’ve disgusted somebody,
Mulch!: Not within cannon-shot of being poetry
J. MacDougall: The more Australia borrows in England
the more must go out every year in interest. Therefore
the less gold will be left in the country. And as the gold
you borrow more in England, and the outflow gets
bigger, and interest goes up still more. Foreign borrow-
ing must stop some time. Why not stop it now? ~...
Waterloo : Napoleon I. wasn t captured at Waterloo, or
captured by Wellington, or captured by anybody. He
went on board a British man-of-war ana surrendered,


MERIT RECOGNISED.
VIRTUE TRIUMPHANT.
ATTAIN THE PINNACLE
EMINENCE.
ness
of MEDICAL
A Medicine for tlje People at a Poptilar Price-
More Melbourne Marvels.
FOUR PEOPLE RESTORED TO HEALTH
BY BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS.
MELBOURNE PEOPLE ASTOUNDED.
A most remarkable case has been brought to
our notice (says the Melb. Advocate), in that of
Mr. F. S. Salter, the well-known theatrical man,
trr
■T
who resides at 15
Fawcett - street,
Albert Park. To
let Mr. Salter
speak it) his own
words: —
“For years I
was a constant
sufferer from bili-
ousness and its
dreaded effects.
Needless to re-
mark, various
doctors and
patent medicines
were tried with
the hope of being
cured, but little,
if any, relief was
experienced from
these sources.
After an unsatis-
factory night’s
rest, I was wont
to rise with a nasty taste in my mouth and a feel-
ing of intense weariness. The throat was parched
and dry, and the whole system was gradually
undermined, from loss of appetite, one of the
disastrous effects of biliousness. Indeed, I turned
away from meat, especially in the morning, with
disgust, and had to content myself with a bare
collati'on of a little bread and tea.”
“ Such was the state of things when I happened
to hear from a friend about the efficacy of the
newly-discovered cure for biliousness, Bile Beans.
At first I was a little incredulous. Nevertheless,
following the motto, ‘ try again,’ I determined to
procure a box, and put their value to a test. Well,
sir, my most sanguine anticipations have been
more than realised. The fact is that, after one or
two doses, I experienced a thorough change for
the better in my system. My former vigor began
to return, the symptoms above enumerated gradu-
ally disappeared, and the whole man felt that he
was in possession of a new lease of life. More
palpable evidence of restored health could not
better be seen than the fact of the return of my
former healthy appetite, to which I had been for a
long time a stranger. Thanks to the power of
Bile Beans, I can now take and enjoy a hearty
breakfast, lunch and dinner. My former glow of
health and lightness of spirits have again returned.
In one word, I am a new man.”
A fine three-year-old boy came bouncing into
the room. “Papa,” cried the little chap, “give
me some Bile Beans.” Asked how his infant son
was so fond of the medicine, Mr. Salter said that
the little fellow had not been well, and, finding
the beans such an excellent restorative, he ven-
tured to administer half a one to the child. He
pointed, with pardonable pride, to the bright eyes
and glowing cheeks of his erstwhile delicate boy
as the soundest and most emphatic testimony of
the remarkable virtue of Bile Beans for young and
old.
Subsequently, Mrs. Salter came into the draw •
ing-room, and, in answer to a question from the
reporter, declared that she had experienced untold
benefits irom taking only a few Bile Beans, she,
like her husband, having been a sufferer from this
complaint.
After so gratifying a test of the value of this
medicine, Mr. Salter sent a box to his brother,
Mr. Charles Salter, the well-known carrier and
forwarding-agent, of Bendigo, and a prominent
member of the Bendigo Football Club. This
gentleman has written a letter to his brother in
Melbourne, in which he cannot find words suf-
ficiently strong enough to recommend Bile Beans
to all who are, as he himself once was, a sufferer
from biliousness, indigestion, etc. He is fully
prepared to substantiate the remarks of Mr. F. G.
Salter. If ever there was a strong case, this is
one ; the whole matter may be put in a nutshell—
facta non verba.
Another Miraculous Cure
Effected by Bile Beans.
STRONG PRAISE FROM A SYDNEY
WOMAN.
NINE MONTHS’ CONTINUED SUF-
FERING.
HER MEDICAL ADVISER COMPLETELY
BAFFLED.
B.B’b. AGAIN TRIUMPHANT.
To anyone having the care of a large house on
their hands, and whose household duties claim
I tried no end of so-called specifics, but none of
them did me any good, and I might as well have
kept the money. I kept on getting worse, and
the pains became almost unbearable, causing me so
much agony that I could hardly stand. I can t
describe the sufferings I went through, and I was
beginning to feel seriously alarmed about my con-
dition, for I was rapidly losing weight when my
husband persuaded me to try Bile Beans for
Biliousness ; and it was a happy day for me
when I did so, for I commenced to experience
relief at once. In a day or so I noticed a decided
change in my condition, which was materially
improved, so I naturally continued with them ;
and now, after taking five boxes, I feel as well as
ever I did. The pains have left me, my sleep has
returned, I can perform my household duties with
energy, and at times am positively ashamed of my
increased appetite. My friends and acquaintances
say lam looking wonderfully well. That my re-
covery is due solely to Bile Beans there is no
doubt whatever, for I have taken no other medi-
cine for some months ; and, in conclusion, I may
add that should you desire to publish this account
of my illness and recovery you are at perfect
liberty to do so, as I know Bile Beans cured me,
and I’m not ashamed of it.”
almost their entire attention, it is both incon-
venient and annoying to be in a continuous state
of ill-health. This is what Mrs. M. Peterson, of
150 Woolloomooloo-street, Woolloomooloo, Syd-
ney, had to put up with. Hearing that this lady
had suffered for a long time in a most distressing
manner, and had at last been cured almost mira-
culously, a reporter called to get particulars of
her case, and the following is the lady’s story :
“I had been very ill for a long time, suffering
from loss of sleep, continuous headaches, and
sharp pains in my chest and between my
shoulders. I was so bad that I found it impossible
:V.O
V /V
to get through my
household duties,
and was compelled
to obtain assist-
ance. I suffered
in this manner for
over nine months.
My medical ad -
viser recommen -
ded a change of
air, but that was
impossible under
existing arrange -
ments, as I couldn’t leave the house for any time.
Costiveness.
BILE BEANS A THOROUGH AND
EFFECTUAL REMEDY.
The most effectual way of overcoming a costive
habit is to take at bed-time half to three Bilb
Beans for Biliousness, or enough to operate
once, and not more than twice, the next morning.
Pursue this course for eight or ten days, and then
omit taking the Beans for a single night, but,
nevertheless, the next morning make an effort,
whether there is any desire or not, to have a pas-
sage at the same time in the morning that the
Beans operated the day before. If successful, so
again the next morning, and ever after regularly
at the same time of day. It must not be put off
for a single moment beyond the usual time, as the
old habit will return again. If no evacuation
should follow, neither the first or second morning
after omitting the Beans, then return to the use
of them again for two or three days, and then
omit again as before, until regular daily evacua-
tions are established.
Influenza Cured,
A SYDNEY GENTLEMAN TELLS OF HIS
MIRACULOUS CURE.
FORCED TO LEAVE HIS WORK
THROUGH THIS AWFUL MALADY.
FINDS A SPEEDY CURE IN BILE BEANS.
Influenza, a complaint now affecting a large
portion of the population of Sydney, is one of the
most enervating and troublesome diseases known.
A sufferer from this trouble, Mr. A. S. Selwyn,
of No. 4 Emily-street, Marrickville, has a few
words to say
with regard to
his case, and the
positive cure he
found for it in
Bile Beans.
“For 20 years,”
Mr. Selwyn
says, “ I suffer-
ed from a vari-
ety of ailments
which thor-
oughly weaken-
ed my system,
and as may be
easily imagined
left me a fit
subject for any
epidemic that
happened to be *
about. Not
long since I was
attacked most
severely with
influenza. Such
a hold did it get
upon me that I
was obliged to
SI -Sai
&A
leave my work, and was confined to the house for
over a week. Anyone at my place of business
will verify this statement, as I have often com-
plained to them, and they know full well that
I suffered keenly. I went through all the stages
of this miserable complaint, being assailed con-
tinually with a cold and headache, pains in
various parts of my body, and a general dis-
inclination for exertion of any kind. While
confined to the house I tried various reme-
dies, but all to no effect. My old complaints,
biliousness and indigestion, to which I owed my
original weakened state, now became more
marked, and I tell you nobody knows what I
suffered ! An attack of influenza is bad enough
at any time, but when coupled with other ail-
ments it makes life itself unbearable. This was
the state of things when I happened to have Bile
Beans brought under my notice. I thought I’d
try them ; not for the influenza, however, but for
the other troubles I spoke of. Well, sir, I must
say I was surprised at the amount of good they
did me; not only did they completely cure me of
the indigestion and biliousness, but also of the
influenza. Immediately after I began taking
them I commenced to experience relief, and in a
surprisingly short time I was completely cured.
Since that time I have not had the slightest re-
turn of any of the complaints, and I ascribe my
speedy and thorough cure to Bile Beans for
Biliousness, and I can heartily recommend them
as a grand cure for influenza.”
Influenza and Colds.
Nothing so suddenly obstructs the perspiration
as sudden transition from heat to cold. Heat
rarifies the blood, quickens the circulation, and
increases the perspiration, but, when these are
suddenly checked, the consequences must be bad.
The most common cause of disease is obstructed
perspiration, or what commonly goes by the name
of catching cold. Coughs, colds, sore throat, etc.,
if attended to in time, are easily subdued, but, if
allowed to run their own course, generally prove
the forerunner of more dangerous diseases. Nine-
tenths of the consumptives date their affliction
from a neglected cold, and the diseases that are
caused by wet feet, damp clothes, or exposure are
more numerous than are generally supposed. One
of the most efficacious medicines for the preven-
tion of diseases of the throat and lungs is Bilb
Beans.
MANUFACTORY:
DETROIT, MICH., U.S.A.
Victorian Agents:
Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.. Melb.
S. Australian Agents :
Faulding & Co., Adelaide.
—: BILE BEANS
are an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous Headache, Indigestion, Constipation,
Piles, Female Weakness, Pale-faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples, Blotches, Dizziness,
all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dyspepsia, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and Side, Fulness after
Eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn, Influenza, Colds, and that Tired Feeling.
Bile Beans are obtainable from Chemists and Storekeepers generally ; Australian Depot op
the Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney ; Victorian Agents, Rocke,
Tomsitt and Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne ; S.A. Agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., King William-
street. Adelaide; W.A. Agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., Perth ; Queensland Agents, S. Hoffnung
and Co., Brisbane. Bile Beans are not an ordinary medicine. They are manufactured in one of the
best-fitted and equipped laboratories in the world, at Detroit, Michigan, U.S. A., and they have been
used throughout that country by the best physicians for years, and the amount of time and labor
expended in compounding them would, even if someone had the formula, exclude them from selling
them, as it is only on account of the sales being in the millions annually that they can be sold at the
low price, owing to the great oost of the ingredients.
Remember ! Each box bears the signature of the proprietors, The Bile Bean Manufacturing Co.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT:
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY*
Queensland Agents:
Hoffnung & Co., Brisbane.
W. Australian Agents:
Faulding & Co., Perth.


RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Elffin-st., MELBOURNE.
GENERAL ELECTION 1
. . The C’rect Political Tip . .
XTTXT A.3NTI3VC OTJS VOTE !
TOPS THE POLL :
Bitty TGI.
Good Second : GOLDENIA. All others nowhere.
EMORMOUS MAJORITY !
G-razxu.ma. & Fodali.
Dead Heat.
In every Constituency, both Before and After
the Poll.
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
In much request.
Sole Proprietors and Agents : JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
Dean’s Place, SYDNEY. Wholesale Only.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
jsg°° Sales Held at the A uction Jiooins.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bkaiiley & Co., 324 George-st.
m %
v . *sr *****tn~r^-~.
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA,
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Smoke
0*
Chief*
POLITICAL
POINTS
“The Waist and Want combination.” — A
Melbourne opinion.
A certain Premier is becoming known as
“ the Sign of the Cross.”
“ The scape-goat of the whole N.S.W.
political situation.” —S.M. Herald on Lyne.
“A single rascal writes something, and a
hundred thousand fools believe it.” — Apropos of
certain anti-federalists.
“ The choice of the N.S.W. electors will be
between the Want-Reid party and the Don’t-Want-
Reid party.” — Dick O'Connor.
Significant : The only Q. Ministers who
joined Premier Byrnes in an important Cabinet
caucus on the Lucinda, the other day, were Dal-
rymple, Chataway, and Philp.
Glynn was to have moved the No-confi-
dence motion in the Kingston (S.A.) Govt., but
John Downer jumped his claim after all pre-
liminaries had been arranged.
Premier Kingston’s earnest advocacy of
Federation has had much to do with the aliena-
tion of the Labor-party. A dissolution will be
asked for and granted should the No-confidence
motion be carried.
Recent very one-sided appointments in
Queensland savor so strongly of party bias that a
ciroular has gone round preparatory to forming a
secret protection society. “ Appint Maloney ”is
apt to become galling after a while.
In N.S.W. “ the politicians are in posses-
sion.” The coming general election contest, Feder-
alists v. Cabbage-tree-Mob, will be a fight between
the body-politic and the vermin—the provincial
politicians—that are fattening on it.
On 11th June Dick Seddon became the
record Premier of Maoriland, having held office
continuously for five years and 42 days. The next
best record Was that of Stafford, who retired in
1861, after holding office five years and 40 days.
The anticipated surplus in Q. revenue this
year will give the “Promising” Byrnes crowd a
chance to grease the palms of the C.S. rank-and-
file. “Arise” was promised last year, but now
that the elections draw nigh, golden birdlime has
unrivalled qualities.
THE SOUDAN DONKEY, recently deceased.
This historic animal, after the Soudan goat died:—the
donkey slew that goat by a kick—was the sole asset
left to represent £550,000 (this includes compound
interest to date at 3k per cent, per annum) of good,
cornstalk legal tender spent on the ridiculous Soudan
expedition.
The Tasmanian House of Assembly has
passed the Bill for the establishment of a State
Land Bank, and, if it gets through the House of
18 Aged Gentlemen with Money, which is doubtful,
Tasmania will then be in line with S.A., Maori-
land and Victoria in this matter.
The only things Premier Reid hasn’t pro-
mised, in view of the coming N.S.W. general elec-
tion, are the new railway-station at the top of
King-street, Sydney, and the North Shore bridge,
atid Local Government. Thirty years of con-
stant promising has about worn out these three
chestnuts.
Dear B.— Re anti-Federal cry of horror at
the N.S.W. Federal party being led by four
gentlemen who are lawyers. Do they look on
Reid, Want, Ileydon, Salomons, Crick, Pilcher,
tlie other Heydon, Gould and Co. as legal gentle-
men who are not lawyers, or as lawyers who are
not gentlemen, or what ?—M.
The third reading of the majority-strang-
ling 80,000 minimum panned out in N.S.W.
Assembly: Ayes, 50 ; noes, 28. Fifty votes out
of 125 members illogieally muzzled the majority of
active voters —presumably in the interests of those
electors who are too tired to go to the polls, or too
apathetic to get electors’ rights.
A feature of the present —the last— session
of S.A. Parliament is the open hostility of the
labor crowd to the Government. Commencing
with Federation, the breach between Ministerial-
ists and Laborites threatens to grow wider as the
session advances. Kingston’s strength, however,
comes from the country members, and he will
probably weather this, his second, Parliament
safely.
Apropos of the angry u -
volt of Melbourne Trades Hall
against Labor-leader Trenwith
on account of his refusal to
obey some mandates of the
Labor organisation, it is curi-
ous that Trenwith doesn’t really
belong to the Labor-party at
all. He never signed the party’s
pledge, and is really an inde-
pendent Democrat, who is fol-
lowed by the Labor-men be-
cause they have no politician
among their own especial crowd
who can fill his place.
Apropos the Papuan Land
Grab. One of the most active
causes of the American Revolu-
tion was the British Crown’s
custom of making huge grants
of New England land without
reference to the actual occupa-
tion thereof. When the influ-
ential grantee, inspected his
gift, he usually found it included
country already occupied and
improved by colonists. Some-
times he compromised ; but as
often as not he called in the
troops to fire the other people
out. And hence, in the event
—U.S.A. !
The removal of a member
from N.S.W. Assembly is a
dignified proceeding. The
Speaker politely requests the
Sergeant to “ remove the hon-
orable member,” and the hon.
member, if sober enough, im-
mediately rises and stalks ma-
jestically out of the chamber,
followed by the aforesaid Ser-
geant, who accompanies him in
an unassuming manner to the
front door and wishes him a
polite “ good evening.” If the
muscular Sergeant were to grab
the unruly member by the
throat, and bump him down
the front steps, and land him
with a resounding thud into
Macquarie-street, it would be
a much more imposing ceremony.
No-Yes Reid’s worst fall yet came by John
See in N.S.W. Assembly last week. See was
speaking, and Reid said: “Come to,, ® w°\i »>
Are you going to vote for the measure? ’ Well,
said See deliberately, “ I haven’t yet made up my
mind whether I'll vote for it and speak against it,
or vote against it and speak for it.”
Australia Barton has been invited to con-
test 14 electorates at the general election, and each
of the 14 incumbents thereof is shaking in his
shoes lest Toby should select his particular ant-
hill from which to vault into Olympus. Puy
Barton can’t be selected for the lot, and cast the
whole 14 votes for Australian nationality.
Premier Reid’s bloated roads-and-bridges
vote is a glaring bribe to the interior electorates,
where a culvert over the creek is more important
than the Federal joint-sitting clauses, a boggy
road of more absorbing interest than Braddon s
Blot, and the putting of the tired settler’s brother
Bill into the police a subject of living interest.
James Service artlessly remarks that the
most important function of Vic. Leg. Council is
“ the. education of the people on all questions of
property.” The Council has fulfilled its function
pretty successfully. Most people nowadays are
aware that every Democratic question submitted
to Proputty is bound to get “ No ” for an answer.
Re the cost of Federal Government. The
Premier of Federated Canada is only paid .£1644
a year, and other Ministers <£1440, whilst the
Chief Justice and puisne Judges of the Dominion
are remunerated in exactly the same proportion.
Provincial Premiers, with one exception, receive
from ,£lOOO a year downwards, and the Ministers
under them <£Boo each or less.
Q. Premier Byrnes’s suggestion of a Pre-
miers’ Conference re the Papuan job is a, mere
device for wasting time. There is nothing to
confer about. What is wanted is that the swindle-
agreement should be quashed. Then the syndi-
cate, if it likes, can submit another set of pro-
posals. But the first thing to be done is to get
back to the status-quo-ante record-reign celebra-
tion ; and for this a Premiers’ Conference is quite
unnecessary.
“H.”: When the Shenandoah, not the
Alabama, was in Hobson’s Bay, the Melb. Club
banquetted Capt. Waddell, and the rest of the
officers, in English aristocratic sympathy with the
Rebels. Higinbotham made it the text of one of
his slaughterous invectives, as the quarrel over the
tariff was just then beginning. Britain gener-
ously paid Victoria’s share of the damages accruing
over the Shenandoah.
The much-maligned N.S.W. Civil Service
Board has, in the opinion of a retired veteran who
denounces their economic actions, routed the
drink-push from the departments. “ Twenty years
ago the public-service army regularly staggered to
its work, and often slept over it. The Board has
cooked that, anyway. It has made as big a change
in this respect as a certain high ecclesiastic has
amongst his clergy.”
Barton’s candidature for Bourke is alleged
to be seriously handicapped by the past road-and-
bridge activity of his opponent, Millen. Every-
where in the electorate, it is said, roads are re-
pairing, and bridges are building, and in Bourke
itself new Govt, offices speak in trumpet tones for
the local road and bridge Millen-ium. But, the
electors of that flat and awful town have nous
enough to know that whenßarton becomes Premier
his office boy—under the present system—can get
them as much in five minutes for the electorate, as
the laborious Millen can coax from the State Cow
Department in five years, by assiduously camping
on the mat. As to Federation, what town in Aus-
tralia will gain more eventually than Bourke ?
BRASS AND STOMACH .
DIVES: “I tell you again I've nothing to give you. Now, what
more would you have?”
LAZARUS : “ Oh! if you could only lend me yer ’ard face to cadge
a drink with!”
Yic. Assembly wore a generally-guilty
expression when Trenwith, the other night, dis-
closed the fact that he had been the composer of
Hancock’s first addresses to the electors. There
are so many members who owe their bursts of
oratory to a “ghost,” and who, moreover, lack
burly John H.’s talent for trimming the borrowed
material with bits of t>riginal humor.
Melville, of Yic. Leg. Council, speaking
from long experience of that fossil-museum, says
that the Conservatism of some members is as fixed
and rigid as the gloomy sectarianism of the Auld
Licht kirk o’ Thrums. And how pathetic is the
Toryism of some members of N.S.W. Council !
The other night one venerable gentleman solemnly
spoke of this continent as “ New Holland ” !
Sydney Daily Telegraph unblushingly
printed Attorney-General Want’s comparison
between the S.M. Herald’s “most offensive
manner” and its own admirably patriotic con-
duct in the Federal campaign -
With regard to the Daily Telegraph it is only fair to
say that that paper did its duty, and never received one
farthing for it. (Cheers.) They never got one farthing
that I know of from the Anti-Convention Bill League.
They did their work out of pure patriotism.
Pooh ! Who knew better than Jack Want that
the D.T. was making a fight for the supremacy
over its morning rival ? Who knew better than
Jack did that Federation entailed the abolition of
free newspaper postage (it would hurt the D.T.
more than the Herald) and meant a considerable
reduction in daily newspaper dividends? Herald
and Evening News both dropped their own in-
terests and went for the national good ; the syndi-
cate-owned papers fought for “ their own hand ”
like devils.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Lyne states, as
his policy, that he is in favor of Protection, a
“ proper system of Local Government,” and
womanhood suffrage, and that he has some ideas
re oid-age pensions. But the long man can’t make
a decent policy out of these few fragments. If
Lyne would promise, in addition, a thorough and
democratic Council reform, the abolition of foreign
borrowing, the setting aside of £1,000,000 revenue
every year for public works, a scheme for the
resumption of big estates for closer settlement,
State life insurance, a - State bank of issue, a
minimum wage, and a few other things, including
a real attempt at Federation, and would promise
them like a live man, not like a dead one, N.S.W.
would probably send him into office with a rush.
But even the smallest scrap of political policy has
to be dragged out of Lyne, after the fashion of
one who hauls a large hungry dog backwards out
of a meat-shop by the tail.
Some TELEGRAPH-ese from Sydney D.T. ’s
leading article of June 30th :
The Federal policy is already before the House and the
country in the text of the Governor’s speech. . . . Mr.
Reid is now only represented in the question by the
distinct programme of amendments for the Convention
Bill which appear in the Governor’s speech. ... All that
he has done passes out of sight behind that tangible policy
which is now submitted to the country.
And the principal item in Reid’s distinct pro-
gramme of amendments is No. 2 :
(2) Some of the financial provisions to be recast.
That may include committing the Commonwealth
to Protection or Freetrade or revenue-tariffism or
single-tax or repudiation ; federating the railways
and debts, or leaving them as they are ; deciding
to let each province have its own separate tariff ;
deciding that the Commonwealth Parliament shall
not collect customs and excise, but shall be sup-
ported by contributions from the States ; dividing
the surplus according to each State’s contribution,
or according to its necessities, or according to
population ; or 1700 other things. To all intents
and purposes it might as well have read :
(2) This world to be put straight.
Downer’s no-confidence motion against the
Kingston Govt, was the most tactless thing that
blundering leader has yet done. _ Downer an-
nounced that he did not sigh for office, and would
be personally glad if the House rejected nis
motion ! Nearly all his colleagues were actually
unaware that he intended to move the motion ; in
fact, some of them were plotting to elect Glynn as
Opposition leader. At time of writing, the fate*
of the motion was undecided, but Kingston has a
majority, although the Laborites threaten to
desert the only S.A. Premier who ever did any-
thing practical for labor, and follow Downar and
his Defence League crowd.
Dear B.— Queen Victoria's ‘ ‘ peaceful reign”
is likely to tally its 41st war before the year is out.
The same old Boer trouble ; possibly started by the
Cape this time. Whether the disasters of 81 will
be repeated is an open question, but that war
showed that orthodox tactics are no use against
the Boer, who refuses to recognise the usages of
“civilised” warfare. At Bronk hurst Spruit the
Boers manoeuvred under cover of a truce ; through-
out the campaign the bearers of flags of truce were
frequently fired on by Boers ; during the amnesty
provision-convoys were attacked ; explosive bullets
were used, in addition to slugs; wounded men,
and prisoners generally, were bullied, robbed, and
insulted. The Majuba affair was due to deliberate
treachery, and even when the British ammunition
was expended the enemy continued firing from
cover. Further, the British surgeons at Mount
Prospect had to attend the Boer wounded, and
yet the Boers fired on the red flag. — Bull Junior.
Attorney-General Want announced last
Thursday, in N.S.W. Leg. Council, that he
“ never said one hard word about the other
colonies,” and that the assertion that he had called
them “wolves” was “an absolute falsehood.
King Cabbage-Tree also added : “ I never used
these words.” Same Want during the ederal
campaign :
When they thought the Bill was safe it was laken to
Melbourne, and the wolves began their game. The whole
body and the meaning’ of the Bill when it had been before
us was taken out. In the first place, out went the
Referendum. They knew they had got enormous voting
power in the Senate, and they knew the Referendum was
a check on it. But when they got down the-* they kicked
the Referendum out.
Of course, dear old Jack never u&eQ the term
“ wolves.” And though he accused the other pro-
vinces of kicking out a Referendum which they
didn’t kick out because it wasn’t in, that perfectly
truthful and accurate statement didn’t amount to
hard words. J. Want has about the shortest
memory in Australia. On 21st July, 97, he de-
clared himself in the Council as a provmcialisfc
and “the arch-destroying angel of Federation.
A slightly damaged bas-relief lately dug up
from the ruins of old Melbourne.
And, half-an-hmir afterwards, according to the
Hansard record, lie denied having said it. Also,
a few minutes later he declared that he had said
it. And during the Federal campaign he shouted,
in a moment of fervor, that he had never been a
provincialist at all, and never said he waa
one, and anyone who said he had was an
Ananias and the perpetrator of a horrid,
beastly lie. Some day, The Bulletin firmly
believes, J. Want will indignantly assert that he
was never in Japan at all.


A PRETTY FOOT
... IS SOMETHING,
KANGARA
and a Pretty Foot in a Pretty Boot or Shoe is a good
deal more. But a Pretty Foot in an ill-looking,
ill-fitting Boot or Shoe is worst of all. The
FOOTWEAR we make and sell will make a pretty
foot prettier, or a less attractive “understand-
ing ” neat and trim. We have the neatest shapes,
all widths, all toes, and in price we can suit any
purse in town, and
FIT ANY MAID BUT A MERMAID,
and we’d have a big try to tit even her. In fact, we
have the LARGEST STOCK of Foot-beautifiers
that lias ever been seen in New South Wales.
John Hunter and Son, Ltd.,
CITY BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY;
AND 75 BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY, SUBURBS, AND COLONY
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
; Wnvrpfttws GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Larirest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
Kumsey’s
Honest -
Seeds - -
TRY THEM. *s*
Send 3-pence (stamps of any
colony) for Catalogue, and
small packet each Cabbage,
Tomato, and Flower Seeds
Post Free.
The Herbert J. Rumsey Seed Co.,
BARONIA, BARBER'S CREEK, N.S.W.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
KTortb. Queensland.
James Walters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WALTERS will always be pleased to see any
** of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J. W.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.,
Pliotograpliic MCercliants,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
and 64 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CINEMATOGRAPHS,
m
■i*
Harrington’s Exhibition Cinematograph
(imported). Absolutely the best
machine in the market, and is com-
plete for taking and projecting animated photographs. Edison Standard Guage, price complete, .£3O.
The above machine for taking photographs only J 822 10s.
Harrington’s Drawing-Room Cinematograph (imported) may be used in con-
—— -2 £.— junction with any ordinary
magic lantern for showing animated pictures in drawing-rooms and small halls. The instrument is of
the Edison Standard Guage, price complete, £8 Bs.
Although sold at a cheap price, this machine is in every way a reliable article of the best work-
manship.
CAMERAS
FILMS, latest subjects, 40s. each..
The PREMO V. HAND CAMERA, i-plate, 255.
The DUPLEX ~ |-plate, 255.
The POCKET VICTOR „ for plates, 21s.
The POCKET KODAK „ for films, 21s.
Send for Descriptive
Pamphlets.
A Large Stock of all kinds CAMERAS from 3s. 6d. to -650.
Send for a Copy of our NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE (now in the press). It
contains full particulars of them all.
Cooling. Sparkling-. Freak.
VELTEN LAGER.
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
TATTOO OIL
(The Perfect Sheep Marker)
In Three Colors, BLACK, RED,
and BLUE ; is the only
ABSOLUTELY SAFE . . .
. . . WOOL MARKING or
Kept by all Leading Merchants
and Storekeepers,
Sbeep Brapdiog Oil.
Sole Proprietors: WILKINSON, HEYWOOD & CLARK, Ltd.
LONDON, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
Po y<Xi Wai)t to BOy
. . . ao ASSISTANT?
We will sell you a metal assistant, who will stand in a prominent part of your
shop and hold up a sign in his hands, showing everyone what a customer has done
—whether he has paid cash, bought goods on credit, paid something on account,
received money, or had a bill changed. An assistant who will prevent anyone
from making mistakes, and give you a record of the entire day’s business.
This assistant costs but a small sum a day for the
first year, after that you own him. He draws no
salary, and is always on duty.
There are over 130,000 of these Metal Assistants
in use in retail shops all over the world. Give us an
opportunity to explain his good points to you.
Here he is
——— 1
You will hear more about him by sending your
name and address to
. . THE . .
iswa»7
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO.,
Head Office for Australasia: 393 G-eorge Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Telephone No. 2976.
P.O. Box, 1035.
KTew System of Healing!
The Polypathic Institute and its Remarkable Work,
With absolute certainty of locating disease, they cure beyond reasonable doubt in all cases.
20 Yorlt Street, Wynyard, Square, Sydney.
Thousands
Cured
Annually.
Thousands
Cured
Annually.
Db. WILLIAM FLETCHER HALL, The Eminent Diagnostician, of the Polypathio
Medical Institute, 29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
The Diagnosis of Disease.
Without loolcing at the Tongue, feeling the False, or any precious hnowledge of the case.
Polypathy claims the freedom of accepting the pood and rejecting the bad in all systems; it has formulated
special treatment for itself in all chronic cases; it prepares its own medicines, and applies them in the light of
nineteenth century progress.
THE POLYPATHIO MEDICAL INSTITUTE, SYDNEY, where more capital is invested, more physicians
employed, more patients treated, and more CURES made, than by any other System in the world. 29 YORK
STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY, N.S.W. ‘
You are earnestly invited to come, see, and examine for yourself their institution, advantages, appliances, and
success in curing the chronic ailments of suffering humanity.
Their patients are numbered from all parts of the world, and so remarkable has been their success that one
pauses in wonder at the superior qualifications of a man who can, FROM A STRICTLY SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE
OF THE STRUCTURE OF MAN, TELL DISEASE AT A GLANCE, WITHOUT ASKING ANY QUESTIONS,
LOOKING AT THE TONGUE OR FEELING THE PULSE.
They treat all Female Troubles by the Polypathetic Method, which does away with the speculum examination,
rings, pessaries, and all local treatment.
They also desire to impress upon all men who are suffering from the errors of youth that they have the justly
celebrated Hindoo Remedy, so well and favorably known in the Old World as the “ Anti-Agnechal Tabloid Method.”
All desiring to test the system will have such opportunity.
WRITE.
WRITE.
IF YOU CANNOT COME TO INSTITUTE FOR CONSULTATION, WRITE FOR
LIST OF QUESTIONS.
Enclosing Stamps for Reply and FIVE SHILLINGS.
Hundreds Successfully Treated Every year by f|)ail.
WE HAVE THE MOST PERFECT SYSTEM FOR TREATMENT BY MATT, EVER
USED IN THE COLONIES.
The Management of the Polypathio Medical Institute have leased the entire building-, 29 YORK STREET
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY. This building has been most thoroughly re-modelled, and is now fully equipped
and furnished with Reception Rooms, Consultation Rooms, and Laboratories, all complete. All of the Polypathio
Institutes are presided over, in the Medical Department, by r fully qualified medical men, whose credentials are second
to none .in the medical world, and they are fully registered by the Medical Boards of the colonies in which they
practice in full compliance with the medical laws.
wr >a *'hic Institutes have the Largest Private Laboratories of any Private Hospital or Institute in the
World, and they are also presided over by expert chemists, fully registered by the Pharmaceutical Boards of the
colony in which they reside.
Polypathic Medical Institute,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Hours of Consultation—lo a.m. to 4 p.m. DAILY.
EVENING CONSULTATIONS—TUESDAY. THURSDAY and SATURDAYS, 7.30 to 9 p.m.
30WIS
A3
IS oWScfojf
2221 NllSciy
SdOINnQ
, For
r Dunlop tyres
THE BEST RIM IS
L the DUNLOP
WELCH-^IM,
Would have Dunlops
at any Price . . .
Overheard in a Melbourne Cycle Depot.
A FACT.
Customer : “ What tyres are on this machine.
Dunlops ? ”
Salesman: “No, these tyres are manufactured by
ourselves, and are just as good as Dunlops—
and are guaranteed.”
Customer (evidently unaware that Roadster Dunlop
Tyres are guaranted for twelve months) : “Oh!
well, give me DUNLOPS, and I will go
without the guarantee!”
(And he got them.)
So should you
m m
Refuse all imi-
tations when
offered —insist
on having
genuine
Duniqp.Tyres
All of which bear this
Trade Mark
m
None
genuine
without
it.
THE . . .
Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. [td.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Dunlop
, TYRES
Perfected
lforCarriages
i^FALLKINDSy'
The
Dunlop
widget
REPAIR,


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
D.S.U). IQont de Riete
D. & I. Co., Limited
vLabge White Marble Building),
■74
CASTX.ER.EAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
JPawnbroking Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
IFOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
v AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
(Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
li(nt h of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
: Reserve Liability
1,950,000 0 0
1,200,000 0 0
1,950,000 0 0
Total
5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
1 ames Richard Hill, Esq., President.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
.James Thomas Walker, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
:Sir James Reading Fairfax.
'Tlie Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.OL
Auditors:
’F. W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
'With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
’Zealandand Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
ithe United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
.on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
motes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
'.banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
.or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
wxme
OFFICE ■ " Wq&f
! NTERSECTiON HUNTER,BLIQH and
Castlereagh Streets ;
• STOREY•
/L Esta blished - 5879.
\. f E Office in Austral* *
Annual Income and In vested l
Funds Exceed JgOO.OOOßerlin*'
|| Silver match Free
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with-
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Potosi Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Colemane’s
Eucalypte
eaa
Extract
Positively the Purest Eucalyptus on earth aui 1
the Worid’s Great ;>nd Reliable Remedy in
Influenza, Colds, Chills, Coughs, Bronchitis
and all Chest Complaints and Derangement.
Used and recommended highly by Lord
Carrington, Earl Jersey, &o.
The GREATEST REMEDY KNOWK
/I
ANTED to send for our Book, containing information
: ,- re r a . rdlr l lg '. t J? e . Dlsease , ? f , Dninkfirmpss!
and its cure by Eucrasy, •
can be given secretly. Posted Free, sealed, Two Stamps.
Iddress Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-street, SYDNEY.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CAJJDS, Bs.—
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
.Continental Supply Agency,
! Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
QUIB DLL’S Dipped Wool trumpets its own fame
Realised top price, 12]d., for N.S.W. wools at
Sydney; and top price, London, ’9B—both greasy.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £OO.OOO 0 0
UESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1897 £6.021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
E-q., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
Messrs. St. Bailie Shtden and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street. Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up £2,974,801 10s.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhal! Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of nolieies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in 'cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'—THE—
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo*'' 1 n.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, e(c.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiky, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pvrites &c
For tariff, apply to
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street :
or to
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
„ _ (Queensland).
E. A. WEINBERG, E. M., General Manager.
David Braham « (t.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
Winter Suitings Just Opened.
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
AT REFORM
PRICES
LADIES’ - -
RE PRICES i TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between Geoyge & York Streets).
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, July 9, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Wed., July 13, 5 p.m.
Konoowarra, Sat., July 16, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
• Gabo, Tuesday, July 19, 5 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, July 19, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, July 9, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, July 12, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, July 16,2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUOINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, July 9, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, July 16, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST tIKKFM’ FAKES TO ALL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices—Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers hooked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, M> Ibnurne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 1i.1.5.N. Co., Brisbane.
aimd j a
q\K -via- 'l/y
QUEENSLAND PORTS and POET DAEWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the following favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
B usiness Announcements.
PE
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 095.
Code—MO being & Neal, eto. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarlse & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ’’ invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
V Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne /
Stock and Share JBrokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716.
Melbo6riK<
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. llay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.C.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ SUIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO. ;
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF POR'fc
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Friday, July 15.
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Friday, July 22.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Marloo(from Melbourne)
Friday, July 15.
S.S. Innamincka(fron) Melb.)
Friday, July 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Wollowra, Tuesday,
July 12.
Best & Cheapest Boate to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching- at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, 165 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker & Co’s tine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates,
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to 170
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
(Illluiraith, (D'Eacharn & Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR, LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn $i Co. Prcprieta v y Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U- S. INI. Ooy. Ltd.
Eoyal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR * PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay’
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas. ’
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekiy.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


Make it
a
Role
to always Smoke
OGDEN’S
GUINEA-GOLD 1
CIGARETTES.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article —
A. Soyer’s BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/-per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Lotv Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiOgtoi) N.SoCil &Co.,m’sp.s.,
158, ISO, 268 Pitt-street, Sydney;
Church-street, Parramatta..
AND AT
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY CO MPDTITIO3XT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IX THE WORLD.
0/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OP SAUCES.
'A'T'IVfi.NNV aIOS
SH'IXJ.OH HO SNOITIIW
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2/- eacli.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG.
Sole Ajfents for New South Wales:
& CO., KENT and UyEKI'OOE STREETS, SVDNEV.
van.
StimulatingI—Nutritiv 1 —Nutritive —Exquisite in Plavor.
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRDS
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED!
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Dr. TARRANT,
P.R.0.5.8., L.U,.0.P.E., L.H.G.5.1., L.M.R.C.P.E.,
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formula; formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
. • . . . acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
HXTo Man. ox* Woman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced their deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sailow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfnlness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger &c Dr’
TARRANT makes S '
Absolutely ISTo Cltarge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language. 1
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when icriting.
AHSIHM
H3HXY3H 3XIHM
JOJ 31S-V


.£6438 was distributed in professional cycle-
races in Victoria last season. Walne, on a Swift and
Dunlop Tyres, took ±604, equal to half his winnings this
season.*
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the depdt, 257 George-street,
Sydney.*
During the late Federal campaign, one of
the stock lies of the N.S.W. provincial “ push ”
was that vast sums of Victorian and other
“foreign” cash were being poured into N.S.W.
to help along the interests of the hated Bill. The
other night, in N.S.W. Council, Attorney-General
Want was driven into giving the names of these
lavish conspirators, and all he could say was that
King O’Malley, a wild American gentleman
in S.A., had sent a cheque. Apparently
all the great band of Victorian and other con-
spirators boils down to O’Malley, the American
hustler in S.A.
Premier Byrnes at Warwick in response to
a request for his “policy
Policy, in my view, consists not merely in professions
made at public meetings but rather on the actions that
might happen from day to day in the lives of public
men.
That is to say, Byrnes is not to be judged by his
recent Liberal utterances but by his past Conser-
vative career ; by his association with the most
unscrupulous gang ever in power in Bananaland ;
by his past opposition or callous indifference to
Reform Legislation ; by his Coercion Act and
similar evidences of his “ zeal for progress.”
Evidently anything is good enough to bam-
boozle the public with, in the opinion of Premier
Reid. Alluding to S.M. Herald, in his speech
of last Monday night, he thus mixed diplomatic
grease and the most offensive form of lying— i.e. ,
half-truth :
When you read such inconsistent twaddle day after
day, in a really able newspaper, you know what a miser-
able plight they are in. And don’t let us forget, at
such a time as this, the great service which the Sydney
Mornino Herald rendered—(“Hear, hear’’) —to this
great party in years that have gone past. I don’t care
how much they try to write me out of political life, I’ll
never forget the loyal stand which they took side by side
with the Sydney Daily Telegraph— (loud cheers)—in
fighting the battle of Liberalism, and also the battle of a
just Federation. But at that time the able pen that
wrote those brilliant Liberal leaders was wielded by one
of our own people. (Cheers.) Now, don’t let me be
supposed to be disparaging the able and genial gentle-
man who now writes the leaders of the Sydney Morning
Herald. I don’t desire to do so. All that I wisli to say
is that I have seen Victorians so saturated with Vic-
torianism that they can never get rid of it. I don't mind
a real, downright, genuine Australian federal feeling, but
I think that sort of feeling has some regard for the right-
ful interests of the country in which we live.
This is in refereuce to the fact that Mr. Henry
Gullett, admittedly one of the ablest of Australian
journalists, who now edits S.M. Herald, formerly
lived in Victoria, as editor of the Australasian
(he for years subsequently was associate-editor of
the now Reidite Sydney Daily Telegraph). It
remains for The Bulletin to let N.S. Wales
know that but for Victorians there would be no
Sydney Daily Telegraph, inasmuch as that
paper was started with Victorian men and money,
and additional men and money came into it from
Victoria at its second birth. Even now it is
largely if not mainly controlled by Vic-
torian brains, cheek, and cash. The present
editor, Mr. Brient, came from Victoria (Mel-
bourne Daily Telegraph) ; so did Manager
Wynne; so did its able mining man, J. W.
Roberts ; also its late and present night-editors ;
so did “President” Carey. By the way, it would
do the Fairfax boys no end of good to have to
hustle for their living for a couple of years under
the gentle David Syme.
The Cd-Operative Wool and Produce Co.,
Ltd.— During the coming wool season the magnificent
stores of this successful company, at Central Wharf, will
be taxed to their uttermost. The sampling floor (300 ft.
by 100 ft.) is the finest in the colony as regards equal
diffusion of light and absence of all obstructions. Receiv-
ing and delivering of wool can be carried on with the
greatest possib'e speed and efficiency, and clients of the
company, growers and buyers alike, may rely on their
interests being in every way well looked after.*
“The ideal trip to the South Seas ”
“The six weeks’ cruise for £30,” on the Union S.S.
co.’s Waikare, quickly drew a fine complement
of passengers. At first, the co.’s advt. did not
ca tch on, but once people began to ponder on the
certain enjoyments of the trip, berths were booked
speedily. Not one inquirer abandoned the idea of
going, from the motive of dissatisfaction. At first
sight, it would appear certain that the Waikare
would have been rushed. The price is extremely
low, especially when the excellence-of the vessel,
her catering, and the islands of call are looked at
critically ; the drawback is in the number of people
who can afford the money but not the time. Some
years ago, a similar trip was undertaken with
great success; and the Union S.S. co. hopes torun
such a trip in future, at least once a year. On
the day the vessel left Sydney, a splendid
dinner was given on board; those who were
present still wear a smile in signification of
their happiness. Among other things which may
be incidentally mentioned as conducing to the
welfare of the Waikare’s passengers, is that the
ship carries seven tons of ice ; two tons of game ;
a dark room for photography ; a spacious deck for
flirting; a consignment of selected wines; and
button-hole flowers preserved in wadding for the
festivities at Tahiti.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S.W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth theii
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
28 of this issue.*
N.S. W. Government Railways.
£p*Cial Cb?ap €xcGrSioi)
to and from
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT.
TICKETS AT SPECIALLY LOW FARES
will be issued at Sydney and intermediate Subur-
ban Stations to all Main Line Stations, Menangle
to Albury inclusive, by the undermentioned
Special Train, available for return up to and in-
bluding THURSDAY, 28th July, 1898, but pas-
sengers can only return by the trains specified,
viz. : —From all Stations beyond Goulburn by Up
Mail Train. Passengers from Stations Harden to
Yarra inclusive may also travel by the 4.20 a.m.
Mixed Train from Harden, on Mondays, Wednes-
days, Fridays, and Saturdays. From all Stations
Goulburn to Menangle inclusive, by any train ex-
cept the Up Mail and Up Melbourne Express
Trains.
THURSDAY, 14th JULY; 1898.
Return Tickets at Specially Low Fares will
also be issued TO SYDNEY from all Main Line
Stations, Albury to Demondrille Junction inclu-
sive, by Special Train leaving Albury at 5.35 a.m.,
and from Stations Murrumburrah to Menangle in-
clusive by Special Train leaving Murrumburrah
at 10.50 a.m. on FRIDAY, 15th July.
RETURN TICKETS at per mile first-class
(minimum 7s. 6d.) and Id. per mile second-class
(minimum 55.) will be issued from Stations on the
Main Southern Line to Stations Goulburn to
Mittagong inclusive by the Special Trains from
Albury and Murrumburrah.
These Tickets will be available for return up to
and including FRIDAY, 29th July, 1898 ; but
passengers can only return by the trains specified
—viz., to Stations Menangle to Goulburn inclu-
sive, by any train except the Melbourne Express
and 9 p.m. Mail. To Stations south of Goulburn,
bv Special Train leaving Sydney at 8.50 p.m. on
MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS, and FRIDAYS
ONLY. Passengers for Stations between Goul-
burn and Harden may also travel by the 9.30a.m.
train from Sydney on Mondays, Wednesdays,
Fridays, and Saturdays.
By order of the Commissioners.
H. McLACHLAN, Secretary.
y- y y y
yy y y
%
4 THINGS TO REMEMBER.
1 THAT—RED BIRD CYCLES are sold
a in Australia by the Factory direct.
This means one profit, better value, direct
guarantee, and you get some security for
your money.
2 THAT—RED BIRD CYCLES are ac-
a knovvledged by all uninterested cyc-
lists to be the strongest and fastest
Bicycles built. There never has been a
collapsed Red Bird in all Australia.
3 THAT—RED BIRD CYCLES are the
( only ’9B models which have adopted
the wonderful improved bearings, ensuring
perfect alignment; each ball, in a separate
steel ease, cannot bind, wear, or cause
trouble.
4 THAT—RED BIRD CYCLES are the
• greatest bicycles the world has pro-
duced, and when on the race-path, mounted
by Win. Martin and other riders, they won
more important records and races than all
other wheels combined.
The “ Red Bird Special ” ; the “ .Red .Bird iVo. i ” ; and the “ Black Bird ”
IS OUR LINK FOR 1896.
THE GOOLD BICYCLE COMPANY, LIMITED
Australasian Brancii— o4 Kiny-st., Sydney.
Melbourne Branch— 24s Oollins-street; Adelaide Branch— 22l Rundle-street;
New Zealand Branch—Victoria-street; Brisbane Branch—Ed ward-street,
factories— Brantford, Canada.
rJK r3\
~3K
*
*
*
*
HUMBER CYCLES (AMERICA).
“ These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at the Beeston Works ;
the workmanship and materials are of the highest quality ”
Reduced
LADY’S
GEKTT’S
£
26
25
The Australian Cycle A Motor Co. Ltd., 45 York-strcet, SYDNEY; and at 381 Little Collina-street, MELBOURNE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Given fine weather, the V.R.C. National meet-
ing wilt be a big success this year, in spite of the scarcity
o! good jumping cattle. The new feature of a Wednes-
day programme sandwiched between the two Saturdays
is an attraction for country “sport.*,” judging from the
attendance at Flemington last Saturday, when the Melb.
Hunt Club gave its little introductory show. If the rain
holds off this next week, Melbourne will have a mild re-
vival of the old-time Winter Carnival interest, provided
that the casual punters get some reasonably honest racing
to start with.
The G.N. Hurdle Race, next Saturday, seems
scarcely worth discussion until the weather conditions
can be safely predicted. Heavy going might kill the
chances of the lop-weights, none of them being “cracks”
in the old sense of the term. For a struggle over a
muddy three miles The Bulletin would rather fancy
Mark Whitty’s veteran Clamour or Reindeer, whereas in
good going "llis Grace, Soult, The Provost and Pat —rang-
ing from the list, mark upwards—would perhaps have
the finish to themselves. S..ult, who now runs soberly
and is coming on nicely, will meet The Provost on a few
pounds better terms than in the Hurdle Race last Satur-
day, but The Provost beat Soult by half a length, and he
is likewise improving, so t here can’t be much to choose
between them on paper. The Bulletin prefers the fellow
that won last week, and, expecting a fairly dry track, will
take The Provost to beat Pat, Soult, and His Grace. But
it doesn’t expect the tip to oome off, or any other fellow’s
tip either.
So-and-So, fit and well, should beat a poor field
in the Maiden Hurdle Race, and N.Z. has pretentions to
win the Maiden Steeplechase, anyway.
• * » ♦
Those shrewd early birds who backed Bobadil
early in the winter for Melb. Cup were soon put out of
misery. Some sought a recovery by turning round and
backing George Frederick. This youngster has never
won a race, nor even run forward in one. Showed some
track-form, and was well-backed for a race at Caulfield
where he ran very green. And yet the fatuous mob is
backing him, shrieking, “Improvement, improvement.”
Of course youngsters like Cordite, Cocos, Symmetry,
Prince Carbine, Nevada and Cardamon that already
know how to gallop and have shown fair form, are going
to stay just where they are so that the promising G.
Frederick may catch up, when all will start fairly.
• * • *
Amberite is not badly treated in Melb. Cup
when compared with other top-weights—Battalion, Mer-
loolas, or Resolute —but if old Alec. Taylor can only for-
tify Wait-a-Bit’s weak spot, the Carbine colt will And 2st.
difference an awful drawback. Also, one or two has-
beens like Trent, Burrabarri, Toreador, or Dreamland
may take a new lease, and Fadladeen, Royal Admiral,
War God, Agate, and Amnesty are a lightly-weighted lot,
more than one of which will probably trouble backers
before the day.
• * * *
No very striking differences this year between
Caulfield and Melb. Cup handicaps. Greatest is pro-
bably that of Fadladeen. This horse is a proved stayer,
and Mr. Dakin has certainly handled him lightly. Went
wrong just before last Perth Cup, or Le Var would not
have had such an easy win, and it was then reckoned by
Westralian race-habitu6s that there was not 71b. differ-
ence between The Australian Peer horse and Le Yar over
two miles. Now Le Var has 9st. and Fadladeen only 7st.
lllb. in Melb. Cup. If Le Var is in his proper place, also
if Fadladeen lands in Melbourne well and sound, what
price Charlie Kidman's horse ?
• * » *
Rupert Clarke has, seemingly, made a rather
absurd exhibition of personal belief in his particular im-
portance, and the Argus has encouraged his foolishness.
The Bart is a shipper of thoroughbred horses and ponies
for the Indian market. After one of his recent purchases
had been run—with or without his approval, it matters
not—at an unregistered meeting, the exalted dealer in-
quired of the V.R.C. committee as to whether he was
legally disqualified from racing any more under
V.R.C. rules, and the committee told him
that he had actually got himself into the same
position as any other horse-dealer who might do
the same thing. Whereupon he promptly scratched his
animals for all V.R.C. engagements, and (seemingly)
shook the dust of the Vic. turf from his patent-leather
boots. Hear the Argus shriek:—“The notification
posted in the window of the V.R.C. office yesterday, to
the effect that all horses entered in the name of Sir
.Rupert Clarke had been scratched for their V.R.C.
. engagements, meant more than a casual reader of the
; same may have supposed. . . . It will come as a surprise
to racing men to learn that Sir Rupert was disqualified
.because he had run one of his ponies at an unregistered
(meeting. He wasquite innocent of the fact that the pony
■ was being run, but the fact remains that it is on record
, that, at a meeting of the V.R.C. committee, Sir Rupert
■ Clarke, Baronet, was disqualified.'’ The truth of the
.matter is that they didn’t disqualify, but merely told
li. Ciarke, Baronet, how he stood in the matter. And if
.they had treated him as an average mortal there was no
• occasion for the Tory organ to suggest astonishment be-
cause the heavens didn’t fall.
• • • •
“ Surcingle ” : Rupert Clarke strikes out a bold
line shipping horses for India. The 220 he has just
.forwarded in one batch is by far the most valuable ship-
load on record. With a man of his substance the trade
will become noteworthy, and, of course, he can do in-
finitely more than even the famed Teddy Weekeses of the
past. His father’s spirit holds up a warning finger as to
racing. In after years he will say his huff over Dis-
qualification stopped a sludge flume.
* * * •
Recently an Indian buyer looking for cavalry
remounts in a N.S. Wales country town was interviewed
by a grizzled old bushy, who stated that he had a splen-
did charger for sale. The buyer asked what he was like
and his breeding, and was informed that he was “ a big
standin’ up brindle ’orse outer Louisa’s ole gray mare.”
• • * *
That old institution, the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.)
meeting, came off on Saturday last, which was fine over-
head but wet underfoot. There were but nine starters in
the big event, Hawkesbury Winter Handicap. Longford
was picked upon as the correct pea at 5 to 2, but it was
not to be, as the ominously named P.N., at 10 to 1, won
by a head from Gozoetta, another 10 to 1 show.
• • * •
A popular win at Hawkesbury meet was that of
Countess Aberdeen in the Craven Plate. She is owned
by Mr. H. V. Foy, who has the reputation of being one of
the straightest owners on the Australian turf. And he
never makes a secret of his good things.
* * • •
Handicapping has ever been the weak spot
in N.S.W. trotting, and the Dubbo club seems to be
in the usual fix re the adjustments for its meeting at
Kensington (Sydney) this month. Writer knows of no
man better able to fill the position than Mr. W. Bryan, of
Macdonaldtown.
* • * *
Trotter Huon Junr. is said to be going to Maori-
land to try his luck. If Huon the younger trots up to his
Australian form, he will give the Maorilanders a bit of a
jerk.
* * * *
Canterbury (M.L.) Trotting Club is giving
£l2OO in stakes for its Aug. meeting, under which circum-
stances it is a wonder Mr. Buckland did not wait for it
with his team. A free-for-all of 1.10 sovs. would have been
a walk-over for Fritz to start with.
* * * •
Poor old Plain Bill, so well-known on Sydney
tracks when owned by Mr. “Bill” Blott, died “in har-
ness ” last week. The old stager was jogging along the
road harnessed to a sulky, when he pricked up his ears,
paced a hundred yards or so as fast as he ever did in his
life, and dropped down dead.
Haynes, M.P., is good enough to say that the
N.B.W. turf has sunk so low that only criminals can
really afford to belong to it. apropos, here is a slab of
wisdom from an owner who has played the game in
various ways: “When you begin to keep horses, start
with a poor trainer and lend him a decent sum ; then, if
you suspect trickery, you can say—‘ Look here, if jou do
me, it’ll be no Victoria by the irrace of God, but the bailiff
in your house and the kids’ beds sold from under them.’ ”
• • • *
Zouroff, who ran second to Buzzi for the G.N.
Hurdle Race of 1896, will disappoint no more punters.
Zouroff was understood to be recovering his lost form in
readiness for this year’s Steeplechase, but last Saturday
he fell in one of the Melb. Hunt Club events and broke
his neck.
• * • *
Weenan, of Melb. drawback notoriety, “did
his plunder down ” with the bookies. His weakness was
backing the neddy that only got placed.
* * • *
S. A. racing clubs deduct 71s per cent, commis-
sion from all tote-investments, and Govt, gets nothing,
S.A. Govt, now meditates swooping down on at least 2J*j
per cent.
• • * *
Dodd Mobb: “ A few weeks ago I saw an
alleged bookmaker, outside Rosebery Park, lay the odds
to three tram-tickets; and, incredible as it may seem,
during one afternoon in latter April I saw another ‘silver-
coin bookie ’ lay the odds to four eggs —three thrums (9d.)
to four hen eggs. The bettor was a draggled female. I
shouldn’t have been more astounded if the bookie had
laid the eggs instead of the odds.”
• * • •
Canning Park (W.A.) Race Club runs a half-
sov. “ place ” tote, but as the amount invested is equally
divided among 1,2 and 3, it often happens that backers
of a placed favorite are returned much less than the
actual amount invested. As the system is controlled by
a sandgroper, remedial suggestions are superfluous.
• * » *
Jack Rae, the crack Maoriland cross-country
jock and trainer who has got into a row at Auckland,
owed his first step towards notoriety to a hurdler named
Orangeman, which had been picked up for a few pounds
as a hack. Rae won some thousands in stakes by this
horse, and the only opponent worthy of his steel was
Paddy Nolan, now at the top of the tree as a trainer of
jumpers on Sydney side. Paddy invariably rode a shapely
mare named Magnesia, and, strangely enough, though
Rae succeeded in beating him on the Ellerslie course,
Nolan reversed the decision when the venue was changed
to Takapuna. Magnesia, being a bit of a cocktail, would
shut up when she catne to face the crowd of roaring
humanity lining the long Ellerslie straight; but at Taka-
puna, with a shorter straight, her speed and Nolan’s skill
would land her a winner. Rae made one professional
visit to Australia some six or seven years ago, when he
essayed to win the V.R.O. Grand National Steeple and
Hurdles with Donald and Titokowaru, but had the heart-
breaking luck to finish second in both events.
* » * *
Poor little Platt-Betts —who, it is cabled, has
sustained terrible injuries, including skull-fracture—re-
cognising that his living depended on health and freedom
from casualty, always steered clear of the big fields and
wobbling novices and stuck to record-breaking, only to
find his fate in that comparatively safe department of
biking.
• * • •
Edwards, the cycle crank who has undertaken
to ride 100 miles a day for a year, at latest was going
strong after his 110th day. Edwards says he can finish,
but the doctors say no. Anyhow, the public do not care
a dump which way it goes, tney having lost all Interest
in the weary wobble.
• * * *
A wonderful athlete is sculptor C. B. Lawes, of
London. In his first youth champion mile-runner of
England ; at Cambridge, as one of the University eight,
he was the most prominent oarsman of his time, and,
later on, won the Diamond Sculls at Henley—practically
the English championship. When cycling came into
vogue, many years after, Lawes, at the age of 54, entered
the arena as a record-breaker! And, according to last
mail, he had succeeded in knocking more than 2sec. off
the world’s amateur mile record. Was also prepared to
meet all comers in a match over that distance. Veteran
Bilmartin is quite an infant prodigy compared with such
an elderly pedaller as Lawes.
• • • •
“ Snell ” : A friend, just out of bed after a bad
smash-up, resulting from an encounter between a bicycle
and a runaway horse, thinks his experience unique. ' “ I
was riding carefully and slowly when I first saw the bolt;
the danger flustered me a little, my bike skidded on the
wet blocks, and I lost control for a moment, during which
I speculated wildly : ‘ Can I clear that frantic beast ? I
can! 1 cannot! Thank the Lord ! amiss.’ I could not
say how 1 escaped being crushed under the cart, but I
knew that the runaway had passed down the road, and
that I was riding towards home all right. There was a
fog. The fright had shaken me up, and it was awful
hard work pushing the bike. I resolved I would have the
gear lowered next day. I was getting sleepy, too, and
presently X drifted into sleep, still pushing the bike
through the confounded fog. This was April 5. I
awakened in a hospital ward, packed in bandages, April
12. Well, I’m ! That bally horse got me after all.”
* # * •
The discovery that a man has a “point” has
spoiled the promise of many a good mill. On Saturday
night last, at the Golden Gate Athletic Club, Sydney,
Tom Essler and “ Robbo” started what promised to be a
very pretty go;, but in the first round Essler found
Robbo’s point, and the mill ended. A curious thing
about a knock-out is that when a man receives a blow
fairly on “ the point ” he invariably falls faee-downwards,
helpless and insensible. Writer will never believe Corbett
was clean knocked out by Fitzsimmons. Corbett’s look
of agony and clutching of the spot where the blow landed
was a bit too dramatic to be real. From the cinemato-
graph show, Corbett appeared for the last few rounds to
be looking for a soft board to fall on.
* • * *
There is no more-to-be-pitied victim of the
whistling habit than the dog which wanders into a sports
ring, when he is besought by alleged owners all round the
ring, with the result that he wanders round and round
until wearied, or until some official throws a programme
at hitn. Nothing delights a Brisbane crowd more, unless
it is a bicycle accident.
* * • *
The secretary of Sussex County Cricket Club
denies, in an English paper, the report that Ranji got
£3OO a year from his club as expenses. “ Ranji received,”
he goes on to say, “ the same ex’s as the other amateurs,
which barely covered expenses.” Good, but it would be
interesting to know how much Ranji did receive as “ ex-
penses,” and how much the professionals received as
“salary.”
• • * *
The semi-finals for Sydney Cricket-ground foot-
ball trophies were played in the slush on Saturday last.
The first game, Randwick v. Wallaroo, was a fast, well-
played con test, but Randwick’s tactics were the best suited
to the mud, and they beat Wallaroo by 3 points to nil.
The second game, University v. Pirates, was played on a
better field. It was a fine showing from an onlooker’s
point of view, Uni. passing in very taking style; and
when time was called they had deservedly won by 13
points to 3. Next Saturday University and Randwick
meet in the final. Randwick will face the music in great
form, and ought to about win, especially if the ground
should again be sloppy.
* * * *
Shortland, the ’varsity five-eighths, is, un-
doubtedly, the best man in that position Sydney has seen
for some time. His handling of the ball is splendid,
and the way he catches it in either hand as though it
were a cricket-ball is remarkable. He must be possessed
of a pair of good-sized “ docks.”
* • • •
Kalgoorlie and Kanowna footballers met, t’other
Sunday, for a quiet game ; and the crowd that attended
put £7O into the plate. Now there is a renewed agita-
tion, kicked along by jealous parsons, tor the suppression
of this Sabbath desecration.
* • • *
Swift "Walne, who recently took the Queens-
land championship in the Brisbane Carnival, is a native
of that province. Jack Parsons, who came second, is a
New South Welshman. Walne, by the way, cleared over
a thousand guineas on the past season.
• • * *
The Bordeaux-to Paris road-race was won this
year by Rivierre on Dunlop Tyres. He was paced the
whole way, through rain and mud, by motor-cars.
» * * •
The clergy are naturally against “ the wanton
desecration of the Sabbath by cycle-riders.” Pay the
parson if you want him to like you.


PAINT Covers a Multitude of Sins, but will not Insure safety
against flaws or shoddy building.
the SILVER RIBBON NAME PLATE
on the MASSF.Y-HAP.RIS CYCLE
is a Guarantee of Perfection by an old and honorable Company
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA
Estatit.tshkd
1847.
Australasian Branch: 163-169 Willfam-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 204 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 3F5 Ceorcre Street, Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
A new dispensing establishment has been
opened at the corner of Elizabeth and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney, under the name of the Owl Drug
Co. The proprietor is Mr. D. Cobcroft, and he
has associated with him as manager Mr. W. E.
Arnold. Both these gentlemen are registered by
the Pharmaceutical Society of N.S.W. The
establishment has been fitted up in a most elabor-
ate style.
Amusements.
ipiVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF
Miss PESGrGrY PRYDE.
Mr. GEORGE BEAUCHAMP.
THE SISTERS TERRY.
Mr. GEO. H. WOOD. J. W. WINTON.
FOREMAN and FANNAN.
Miss MARIAN A INS-WORTH, Miss VTOLET
ELLIOTT’, WALLACE KING, IVY SCOTT, Mr.
FRANK YORKE, Miss' LILLIAN LINTON.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
POLUSKI BROS.
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
THE MINTONS. Miss NETTIE WAITE.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. Mr. CHAS. FANING.
Mr. JOHN COLEMAN. Mr. D. H. CASTON.
And Our Great Double Company.
j3T° PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan's.
pitINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Musical : Comedy : Season!
NEXT SATURDAY, 9ra JULY.
“ THe A.mericau Girl.”
Libretto by Mr. H. Temple.
Music composed by Mr. Alfred R. Moulton.
COMPLETE COMPANY of LEADING AHTTSTS.
Press Representative, Stage and General Manager,
Mr. Chas. W. Taylor, Mr. John Wallace.
Wonderful Enthusiasm at the Melb. Concerts
.'. OK .'.
JOHN LEMMONE’S
Concert Company of World-famed Artists.
MADAME ALVA, “The finest Dramatic Soprano living. ’
Miss ADELA VERNE, “ A marvellous Piano Genius.”
Mr. S. MASTERS, “The greatest of young English Tenors.'’
JOHN LEMMONE, “The Australian Flautist.”
Miss ALICE VERNE, Aocompariiste.
Sydney— Opening Concert, SATURDAY, 16th JULY. I
Brisbane— Opening Concert, TUESDA Y, 2nd AUG UST |
Amusements.
"D OVAL STANDARD TH RAT RE, SYDNi.
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereasth-st.
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evening
Sinn \
WEEK f
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
sink
WEEK
SHAMUS O’BRICN.
Wed., N. Sydney; Thurs., Waverley ; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
IJIHEATKE ItOYAL, SYDNEY
TO-NIGHT! Thursday, and Every Evening
BLAND HOLT’S
First Antipodean Production of the Greatest of Drury
Lane Successes,
THE WHITE HEATHER
Written by Messrs. Cecil Raleigh and Henry Hamilton.
With suggestions by the late Sir Augustus Harris.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day tickets at Gunther’s Hotel
Cigar Store.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas.,-J. B. Moutrie.
LAST 2 NIGHTS ! LAST 2 NIGHTS 1
The bright, entertaining, and merry musical comedy,
‘JL'lae French. Maid..
SATURDAY, 9th JULY—“ THE LITTLE MINISTER."
And RETURN of Miss PATTIE BROWNE.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—6s., 35., 25., and Is.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Under the direction of J. and C. MacMahon.
Emphatic and Increased Popularity of the Delightfully
Quaint, Domestic, and Sensational Drama,
( Indiana, or (A Roman’s Vengeance.
Now in its SECOND WEEK, and Growing Nightly
in Public Favor.
PRICES—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d. Box Plan at Nicholson
and Go’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Director, Mr. WILLIAM COSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING!
C. Retrac’s Four Act Drama,
HIS : TCRRIBLC : TASK.
CROWDED HOUSES.
■< 1 TREMENDOUS ENTHUSIASM.
POPULAR PRICES I ... Box Plan at Glen’s-
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
UJolf American High firtCycles
. . AT . .
HA.LF-PRICH I
wadies’ model of most graceful design. G«nt>
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
*.nd speed. 43T Everything fancy but the price.
gnglish American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
• 'RESCENT
'YEAR WELL
{}
MACK LIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QL ADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET , SIDNEY.
j)r. Mackenzie BRACE for MEN.
In Dringing this Brace before the public we are supplying
a long-felt want. It can be worn with perfect ease, and
for Clerks, Accountants, and more especially Cyclists, it
will be found invaluable. In fact, they are such a protec
DR. MACKENZIE'S Celebrated Shoulder Brace.
These BRACES can he obtained nowhere but from the
DR. MACKENZIE CORSET COMPANY, and are not sold
by anyone but ourselves, we having the patent rights of
the goods. Beware of Spurious Imitations.
Send for Circulars to above Company. Address—Pß.
MACKENZIE, 89 YORK ST., SYDNEY ; 147 b COLLINS
ST., MELBOURNE.
Mrs. FRAZER, Frankville Terrace, Wellington, New
Zealand.
tion to the lungs
and kidneys the
wearer can sit in
draughts with im-
punity withoutthe
slightest danger
of catching cold.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites Hair working.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Scalpets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
I ASSISTANTS Engaged for the Country.
A Silver Watcb
ess- GIVEN AWAY. -w
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
tLady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
IM*V*R B* W*T*o*T A W*T*H
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir.—Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
I watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address—THE MANAGER,
The English Watch & Jewellery-
Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
if. F. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
48 Clarence-streefc, SYDNEY.
ft
:
STS'
grr»r»
C&ft
ff&a
6M
Sl*
CSAC£NCV f’
5*"V
Sf£
CbACDICYtA
SR
SR
SR
ssr<
sr
m
m
*r
sr
sne
asR
3SW
SIR
iXf*
&SR
A&f
£l*7*2
SIR
AfcA
<«v
g
Oacwc
:
ss
■*v
sr
VKStti!
SR
JfJStfc
SyM
SR
ftSfe
X*)C
mv
VSR
A?*
8S
site
«s>
♦v*
«¥>
ASA
Sl*
irrCTS
ffivSfe® I&SRSf ®>SRi
usa
ftA»
I-
m
SR
SR
SR
o*o*Gr<\
m
m
m
m
20s.
in the £
Is what our Guarantee is
worth to all Cyclists.
SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
GIVEN WITH .
“Humber”
“ Singer”
. . AND
“ Ariel”
CYCLES
pitted with Dunlop Tyres.
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,-
391 Georgo-streefc, SYDNEY;
AND AT
MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE.
i
km
s&-m»m
jPIwNWPi *
HM a
*
Wv.
MM
Si if
« y
,
MK
.
*
■ ■ a
tu
* •
as
m
A.
»s>
at*
»p
SS.M
5$V
■
mV
•MB*
m
mms
KM
airttftpcft&ttosss in fCa'ts
3£r
] VCi
m
.
■'■■>.' ■
§f§j§j§l liaiißil! . x* gg B||l| • jiWilil -§f I
n Six' otca‘U»s Care • tßialicnmtbcsclcetiMf a»{> fSflfilSE*
■
XIK
cuvrcHflg will' H'stt, rarest yv
wtv itusranEct: tixnt ter E-wi.
arcs
... ...
m
BatC OC piUXIM^C
fix fbe iwsna) e»c;c Sitciics? ■ j
tm
\Uh>
m
m
stcjwt ®atwitet
mlffl
m
Wmm
masmsasi
wmm
SM


Poor Blood
Nervous Prostration
Tested and tried for 35 years in
all parts of the world.
Such is the testimony of Mrs. E. B. Chop-
pell, of Staw ell, Victoria, Australia. She says:
g>
J
ss>
\
“ It is with great pleasure that I record
my experience as a nurse for thirty-five
years with the wonderful curative effects of
AVER’S
Sarsaparilla
and Dr. Ayer’s Pills. Both of these I have
used in differents parts of the world, includ-
ing Australia, for myself and my patients,
in cases of nervous prostration, poor blood,
skin diseases and all complaints from weak-
ness peculiar to women. 1 most heartily re-
commend these preparations to all sufferers
from any of the above named distressing
complaints.”
For constipation take Dr. Ayer’s Pills. They
promptly relieve and surely cure. Take them
with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
(SECOND-HAND
° AND
TVTEW FDRNITU IE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
THE
DEAF
&EAB
FU" “Comnon Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
Icomfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent,
229 Collins-steeet, Melbourne.
3 1
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. loot:, 5/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worthed up, per oz.
We are the eheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigzell,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe List.
Prompt attenbion'given to Country Orders
Warracknabeal (Vic.) R.C. Church, re-
cently burnt, was insured to only about half the
aan.a re <±,1300. Now, will any reverend gentle-
man explain wherein it is wrong in assuin-
ing that probably the Deity burnt the church
in disgust at' the assumption—implied in the
insuring thereof—that It wasn’t to be trusted
to'look after Its own house ?
: The world’s chronic poverty is
due to the passion for procreation. Let living
become cheap and the marriage-rate at once in-
creases, and more children rush into the world to
raise the price of food again. And if a nation
becomes morbid enough to endeavor to prevent
its increase, its tendency is to die out and give
place to a nation that is normal enough to be
natural. Nature’s law is—“ Keep abreast of the
means of sustenance anyhow— get beyond them if
you can ! ”
I here is a strict regulation that no person
shall enter military powder magazines in N.S.W.
without first divesting himself of everything and
donning clothes made of canvas. A very promi-
nent officer once failed to conform to this rule,
the man in charge instantly ordered him out.
Don t you know who I am ? ” demanded the
great man. “Yes, sir,” replied his subordinate,
I know exactly. And you, of all men, should
know that you mustn’t come in here in that rig.
Outside, please.” And out the officer went.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
St. Patrick’s (Melb.) splendor has spurred
Bendigo s faithful to plank down their gold for a
new cathedral to displace the unpretentious St.
Kiban’s. The site commands the goldfMds city,
and the design is for the finest episcopal structure
outside Melb. A central tower rising 350 ft. above
High-st. is in the plans. But, unlike the sombre
St. Patrick’s, the new cathedral —it is “of the
Sacred Heart ” is of the light and airy pure
Gothic of the early English period. Already
some of the walls are 45ft. high.
Easy to understand, after all, why there were
nearly 600 applications in Melb. for 25 constables'
billets when we find that a policeman had in his
room £6O in cash and £4OO oddin scrip to be robbed
of. There’s more tb an amere trumpery desiretowear
a uniform in the rush for an occupation that, at a
nominal 6s. or 7s. a day, will pan-out £5OO after a
few years’ service. The day after the robbery an
employe of the station was missed and inquiries
resulted in the discovery that he was an old
offender who had, in fact, just done three months
for watch-stealing before begot the police-station
job, and he had been recognised by a constable,
ivho promised not to “ hound him down when he
was trying to earn an honest living.” Which re-
calls the unsuccessful search, a few years back, for
a burglar who was all the time working as cook at
Russell-street Police Barracks.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
it
THE CELEBRATED
LOUIS
VELVETEEN.
99
LUSTROUS BLUE
AND
JET BLACK,
AND
EVERY CONCEIV-
ABLE SHADE FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
“LOUIS” Velve-
teen is essentially a
Ladies’ material, and
surpasses all Fabrics
for the adornment of
women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME
FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
NOTE WELL.—Each yard of genuine “ LOUIS
Velveteen bears the name, and is stamped with
guarantee of wear.
'.adi'sn should refee; a!! Substitutes.
Adelaide municipal officials, searching out
the eyesores of the city the other day, found a
score of premises so totally unfit for habitation
that they were ordered to be destroyed. And the
owners of some of the very worst of them were
two of the richest landlords in the province—one
a company, the other a deceased medico’s estate.
Certain kanakas at Port Douglas (N.Q.),
desiring a rise in wages, sent following ultimatum,
scribbled on a piece of cardboard, to the howling
capitalist who employed them : “All boys want
15 shilling week. Suppose you no give 15 shilling
all boys go away Cairns.” Tommy Tanna’s all
alive.
LATEST LONDON DESIGNS.
Gold Bell & Chain Brooch, 12/6
lliiiiiiilllb
Beal Buby or Sapphire Brooch.
15c., 18s 6d ; 9c., 13s 6d.
Our Gold Novelty Brooch, 20s
OBp
Gold 2-Bar Pearl Brooch.
9c., 10s 6d ; 15c„ 17s 6d.
Gold Heart and Chain Brooch.
9s 6d.
Gold Buckle 2-Bar Brooch.
Pearls and Red or Blue Stones, 17s 6d.
Gold, and Amethyst Shamrock.
Lucky Wishbone Brooch, 20s.
Gold Name or Motto Brooch, 8/6
Plain, without name, 7s 6d.
Lucky 4-Leaf
Shamrock
Pendant.
Solid Gold Mount,
108 each.
Real Amethyst
Heart Pendant,
2s 6d each.
Real Amethyst
Button Hook.
Very Pretty and
Useful.
2s 6d each.
PLEASE SEND
FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
SLIPS OF
VERY LATEST
LONDON
NOVELTIES.
post Free.
Gold Amethyst iueart Brooch, 13/<
ec
150., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 255.
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
Gold Pearl 2-Bird Brooch.
17s 6d.
j£L V
ell
life
49 q
Gold 3-Bar Pearl Brooch.
9c., 15s ; 15c., 22s 6d.
New Gold Bird Brooch, 8/6
tr
Pearl and B>uby or Sapphires.
9c., 12s 6d ; 15c., 21s.
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches.
Gold-mounted, 12s 6d; Silver, 4s.
With Name or Motto, 6d. extra.
Gold Ivy Bar Brooch, 10/6
NOTE— Our ONET Australian Address— 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
WHY PAY
FOB A WATCH?
CAN YOU BEAD THIS?
In order to Introduce our Business into Every House-
hold in Australia we undertake and guarantee" to give
away one of our
World-famed £2 iOs. Solid Silver Watches,
Ladies or Gentleman’s to every Reader who sends the
Correct Reading of the above Puzzle.
CONDITIONS.—That your answer to the Puzzle is
correct, and that you further undertake, if correct, to
purchase one of our SOLID SILVER CHAINS. Send
Stamped Addressed Envelope for reply.
Address—THE MANAGER, THE GLOBE WATCH
COMPANY, Ltd., 105 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Owl Drug Stores,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets,
SYDKTEY.
Patent
Medicines . . .
Fancy Goods. .
Toilet
Requisites . . .
at
COST . .
. . PRICE
Prescriptions
Faithfully
and
Accurately
Dispensed.
D. COBCROFT
Proprietor.
W. E. Arnold, Manager.
(LIMITED),
Illawarra), near SYDWE’ST.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
:
®M
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
• • BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Pl,r t“;" E :lr‘ l U'"” of r ,f“ L ”;,f^^ E - LEAD a ” d COPPER °*“S, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
K CES PAID FOR OREh - prompt cash settlement on AGREEMENT of ASSAYS
lor all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to The Manager, Smelting Company of Australi
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Lfcd- ’ Mutual Life Buildings, Martin place, Sydney.
“ detained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
IHVALIDS
AND
The aged.


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Co*
QUALITY and MATTE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
No. 196.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18s 6d
L5-ct., £llss ;
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 137. , no
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls, ha.
No. 201.—Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 5s ;
15-ct., £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 139.
Oct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 198.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 16s Gd ;
16-ct., LI 10s ;
Silver, 4s.
No. 111.—New Bar Brooch,
Amethyst and 9-ct'. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. E864.—9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted New Designs, 12s 6d.
No. 682.—15-ct. Gold Brooch, Horseshoe
and Whip, Ivy Leaves, f 1 10s.
No. E550.—9-cfc. Gold.
Pearl and Turquoise Brooch, assorted
pretty designs, 10s 6d.
No. E 1765. —9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted Newest Designs, 9s Cd.
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d. ,
9-ct. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 162.
3 fine Diamonds,
l?-ct. Gold, £4 17s 6d.
fcy i
a
sal
No. 141.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, set Rubies and Pearls, £2.
No. 398. —Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork,
7in. long, 9s 6d.
No. 235.
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Diamond,
£1 12s 6d.
No. 142. —Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
0-ct. Gold, £3 3s ; 15-ct. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller sizes in stock —9ct., 255, 355, 50s ; 15-ct., 655, 87s 6d.
No. 245. —Sterling Silver Cedar Pencil Case, 4s
15-ct.,
get Pearls,
15s 6d.
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubiea,
18-ct. Gold,
No. 215.
9-ct. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby.
16s 6d.:
No. 136.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 6s.
No. 396.—Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork, llin. long,
Pearl Handle, 14s 6d.
No. 285.—Finest Out Glass.
Silver-mounted Salts Bottle,
16s 6d.
Size larger, 18s 6d.
No. 416.—Handsome Clock, 7in. high.
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops, and two
Gilt and Leather Traces, £1 7s Cd.
No. .361.—Very Elegant fine Electro-Silver,
6-bottle Bamboo Dinner Cruet,
Wicker Handle, £3 6s. 4-bottle, £2 7s 6d.
No. 316.
Solid Silver Sweet Dish, 3iin. lone,
10s 6d.
No. 265.—Medal.
9-ct. Gold, £l los ; 15-ct., £2 15s.
Silver, ss.
1
Ins
m
No. 388.
Electro-Silver Plated Jam Spoon, 6in. long, 3s.
No. 386.— Electro-Silver Plated Batter Knife, Pearl Handle, 6in. long, 3s 6d.
NV\ 402.—Combination Revolving Soup and Entrde
Dish, consisting of Electro-Silver Stand, Entree Dish,
Fisn Drainer, and Ch'na Soup Dish. The Set of 4
most useful interchangeable articles complete, £5.
No. 400.
Electro-Silver Knife Bests, 3}4in. long,
4s 6d per pair.
Solid Silver-mounted Comb, from 10s 6d to £1 Is.
No. 414.—Elegant Clock,
6in. high, 17s 6d.
No. 417.
Elegant Gilt and Nickel Nau-
tical Clock, with Enamelled
Flags, BJin. high, £1 Is,
w/nm
No. 369.
Elegant “ Queen Anne” Electro-Silver Afternoon Tea
Service, 3 pieces, £2 10s.
Bflf
mm
mm
PSguS
BEna
beqi
□QB
£89611
|QO
emS
Not 364. —Very Handsome Electro-Silver
Dinner Cruet.
6-bottle, £4 4s. 4-bottle, £3.
No. 84721.
Solid Silver Manicure Set, in case, £2
ATOTF —The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may lely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will be
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Ikee.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
Anfl at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


N srr ßaSSn)(iSs€i)’S Alfaliijc Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
/k Few of Tlaera.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. 1 may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully ’ A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmusskn.— Dear
Sir —I think it mv duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saving that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
arid that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will hare full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first, of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
O/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir.—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for over seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness: John Hagerman (my husband), caretaker,
Tivoli Theatre, Sydney.
A Cyclist Cured of Files.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles Were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excruciating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist
Narrandera, N.S.W.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NfiRVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fide s of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. —“ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney.— “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
HERE, RASMUSSEN’S
dlission in the Herbal florid.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
Herbal Remedies are gradually pushing their
way forward, entirely taking the place of those
remedies which contain mercury, arsenic or strych-
nine.
The Australian press has fully recognised the
noble mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise
bestowed upon him from this important source has
not only been most whole-hearted, but also very
generous. Space will not permit to repeat one-
tenth of his best press notices, but few will suffice
to show the public the estimation in which Herr
Rassmussen is held by the Australian press.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “ Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common?” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of testimonials to that
effect.
IMPORTANT
WARNING--
Patrons of Herr Rass-
Herbs anywhere.
T*.
VT^Tr,
isßl
■ ;• /
m
■■■
'
-
11*1
Herr Rassmussen, TJp-to-Date Herbalist •
IMPORTANT
- • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
HERR RRSSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered.).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Aivarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSIXIUSSeiI,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSHlllSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“ H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
mmm
aaSIJI
S\\W/‘v>
m
isi?
! W
Ml)
11
bFHf
'film
yi
# ALFA LINE'PILLSf
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD b. NERVES.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Alfa I i Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Hassmusseu’s
AlfaliQQ Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Rassmussen’s
AlfafiQ€ Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235, 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills,
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills -Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and mouslaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
v AWARDED
TiWO GOLD
,tv
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office: 547 George Street, Sydney.
Ayiri Important Brandies as Follows»
N.Z.—Wellington - - 91 Lambton Quay
Henry Street (near High-st.)
Fremantle -


HELLIN'!
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peck Ham, London, England.
“ I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. «d.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Ait ken, 680-632 George* st, Sydney
Publications^ - etci
' UUVA-Tl
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 12 Cuba, 9d. ; 50 Spain (fine), 2s.
9 Porto Rico, 6d.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d.
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. 6d.; 8 New Cale
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, 6d.
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d.
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets : 30 differ
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is.; 100, 2s. 6d. ; 150, ss.
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., orstamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
M
V
-Ballet girl,
With 22, Racy ILLUSr
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a |
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
3ooks and Novelties on
application.
Married Ladies.
BSW Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Eriend ”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold 1/2
post free. ' ’
lAIVIOND SONG BOOK
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National Songs
senttm£nts7’ ,n ? l „ u £ ing WAB > patriotic, comic!
SENTIMENTAL, and other songs. Many old-time favour!
ites lon since out of print, priceless on account of tender
u memories, and cannot he had elsewhere. Complete list of
the bongs for a Stamp. This wonderful book will be sent (post paid)
PURTTgffTNr I 'rfww ' for f l rom ANGLO AMERICAN
V o w TS S INCt . o?’’ C ? mme f clal Chambers, Sussex Street, Sydney
N.S.W. Stamps,2d. extra. Agents wanted for this andothpr "Far/
Soiling Books. Mention this paper when writing. otller Fast
BEST SHILLING MUSIC BOOKS IN THE WORLD.
FEDERAL
Music
Books
Price
’s
WORTH
FOR
51 BOOKS NOW
PUBLISHEO
Each Book . . . .
• • • Contains
ONE POUND’S
WORTH
Popular Music in Full
Size Sheet Music
Postage 2d.
250,000 of the Federals have already been sold.
The Federal Music Books contain i-
S t?o , H?§r Pop S la^: forall y° ices ’ comic and sacred—Soprano Con-
Bass * Scotch, American Christy
Italian, etc. Students Songs and Choruses. DUETS*
■ . P P LOS- —\ery Easy, Easy and Effective Mndpr*
Brilliant Operatic, etc " PIANO DUETS
Lancers. Waltzes. Polkas.
Galops. Reels. Jigs, etc
VIOLIN SOLOS, VIOLIN AND PIANO DUETS.
Pf °t>ntents of all the above Books posted free to any
and r w« S wiir e f ld ” s Si" 6 Sluing, and tell ns what Music yon like!
and we will for ard yon a Sample Copy that will delight you.
Obtainable of all Music Sellers or direct from the • publishers.
Gr Il» JE3 ST sSiE co«
Collins St, Melbourne, & 359 George-st., Sydney."
BOOKS.
BOOKS. Books.— NEW UP-TO-DATE
PUBLICATIONS.; —The Soiled Dove, being 1
the History of a Gay Young Lad\-, very spic}'; Miss
Skittles, the Girl with Six Husbands, also very spicy;
Sappho’s Gay Life in Paris; Maria Monk; Ovid’s Art'of
Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very spicy, post free Is. 6d.
The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes; The New
Receipt Book; How to command the Love and Admira-
tion of the Opposite Sex, STERILITY and Impotence—
e»ph, post free, Is. R. W. SKINNER, New apd
Second-hand Look Arcade, 105 Castlpreagh-st., Svdnev
Telephone 3043.
Dkar Sir,—Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and vvill be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
Lazarus: “A critic of me writes about
sleeping round a wharf, with an idea of getting a
job in the morning. I can’t talk to men who
want jobs. Look here. My friend Dick Egan
Lee, the journalist, thinnest man ever known to
be alive, started to walk from Sydney to Mel-
bourne, or vice versa, with sixpence in his pocket,
and did it. Jobs ! ”
Sydney bottle-gatherers now perambulate
the streets in gaudily-painted carts decked with
bush and cheap bunting. They also do muoh
clowning, and drum on kerosene-tins to the dis-
turbance of invalids and night-workers. Like
the Pied Piper of Hamelin, they collect crowds of
children quite prepared to follow to the ends of
Earth and listen to their rude pleasantries. But
the many persons in Sydney who are presumed to
get their sleep in the day-time would have good
cause to form a vigilance committee for the sup-
pression of hawkers, German bands, barrel-organs,
and, among other street noises, the rattling and
shriek of Govt, trams.
Years ago, there lived at Brighton (Tas.)
an ancient named Espie. He was old—crimi-
nally old—and had cherished a full-bodied asthma
for many a year, so that the local corpse-planter
had long regarded him with a proprietary eye.
Now, there were certain brothers, named Butler,
who wanted some land belonging to Espie, only
the old man wouldn’t sell. But, at last, they per-
suaded him, and paid for it with an annuity. And
they shook hands all round when they had worked
off the deal. But, somehow, the annuity did old
Espie good. He rallied marvellously, and actually
got so frisky that he married a young wife. That
ought to have killed him, but, somehow, it did
him good also. He went on living, and had
children, and altogether behaved scandalously.
At last the Butlers had paid him 10 times the
value of the land, and the old man still kept on
living, and enjoying himself, and drawing his
annuity regularly, till it almost seemed to
the Butlers that murder was justifiable under the
circumstances. However, old Espie died at last.
Not a Butler mourned him, but two of the family,
who were of a religious turn, concealed their feel-
ings so far as to go to the funeral, and make quite
sure that he was dead. Tasmania is the land of
eld men, and annuity-business is a bad spec, there.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
fer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere. *
Clergyman Ball, at a recent meeting of
London ‘ Assyriological Society, proved that
Jonah's whale simply meant Nineveh, which the
cuneiform inscriptions interpret as “ The house of
;he fish.”
Amongst the aldermen of Sydney Muni-
cipal Council are two members of N.S.W. Leg.
Council- Messrs Lees and Fowler—and three
nembors of the Leg. Assembly—M. Harris, T.
lessep and John Norton. There are also ten ex-
nembers of the Leg. Assembly, and yet certain
ildermen complain that the Corporation has never
ceen properly represented in Parliament.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind 3VCills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS,
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
Dor Station Use.
SCHOOL EURNITURK
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING,
2d Clarence St.
Sydney.
JOLLY’S
DUCHESS PILLS
FOR PALE FACES
cONTArr.'s c
■
x- s
A
Positive
CURE
for
Price
2/6
a Box.
Post
Free.
Langour, Debility, Nervousness, Skin Eruptions
Loss of Appetite.
Absolutely free from vegetable or mineral poison.
2/6 per box, or 6 boxes for 12/6, post free.
THE BRITISH DRUGGISTS, LTD.,
H. H. Warner & Co-, Ltd., Melbourne,
- Sole Australasian Agents.
CJRLMAULT’S
IDDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Fmd
ALwrejiA
JNPIOE;Tio^
fi
ervovs-^-
njAMCHE
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
Ladies should always Knit with
ii 1
VE
KNITTING
Wools
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino,! Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softness and durability.
SEE THIS TRADE /AARK.
IS ON EWERYrsSKEIN.
Trade Mark Reaisterptl.
Established 1785.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Also “ Beehive "
Hosiei y&Under-
'vi ar m .nuiac-
tured from tlie
‘Beehive'Woois.
J.J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLANn
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homceopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
NElv
q¥
v
O
>
o
<>
A
O
*
v
'*3
£
o
<
r
m
(3
CO
ft*
«>
❖
fo
MAY
Of Highest Character.
MINERVA TONIC is a tonic of the high-
est possible character. Minerva Tonto testi-
monials are testimonials by the best-known
citizens of Australia.
the gifted mouth-piece
2*. * he great Temperance Partv in New South
Wales, writes from the Grand Lodge in the fol-
lowing eloquent terms-
t<T . , . “ May Ist, 1898.
1 have pleasure in stating that, having
tried Minerva Tonic, I am decidedly of
opinion that it is most helpful in clearing* the
brain, stimulating thought, and making work
a pleasure.
(Signed) “G. D. CLARK.”
Of all Chemists, or direct from any of the Aus-
tralian Depdts.
THE MINERVA CO.,
Manufacturing Chemists and
Food Specialists,
London, 15 and 17 Eore-st. Avenue, E C. ; New
York Jvemple Building, Whitehall-st. ; Sydnev
5 . 6 , Margaret-sk ; Melbourne, 231 Eliaabeth-st.:
Adelaide, 98 Currie-st. ; Brisbane, Taylor and
Colledge, or 3 Darpagh’s Buildings, Queen-st.
Read’s Liver Pills
Cures all Liver Ills . .
A perfect remedy for Dizziness, Nausea, Drowsiness Bad
and Vd"e fc T 6 M -d Ut T h j’ Coa T ted . Ton « uc > Pains in the Back
and Side, Torpid Liver, Indigestion, Dyspepsia. Small
price, 2/6 per Box. Only address— F
H. READ, 145 Collins-st., Melbourne.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing- in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
.aliA#
WHW'liiiiiiii
f .'f* ll* O: lU 1 ? 1 !
UU&Uiiiiiiiii HiO
BSSW&MZ
h^SSS ! "M«
Jjlliuiii.;::: *?-'ll Hill
iVo '■ \
Hllpfs
o’ 1
'jlliiiiiiiiiii
jlliiiiiiiiiin
' !' j'-mi
illiljjiiiijjj
! *" •11 • i
huiii'!!"!!;
i n • ! !' :
ii'iiiiiiiiii
!!!iiiiiiini,
iiiiiii!! 1 !!!?
iiiiiiiM!'!!
m
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12/6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. liiding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from. .
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits ,21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32,6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Gre.atest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11,' 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
XJSE
Spooocr’
iEmimiDESiit
FOR
: BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
; OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Clefihinir and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in. bottles), (id. ami Is.
Black Oil,
The Best' Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
UnrivalledEmbrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c,
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS
SADDLERS, &c.
P.O, Box 185, Melbourne,
mroberlF VS£ ~
>naf
SMtf M£ASEf_
AND V/OL/AfOS
or cvery
DESeR/PT/orf~
d?Roberts
Pills
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
AND ALL D/SOADERS OF THE
STOMA CM & LIVER *
or ALL CHEAT/STS jjj£ £ 2/?EACH
BE/\CH & BARIVICOTT 1? BR|DPO RJ.
MELBOURNE.
00 YOU want
A
POST FRFFv^.
WATCHES- c LOCKS- J EIA/£UERY-BIRTriDAY-
Z CriRISTEIvll(v/G PRESENTS
li'iteMMi- 1755177-£LIZABETH st.
OPPOSITE G:RO.
MELBOURNE.
They «
nerves
DON’T USE DRUGS.
only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the.
, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all, stages, and
restore the wearer to,
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric-
Belts give a steady, sooth-,
mg current that can be feU.
by the wearer through Jail
WEAK PARTS. RKME.M-.
BER, ye give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-,
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. - Before puis
chasing we prefer that vou
send for opr ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (host
free), {riving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SpXES, also TESTIMONY Which will convince the most
sceptical. *
Address ;
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENC7,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A BOON TO TH€ PEAF.
DEAFNESS, Head Noises,
and Sinking in the Ears completely overcome, and perfect
gearing restored by the use of Peck’s Artificial
Ear Drums. The finest in the World. Send for Illus.
trated Book of Proofs and Testimonials, Free.
A. M. NAST, 145 Collins-street,
Melbourne,
S\UIIiELZ’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is'
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere


m
PORTRAITS OP SOME AUSTRALIAN MEN AND WOMEN CURED,
WHEN ORDINARY MEDICINE FAILED, BY
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
Absolutely Cured of Rheumatism-
WHAT THE WORLD’S CHAMPION CLUB-SWINGER SAYS.
Curly Williams, of Bay-road, North Shore Sydney, the World’s Champion Olub-swinger gave
the following particulars of his sudden break-down and illness to a reporter from the Balmain
Observer, who waited upon him some time ago :
Me. Cueley Wil-
liams whilst
TEAINING.
He said: “About ten months ago I went to Newcastle to make an attempt on
the world’s record in club-swinging, and there was very little doubt in myunind or
in that of my backers as to my success, but unfortunately, whilst training I took
a severe chill; the result was that on the following day I was very feverish, and
was seized with sharp pains in my legs, arms, and back. Of course! had
to stop training, and I gave up all idea of the championship. I-got over
the first severity of the attack, but the pains in my limbs and back stuck
close to me. When they first came they were sharp and piercing, and 1 felt
them only at intervals, but finally they settled down int « a
ache, which never left me for a moment, and which pulled me down tre ™X°"X
I obtained several bottles of rheumatism mixture from chemists, which, how-
ever, did me little or no good, and I used gallons of hL? at a
liniments with which my mates used to rub me all over for an hour at a
time. After these rubbings down I used to feel brighter fetter for
time, but the effect was only temporary, and I always woke up next mo
inc as bad as ever You should have seen, too, how thin and weak 1 goc.
My face was a dusky yellow, and there were heavy bl:* ok .“tifE
and I felt as though I should never swing a club again, Tn^Something
now seized me, and I was forced to lay up altogether. I had been™kPills Tor 3
S,'" iSVktag them about a week, I was
my limbs and back were nearly gone, and I was able to get out, of bed.
the pills pulled me along wonderfully. My appetite, whichhad bee P oor >
was now splendid. I put on weight rapidly, and (I
is a little over three months ago since I started to take Xhat T am ioing
took about four boxes, I suppose, altogether), and when I tell you that 1 a “ f e °teW
for the world’s record, it is hardly necessary for me to say that I am
cured. I put down my grand and quick recovery from what looked like a stubbornly
chronic (linos* to the ’powerM conativo proportios ofDr Pink j^P*
you may depend I shall recommend them to all foregoing was written, Mr. Curley
I intend to make all round the English-speaking world So clubs, weighing
Williams has beaten the world’s record by an hour ana tnree-quarters, smug s
over 31b. 3oz. each, for 37£ hours.)
Indigestion, and Headaches Cured.
A SYDNEY LADY’S GRATEFUL TESTIMONY.
Mrs. Maud Hughes, of 414 Yictoria-street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, very kindly placed the
ing details in the possession of a reporter recently
follow-
m
m
MRS. MAUD HUGHES.
“It is now about two years since the indigestion first
attacked me. It commenced with gnawing P a ins, and
every time I breathed it hurt me. My appetite Jeftme,
and the very sight of food made me feel sick, and often at
Sit I could not sleep; when I did my rest was dis-
turbed wish frightful dreams. Although I had the very
bestmedical advice in New .South Wales and other
colonies, my condition did not improve ; but, on ‘he con-
trary got worse. I suffered from terrible headaches, and
a sort of mist seemed to hang over my eyes A lady who
called to see me one day said : I have made » great
covery, which lam going to tell you about It is the
erlat virtue of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills and they have
done me all the good in the world.’ My g
such glowing terms of the great benefit they had been to
her and, having also seen a number of advertisements of
this medicine proclaiming.it a positive for dyspepsia
and indigestion, I determine to give it a trial, and bought
three boxes, and commenced taking the contents, £1 f
ing the directions that were wrapped round e&c 1
felt better from the first. Before commencing them I had
been brought down so low with suffering that my medical
adviser had ordered me a change of air, and strongly re-
mended a sea voyage. This advice I followed and in a
few days left for Europe, taking a supply of the pills
with me. By continuing with them, my health and
appetite improved wonderfully, and I am sure the Mes-
sageries Maritime Co. didn't make much out dime I'.hinkT'n'ifi-tly lay
breakfast, tiffin, and dinner most rdigiously. Instead supply ot Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills at
claim to the title of a feastmg lady. them there After spending a short time in England,
Paris ; I experienced no difficulty in obtaining them there. r ar s g pe “ un | er . My spirits have re-
I returned home to Australia, and lam sur g interest^in life! I attribute all these good re-
taking them I felt invanably
listless and drowsy.”
Neuralgic Pains and Anaemia*
A YOUNG LADY CURED AT ULTIMO.
The number of young girls in Australia who enSted to their
able, and mothers should be made aware of Je the result of care lessness in this par-
charge ; many a lingering illness, and premature deit , 8b until, lately, a severe sufferer from
ticular. Miss Crossthwait, of 166 Ultim , byd y> healt h has been the theme of much
SEEKSSSS? “o wKW. P wed her, the young lad, fated
“I am now nearly eighteen years of age and the last
five months have not known for three years what it.l ito> enjoy a
night’s peaceful slumber. I attribute the early stage of my ill
ness to having caught a severe cold whilst journeying y
bv rail from Bulli My symptoms were neuralgic pains m the
back and hiSt, total loss of appetite, great depression of
spfrits? and J dislike to exercise. What alarmed my reives
mostly was a palpitation of the heart; this I always
after the slightest exertion. I rapidly grew thin and my friends
told me that my countenance, formerly cheerful and joyou , g
sad and depressed, and my step, iately elastm and nmb ,
changed for a slow and tottering gait, wejkii. sss My
complexion became sallow, and even of a greenish hue, ana n y
gums appeared to be growing white. I took as much rest as pa
sible to ease the neuralgia pains in my back but I was nto
a very low, despondent state. The. doctor told me J guttering
from an aenravated form of anaemia, which he stated was ve y
colonies. He prescribed tomes Jower
baths, and a light nourishing diet. I could not ev ®n fohow
strengthening diet that he advised, for ™ ’ ?,™ w ’
called slops was all that I could manage to swallo . descrip-
Friends recommended me remedies of ali sorts and dese p
tions and I must have been a fair source of income to sundry
chemists and druggists. But none of these specifics were of the
slightest avail, and, instead of getting k ett ? r ,. l Tp '
TTnnnilv for me a friend of my father s advised him to get u .
Williams’ Pink Bills for Pale People for me as j|e he YoTub
many cases in which they had been positively inyaluable to s
ferers like myself. I took them m the prescribed doses, and
MISS MARY CROSSTHWAIT
hardly had I finished the third box befor °^ backleffme* im-
about in bed at night, I could sleep soundiy , the neura 8 P a m ° de m y life a burden. I gamed m
proved, and I lost that Sken“fn alright boxes, and' now, can walk
Heart and Kidney Troubles Removed.
ANOTHER EMPHATIC CITY TESTIMONIAL.
“ Six boxes cured me,” said Mr. Carl Mont M Croy,
204 George - street, Sydney, to a reporter, “ and that was
after I had been attended by doctors in vain, and tried several
different sorts of medicines. My heart trouble was, I suppose,
the most serious. I used to be seized with violent spasms in
the left breast, which nearly doubled me up in agony. Af er
these fits I would be panting and quite exhausted, and my
heart would palpitate frightfully for more than half-an-hour.
In addition to this, I had a lot of trouble with my kidneys.
There was a continual dull, leaden, dragging pain in
the lower portion of my back, which was especially
bad after I had been lying in bed. Nothing would
make my kidneys act properly. My heart and my
kidneys got worse and worse, notwithstanding the most
careful attention of my doctors. For five months I lay on a
bed of sickness. I had fallen away to a shadow, and my
bones nearly came through my skin. When I felt there was
no hope left for me, I read a story of a remarkable cure by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I asked for them, and with some
trouble managed to get them. It was after taking a few pills
that I had for the first time for months a really refreshing
sleep. I procured some more pills, and at the end of a fort-
night I could see I was making rapid headway towards re-
covery. The distressing symptoms of my kidney complaint
began to abate, and my heart almost ceased to trouble me.
Day by day I got better, and after taking six boxes, I was
completely cured. My recovery was very rapid, for in ten
weeks’ time I was as well as ever I was, and I have never h
a single symptom of heart or kidney disease since.
5
#
Mb. O. M. M'CftOY.
Pale and Sallow Girls.
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the springtime of youth.
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and
an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale, yellow, or
greenish complexion, and a languidness of step
that bespeaks disease and an early death if proper
treatment is not promptly resorted to and per-
sisted in until the impoverished blood is enriched,
and the functions of life become regular.
Upon parents rests a great responsibility, at
the time their daughters are budding into
womanhood. If your daughter is pale, com-
plains of weakness, is “tired out upon the
slightest exertion; if she is troubled with head-
ache or backache, pain in the side, if her temper is
fitful and her appetite poor, she is m a condition
of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
for the most dreaded of all diseases— Consumption.
If you notice any of the above symptoms lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pmk Pills. 1 bey
will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly; they will enrich the blood and restore
health’s roses to the cheeks; bright eyes and
lightness of step will surely follow their use, and
all danger of consumption and premature death
will be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will
insist upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams
Pink Pills upon the approach of the period of
womanhood, and thus avoid the risks of disease
or early decay.
Dr Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People are
sold bv all chemists and storekeepers and by the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company, Sydney, who
will forward (post paid), on receipt of stamps or
post-order, one box for 2s. 9d., ° r
lfk Sd None are genuine unless the tun name,
“Dr Williams- Pink Pills for Pale People,” is
printed in red on the white outside wrapper,
beware of spurious and worthless imitations.
EVIDENCE PROVES
the undoubted cure by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
of the following, amongst other
diseases:
RHEUMATISM,
INFLUENZA,
NEURALGIA,
AN-ffiMIA,
SCIATICA,
PLEURISY,
LUMBAGO,
DEBILITY,
INDIGESTION,
INSOMNIA,
PARALYSIS,
LOCOMOTOR ATAXIA,
SPINAL DISEASE,
WEAK HEART,
CONSUMPTION,
LIVER TROUBLES,
LADIES’ AILMENTS,
RICKETS,
PALE COMPLEXIONS,
&c., &c., &c.
FACSIMILE
OF
ONLY
GENUINE
PACKAGS
WILLIAMS’ I
m
h:a
LLS
i-E.
Vt
FACSIMILE
OF
ONLY
GENUINE
PACKAGE
This Par should he Read
by Men and Women,
Young and Old.
Dr. Williams’Pink Pills are offered the publie
with a full confidence that there is no disease
arising from a Watery or Impoverished Condition
of the Blood, Shattered Nervous Forces, which
they will not cure if tlic directions are faithfully
followed, and the treatment persisted in; they are
not a patent medicine, but are a thoroughly scien-
tific preparation, the result of years of careful
study. They have an especial action (through
the Blood) upon the Vital Organs of both Men
and Women. It is a well - recognised fact
that upon the healthy activity of the vital
apparatus depends the mental and physical
well - being of every person come to adult
years. It is that which gives the rosy blush
to the cheek, and the soft light to the eye of the
maiden. The elastic step, the ringing laugh, and
the strong right arm of youth own this same main-
spring. How soon do irregularities rob the face
of color, the eye of brightness ! The blood be-
comes impoverished, the victim pale. The pallor
of the skin is often the only outward mark of the
trouble within. “ Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People ” enrich the impoverished blood and
then vigor returns, and the bloom of youth again
mantles the faded cheek.
A perfect blood-builder and a nerve-restorer are
to be found in Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
positively cure such diseases as rheumatism, neu-
ralgia, partial paralysis, locomotor-ataxia, St.
Vitus’ dance, nervous headache, nervous prostra-
tion, the after-effects of influenza, dengue and
typhoid fevers, and severe colds, diseases depend-
ing upon humors in the blood, such as scrofula,
chronic erysipelas, &c.


-IMS MOST KEFBESHUIG, COOLING. & HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE.
rtO Mi]
(Trade Hark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
M
■
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON ; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Pium Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. _ Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
a r i.l Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
ImnUoWi, rll ° f j Purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
lollowed. lhe proprietors entertain the greates confidence in the article, and canrecom-
a 1110 housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofa good Custard. Giveita trial
m Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO. LEEDS, ENG.
sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
SEND
TiriillliiiiiiiilHll ..
... IJR ORDER TO-DAY.
We will more than please you.
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 los., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 los. Description! Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, 80 inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual of keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-toned rieds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Reference, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co.
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
WfitMisr
1 Corset
W'll6wa»ST Corset
MARK
THE BEST in THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS Wl LL 6e WORN
PERFECT in SHAPE.
LEN GTH EN S THE WA IS T.
BE A UTI FI ES TH E FIG UR E.
WatowAiST Corset
MARK
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
ASK FOR
W'u-owa'ST Corset
mark
OF ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN BY
F.w.lee, Camden Buildings.
218, GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
EHUTI
Complete'SgnJtation.
Electric Ught"ihroughout.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with all
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park, Ken-
lington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
moderate tariff.
Queen's Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
DGSkiOil
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
M achinery.
HHli
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
engines.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Po table Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) LM.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Managek.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
The Heart of a Man.
[FOR THE BULLEIN.]
He was infatuated with a girl. Her hair was
golden, and the litheness of her build suggested
eiderdown and champagne.
She was innocent, but the style of her conver-
sation roused the man’s curiosity. It gave him no
rest.
The longer he wondered about the girl the less
peace of mind he had. They met frequently, each
time of their meeting he felt surer of his convic-
tions, and he determined to satisfy his curiosity.
There never lived a more jealous girl than that
particular one.
If a man wishes to ingratiate himself with a
woman, one thing let him remember : never to be
seen under any circumstances with any other
woman, whether she be wife or sweetheart. A
man can win a woman by well-assumed “ bounce.”
By assumed power over a woman all her gentler
instincts reveal themselves, and to a man all
women delight in appearing helpless.
This the man knew, and he bounced.
The girl bowed to his bouncing; and the
man’s mind was at rest. Pandora’s box had been
opened. When the man reckoned upon making
easy severance from that girl, he was mistaken.
He had unloosed a thousand devils. To read an
ordinary book more than once is wearisome ; the
daintiest dish is even worse when cold.
* * * *
When the man cursed the girl, she did not care,
so long as no one else heard. He was the only
man she wanted on earth.
The man called himself a brute ; thought he was
the only one built on changeable lines ; desired to
do justice to the girl, yet could have run miles to
avoid her. The hand that models the clay is to
blame for the bad workmanship.
* * * *
He married that girl.
For twenty years, a domesticated, unchangeable
face had been ever before him ; for twenty years
he had been learning the pettinesses of one woman.
There was relief in the retirement of the verandah
when his wife was busy. The sound of her voice
made his heart sink; and she wondered, half-
hurt, why he always got up from his chair when
she was near, and moved away. He pitied the
woman for the galling chain that bound them
together. The woman never considered it was
a chain at all. She wo ildn’t have been cut adrift
for half the world. There was only one man
whose slippers she wanted by her fireside. She
could not understand the man. He must be in
love with another !
* * * *
Nodding black plumes. Scents of flowers. A
silent house.
In the darkened room a faint streak of rosy
light fell over the dead woman’s face from the
window. The man trod lightly across the floor
with grief-stricken face. The woman’s dress
hung over the back of a chair.
Gone !
Alone !
The heart of that man was full of angry remorse
for the emotions it had held. He wished he had
never thought of those things at all. It seemed
such a little while from the day he broke the frail
network to this last parting. Music; bells;
scents; flowers; jolly; slight storms, with the
sun never quite out of sight. All the little
episodes of their life came before him with an
overwhelming rush. She was his wife. She
loved him. She was pure. Like a beautiful
palace that had only been his—untrodden but by
him. The man in his heart was glad he had
married.
He went forth into the world and found it was
not what he imagined it to be. And he wondered
what he was seeking—never dreaming of all he
had lost. He could not comprehend that such a
little thing as a woman could make such a gap in
a man s life. He was sure his wife was an angel;
and he loved her. But the privileges of a man’s
i . made him but only half understand. Bor
such is the heart of a man.
Vie.
MABEL SCOTT.
“ Gerrout ! ” was what Bismarck’s son-in-
law, Count Rantzau, answered to an inquiry after
.Bismarck’s health by Reuter’s Hamburg corres-
pondent—and the little amenity cost the haughty
Rantzau 50 marks—or ten days’ gaol and costs.
Australia’s £300,000 Soudan donkey may
now be bracketed with the solitary Santiago mule
which it took a whole American squadron half-an-
hour to slaughter.
A recent visitor to Sydney reports that,
throughout the villages of India, &c., it is becom-
ing the custom for pupils at school, or under
other tuition, to practise writing out applications
for admission to British countries. This is sup-
posed to be a counter-move to Alien Restriction
Acts like that of Natal. If the Australian Acts
contain no better provision, they’ll be fruitless,
tor the writing of such an application will amount
to no more than the copying of certain strokes, and
this any coolie will be able to accomplish after a
few tries. In The Bulletin’s opinion, every
would-be colored-immigrant should be asked to
give a written explanation of G. Reid’s
policy. Seeing that the policy changes every
month, the coolie stereotyper would have no show
whatever.
The good Samaritan who runs the hotel at
Narrabeen, near Sydney, keeps a Cadbury’s-cocoa
box in the ba.r to receive contributions for Manly
cottage hospital. A card conveys the intimation
that every person swearing in the bar must con-
tribute Id.—all negotiations for further liquor
snap off like a broken carrot till the penny is paid.
Swearing on the verandah is gratis, but inside the
mle is strictly adhered to. When the casual per-
son comes in and says that he will have a dashed
beer the copper must be paid in advance or the
wayfarer departs dry. If he is able to prove that
he has only the price of one beer about him the
landlord generally relents and pays for him, but
otherwise the laws of the Medes and Persians
were h': ; a wet rag by comparison. Charitable
people named Bill, when they feel a desire to do a
good deed, go in and call the landlord a dashed
thief and a son of a condemned animal, and put
2d. in the box and come away rejoicing; so long
as they pay the benevolent public-house gentleman
recognises that it is done out of pure kindness of
heart and doesn’t fight. Some far-seeing cus-
tomers pay in advance and have two or three
curses to come and go upon, but most of them
simply pay as they curse.
Two Lives.
[FOR THE BULLEIN.]
It was a dark night. The pier ran far out into
the black sea that rolled unbroken, like a flood of
oil under a skin —it flapped against the piles and
the stone steps with a thick sound. Anderson
Brownlow sat on the wooden seat at the pier-end
with his back to the sea. The grey line of beach
was just visible through the night; the hotel was
in darkness; off to the right a row of twinkling
lights marked the distant suburb.
Anderson Brownlow’s attitude was suggestive ;
liis heels were thrust out to their furthest, his
chin pressed upon his chest; he was overwhelmed
in his clothes. Anderson Brownlow was contem-
plating suicide —any policeman could see that.
Really, Anderson had determined upon death, and
was contemplating life.
Life came badly out of the review, according to
Mr. Brownlow’s idea. Brownlow had treated the
world badly; but, like most men similarly situated,
he reversed the order. He was a man of ability ;
comparatively young ; he had had money, and
had been loved.
“ To have had money is the devil,” muttered
Anderson Brownlow; “to have been loved and
still to love is all hell! ”
Consequently, and bearing in mind minor wor-
ries, he would presently step off the stone steps
into the deep water, and the sea would cover him
with its thick, black oil-skin coat, and rob the
world of much cheap entertainment. Brownlow
was quite convinced that the world was beside
itself with delight when it contemplated his mis-
fortunes. Grief begets a stupendous egotism.
It is generally conceit chat is the matter with a
man. Brownlow never heard human laughter
without thinking of the frayed state of his
’ ? now that he was going out from it
all, his chief concern was that he had not a re-
spectable suit for the body to be found in.
The man was very much in earnest; his long
reverie had awakened no regrets. He recognised
many of his errors, but it did not seem to him that
life was worth living without them, and he had
no longer the wherewithal to err decently. He
arose from his reflections, prepared for the last
step, the step into eternity—or is it the first ?
God disposes. At that moment another figure
came limping along the pier. Anderson Brown-
low saw it pass through the arc of light thrown by
the solitary lamp. The figure was that of a wasted
man in fluttering rags; the face showed starin o,
white with black shadows, like that of a bleached
skeleton.
Brownlow crouched by the side of the steps and
watched the new-comer, who limped painfully
to the end of the pier, and, without a pause or
word or gesture, flung himself into the treacly sea.
Ihen Brownlow rushed to the spot, tearing off his
coat as he ran, and plunged in after the drowning
man. He struck the other rising in the water,
and the two men grappled, and came to the sur-
face together. Brownlow was a strong man and a
good swimmer; he worked towards the steps,
oiagging' the other, who fought determinedly.
Damn you, let me drown ! ”
The words bubbled from the stranger’s lips
many times, and extreme measures were called
for if the two were not to drown together. Brown-
low freed his right arm and struck the would-be
suicide heavily on the head. Then he brought
the unconscious man to the steps, and, taking him
in his arms, carried him along the pier towards
the shore.
“The man must be mad 1 ” said Anderson
Brownlow,
EDWARD DYSON.
A Railway Episode.
[FOR THE BULLEIN.]
“ Tickets, please ! ”
Porter Gibbs nipped the piece of cardboard
printed—“ Geelong to Melbourne, second-class ”
and glanced inquiringly at the two little girls who
accompanied their mother.
“ Child’s ticket, too,” he demanded, after a
moment’s scrutiny of the pair.
“ Children under four travel free,” promptly
retorted the mother, with an air of having quite
closed the subject by the indisputable truth of her
answer. Indeed, she even seemed (by a truly
feminine paradox) to borrow from its truth a re-
flected glory of righteousness for her unrighteous
cause.
“ That.child’s more’n four,” said the man, scorn-
fully, pointing at one of the little girls who was
standing on the floor of the compartment sucking
a finger just withdrawn from a hole she had poked
in an orange.
Her sister sat huddled up on the seat, eating
biscuits.
“ I like that! ” replied the mother indignantly;
“ don’t I know my own child’s age ? ”
yes; you know it all right,” grinned the
porter, with ponderous emphasis on the verb.
He glanced at the only other adult occupants of
the carriage—two women—thinking to elicit a
smile, appreciative of his powers of repartee ; but
was met by a stony stare from both, while one of
the two remarked audibly—“ What a fuss about
nothing! ”
For women invariably sympathise with each
other in matters of this sort, since even the best
of them agree in thinking there is almost a moral
obligation on their part to defraud the Govern-
ment whenever possible.
This rebuff angered Porter Gibbs more than the
resistance of the mother; but she was the
only one on whom he was free to vent his wrath,
so he added, somewhat brutally, his brow suddenly
lowering : “ Come, are you going to pay for that
child, or must I fetch the boss ? I can’t stay fool-
ing here all day.”
“Well, I never!” ejaculated the other two
passengers, horrified.
“ Fetch the station-master, if you like,” said the
mother, defiantly ; feeling emboldened by the fact
that she had at least two sympathisers.
The head-official came, and when it was found
he agreed with the porter as to the child’s being
over four (which it undoubtedly was), the matter
was soon settled ; for even the mother dared not
dispute the word of so supreme an authority ; and
the child was accordingly paid for.
Both men then went away ; but, as the tram
was leaving the station, porter Gibbs stood on the
platform, gazing, with an air of supercilious
triumph, at the passing carriage that contained
his vanquished foe.
But— was she vanquished ? No !
Rising and leaning out of the window, she
called back to him in a voice, shrill with delight,
which seemed to sound in his ears for weeks after
(the oversight was such a reflection on his own
astuteness): “ You was ‘had,’ after all ! They’re
tivins I /”
Vie.
DOROTHY ELTON.


Soap.
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion,”
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons,
England:
•< PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
M.
m
m
n
m
i
U
J
I
W.
.•/o'/
/i
'"A
i
i
w
'//
////s'.
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others,”
The Glorious Twelfth at
Jindabye.
[FOR THE BULLEIN.]
Came a horseman to O’Brien’s, and his voice was
stern and high ;
“ Mick, the Orangemen are mustherin’ by scores
at Jindabye,
And, unless the boys are gathered quick, ’twill be
a woeful sight,
For there’ll be a big procession and there won’t be
any fight.”
Mick O’Brien heard the summons as he stood be-
side his gate.
He was six-foot-two in stockings, sixteen stone his
fighting-weight.
“ Pat O’Connor,” he said softly, “take a dhrink
before you go,
And thin ride and rouse the Callaghans—we’ll all
be at the show.”
“Saddle up,” he cried to Barney; “saddle up
the black and bay;
Saddle up the white and roan as well—we’ll have
the divil’s day !
Missus 1 Missus, tear yer sheets up fast as iver
tear yez can ;
We’ll want bandages this evenin’, or I’m not a
Munstherman. ”
Then he called unto his stalwart sons : “ Get up !
Get up 1 ” cried he.
“Now, I wonder,” said Cornelius, “ what the old
man’s game can be ? ”
But the old man’s voice in thunder rose, “ Re-
mi mber, boys, Athlone !
And remimber Byne and Aughrim, and the Broken
Threaty Shtone ! ”
Then Cornelius said to Denis, “ What in thunder
does he mean ?
We have heard of Boyne and Aughrim ; we have
heard of Skibbereen ;
And we know that dear old Ireland of the ocean
is the gem—
But why, why should we go breaking heads be-
cause of it or them ? ”
But their mother spake right scornfully : “ And
ye are sons of mine !
On this day me uncle, Dan O’Toole, would make
his blackthorn shine.
He would make it shine and quiver at the mintion
of that river,
And the batin’ Billy gave us at the Battle of the
Byne.
“Och, the Green Flag floated bravely the black
Orangemin to spite,
And there hardly was a house widout its broken
head that night,
And me brother, and yer father, ooys— he'll tell
you this is thrue !
Came home shtiff wid blood and glory, as good
Irishmen should do.
“Holy Pathrick, are ye thraitors? Rise up
quickly, Con. and Din. !
We were only lonely wimmin, but we had the
hearts of min ;
In ould Ireland, whin the Twelfth came round,
oh faix, ’twas our delight,
For to bandage up the wounded whin they tot-
thered home at night.”
Then they rose and put their garments on, did
Con, and Din, and Mick,
While young Patrick to the kitchen went to
choose himself a stick.
“Hush!” he whispered to his sister, who was
weeping in the yard,
“ I shall have to stoush Bill Leaman, but I will
not stoush him hard.”
Now Bill Leaman and fair Nan O’B. were sweet-
hearts on the sly,
And they took no sort of interest in mem’ries of
July ;
They were native-born Australians and had vowed
.their hands to join,
And they didn’t care a hairpin for the battle of
the Boyne.
Barney saddled up like lightning—saddled up the
black and bay,
Saddled up the white and roan as well, and, oh !
but he was gay ;
For this old and trusty vassal of the bold O’Brien
elan
As the devil holy water loves did love an Orange-
man.
They aroused the red M‘Cormacks and the Finns
of Dooleybuck.
And the Fagans and the Hagans and the Quinns
of Dam-the-Luck.
And these heroes swiftly sprang to horse without
a word to say,
For they knew that fun was brewing when O’Brien
led the way.
Mick O’Brien and Dad Hogan proudly led the
cavalcade,
And they looked like brigand captains riding forth
upon a raid;
And for joy of coming ructions, like a backblocks
Taillefer,
Big M‘Cormack threw his stick aloft and caught
it in the air.
At the township’s end they saw a sight right mad-
d’ning to behold,
All the Orangemen in trappings fine of purple
and of gold:
There were Lyonses and Leamans there, and
Nugents and M'Calls,
And they marched along so boldly to the tune .of
“ Derry Walls.”
Briggs the Sword and Bible carried—Briggs was
always to the fore —
Sobered up for the occasion, Boozer Scott the
banner bore,
And old Schnorinbug, the Dutchman, made the
trumpet hoot and hum,
While fat Henderson, the butcher, pounded
wildly on the drum.
Mick O’Brien at the circus gazed, and his ire com-
menced to rise, , .
And the lurid light of war began to kindle in his
Old Dad Hogan, leaning over, whispered hoarse,
behind his hand— . .
“ Bimme sowl, now, Mick O’Brien, this is more
than I can shtand ! ”
But, in spite of all, the day might still have ended
up in peace,
Without broken heads or instruments, or work for
the police,
If it hadn’t been for Doolan’s educated cockatoo
That had been for months in training for the
Orangemen’s shivoo.
On the roof of Doolan’s pub. it perched and talked
in language vile,
And, “To h—l with old King Billy ! screeched in
most insulting style.
“ Wring its blanlcy neck ! ” cried someone, it s
a Papist through and through ; ” )
And a rush was made immediately for Doolan s
cockatoo.
Then O’Brien to Dad Hogan said—“ The time to
charge has come ! _ .
I’ll lay out the banner-bearer, while you batther in
the dhrum.”
And the forces of O’Brien, that to fight were
never slow,
With a “ Whoop ! Remember Limerick ! ” rushed
fiercely on the foe.
But the foe had seen them coming, and his horse-
men sat in rank,
Waiting sternly to go through them with a
counter-charge in flank.
Then the fight became Homeric, and the cham-
pions of each clan
Came against each other bravely—horse to horse
and man to man.
Bull-necked Ballantyne the Blacksmith, with a
visage fierce and grim,
Yelled around for Big M'Cormack ; big M‘Cor-
mack yelled for him.
When they met the bold M‘Cormack, with a pol-
thogue mighty fine,
Made a subject for a stretcher of the valiant Bal-
lantyne.
Seeing this, then, Hairy Hamilton let out a howl
for blood,
And he charged upon Tim Fagan, and Tim Fagan
bit the mud.
Better far for Tim had he been grubbing stumps,
in quiet way,
On his farm at Dead Cat Gully than in Jindabye
that day.
Sandy Armstrong, sorely battered, in his saddle
rocked and reeled,
But he whirled his stick and scattered Cock-eyed
Hogan on the field.
Cock-eyed Hogan was the proudest of the haughty
Hogan race,
And they carried him to Doolan’s pub. to straighten
out his face.
But the battle-cries rose wildly, and the fight
raged fierce and hot,
Like the fight o’er dead Patroclus, o’er the form
of Boozer Scott—
Mick O’Brien, as he said he would, had laid him
out all right,
But the Boozer to his banner clung and kicked
with all his might.
“ Boys, they mustn’t seize our bannerman,” the
biggest Leaman cried, .
And he sprang to ground with flaming eyes, the
Boozer to bestride ;
But the Boozer swore that both sides he would
prosecute by law ; ,
For Bill Leaman hauled him by the leg, and
Brady by the jaw.
And the battle for the Boozer might have lasted
through July . , , ,
If the boys on either side had 7iot got syncnron-
ously dry; „ , ~
Big M‘Cormack looked at Hamilton, and whis-
pered, with a wink, T> .„ , n
“ If you’ve had enough of bloodshed, Bill, we 11 go
and have a drink.”
When the fight was o’er the battlefield a man
might proudly scan, .
Who was Irish— whether Papist fierce or furious
Orangeman,
For there wasn’t in the township any person to be
not some little keepsake-scar from
Orange side or Green.
In the gutter old Dad Hogan lay and feebly yelled
for “ Rum ! ” .
While Fat Henderson sat weeping o er the ruins
of his drum; ,
But O’Brien into Doolan’s stepped with eyes that
proudly shone,
And a lump upon his forehead you could hang
your hat upon.
0 the night they had at Doolan’s ! —sure its like
was never seen !
For the Lyonses and Leamans roared ihe
Wearin’ of the Green,”
And the Finns, and Quinns, and Fagans sang
“Boyne Water” without check,
And they called each other “ brother,” and fell on
each other’s neck.
Now the moral of this yarn is—if to Jindabye
you go, .
Never aggravate a Lyons, or you’ll make a Quinn
a foe! _ .
Never strike at an O’Brien in your very angriest
spasm,
Or a Leaman will reduce you to organic proto-
plasm !
There are bonds of blood and marriage now these
ancient foes between,
And the Orange is inextricably mingled with the
Green:
And that this broad, kindly feeling should increase
in coming time
Is the wish for Green and Orange of the writer of
this rhyme.
Vic.
V.J.D.
“Sir,” —Are you hard on clothes? You can
get more wear, look nicer, and save cash by wearing our
Gold Medal Tweeds, only 455. per, suit, to measure (12s.
6d. for trousers). If in town, call in ; we send patterns
free to the country, so no matter in what town you are
when you strike this paragraph, we can send samples
and give you satisfaction by our easy method of self-
measure. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-
street (only), Sydney. (These tweeds took the First
Prizes and Gold Medals at the late Royal Agricultural
Show in Moore Park.)


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
B EE p?l H l A s M ’S
V > '! ,ous a Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
• ' (: l , . less ’ f ulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush*
* llg K i c i7 eat ’ oss Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
w’lrr ri. e -?7 P A T * n Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
,v ILL fl ( ’ (VE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly mvited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
willA A .BOX.
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
-i.usc.ar System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing hack the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
aie facts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
N ervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Lamest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
tie world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is and 2s 9d each.
4
K-
■ ■: :
TIOOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding hack of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain m everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
HOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged., Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll- Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kook, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody; public speaking- made easy, Is 6d post.
SIB, ROBERT BEAR
■MM II ■!
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6 ; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free 18. THE
Art of Wrestling, post free Is.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Babv, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Tiie Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’.s Art of L6ve, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
Cheap Book Depot,
l6 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
8®“ Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors, j
Worcester; I
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London; (,
and Export Oilmen generally. I
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
m i
POP
23 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TQNIO
has been curing-
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
gf a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
f Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lung's,
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
Ovrbridae’s
JjuigTtmic
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever le without this
i invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. l§d., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
CaPTBIOH*.
SOLD BY THE LAYERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The Snffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Don’t Delay.
Stop tiiat Cougrli !
• • • TAKE . a •
IIISIHIOSS
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bennington’s. Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Box.


WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract.
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OP ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these srrand medicines have not oeen
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. J’W Pur-
chasers shoukUook to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
A SB . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
first-class residential hotel.
Perfect Cuisine. - - Moderate Charges.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
%
ipioiiiiiiiiMiMiii
<p>HE JJbBOT
lVW\^\Vu\\U\U:'^
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
„ „ SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortl)iogtoQ POropiog EogiO* Con>paoy.
(Australasian Branch.)
Simpson Brotners.
(Australasian Branch.)
m
'2 Clarence-st.,
7
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON!
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria : WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
- , , ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCAREE & 00., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand : E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHIHG-TON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O- & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
What is Health?
JMieumatiam, Sciatica,
Zumbaffo, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FA MUFF, 146 Victoria Paradb,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
“OLEAC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S., Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure. Self A pplied.
Jars (concentrated', i/6, post 4/10
COLOHIA.L REPRMSENTATIVK FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 XING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE —for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, STDNET. 9
R°pp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
&
6
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
Batho’s
Baking Powder
ftis
F SOLVENT 33;. TATE of Wes don, Thomas
& (Do., Guiunakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double
rip, box spring triggers, best steel
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest cartridge nlachines
_ . finished, with all the latest improver
_ - complete. Usual price 21, red u'ced £7los ea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at (L fid per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or I’.O. Orders must be made payable to Weadon, Thomas & Co.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ~ST., MELBOURNE,
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent Spokes (all Nickle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (1 Id; gross),
Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 fi, Brooke’s
Saddles 6 fi, Bieumel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90 -. Send for trade Illustrated Pn>e
List. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to date, .€7, £B, £9, bio, t’l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. * 435 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
BLAKE’S
Steam Pumps
Are tlie Best.
We have them in Stock:
SINGLE and DUPLEX,
up to
50,000 Gallons Imp. per Hour.
SEND FOR CIRCULARS & CATALOGUES.
Piping, Valves, Boilers, Hose,
and every other description of PUMP SUPPLIES
in Stock.
