

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught (Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable,”
LANCET.
R. G, WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
rr THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOYLE’S PRINTS »re FASTCOLORS
And will not run away on Washing Bay.
if our name is stamped on the piece we guarantee that the color will stand boilimr. If you can show
any Goods bearing our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will get for
you from us the price of the material, and
WE WILL FAY THE COST OF MAKING UP A NEW DRESS.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Summer Days are coming—You will want a Washing Dress .
DAVID STORER & SONS
OIL
(The Perfect Sheep Marker)
In Three Colors, BLACK, RED,
and BLUE ; is the only
ABSOLUTELY SAFE
Kept by all Leading Merchants
and Storekeepers,
Sheep Braodipg Oil.
Sole Proprietors: WILKINSON, HEYWOOD & CLARK, Ltd.
LONDON, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
ĥ
INSIDE BEARINGS.
Fitting No. 106 for Fast Wheels.
Axle part round and square
at ends, rivetted.
CIGARS
IMF!
®i? 8
IfW Is.
85 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
SAMUEL OSBORN & CO.. SHEFFIELD.
Makers of R. Musket’s Special Self-Hardening' Tool Steel
Machine - Cut Files, Mining Steel, Wheels, Hollers,
Sheaves, Spur Wheels, Pinions, Clutches, and other
Steel Castings.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting^.
-A.ndL see th.at you get it.
m
PROOF
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE stocks always on hand.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysag“ht Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices ßligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
(\OE
PROOF
THOME’S
A 1 WHISKY.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
B. J. & D. CURRAKT,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and aV Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
HOBART.
—Jflfo
Hadley’s Orient Ijotel.
oo
yn
i-Z,
PIONEER
LEATHER
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWIDI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
TfISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND.
W should note that the
. Imperial lEEotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenienee. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
Joshua Brothors’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
Higtiesfc A.wa,r c 3. s wherever Sscliilbited.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan • Lamp.
ħ
ECONOMY IN - -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
ihs ibisFs m
United Electric Licit
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne
The Bulletin
Vol 19.— 1N0. 966. j
[Saturday, August 20, LS9B.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


T)Y APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
-D GOVERNOR.
CrEOR-CS-E ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
Sergeant’s Valuable Life, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and
4s ; Jocelyn’s Miss Raburn’s Diamonds, 2s 6d and 3s 6d,
post 3s and 4s ; Brune’s Vansore, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s
and 4s ; Winter’s Price of a Wife, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s
and 4s.
Eber’s Arachne, two vols., 6s, post 6s 6d ; Kendall’s
White Poppies, 2s 6d, post 3s ; Ryley's One Crowded
Hour, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Prescott’s Dearer
than Honor, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Reed’s Mr.
Punch’s Animal Land, 10s 6d, post 11s 6d ; Valentine’s
Chemical Analysis, 9s, post 9s 6d ; Thornton’s Volmetric
Analysis, 2s, post 2s 6d ; Granby’s The Trout, ss, post
5s 6d ; Yate’s Metallurgical Engineer on the Rand, 265,
post 27s ; Hollingshead’s Gaiety Chronicles, 21s post 225.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.’S COLONIAL
LIBRARY.
Or., Wrapper, 2s 6d, post 3s ; Cloth, 3s 6d, post 4s.
NOW READY:
ABISHAG THE SHUNAMITE,
A Tale of the Days of Solomon, King of Israel, and
Sesonchis, King of Egypt.
By Francis Myers (“ Telemachus ”).
Just Published :
IS FEDERATION OUR TRUE POLICY?
OR,
THE POLITICIAN REVEALED TO HIMSELF.
10s 6d. Post, lls 3d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Books by Post.
Send stamps of any Australasian province,
or postal note ;, or postal orders, to “The
Bulletin,” 214 George-street, Sydney, and
books will be forwarded by return mail
POST FREE at prices given.
At Dawn and Dusk: Poems, by Victor
Daley ; ss.
The Triumph of Death, by Gabriele
D’Annunzio. Paper, 35.; doth, 4s. This is
the most powerful and interesting novel pub-
lished for years. Vide Red Page notice.
Evelyn Innes, by George Moore. Paper, 35. ;
cloth, 4s. Moore’s new book, and his best.
The Dead Leman and Other Stories
from the French. Boards, 2s. 6d. Excellent
short stories, admirably translated.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
, George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
c *MEo
If
Purity.
t
you
Q^L
THE RED PAGE.
METABILE SEMPER!
God made the woman as the crowning work
Of all that he held good ;
The devil, vexed at such perfection, wrought
Her many a varying mood. ,
He fashioned them of every form and hue ;
With many curious dyes,
He interwove them cunningly to tempt
Her eager wondering eyes.
Her soul was innocent, and pure and fair,
In utter nakedness,
And, like her lovely body, knew no shame
To clothe with artfulness.
She took his wares. No modern milliner
Could weave with greater skill,
Though fashions change in moods as well as dress
She takes and wears them still.
Strange, brilliant things, all hard and glittering,
And tinged like living flame ;
Or dazzling white, like purity itself,
Or colored sad like shame.
Most dangerous, most seductive of them all,
A mood of tender grey,
Which clings as mist clings to the mountain tops,
Smoothing harsh lines away.
This pleases that man’s fancy, that one this,
From this to that she slips,
Tricking her soul with every varying art,
A smile upon her lips.
Sometimes for love’s or pity’s sake, she still
Will keep and wear the dress
Which won our love, but oftener easLs it by
' In utter carelessness.
Why store old finery when its part is played t
Thus men have understood
The pain of finding they have worshipped not
The woman but the mood.
—From Bond. Critic.
Cooks and Cookery-Books.
Writes “ Ign'otus ”-r-
I lately fell across in M.L. “The Kings wood
Cookery-Book,” by H. F. Wicken, fourth edition,
Sydney, Angus and Robertson, 1898. This book,
being in its fourth edition, may be taken as the
mature exposition of its author’! views and from
a cursory inspection ; one may glean, if not much
knowledge Af cookery, at any rate some idea of
what a cook’s mind is like. And the conclusion
most people will come to is that this cook’s mind
wants entirely re-arranging. The book consists
mainly of a list of “ receipts:” I hope I do the
author no injustice when I say that the impression
left upon my mind is that the receipts are unin-
telligently copied at random from any source that
came handy. There is no table of contents, unless
an alphabetical list of. chapters is meant for one.
The index is constructed on principles not gener-
ally understood : to find out how to whip cream,
for example, you need not look under W or C, for
you will find no reference. Under the letter T
you find “ To whip cream.” Words are used in a
Kingswoodian sense — e.g., you are told to take a
fish and grill it in a pan. V/hat the woman meant
by this no one can tell. The present reviewer was
in doubt whether to simply lay the book aside as
worthless or use it as a text for a sort of sermon
on how not to write cookery-books. And he
decided to take the second alternative.
* * * *
Several kinds of cookery-books are badly wanted.
Many people would be content with one which
gave simply a classified list of terms. A list of
soups, for instance, would be valuable to anyone
with any sense, because in most cases the mere
name suggests all you want, while in others a brief
definition suffices. The definition of the word
“ soup ” would practically cover all, so far as the
“ making ” goes. Put in a rough way, you take
water or “ stock,” a term which would be defined,
and simmer in it meat or vegetables, or both, with
or without seasoning or thickening. There are in-
finite varieties, and you must make what your
materials are fit for. Twenty or thirty kinds
might be fisted and a few precautionary notes
added to each. Most of the receipts in Mrs.
Wicken’s book are mere variations. Having once
got a good “ stock,” well flavored with vegetables,
it is just a matter of circumstances whether you
strain it: whether, having done so, you put the
vegetables through a sieve and return them:
whether you thicken with rice, semolina, or other
similar stuff, &c. Common-sense would tell any-
one that if, your handiest vegetable was green
peas, you would not throw them away, but return
them. If you had only old tough carrots, &c.,
you would remove them before serving. Mrs.
Wicken seems to imagine that her readers have
absolute command of every ingredient conceivable,
which practically is never the case.
* * * *
Again, a fist of utensils would be valuable, as
showing tbe sizes and qualities ordinarily stocked.
Many young housewives do not know the exact
contents of the different “ numbers ” of saucepans
and oval-boilers, &c., and would find such know-
ledge valuable. A definition of the term “braising ”
would reveal much to those who do not know why
sucb admirable results are sometimes got from
a common camp-oven in the bush. The fact, of
course, is that with a little knowledge of books by
artists like Gouffe one sees that certain dishes one
expects to pay a long price for at a swell Paris
cafe can only be made by braising, though the vessel
used is not called a camp-oven. But Mrs. Wicken
often either uses terms wrongly or omits them.
Plenty of dishes are too expensive and trouble-
some for the sort of person who relies on a cheap
cookery-book; they should only be mentioned as
likely not to succeed. Others, as meat ‘ ‘ mari-
naded, ” are within the power of any lad, and should
be explained. The word ‘ 1 marinade ” does not
occur in this book, and is an instance of inexcus-
able omission, as the process would never occur to
anyone simply by the light of nature. But then
there are no directions for grilling, broiling, or
toasting, though the beginner’s greatest trouble is
in realising that while one thing (as an eel) can be
broiled, if one may use the word, at so low a tem-
perature that the hand will bear it, and be at its
very best, curdy ; yet a chop must be fearlessly
exposed to a temperature which seems certain to
incinerate it, and sometimes induces one to oil the
chop well as a protection. And many directions
are ridiculous. Mrs. W icken is fond, for instance,
of putting her frying-pan in the oven. That may
be very well in a lecture, but in practical work is,
as a rule, out of the question, for reasons that a
cook will soon discover if she relies on Mrs.
Wicken’s directions.
* * * *
Another sort of cookery-book would deal
with principles and reasons and be suited for a
girl with some scientific knowledge. It would
assume she knew practically how to arrange her
kitchen and cook plain dishes and wash up. It
would deal chiefly with theory, and explain such
things as the reason you add (or don’t add) salt,
sugar, soda, or acid to the water in which you boil
vegetables; why and when you leave the lid off, or
reduce the temperature, or “finish” in the oven.
It would discuss the circumstances under which
you clean everything, and point out that you must
sometimes recognise frankly that it can’t be done,
and that three articles (kettle, frying-pan, and
gridiron) must remain always dirty; and why, and
how, by management, you can keep all other
vessels clean enough to be “washed-up” and care-
fully dried (even outside) with a clean cloth. The
present writer never knew any man or woman who
could boil potatoes over a common fire without
soiling the billy outside, but a moment’s considera-
tion will show the thoughtful, dexterous person
that it is just as easy to avoid soiling as not. A
reference to principles will make it clear that you
cannot buy any vessels as suitable for making good
cafe au lait as you can make out of old meat-tins, if
you have a pair of “tinman’s snips” and some
thin wire, about No. 18.
* * * *
A third kind of cookery-book would be a mere
list of receipts, with instructions of a restrictive
or precautionary sort. It would assume a working
knowledge of cookery, and serve as an aid to
memory. The best cook might forget that mackerel
is simply hateful any way except broiled; that some
cold fish can be made quite a new dish by simply
soaking (sousing is the proper word) in cold spiced
vinegar; that eels broiled whole, neither skinned
nor “cleaned,” are much enjoyed by gourmets
when there is little ceremony and the host does
not object to having a vegetable-dish put 1 on the
table to hold, the skins (which come off in one
piece) and the “trail.” She might forget which
stuffing goes with which bird, &c. Mrs. Wicken’s
book is this sort, done as badly as possible. An
ordinary, reasoning man will find it difficult to
believe that in the chapter on beverages we find
“ refreshing drink ” described as rice-water sweet-
ened and flavored with “fruit-essence.” That is
not a “ receipt ” at all; the name would apply to
almost any drink; and if it were headed “rice-
water ” the proper instructions would be not to
use “fruit-essence,” but real fruit of some sort;
and, if one must use fruit-essence, some acid should
be added, or else it would be almost undrinkable.
But the next recipe, headed “Australian drink,”
is even more inept. The secret consists in mixing
ginger-beer and port-wine. Anyone who likes
such a mess will drink it, no doubt: but to gravely
give it as a receipt! There is no recipe for lemon-
ade, though, if the ordinary person has to prepare
it for, say, 50 people, he might be glad to know
whether he simply squeezes the lemons, or whether
he may slice them and pour boiling water over,
apd how much peel goes in. To make lemonade
for three or four, perhaps, needs no directions; for
a large number, it is sometimes necessary to do
with less lemons than one would wish, and make
out with citric acid.
* * *. *
This criticism of Mrs. Wickens’ so-called receipts
may sound ill-natured, but on examining the book
it will be found to be fair. The classification and
indexing are so bad that it is difficult to ciiticise
exhaustively without cutting the book up and re-
arranging it. Mushroom pie is found under
“pastry and sweets”; under “omelettes, salads,
and savouries ” we find both sweet omelette and
omelette souffle; while for other souffles we have
to look back to “pastry and sweets.” Hence we
get the whole thing confused, and if we once lose
the run of a receipt we cannot always recover it;
the word “souffle,” for instance, does not occur in
the index, and the receipts are found under
“ vanilla ” and “apricot,” where one would never
think of looking. Similarly if we do, after much
search, find “ to whip cream” under,the letter T,
we are told simply to beat it up until it is firm ;
while the orthodox manner is given under the
head “trifle.” One does not know whether all
the book is copied; probably Mrs. Wickens has
written part from experience; but the book sug-
fests to me that her actual work in the kitchen
as been mainly confined to demonstrations, as
she seems quite unaware of the various difficulties
that occur in practice. Her way of whipping
cream would generally fail; while her instructions
to put pepper into mashed potatoes would get a
cook into trouble if her mistress knew that such
a practice is as objectionable to gourmets as the
indiscriminate use of Worcester sauce with every
sort of meat. Nearly all practical cookery aims
at getting as much variety as possible out
of inadequate materials, and here Mrs: Wicken
does not attempt to advise. An “ Australian ”
cookery-cook should keep specially in mind the
family where there is either only mutton or only
beef, very few fresh vegetables, but a liberal sup-
ply of ‘ ‘ groceries. ” Hence one has to rely much
more on dried peas, beans, lentils,. than in Eng-
land ; and soups must be nearly all made of one
stock, flavored, colored, and thickened a different
way every day. One of the menus assumes the
power to get four specified sorts of fish. A mis-
tress lucky enough to command such luxuries
would certainly never tolerate Mrs. Wicken’s book
for an hour. She would simply lose all patience
over the index, and give the book to some child.
Very likely there are some good and simple re-
ceipts in the book, if the present writer had suffi-
cient expert knowledge to pick them out ; he, un-
fortunately, bought it as likely to be useful to a
cook, and he repents his bargain.
Australian Slanguage.
“Blue Duck”: “7x7” (4/6/98) is evidently a
neophyte. Brushing is the word used to denote the act
of a horse who strikes the inner sides of the fetlock in
moving. Alright has heen used for twenty years as an
adjective by hushmen all over Australia. All Sir Garnet
(not “all cigarnette ”) is simply cockney slang—a cor-
ruption of “all wool and a yard wide” to “ all Wolseley and
there you are!” Much Australian slang is simply cockney
flash, introduced every mailboat by stewards, &c. Now
and then a phrase sticks here, which is speedily forgotten
where it came from. Sydney youngsters invariably say
“ shot ” ; Melbourne as invariably “ aim’’ —“ he aimed a
rock at me.”
“Reg.”: The “clinah” of Goodge’s “Austra-
lian slanguage” is simply the German Ideine (fern, of
hlein, small, little, and meaning “little,” i.e., woman)
Australised. I heard the term first in S. A. (where Ger-
mans abound) some years ago. “Meine kleine’’ is the
German youth’s equivalent for “my donah,” or “piece,”
or “ hart.”
“Magnus”: Bloody is generally kept out of
current literature, but at p. 270 of George Moore’s
“Esther Waters” (Walter Scott, Lond., 1894) it prints
itsc|f unblushingly time and again. To be sure, “ Esther
Waters” was not permitted to defile the pious Smith
bookstalls. Re ringer —fastest shearer. To ring a tree
is to take the bark off cleanly, and leave a bare surface.
Was ringer first a quality epithet, applied to the man
who takes the wool off a sheep as cleanly as a good ringer
takes the bark off trees ? Transference to quantity would
be easy. Even at present, the fastest shearer is frequently
the best, when he likes.
She-Oak : Chinaman’s track is still good verna-
oular in many parts of Australia. There .s a hint
of its origin at p. 20 of ‘Spangles and Sawdust,’
by R. P. Whitworth (pub. ** igg, Adelaide) —“ I had,
by a goodhap, struct a ‘Chinaman’s track.’ Did you
ever see a Chinaman’s track? No? It’s a curious
thing, simple, yet sufficient. It’s done this way : China-
men, in travelling over new country, inarch in Indian
file, one, with a compass—always an old bush hand—
leading the way. As they go on, each man, in his turn,
picks up a bit of stic and leans it against the next tree,
stone, or what not, on alternate sides of their line of
march, and thus the track is marked. Every Chinaman
following that track afterwards is bound, if he sees any
stick fallen down, or knocked away, to replace it. It’s
easy enough to follow, but very difficult, to find if you
once lose it. I followed it, but by inadvertently losing it
for a moment, it too*- me two good hours to find it again
Anyhow, late that afternoon it took me hungry, thirsty,
and awfully tired, to Mount Blackwood.”
J.H.B. (Armid ale) : Re Never Never and G. J.
Turner’s note (15/5,98). I settled in Wee Waa (N.S.W.)
in 1859, and often heard old hands speak of Capt. Hobler,
as a pioneer who first took up » ee Waa station, after-
wards shifting to Swan Hill or Castle Donnington, on the
Murray. His notice of Never Never in the early forties
(there was a post-offioe at Wee Waa in 1849) puts out of
court the suggestion that W .Q. was the home of the
phrase—for W.Q. wasn’t “invented” then. Possibly,
then, the Wee Waa and Namoi district was the original
Never Never country ; and the blacks who so called it
might mean they had never seen it, knew nothing about
it—which is natural enough, seeing how rigidly the
travels of each tribe were limited by the boundary
of its own particular district. [This explanation sup-
poses that the Never is the English word with the
familiar aboriginal repetition. And one might conceive
an enquiring pioneer to a civilisation-skirting black:
“You snow what like country out that way?” And
when Combo denies the soft impeachment : “You never
been um that way ? ” “ Never (shaking his head) never.’’
To aocount for C. J. Turner’s Niver Niver, the first
pioneer must hail from the neighborhood of Ballyshlat-
tery. But this is fancy, merely. We will know all
About Never Never when we know the song Achilles sang
when he hid himself among the sirens. But the words
have seduction behind their vogue—Great Pitt nevered
twice and eke once more to impressively close his America
speech, and A. L. Gordon laments that he will glide
with her in his shallop on the river “never, never, never”
—which should, to rhyme, be “ niver, niver, niver,” modo
dboriginali.]
Sprat : In N. America a kind of native bread
grown in the ground is called “ tuckahoe ” by the
Indians (vide Stormon th’s Dio,). This origin of the Aus-
tralian tucker seems feasible.
Traveller: Driving from Omeo to Bruthen
(Vic.) the other day, I overheard one swaggie remark to
his mate that there was “ a bug in the billy..” The
Bruthen hotelkeeper, an old coach-driver, explained
that the expression meant that they were not yet hard-
up, as they had a “ bug (i.e., a bite !) left in the billy.”
Jack Shay : Pushing the knot, tor carrying
swag, may come from the nautical game (or punishment)
which consists in making fast one end of a rope, tieing a
knot close to the fastening, and working the knot to the
other end of the rope by labor and sweat. It’s a tedious
job -like swagging—whence possibly a name-transfer.
[A simpler derivation would be from the necessity a man
who ropes his swag is under—when he rolls it in the
morning—of keeping his finger on the slip-knot while he
makes the encircling rope fast, or of pushing the knot lo
make it faster while he pulls with the oilier hand. The
prevalence of luxurious swagmen with straps would
account for the small and lessening vogue of the phrase.]
The variant Waltzing Matilda (now rarely heard) was
boro from a “tender” swagman’s habit of resting his
back by carrying the burden in his arms, when he and
it are really suggestive of a lydy and gent, embracing in
the wrestlers’ hug of a “push” dance-room.
AN HONEST MAN.
I hed a oow w’en I set, nut tn buil’ my fortune up,
One hoe, one shovel, an’ one spade, an’ one good brindle
pup.
But my stout heart an’ my sound hed an’these two han’s,
you see,
An’ my unekalled honesty hez brung me where I be.
This is the lesson I impress on ev’ry noble youth,
Integrerty, moralerty, nn* ho testy, an’ trooth.
Integrerty, moralerty, an' honesty, you See,
With my good heart an’ hed an’ ban’ hez brung me where
I be.
Merried the daughter of the man where I wtiz hired man.
An’ w’en he died we got-his farm—he willed it all to Nan.
I hired good town paupers then to do my work for me,
For they’ll eat feed that common men won’t look at,
don’t yer see ?
So I saved money this way—l saved, but never spent—
An’ I loaned it to my neighbors, an’ they gave me ten
per cent.
I loved ray neighbors lik; rays-If, rich, poor, an’ great, an
small.
An’ put a morgidge on their farms to ’commodate ’em
all.
An’ Widow Barclay, reckless soul, spent all her husban’
left,
Just bringin’ up her children—W’y, it seems almost like
theft ;
“ W’y, sieh extravagance as that,” sez I, “ will never do."
An’ I foreclosed my morgidge, for it was my duty to.
An’ neighbor Bunker’s wife wuz sick ; he spent his cash
for pills.
Jest squandered all his earnin’s on them worthless doc-
tors’ hills ;
I couldn’ approve his reckless way, an' as a repermand,
I jest foreclosed his morgidge an’ then annexed his land.
An’ ol’ man Babson, down the crick, wuz getting lame and
blind,
His farm was growin’ up ’ith weeds, his hayin’ wuz
behind :
Sez I, “’Tis time this good ol’ man was laid upon the
shelf
So I foreclosed his morgidge an’ I took his farm myself.
So*, I’ve been a morril power, an’ through all the neigh-
borhood,
I’ve gone about, like men of ol’, engaged in doin’ good :
An’ I hev foun’ that goodness pays, an’ vircheris divine,
For all my reckless neighbors’ farms hev all been joined
to mine.
This is the lesson I impress on ev’ry noble youth,
Integrerty, moralerty, an’ honesty, an’ trooth.
Integrerty, moralerty, an’ honesty, you see,
With my good heart an’ hed an han’ hez brung me where
I be.
S. W. FOSS.


RS.
s
‘ \Vv/A**
~11111 iHHIIIIi
AND
Sydney’s Leading Specialists,
-WARN-
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
•when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.— A man who has lost.his
committing himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that u exlje riemce of 20 000 men
life, should without delay, consult these elrl^® nt h ® pe t^e a yt a 've openly endorsed the treatment of
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they nave up y
h
which has restored them to a perfect manly state,
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men Who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice ah feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
and, if you have any of them, you
which has made both fame and
WALLACE.
require the remarkable treatment
fortune for Drs. EREEMAN &
In the Laboratory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do j our faoil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of hack?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued ?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble?
Do you feel shaky?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor ?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat ?
Has'the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
■ill
All Trams stop at the Door
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age thanks tothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bilitv, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
ĥ
ħ
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
h
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
Reseed at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates, is now-
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, banner—-in tact, all
classes and condition of men— should purchase a copy.
Frice, XOs.;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDKTEY.
Please mention this Paper when writing.] Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
ĥ
ħ
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed hi’s studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study ot pRIVATE NERVO US & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffe
from any of the following symptoms, namely Frequent, headaches, giddi
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sin
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. G'BBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
*l4 l
ii*i»
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
Btamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of. Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or
if preferred “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily,
’lo till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring VIGOR and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally ]'('e, H1 —which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer—in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Coliins-street, MELBOURNE.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPyWE
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —
Pr.J.COLUS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodvne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
RUPTURE.
-a If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-i
/ lief from pain; security from Strangulated P
f tfernia, and a permanent pure if possible, i
J Please investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic!
/Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at I
/what you will learn. This Truss positively!
i does the work, and is worth £lOOO to an yt
/ruptured man or woman. If you want the#
J best, call or send 2d. in stamps for f ree 4
amnhlet No. 1. It contains full information. NAGNETIO
LASTIC TRUSS 00., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H.
OUL & CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’S €n)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Cnjbrocatioi)-
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
h
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
TRIUMPH/ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VARICO
CELE
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
Wm. LANGSTON, M.8.C.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
in Men N
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit, Marital Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address —
k J. HINTON-WILLIS, A
Jw Cor. Bourke <fc Liverpool Sts., Melbourne,
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
' dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address — S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
't'
e>
IF
OLD
RMs
SUNBU,
fing
uO
CHA
<S>
'V
&.C
4>/V£
S
H
Y
P^op
r, £tors .
Tales of the System.
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.


TATTERS ALLS
•.. Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
Metropolitan S. September 13.
50,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me„.
Shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
f
*
Caulfield C.
100,000
To TATTERSALL.
t
Please allot me
October 15.
SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
Name
Shares in the above.
Adch •ess-
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_
„shares in the above.
Name__.
Address.
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name _
shares in the above.
Address _
Melbourne C. 100,000 at 5.
SPECIAL CONSULTATION.
To be Drawn at 10 am. on the Morning of the Race.
Clients will kindly Note this when applying for tickets.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Price Reducers
‘friends of the family’
—AND-
Up-to-date Merchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. , .
ANTHONY
HOEDEENS
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
“Built Like a Watch.”
STERLING CYCLCS.
AT BRUSSELS EXPOSITION the
GRAND PRIX was awarded to the
STERLING- against all European and
American Manfaeturers.
Chicago Road Race.
This, the Chief CYCLE Contest of the
Year, fastest and fourth - fastest time
were done on Sterlings, off one minute
and scratch marks respectively.
Write for Catalogue with full description of
Morse Pivot Chain
fitted to Sterlings (since riding which SUTHER-
LAND has won all championships in New Zealand.
Absolutely no friction, no stretching.
JOHN D. PATTISON,
STERLING DEPOT,
75 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
Country Bu-yers mention Bulletin when writing.
2»7
1
mm
UUVA-AJ
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 12 Cuba, 9d. ; 50 Spain (fine), 2s.
9 Porto Rico, 6d.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d.
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. 6d.; 8 New Cale
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, 6d.
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, (id.
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets : 30 differ
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d. ; 150, ss.
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., orstamps
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
MELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “ PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. jpsg°° All tastes and pockets suited.
11 'rite for Card of Tariffs.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
KTorth Queensland.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTEIiS will always be pleased to see any
U 0 f his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will £five him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
eVIBELL’S Dipped Wool trumpets its own fame
Realised top price, 12Jd., for N.S.W. wools at
Sydney; and top price, 15Jd., London, ’9B—both greasy.
QJSESSsE
<3l-0 TO HELL-
KiOLANI) for Prcity Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. «<I.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Frecl Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Established 1849.
Tk(istra!iaS) PrcWidsot Society.
The A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Joseph ABBOT? Esq q ' ’ General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A..F.F.A., F.S.S.
T«r.otiiG . Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated* 1 Funds .. Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 .(after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £Boo,wuu.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street
Sydney.
I? n AMFPA'M fiwrD¥T ATfV.
h
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
(P>r Send for Price List. 1S&
H. HIIaI>IEH, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., OONOORD, SYDNEY.
Best Quality CANVAS HORSE RUGS, check lined, 8/6.
r
Bent-Shalt Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c.j Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
Positively the Best Dressing
m
IS
M/
(
<wS>
’TV-
O
FOR
PRES ERVINS Sc BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“H ARLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy Tor Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is vvilhout a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it lo he devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Son. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract.—The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will he pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2,0 and (triple 2/6 size) 4, 0 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” CO.,
95 High Holborn, LONDON, W.c.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.
ĥ
Merchants,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
and 64 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CINEMATOGRAPHS.
ħ
Harrington’s Exhibition Cinematograph
(imported). Absolutely the best
machine in the market, and is com-
plete for taking and projecting animated photographs. Edison Standard Guage, price complete, £3O.
The above machine for taking photographs only £22 10s.
Harrington’s Drawing-Boom Cinematograph
(imported) may be used in con-
junction with any ordinary
The instrument is of
magic lantern for showing animated pictures in drawing-rooms and small halls.
the Edison Standard Guage, price complete, =£B Bs. f ,
Although sold at a cheap price, this machine is in every way a reliable article ot the best work-
manship. FILMS, latest subjects, 40s. each.
h
The PREMO Y. HAND CAMERA, i-plate,
The DUPLEX ~ Opiate,
The POCKET VICTOR „ for plates,
The POCKET KODAK „ for films,
255. 1
255. I
21s. |
21s. J
Send fur Descriptive
Pamphlets.
A Large Stock of all kinds CAMERAS from 3s. 6d. to =£so.
Send for NEW COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 7, Now Ready,
Post Free on Application.
1
Telephone, 26 KOGABAH— connected with Sydney;
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Large Swimming Baths ; also, Electric and Hot Salt
one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating ;
TERMS : From 25/- a Week.
Or and Hall will accommodate 500 persons .
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only
also', splendid Stabling Accommodation.
THE
* plum ’
ĥ
ħ
THE
* Plum ’
. xj'isrTT FMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razors
(]trial This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rimrs like a bell and never requires grinding. Bein' practical tradesmen ourselves, » e know the
el kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of tears can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
of yeais, can „ pium „ Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s fid.
“ R izoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Siiurle Razor in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* m beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Rost Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Price
Sole
Agents
T.oois: A.T OUR F»3EI.ICES !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save. dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
factm*ers —not dealers.
Onr BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
? SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
O Spring SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
adrotT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
yys
our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Bail
and Lamps.
Note Ouv Only Address :
Send
£B.lB. 6.
N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
for Our Uluatrated. Catalogue.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Twenty.
Youth’s blood throbs hot within us, and thereby
Youth’s great heart pulses nameless harmonies.
Youth’s days are short, youth’s nights too quickly
fly—
Live we elate, while life has power to please 1
“ Live in the spirit ? ” Bosh ! Philosophies
Are for old crones and dotards ; we incline
Our ears to subtler, sweeter themes than these—
A fig for Age and Wisdom ! Pass the wine !
Fleet-winged mad moments leave no time to sigh ;
No time to pray till all our pleasures cease !
(Love laughs beside us, and his eloquent eye,
Unfathomable, burns away our peace).
No time for thought while every fragrant breeze
Blows straight from Paphos, while white arms
entwine
Soft bonds from which we only fear release !
A fig for Age and Wisdom ! Pass the wine !
While girls are fair and fragile, who need cry
For duller baubles? who, while joys increase,
Need fly to Sorrow for a lullaby
Against the discords of the earth’s unease ?
While warm nymphs coyly link ’neath blossom-
ing trees,
We’ll search no worlds for goblin-inates, nor pine
For cold creeds’ dubious felicities.
A fig for Age and Wisdom ! Pass the wine !
Eros I the times wax late ; the gods of Greece
Are mere dead names — Pan, Psyche, Proserpine.
But YOU live yet , Chief of Divinities :
A fig for Age and Wisdom ! Pass the wine !
V.
F. MORTON.
To an Old Friend.
A stately tree,
Where ivy wanders round the bole,
And you may hear the midnight sea
Moan in its caverns like a soul
Chastened by adversity.
Old storms have swept
Fair branches of a younger day,
The melancholy wind has wept
The homeless hours in tears away,
While the timorous birds have slept.
But in the spring
Come feathered warblers from the sound
Of coral foam, and many a wing
Waves nestling sympathy around,
To their old home twittering.
And as each bird
Pipes the full treble of the South
The branches tremble in a blurred
Faint echo, as a human mouth
Falters notes by memory stirred.
So I, a youth,
Come to you with a spring-tide voice,
To whisper an endearing truth,
The aged heart may best rejoice
Knowing clearer heavenly ruth 1
And I will take
From my full cruse a placid balm,
To scatter on pale memory’s wake,
And you shall feel a summer calm,
Happy for the giver’s sake !
And you shall be
My shelter from youth’s troublous wind ;
When all my soul is agony.
Deeptrustful I shall ever find
In your heart a roof for me !
HUBERT CHURCH.
Spellbound-and Free!
Twin roses on her cheeks were blushing fair,
Twin roses bore she bound within her hair,
Twin roses on her lips were seen to glow,
And twain entwined above her bosom’s snow.
Beneath the odorous bondage of her bower,
Enwrapt with perfume of enwreathing flower,
In subtlest fetters fast he lingered long,
All spellbound by a burst of siren song.
Her breath, her flowers distilled a fragrant bane
That drave a fierce vertigo through the brain;
Was never wizard yet could charm devise
So potent as her deep of dew-bright eyes.
Those deeps are dimmed ; those songs have ceased
to flow ;
In fading hues her wilted blossoms blow,
And she herself lies pale and peaceful now—
With one great rose of blood upon her brow !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Whom Nature has Joined.
Myself with brow of broader mould,
Myself with mind more fleet,
Out in the world, o’er half the world
Myself myself did meet.
From distant homes, from farther lands,
We come, but in our souls
Thought twin to thought, hope answering hope,
The blood of kinship rolls.
Through chequered pane, on chancel floor,
.Shines blue the sportive sun,
And laughs with us a silent laugh,
As priesthood “ makes us one ! ”
M.L.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.


njr*
WASHINGTON H SOUL & C?
9
a
w.
with every novelty 3
oxers baking
h
Brushes
■jolltf -*•
PERFUMERY
Hotel
jfaesfrcm 12/6 perdw&apmt
IAKLUfIV£OP ALL /AEAU AMD ATTEMDAMCE
Aovtkalia
a,
P&B Euberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
TO
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD.. O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Agents: " *
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Adelaide.
Geo. Ross, Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
*
VISITORS
to SYDNEY
Families, Tourists, Business or Pleasure-
seekers should stay at the most modern
of Sydney’s hotels—
jfl
. Tatter sail’s.
Hotel & Cafe.
Telegraph Office ; Telephone 728 ; Elec-
tric Light. Three minutes or less from
four leading theatres and G.P.O.
TARIFF: Bs. per day upwards.
W. J. Adams, Manager.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
(Graduate in Dental Surgery
and'Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Allov.
Muminmin, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means « Bridyework.
■'old and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
1 VVe ,. f ii iar f' ntee to any mouth with Teeth, no matter
now difficult, with or without the extraction of roots and
without pain. REFORM PEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address-
ee Kins —sib., Sv cine y
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
ĥ
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite
Ladies. Call and
see our CHEAP
hi A CH I N MS,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s fid weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc.
’s. ROWLEY Sc CO.,
New Markets, SYDNEY
CHn
OMPfI
iblfnfg
»aoe
i:
Mark
* ~ rnopmcronc
® Distillers Company!;
EDIHBURGH.
IAWmvMK -W '»A i *
*"<*•«/mu /nub jJu/.iiiu 4‘
: frfij Hut,/M/Z,
IDoderately,
Take a little Whisky
“ for the stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
o drink the very best
/ou can get. “ D.C.L.”
icotch is the best. One
'lass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulan t.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
9
6
THE LAST OF SIX.
PRTOE Is j
per Post Is. 3d.
Sydney Lager and Bock Bier.
CHEAPEST
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
last N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all comers.
Costs LESS than any other Lager in the market.
ħ
h
is
a Perfect
Winter Lager,
Quality.
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney, in
his analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol.
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour
- - Try it
Brewed and
Bottled by
Obtainable; in draught or bottle at all leading hotels,
bottled Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld.,
Manager, Aug. J. Metzleb.
Moore Park, Sydney.
Bt <- , T. H. Jaukson.
H
R«
:
/ a
1
-
IS
•■-. ■
. • HI
ĥ


The Bulletin
Registered, at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. IP.—No. 966.
SAT IK DAY, AUGUST 20, 1898.
Price, 60.
A VfT.rou\ lofi cu
%f a ' It£/j
4 ,
/
X«\
7fy .
&
i
flT*M ristokmde '
f 0 Slhras
/ft <Soif/A /ftisfrafitt- ■
, Ufa
/'S f/S
T,ffT
V'CLk fi
of a ify"?
- -pitr*
sSs/m- a/- Aasf- "
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bit letin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 P 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bui,lotto Office Twenty
Shillings sterling-with postage added where required—
which you may pay bj/ Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns m
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs , Letters , or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the add ess is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sendJ.no MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
of hr •■topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
ami interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
A Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa.—it. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith A Co.
Vm.—Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Lemilca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. ad. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—Hd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
papur edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
TTie'^tdlelZn.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 20, 1898.
Queensland Politics.
Queensland Parliament has now been talk-
ing over the Address-in-Reply for three
weeks —and, so far as The Bulletin can
perceive, without expressing one new or
valuable idea in all that weary time. The
ordinary outside person would imagine that
an Assembly which separates before Christ-
mas, and meets again in July, would find
plenty of useful work awaiting it, and would
be eager to start work ; but, as applied to
Queensland Assembly, all imaginations
founded on lofty political theories are as
hollow as the funnel through which the goats
will drop to perdition at the Day of Judg-
ment. If it were not for the necessity of
making some pretence of law-giving to
delude the electors, Queensland Govern-
ment would not call Parliament together,
at all, and seven - tenths of the As-
sembly members would thank their private
gods for it. The legislative aspirations of
seven-tenths of the Assembly members, and
of nine-tenths of the Ministry, consist merely
of the fervent wish to hang to their political
billets as long as possible, and of the allied
desire to make as much cash as possibie v out
of said billets before the night cometh when
no politician can boodle. Among the Aus-
tralian provinces, indeed, the cynical cor-
ruption of Q Parliament is only paralleled
in Westralia, and doubtfully there. For
Westralia is a comparatively young province,
and the Parliamentary conscience—despite
frequent brandings—is hardly yet so tho-
roughly seared.
* * ■ •
The utter demoralisation of Queensland
political life dates from the famous or in-
famous £10.000,000 loan of 1885. There was
no ordinary channel for the distribution of
this immense sum and of the sums which
have been borrowed since ; and extraordinary
channels were created. The money was
lent to the banks, distributed in bribes to
constituencies, jobbed in gifts and offices to
friends of the Ministry. It corrupted the
whole community. It was soon recognised
that any man who voted for the Govern-
ment could get an overdraft at the Go-
vernment bank for the asking; that any
constituency which returned a Government
candidate might rely on the liberal expendi-
ture of Government money. Everywhere
there was a rush for the spoil—the big man
got a contract, the little man got a job on
the contract—big and little spent as freely
as they received, and mortgaged themselves
irretrievably. MTlwraith, at the head of
the Government, set a shining example
by borrowing from the Government bank
thousands of pounds of public money
which he had deposited in the bank.
When the crash of 1893 came, it found the
“leading men” in many constituencies
ruined morally as well as financially. The
vicious habit of reliance on funds practically
stolen from the taxpayer had destroyed
capacity for individual effort. Since 1893,
while the money at Govt, disposal has been
much less, the pressure of public and private
persons sponging for money has become even
greater. Formerly it was ‘ ‘ Ask and re-
ceive”; now it is “Clamor or you won’t
receive.” And into the degraded milieu
created by his predecessors Premier Byrnes
finds himself by good or ill luck thrown.
* * • *
In an Assembly like the British House of
Commons Premier Byrnes would hardly
rank as an intellectual third-rater; but
among the blind one-eyed is king, and the
Queensland Parliamentary intelligence is so
low that Byrnes seems even brilliant by
comparison with his fellow-members. He
was a promising young barrister when
Griffith elevated him to the post of
Solicitor-General, and this adventitious aid
seems, at the present time, to have spoilt
more than it has helped his chances of
usefulness to Queensland. For his early
and unearned success, besides swelling Pre-
mier Byrnes’s head, appears to have weak-
ened his moral fibre. Association with the
Q.N. Bank Govt, demoralised him as it
demoralised everyone else. His acceptance
of the Premiership at the hands of the dis-
credited Hugh Nelson should in ordinary
decency have been prefaced or immediately
followed by an appeal to the country
to confirm the appointment. Byrnes has
preferred rather to try the effect of per-
sonal blandishments in a tour through the
country, and to continue the policy of dis-
tributing to the constituencies grants and
contracts which, in the circumstances, can
only be considered as political bribes. And,
despite Byrnes’s professions of liberal prin-
ciples, all the machinery of the Bulcockian
political association is again at work disfran-
chising Democratic electors and stuffing the
rolls with reliable Tories. The Bulletin
believes that Premier Byrnes would go
straight if he could; it believes that even
now he is trying to go as straight as he can ;
but his circumstances and associations are
too strong for him. If he is determined to
cling to office, his present allies will never
allow him to cling with clean hands.
* * * »
The financial and political influence at
disposal of Govt, is so enormous that the
Govt, party will in all probability be re-
turned to power at next year’s elections, un-
less a miracle intervenes. The Labor-party
remains still a nucleus of honest noodles,
with a fringe of cleverer men whose honesty
is uncommonly open to question. Its leader,
Glassey, is an inept chatterer with excellent
intentions ; and as long as he remains at the
head of the party, the party will remain at
the tail of the Assembly. In any case, it
cannot hope to do effective democratic work
unless it broadens its platform and prefers the
half-loaf of practice to the no-bread of theory.
Even with one-man-one-vote an accomplished
fact, the fads of “socialism in our time”
will never be accepted in Queensland. Public
opinion there lies for the most part in a
mean between Socialism and Conservatism,
but the tendency is towards liberal men and
measures. Hitherto the Queensland Labor-
party has deliberately cut its own throat by
demanding the impossible, and frightening
more electors than it conciliated. After some
dozen or so years of Parliamentary effort,
Queensland remains under the rule of a
majority more reactionary and more corrupt
than the MTlwraith majority of 1888.
During those dozen years the Queensland
Labor-party has had many honest followers,
but never a brainy leader. With a little
more solidity of character, William Lane
might have become that leader. He wasted
his efforts on emotional chimeras, and at
present the party has no man who seems able
to replace him—much less surpass him.
A Professor in a Pickle.
One of Kipling’s stories notes the hysterical
epidemics that convulse girls’ boarding-schools
without rhyme or reason. Dr. Manning, late
superintendent of N.S.W. insane, spent some
time in investigating the causes of the periodic
outbursts of violence in asylums. Any Aus-
tralian cattle-man can tell of days when the
mob is restless and excited, apparently without
the remotest justification, and all the precau-
tions of painstaking experience cannot prevent
a break-away from camp. And a hundred
other kindred cases testify to the existence of
influences, cosmic or other, which up to the
present have not been understood or defined.
The ordinary thick - headed mortal knows
nothing of the occasional mysterious pressure
which tempts nervous people to explode,
to run amuck, to strip off the con-
ventional wrapping and give the aboriginal
Ego free play. And if the thick-headed citizen
of commerce does at times feel dim impulses to
break the bonds of sobriety, to whoop and fight
and rampage, he is held back by the weight of
solid habits on his safety-valve, and his consti-
tutional boiler is strong enough to resist the
rare and temporary strain. And, as good or
ill luck has it, it is precisely to delicate and
refined natures, which can least stand nervous
pressure, that conventional rules and agree-
ments least appeal. They have to blow off
steam or burst. Nervous instability—that’s
what’s the matter with Marshall-Hall.
* * * *
G. W. L. Marshall-Hall is professor of
music at Ormond College, Melb. University.
He has the aesthetic temperament—is moved to
the depths of his nature by music, painting,
poetry, all artistic influences. His nature
doesn’t seem to be very deep. He is always
in suggestive ferment, but creates no effec-
tive work. As a musician he is learned and
sympathetic, and well fitted to receive
musical impressions and translate them to his
audiences and pupils. His own music is clever,
unoriginal, and flat. His verses are a flood of
sensuous verbiage, with occasionally a charm-
ing phrase or image, and never anything strong,
vital. So far as The Bulletin is aware, he
does not paint, but if he did he would
paint Blessed Damozels without Rossetti’s
power or value. And after having, pre-
sumably in deference to conventional opinion,
part of his Ego back from pub-
lication for several years, the Professor
has suddenly let it go—either in obedience to
some obscure nerve-thrill, or in respect to the
doctrine of Nietzche (Prof. Hall is alleged to
be a disciple of Nietzche), which declares that
everybody should let his Ego go.
♦ * * *
The result) is seen in a book of verses called
“ Hymns Ancient and Modern,” which has
shocked Melb. Argus immoderately. Prof.
Hall’s Ego does not really go very much
farther in “Hymns” than it went in his pre-
viously-published verses addressed “ To Irene ”
and “ To Sydney,” but possibly Melb. Argus
didn’t read the verses to Irene and to Sydney—
or possibly it decided to give Prof. Hall three
chances before howling that he should be Put
Down—or possibly there was in late-editor Had-
don’s brain no such moral-Presbyterian cell as
association with the defunct moral-Presbyterian
Daily Telegraph probably formed in new-
editor Willoughby’s. In any case, the Argus
attack is stupid. As a contribution to litera-
ture “ Hymns Ancient and Modern ” have little
or no value. There is a readable preface affirm-
ing that “ the mutual caresses of lovers are the
physical expression of the deepest intellectual
truth ’’—which is a dogma susceptible of in-
teresting argument. There are a number of
verses representing various moods in which
Prof. Hall’s emotions demanded expression
and the expression, if not very forcible, is not
inelegant or repulsive. There are some epi-
grammatic fragments of which one (dealing
with the old theme of pious, lascivious David)
has pith and merit—one or two others being
merely coarse, and the remainder undistin-
guished and worthless. That is about all there
is to say about Prof. Hall’s book, considered
as literature. The Argus suggestion that some
of the verses are too indecent to print looks
malicious, as well as stupid. Here are the
verses which the Argus modestly refuses to
print, and to which it directs the attention of
Melb. University Council
SAPPHICS.
Soft the air blows here as the sighs of lovers
Lip to lip entranced in the purple twilight,
When ’twixt sleep and wake nodding wavelets droop and
Drowsilj' murmur :
Forms grow formless, shadows are lost in shadow,
Hectic night peers forth, as a shamefaced maiden
Fearing, peers, and towards the Beloved’s chamber
Noiselessly glideth.
To the remaining two verses not even a curate
could object. If the Argus had called these
lines poor sapphics, and asked Prof. Hall to
defend “wake nodding” as a dactyl, there
would have been literary sense in the criticism :
there is none in declaring that here is contained
“a lewdness which is insulting to womanhood,
which causes the gorge of the true man to rise.”
That —while womanhood and manhood are
what they are, and poets like Catullus and
Swinburne are extolled in Melb. University—
is seven different kinds of fool-talk. Why,
Shakespeare’s St. - Valentine’s - morning
rhyme carries precisely the same motive to the
climax, and past the climax. The Argus has
made itself ridiculous : its commentary befits
an illiterate old maid—yet even she could find
in “ Hymns Ancient and Modern ” nothing so
“lascivious” as Solomon’s Song, nothing so
indecent as the Pentateuch, nothing so coarse
as prophet Ezekiel. As for the “impiety”
of references to “ hideous Jew-gods,” every
man has a right to his own standard of ‘‘ piety,”
and the Argus standard is not necessarily
better or correcter than anyone else’s.
* * * «
The only question involved is a question
of taste. Was it judicious of Marshall-Hall,
a professor in Melbourne University paid
to instruct University pupils of both sexes,
to publish in his own name verses attack-
ing current creeds, conventions, or prejudices ?
The Bulletin thinks it was decidedly injudi-
cious. If Prof. Hall’s Ego could not be kept
down, he should have published anonymously.
But the office of University professor is a trus-
teeship : his pupils are his wards. He can hold
any opinionshe pleases, and privately state them
as he pleases ; but it is not desirable that he
should publish coarse or erotic verses, however
excellent, or publicly pose as the lampooner of
a religion probably held by some of his pupils,
or by their parents or friends. For his public
acts cannot be dissociated from his professor-
ship, or from the University from which he
holds his professorship. Melb. University Coun
cil will probably see fit to draw some such
moral as this from the awful Argus tale. To
go further, at the bidding of ignorant bigotry,
would disgrace the Council. Prof. Hall’s
offence is neither “ lewdness ” nor “ impiety” :
it is merely an official indiscretion not to be
repeated.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Some More Truth About the Tote.
Another attempt to pass a Totalisator Rill
through Vic. Assembly falls due this month,
therefore Isaac Moses, the bookmaker, is just
now exerting himself to procure a flood of
church petitions against that most desirable
measure. The bookmaker’s labors in this
matter are not, needless to say, on the surface
of “ religious ” life. Parsons, as a rule, have
no idea that they are being worked for anti-
tote purposes by the betting-ring, but such is
the case, nevertheless. In a good many
churches Ikey Mo has at least one influential
supporter of the conservative racing type—a
Frank Madden, for instance and this
friend in camp, being a natural hater
of the tote because it is a socialistic
innovation, is generally the person to in-
spire an anti-tote agitation. Confessing
himself a sinful patron of horse-racing, he claims
to be desirous of restricting the betting evil as
much as possible, and from him, as an expert,
the “ good ” people get a false statement of
the totalisator case. The Church’s dense igno-
rance concerning betting matters, not less than
the Church’s foolish hope that the gambling
instinct can be effectually eradicated from
human nature by the prayers of the righteous,
has served to maintain the Ikey Mo monopoly
in Victoria thus far. In South Australia, where
religious cant is even more powerful than in
Victoria, the church-going classes are being con-
verted to tote principles by hard, worldly argu-
ment based on hard, worldly fact. To have
studied the betting evil is to know that
the introduction of a legalised totalisator
must inevitably tend to reduce it. The
small bookmaker is the worst enemy that Aus-
tralian youth has to contend with. Book-
makers create a taste for betting. They dis-
seminate the ruinous habit of daily and weekly
punting. They are accountable for 95 per
cent, of the blackguardism which lolls against
lamp-posts waiting for the next racing telegram
to be posted in the hotel window. The totali-
sator, on the other hand, creates an indisposi-
tion to bet with anybody save the machine.
Ikey Mo’s odds appear to absurd disadvantage
beside the tote’s odds, and the natural result
is an abatement of betting fever in the youth-
ful public’s blood, for the tote doesn’t bet every
day and always ; it doesn’t waylay young men
and lads in the street and tempt them to gamble
on “ tick ” if they haven’t got any ready
money to spare. It stands on a breezy race-
course a given number of days in each year,
and silently exhorts the public not to be such
fools as to continue losing their money to
the pestilential bookmaker. In South Aus-
tralia, Maoriland, and Tasmania the “ moral ”
section of the community has been more or less
made to understand the Truth about the tote.
In Victoria, the stronghold of Ikey Mo, the
Truth is asserting itself under difficulties, but
it hopes to get Ikey by the throat this time.
♦
The Lash for the Workman!
A recent Pentridge-prison occurrence punc-
tuates with screams and weals a late Bulletin
article entitled “ Post-Mortem Justice.” One
Woods was convicted by Footscray justices of
indecency, and sentenced to six months with a
flogging at the end of the first month. He gave
notice of appeal on the ground of fresh evi-
dence, but, not having the means to procure
sureties, had to go to gaol. He lodged his ap-
peal on 25th July, but his first month being
up on 26th, he was duly lashed. This
particular case, quite apart from the hideous
iniquity of flaying a man before he is finally
proved guilty and while his case is sub
judice, shows clearly that the cry of “ one
law for the rich and six months hard and
a flogging for the poor,” is not merely Yarra
Bank claptrap. For if Woods had had enough
property to stand for his bail, he would
not have been in gaol, and could not
have been tortured until at least his appeal
had been dismissed. Besides, it must be
remembered that the higher court has
technically the power in all cases to reduce
or otherwise vary the sentence of the lower.
The case is altogether a terrible one, and, with
the dreadful possibility always in view that, in
capital cases, the last act of the law may be
carried into effect before a convicted man’s
appeal to the Privy Council can possibly be
heard, makes it urgent that the whole system
of criminal appeals in Australia should he re-
cast, and the rights of defendants safeguarded
by methods as stringent in terms as are those of
the Habeas Corpus Act and the Bill of Rights.
What is Higgins’s Law Commission doing in
this matter of criminal appeals ?
Private Enterprise in Education.
“ Danton,” on the failure of private educational
enterprise in Victoria :
Secondary education in Victoria is at such a low ebb,
and with such poor prospects of immediate improvement,
that the best teachers are regretfully casting about for
occupations or countries that will more adequately ap-
preciate their abilities. The average wages of good men,
with University degrees and long experience, are now
down to miners’ level, without the freedom of religious
and political opinion and the social and sartorial inde-
pendence of the miner. Actuarial work, the auditing of
municipal accounts, and opportunities for doing legal
shorthand work are being eagerly sought for by some,
and the better conditions prevailing in other provinces
by others. The causes of the “slump” are many, but
the following are worth mentioning
1. The poor sense of honor among the “ genteel in the
matter <sf paying school-debts.
2. The practice, department-ally allowed, of State-
school teachers charging small sums for “extra
subjects,” taught in school hours, and, of course, in
rent-free State buildings.
3. The foolish retrenchment policy which stopped the
payment of State-school scholarships.
The last is perhaps the main cause. It has handed the
private-school teacher over to the tender mercies of an
unrestricted and unblushingly self-advertising private
competition. Formerly, the brightest pupils of the
colleges were those* who had obtained State-school
scholarships, and the amount paid by the State to the
private schools for their education enabled fair salaries to
be paid to the teachers, while the successes of the
pupils themselves kept, up the prestige of the colleges
But when this expense was retrenched, those masters


who live by advertisement of matriculation results, begun
offering free tuition to all who could pass a sliftish test
exam. They could only afford to do this by cutting down
their own assistants’ salaries to the bone, and by an in-
decent parade in the press of the “ passes” and “honors’*
attained by these pupils.
An immediate effect of this policy was to drain every
Melb. suburb of the likeliest pupils for the local-college, and
to congregate them in the half-dozen blatant advertisers’
class-rooms, to be subjected to an unhealthy regimen of
cram for the purposes of next “ speech-day.” General
result —depletion of the non-advertising master’s sources
of supply, “sweating” of junior masters to starvation
point, and degradation of the art of teaching to a mere
commercial business.
Sound secondary education being essential to a country
which gives free primary education and lavishly subsi-
dises a University, the duly of the State, now that private
enterprise has so palpably failed, is obvious—namely, to
take the control of secondary education into its own
hands, and, dividing it into its modern natural divisions
of Theoretical and Technical, to gi\ e to every child in the
community wanting it, the chance to develop its brains
and its talents to the fullest extent possible.
I>et Us Swear OIF.
Memo, for Australian politicians. Borrowing
and opium are twins. The borrowing commu-
nity takes a big loan, and the opium-wreck
takes a big dose, and they both feel good and
happy and affluent. Later on they feel de-
pressed, and then the opium-eater takes a
bigger dose, because he is becoming a worse
wreck and it takes more opium to make him
feel the same glow. And the community takes
a bigger loan because, with the interest on the
old one weighing it down, it takes more bor-
rowed money to create the same boom. By-
and-bye the biggest dose the opium-eater can
stand only makes him feel about as good for a
little while as an ordinary man would feel
without any stimulant. By-and-bye the biggest
loan the community can get only makes it feel
as good as if it had never borrowed at all;
N.S.W., for instance, would need to borrow
millions a year now to equal its interest bill
and make it feel as good as if it had left the
curse alone at the beginning. They both can
swear off, but they very seldom do. The paral-
lel ends here, for the ’eater can wipe out the
debt to his monster by dying. The community
doesn’t die, and its debt goes down from gener-
ation to generation. It is the immortal opium-
eater whose craving goes on for ever. Some
day, however, its supply will be cut off—when
iis credit gives out—and then it will have to
go through the agonies of a recovery, and,
being older than it is now, and more sodden,
and a worse wreck, the recovery will be twenty
times worse than it would be now. Therefore
.cb us swear-off now.
1 ♦
On the Vice of being - Too Virtuous.
The collapse of Asia before the inrush of
Western Powers is highly instructive to the
modern philosopher. The Chinaman, like the
Hindoo, is essentially devout, industrious,
thrifty, and abstemious. In other words, he is
the very incarnation of all those virtues usually
held up by the Orthodox Economist for the
edification of the working-classes. In addition
lo which the Celestial never “ strikes,” is law-
abiding to a degree, reverences the authorities,
and never gets a kick from the man in office
without thankfully kissing the foot that kicks
him. Such being the case, will the Orthodox
Economist kindly explain how it comes that
the Virtuous Asiatic goes down in the conflict
before races that have rebellion in their mar-
row, unthrift in their brains, and blood that is
one-third beer or brandy ? Can it be that the
virtues aforesaid flourish best when the blood
is poor —that a certain modicum of rebellious
(or even criminal) virus is essential to the
existence of a people that is to hold its own in
the war of nations ? Can it be that when a
people ceases to beard its own rulers in defence
of its natural rights it thereby loses also the
power and the inclination to battle with the
foreign enemy ? Is it possible that a super-
fluity of respect for Law and Order is a canker
that may eventually eat out the heart of a
nation ? (Many of England’s battles that won
her fame and fortune were gained by the riff-
raff of the streets and the sweepings of the
gaols.) Over the graves of the one-time mighty
nations of India and China may be carved the
epitaph :
“ Perished of Over-Thrift, Too much Industry, Exces-
sive Sobriety, Inveterate Godliness in a word, of
National Ansemia I
♦
Democratise the Municipalities!
If the Vic. Labor people, instead of quarrelling
with one another, were to justify their exist-
ence by organising a crusade against the retiring
plutocratic bumbles of the municipal councils,
they would not only do themselves several
good turns, but confer a decided benefit on
Victoria. If they meant business they could
do much to color the councils democratically.
Despite the fact that many ratepayers have
three votes, and that rates have to be paid
before a vote can be exercised, the Laborists
hold the balance of power in almost all suburban
constituencies, and could materially influence
the promises of candidates at country elections.
Considering the immense powers for good or evil
.given to councils under the Vic. Local Govern-
ment Act, and the example latterly given by
England and Scotland in Democratic Local Gov-
ernment, the Vic. Labor-party is throwing
away one of the best chances a Labor-party
ever had of seizing an important and far-reach-
ing limb of Government, by its do-nothing policy
in this matter year after year. It lets the same
old crew in unchallenged every August, and
bellows for the rest of the year against the
sweating and extravagance for which its own in-
activity makes it personally responsible. Muni-
cipal Socialism lias got to come : if it turns out
to be a plutocratic, patronising, bumble-blown
Socialism, the Vic. Labor-party will know
whom to blame, and must bear the rods it has
pickled for itself as philosophically as it may.
+
Unhappy Westralian Nigger!
Dear Bulletin. —Your July 16th issue refers
to Henry Prinsep, W.A., “ Chief Protector of
Aborigines.” You might as well know that
the dept, over which said Prinsep rules is a
rlelusion. Since the abolition of the old board,
the Forrest crowd retrenched the aborigines—
i.e., Protector Prinsep sent a circular round
the goldfield towns telling the official relief-
distributors that relief could no longer be
afforded to the natives ; but, where there were
any old, blind, and infirm, they could receive
radons. This generosity must have been given
in a fit of abstraction, for, this month, another
circular arrived, stating that no further relief
could be afforded to anyone, as the money at
disposal was very meagre ; but, if more funds
came to hand, the Protector would be happy to
protect some more. Premier Forrest is in
favor of Bible-reading in State-schools. If the
nigger only knew, would he laugh ? The point
of the joke is in the fact that the Forrest crowd
only recently persuaded the British Govt, to
amend the W.A. Constitution —which made the
aboriginals, whose country we have collared,
whose waterholes we have camel-drunk, and
whose bodies we have flogged a first charge
on State revenue ; giving assurances that the
nigs, would lose nothing. Beautiful assurances !
—Belah.
♦ — : .
“ An Elector of the Tweed ” lets off steam :
Editor Bulletin. — Meagher, who proved himself such
a weird romancer that even the “ Devil’s Brigade ”
threw him out of their ranks, is now member for the
Tweed in N.S.W. Assembly. That ghastly calamity hav-
ing overtaken us, you may now remember that I wrote
you last April offering to donate £1 towards keeping Mr.
Meagher aforesaid out of Parliament, and you replied
that he hadn’t the slightest chance of getting there.
However, I am not writing to you just for the pleasure of
saying “I told you so,” but to ask you what prompted
the Tweed electors to inflict such a disgrace upon the rest
of the community. It was not misdirected zeal for “ the
cause,” because J. B. Kelly, the defeated, is a Protec-
tionist, and has, presumably, a good record. One would
have thought, under the circumstances, that Meagher
had “ no possible.” Yet I have, so far, failed to find a
“ native ” who is even mildly indignant at his success;
but, then, speaking generally, the natives never are in-
dignant about anything that concerns the honor of their
country, or of any individual in it. All that sort of thing
is left to the Anglo-Australian. The native can only en-
thuse over a prize-fight or a football scrum ; about all else
outside of sport he is more apathetic than a “ Chow.”
Personally, I think the Tweed election can only be ex-
plained by the fact that deep down in the native breast is
a warm sympathy with any man who has won notoriety
by coming to close “ holts ” with the law. Dean himself,
for instance, would beat even Premier Reid in the Tweed
electorate. I shall await with curiosity the tremendous
ovation “ Dick ” will get when he takes his seat in the
Assembly. My remarks upon it will be quite unfit for
publication. Not all the eloquence of 50 bogged bullock-
punchers, added to the farewell salute of a whale-boat’s
crew when they have to “ cut away ” from a fish after a
long tow, would express my opinion upon Meagher’s
election —with any satisfaction to myself. In conclusion,
I may say that the foregoing is not necessarily for publi-
cation, but is offered as a guarantee that there is
at least one man in the country 7 who, not being eligible
for the A.N.A., is damned annoyed at having such an
insult as “The Honorable Member for Another Clime”
thrust upon him. May the Tweed electorate never be
called by any other name is the prayer of—Yours truly.
Wood, elected to S.A. Assembly as a fiery
Labor M.P., and later on prominent through
having pioneered the Opposition from that side
to the Kingston Govt., has raised a dust by
denouncing the new Labor-leader’s proposal
that the State should establish secondary
schools for the benefit of the bright sons of the
poor. Wood’s ground is that such a scheme
would result chiefly in unfitting still more
youngsters for manual work and still further
overcrowding the ranks of snobbish clerks.
But, if the introduction of general free educa-
tion has had a good deal of that effect so far,
it isn’t at all likely that it will continue same
way. The latter-day youngster who has passed
through a State school has been sent to
a clerkship mostly by parents who didn’t
have any education to speak of themselves,
and in whose poor old eyes the prodigy
with a fifth-class certificate has been far too
learned to waste his days shaving wood or
punching iron ; or, when the prodigy has had
his own way, he has compared his attain-
ments with the despised old man’s, and has
come to precisely the same conclusion “on his
own.” But, by the by, when the youngster
becomes the old man, he won’t so often be
awed and overshadowed by his youngster, and
won’t necessarily regard an acquaintance with
even Dr. Smith’s Principia Latina as a dis-
qualification for the workshop. This present,
in short, is a transition period ; and when the
old generation passes which thought reading
and writing and ’rithmetic wasted away from
a desk of some sort, things will begin to right
themselves ; and Wood’s plan of creeping back
will not be necessary
Premier Reid poses as a translator of the Bar-
tonian tongue. The other day he winked
through his monocle a wink intended to pre-
dict a coming breeze of humor and said : “ The
real translation of that beautiful phrase of
Mr. Barton’s, ‘ To attain union you must
sweep away the enemies of union,’ is, ‘ To
attain office you must sweep away the occu-
pants of office.’” Reid harps on a dogma
ancient when Caesar died and mouldy when
William the Norman poked his nose into
England’s business and founded a great nation
in the satisfaction of his own ambition. Who
doesn’t want office, anyhow, and who will
blame anyone for trying to get it if he can give
his country a lift in his own cart? And if
N.S.W. rides in Toby Barton’s vehicle Reid
would do well to give the aforesaid phrase
another application, and, with the political
broom in hand, do as Dick Phenyl did, and
“ sweep away the dust of a discreditable
career.”
Westralian goldfields centres, which threat-
ened to make an ass of themselves by gory
fights with one another, now look like turning
their attention to the rock-bottom abuse—the
grotesquely - uneven representation in the
Assembly. The inequality is simply awful.
Burt’s electorate of Ashburton, Hooley’s of
De Gray, and O’Connor’s of East Kimberley,
have each less than 100 voters ; Brer Alec’s
Kimberley West, Phillip’s Irwin, Hubble’s
Gascoyne, Mitchell’s Murchison, Wallace’s
Yalgoo, Sholl’s Roeburne, and Pennefather’s
G reenough have each under 200. These
electorates are referred to as belonging to the
mostly-brilliant statesmen mentioned because,
from the absence of contested elections, they
seem to own them. In 15 of them there were,
at last official “ general election,” 2469 voters.
But Morgans alone is suppose to represent
2080 electors in Coolgardie ; and with four of
its goldfields neighbors that electorate gives a
total of 5970 at the last election—nearly half as
many again as were in the whole of the other
15 put together ! But locally, where these
figures have been published, they don’t seem to
have particularly shocked anybody. The fiery
Vosi’Eß is quenched ; nobody is on hand tc
talk of “ broken heads and flaming houses ; ’
and Parliament gibbers interminably over
Bible-reading in State schools and the con-
struction of railways with money which J.
Bull won’t lend.
— ——
“ Should the recommendations of the Money
Lending Committee, now presented to the
Commons, be presented in a Bill,” writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ local Shy-
locks will have a better hope of getting their
pound of flesh off a brazen image than from a
creditor who does not fear publicity. First
and foremost all money-lenders must be regis-
tered in their own names ; trading designations
of any kind or title being prohibited. No more
‘Victimising Vampires Loan Societies ’ or ‘Cent
per Cent Cash Advanced Corporations.’ No
unregistered ‘ uncle ’ will be able to recover
moneys lent, and shady practices will entail re-
moval from registration and loss of all loans to
accrue later. Judges in such cases will have
unlimited powers, and may reopen settled ac-
counts and transactions from the beginning,
reduce interest, and cause all overcharges to be
repaid. It looks, altogether, as if the spider,
when he settles on a particularly-succulent fly
in the future, will get merely a mouthful of
choking sawdust instead of the rich, nourishing
blood of his prey.”
4.
“ Barrister ” to The Bulletin :
Vincent’s action against the Vic. Government in.the
English Courts over the Mildura business may, if it is
held to be within the jurisdiction of those Courts, be
fraught with momentous consequences to Australia in
the future. One of the few cases where such a thing has
been attempted before was in a Westralian Civil Service
case a year or two ago. In that case proceedings were
taken iii the Privy Council, apparently over the heads of
the constitutional authorities of the province, arid, it is
understood, the circumstances have been the subject of
considerable interprovincial correspondence. High con-
stitutional experts say that the action of the Privy
Council in that case involved an interference with Re-
sponsible Government, and they express surprise at the
public apathy on the point. The keen legality of the
Vic. Attorney-General is not likely to be outwitted
in the Vic.' case, if there is really an interference
with the partial sovereignty of his province. But
the attempt must be carefully watched, for one
has heard more than once, when suggestions of repudia-
tion have been made, of veiled threats of possible appli-
cations to the British Courts of Chancery to appoint a
receiver to administer the affairs of the possible defaulting
province. If such a thing were possible (and the success
of Vincent’s joust would give color to the theory), the
crimson threads of kinship would probably have, to
exercise a considerable amount of self-restraint against
certain obvious temptations. By the way, Vincentes
action is for slander, &e., that is for a tort. If this is his
whole cause of action the case will probably be shot out
of Court on another ground, without there being any
necessity of probing the delicate constitutional difficulty.
But the real issue is whether these provinces are merely
glorified corporations which can be sued as ordinal liti-
gants in British Courts. And I’d like also to know how
the judgment would be enforced if it went against the
Government of Victoria.
The latest Victorian development of detective
“ fiz-giggery ” is a woman who was engaged by
the police to issue invites for an illegal opera-
tion upon herself. She wrote to several alleged
abortionists, and having received answers con-
cerning medicines, she, seemingly, went around
and arranged to send a gentleman for a bottle
of the stuff—and the wily D. was the gent, who
made the purchases. “But in almost every
case she was informed that the result could
only be arrived at by an operation ” —which was
honest information, anyhow. So the decoy-
duck pretended to agree to an operation, to be
performed by three of the dupes at a bouse
rented by the detective. When the hour for
the professional visit was at hand the
I). concealed himself in a cupboard in
the bedroom. The “ doctors ” (two men and a
woman) duly arrived, and the decoy gammoned
to place herself at their disposal. “ Something
was done then,” whereupon the decoy
“ patient’ gave a signal, and the D., stepping
out of the cupboard, “ found an instrument on
the bed,” and nabbed his prey. This beautiful
story of police labor for the prevention of crime
appears to have disgusted a number of Mel-
bourne people, but The Bulletin admires it
greatly and hopes that the clever police depart-
ment will be duly convicted of keeping a house
for an immoral purpose. Didn’t the woman
prostitute herself under its direction?
When the One-Man-One-Vote Bill was before
Vic. Assembly a few days ago Murray Smith
got up as usual to protest :
While it was a arood thing in a community like this that
every man should have some share in the election of a
representative, that was an entirely different thing from
giving the loafer, the vagabond, the man who slept in a
gas pipe, or the professional mendicant the same voting
power as the greatest scientist, philosopher, philanthro-
pist, or capitalist in the land. That was a radically bad
principle, and one that could not be defended.
This paper doesn’t defend the principle of giv-
ing the loafer equal voting power with the
great philosopher and philanthropist—pro-
vided the latter can be sorted out. But it
does call all the Murray Smith tribe the very
worst kind of a political snuffler and hypocrite
in view of the above argument. For the Smith
tribe in Victoria has regularly given the loafer
a dozen or twenty votes, if only he was a rich
loafer. And it never offered even one extra
vote to the greatest scientist, philosopher or
philanthropist in the land—unless he was rich,
and then it gave him a vote for his riches only.
If he was poor, it put him on the level of
the vagabond drunk who sleeps in a gaspipe,
and reserved its extra voting power
for any ignorant, unscientific and unphil-
anthropic ruffian with money. The idea
of the Murray Smith crowd, which gives
extra votes only to the man with sordid
loot, quoting the scientist and philosopher —
whom, in its brutish contempt for anything ex-
cept coin, it has always placed on the
voting level of the gutter vagabond and
far below the fatted rum-seller —as rea-
sons for maintaining the plural Assembly
vote, is about the grandest sample of
bluff outside Gehenna. Though Smith
professes to wail over the great scientist,
philosopher, philanthropist and capitalist, the
only one of the lot about whom his tribe
ever cared a straw was the great capitalist.
The other three are merely put in to disguise
the sordidness of the Tory principles, and are
the same kind of disguise as the long prayer of
the Pharisee at the street corner.
Just before Vic. Assembly passed the Abolition-
of-Plural-Voting Act for the manyth time,
Murray Smith, the lone Torv. made a speeeß
against popular government, instancing the
Roman Republic as a democracy gone wrong.
Herbert Spencer gives this very error as an
instance of “ defective intellectual vision in
grouping by external characters, or extrinsic
circumstances.” The passage occurs in “Man
v. State ” :
How institutions are wrongly classed from this cause,
we see in the common notion that the Roman Republic
was a popular form of government. Look into the early
ideas of the French revolutionists, who aimed at an ideail
state of Freedom, and you find that the political forms
and deeds of the Romans were their models ; and even
how a historian might be named who instances the cor-
ruptions of the Roman Republic as showing us what popu-
lar government leads to. Yet the resemblance between
the institutions of the Romans and free institutions pro-
perly so-called, was less than that between a shark and a
porpoise—a resemblance of general external form
accompanying widely-different internal structures. For
the Roman govt, was that of a small oligarchy within a
larger oligarchy : the members of each being unchecked
autocrats. A society in which the relatively few who had
political power, and were, in a qualified sense, free, were
so many petty despots, holding not only slaves and de-
pendents but even children in a bondage no less absolute
than that in which they held their cattle, was, by its in-
trinsic nature, more nearly allied to an ordinary
despotism than to a society of citizens politically equal.
Murray Smith usually is credited with being
too pedantic, but it would appear that he can
be as rash in statement as the demagogue he
deplores.
If it is true, as printed, that N.S.W. ex-
Ministers Smith, Garrard, and Gould—three
discredited political has-beens who no longer
hold seats in N.S.W. Parliament—took part
last week in a Cabinet meeting which reduced
the death-sentence of Grant Morris to 10
years’ penal servitude, The Bulletin con-
siders the act disgracefully indecent. These
rejected ex-Ministers are no longer in touch
with Parliament or the people, and in
any country where political morality is not
at such a low ebb as it is in N.S.W. they
would either have resigned their positions im-
mediately after the election—or have been
thrown out. That they should not only keep
their places, but should perform such an ad-
ministrative act as the consideration and
remission of a death-sentence, seems to this
paper nothing short of monstrous —this espe-
cially as The Bulletin is entitled to argue that
Justice Minister Gould’s emphatic rejection at
Singleton election was in no small degree a
direct vote of no-confidence on him in connec-
tion with the Suffield case.
The approval which has met Premier Byrnes’
announcement that he will immediately set
about the establishment of a Queensland Uni-
versity gives that professing innovation a
chance to strike new and democratically solid
ground in the realm of high-class education.
Universities so far established in Australia are
bad imitations, if not travesties or caricatures,
of the universities of England. The names
“Chancellor,” “Senate,” “Proctors” have
been appropriated ; the titles of the colleges
and the garments of the students ; the “ tripos,”
the “ fellows,” the “ testamurs,” and the “ ad
eundems ” have all been conveyed; and the
year has been divided into “Lent Term,”
“Trinity Term,” and “Michaelmas Term.”
When America started its universities it kicked
out all this foolery. It divided the year into
Spring, Summer, and Fall, and otherwise set
out as a man and not as a monkey. An English
or Irish university-man may well feel, on first
introduction to Sydney or Melbourne university
life, that he is in the presence of a servile and
ridiculous imitation of the institutions of the
old world. Rosebery called the emotions
excited “ quaintly amusing,” but Charles
Dilke calls the whole proceeding “ an absurd
parody,” and others have used language of
still more emphatic dislike.
Some more Melb. City Court indecencies. Mr.
Panton, P.M., last week threw a little more
light on the peculiar methods of that Court in
the matter of previous convictions. An ac-
quittal was, as usual, being read out among the
previous convictions when the P.M. volunteered
this:—
Although he got off before a jury,. we know, from our
own experience, that where there is a prima facie case
made out we are generally in the right.
The icy cheek of this is all the more apparent
when one remembers that in the bulk of
criminal cases the Police-court Bench has no
jurisdiction to do anything but commit for
trial, and only hears, and needs to hear, the
case for the prosecution.
4.
The etiquette of warfare is a humorous thing.
A General gives orders that the enemy’s hospital
quarters are not to be shelled, and then he
starts to complain bitterly that the Lee-Met-
ford bullet isu’t always as jagged in its effects
as it ought to be. The Bashi-Bazouks and such
like are the only combatants who carry warfare
to a logical conclusion. When they find a
wounded foe they chop his head off in a
leisurely way, which is the right thing to do
under the circumstances. If all war were to
the knife, and surrender meant sudden death ;
if the complete butchery of one or other nation
were the cost of defeat, there wouldn’t be much
the matter with the peace of Europe. In the
interests of future humanity the Americans
ought just now to be cutting Spanish throats
instead of treating prisoners with great con-
sideration. The thing is absurd. Two brothers
stand blazing away at an invisible enemy ; one
of them gets horribly mangled by a cannon-ball,
and the other, being slightly damaged, is soon
afterwards taken prisoner and coddled at the
expense of the people who kill his relative.
Things move somewhat nowadays. A lawyer
of last century would have expressed, perhaps,
mild surprise if an oracle told him that the
Rontgen Rays would be discovered ; but he
would have resented as blasphemous the sug-
gestion that the “heir-at-law” would be
abolished. Yet, so commonplace are revolu-
tions now, that not one Australian lawyer in
20 is aware that the good old “heir-at-law”
has been quietly strangled in an obscure Eng-
lish Land Transfer Act of last year, and that
sacred real estate is now bundled indiscrimin-
ately with chattels into the hands of the
executor or administrator. And the House of
Lords made so little fuss about it that not even
a leading article in an Australian daily m&rkf
the grave of the “heir-at-law.”


The MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
of NEW YORK.
Australasian Department: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company's Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
FEW COGENT REASONS why you should Insure in this Company in preference
any other: —
BECAUSE
it is the
BEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
SAFEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
LARGEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
CHEAPEST.
It is PURELY MUTUAL. All Profits go to the Policy-holders.
In its Fifty-five Years’ Record it has no compeer.
It is subjected to Annual Examination by the Insurance Department
of the State of New York, a thoroughly independent authority.
Assets, December 31, 1897 - - . .£52,112,204.
It has returned to its Policy-holders, or holds on their behalf, after
payment of all expenses of management’, about 14| millions sterling
more than it received from them.
For detailed information concerning the most profitable forms of investment insurance policies apply
at any of the Company’s Branch Offices or Authorised Agencies. ’
LLEWELLIN & CO.,
GEM MERCHANTS, ...
.. . LAPIDARIES Etc.,
177 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Deal Largely in Opal. Cut or repair any Stones.
Buyer—A. BERTHOLD.
The Famous French
Chocolate.
EHOCmiTHIEIIIER
Obtainable from all Orocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
Wm. Cameron & Co.,
249 Ocorge-st., Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal. “ White Heather.”
Her Majesty's “Yeoman of the Guard."
Lyceum “ Right's Right.”
Royal Standard Henry’s Dramatic Co.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Harbor Lights.”
Opera House Biondi.
Town Hall Newbury’s “ Pop” Concerts.
Do. do. (23rd) The Shakespeare Ball.
In its “ final,” on Saturday night last, the
Lemmone concert co. fell a helpless victim to an
encore-ravenous audience. Miss Adela Verne
(who is understood to have selected, of modesty-
pfepense, the little-coveted programme-positions of
first and last) headed the storming-party with an
Etui/e de Concert of such alarming fortissimo-
pianissimo vicissitudes that her melodiously rip-
pling recall-number was, to this barbaric paper,
like bon-bons after brickbats. Mr. Samuel
Masters bleated mellifluously, upon severely legi-
timate lines and to the composer’s accompaniment,
about Juncker’s “Star of the East,” and Madame
Alva gave a hair-raising exhibition of lung-power
in a scena-emd-aria of which the best to be said
is that it was dramatic in the cheapest sense of
the term; art —great art, no doubt—upon the
vocalist’s part—but not music! Madame Alva’s
ballad-choice, also, “When the Heart was
Young,” was distinctly out of her line, but in the
delightful old “Casta Diva” she rose once more to
her full artistic stature, and defeated the present
scribe’s disapproval with great slaughter. Mr.
Lemmone’s exquisite fluting entailed upon him,
as usual, a double share of seraphic tootle;
and Miss Marion Perrott warbled her way satis-
factorily through an entertainment which usually
left the subsequent person with the ‘ ‘ floral tributes ”
forlornly gazing from beneath large quantities of
horticulture at the back of the retreating artiste.
That unhappy young man would have been a
bonanza for the “gods,” but as there was no
Olympus he escaped with a gentle snigger.
* * * *
Just as the longing for comic opera was
amounting to a drought in Sydney, the Firm
announced that its opera co. was ready, and
straightway opened, on Saturday night, with
“ The Gondoliers. ” After a time, they intend to
give the public something it doesn’t know, but
judged it better to first test the public—and their
artists —with a few old favorites, that could never
fail to raise a cheer, even if the leading lady
squinted under a pink fringe, and the leading
gentleman’s toes turned in, and nobody had any
voice to speak of, much less to sing with, and the
orchestra emulated the famous music of the Jap
Village. Under any or all of these circumstances,
the gay “Gondoliers” would still be an attraction.
Any story that includes two babies that got mixed
in their cradles is bound to hit the public in the
eye. Nothing has ever been invented yet that
can equal mixed infants, and, when you surround
the mixture with a Gilbert and Sullivan opera, the
success is made.
• * * *
The co. is not altogether a new one.
George Lauri is in his old place as the Duke of
Plaza-Toro, Ltd., and seems to find the part as
good a fit as ever. Howard Vernon is the same
Grand Inquisitor, a trifle worn about the voice,
perhaps, but as fresh as a daisy in his funny little
ways. Mrs. Henry Bracy is also re-cast in an old
part, the Duchess of Plaza-Toro, Unlimited, and
is just the sort of woman no duke could love. The
new features begin with Dorothy Vane as Tessa.
Without an overwhelming voice or dazzling
beauty, this little lady goes snap into your watch-
pocket, guided thither by an artful and a
pretty pair of legs. Mabel Darley, on
the contrary, goes straight off in an oppo-
site direction, but saves herself from being
lost by her evident determination to work hard
and be a good girl. The new tenor, Mr. Charles
Kenningham, cannot be exhaustively criticised
from his shadowy part of Marco, but his dancing
gromised many things, and he took a “Pair of
parkling Eyes ” with all the delicacy due to such
an undertaking. William Pauli is going to do
great things with comic opera some day. At
present, as Guisette, he lets His fine voice tout for
him, and shows streaky signs of what his acting
will be when he gets used to light rdles. Carrie
Moore, as Casilda, was a thing of beauty, who
also gave art some little encouragement. Taken
in a bunch, the feminine part of the co. came a
long way after the males. But the chorus-girls
were a joy for ever, and seemed to have captured
all the freshest faces and voices in this songful
land.
* * * *
“White Heather” enters into its eighth
week with the same old densely-packed house.
Everything goes on as usual, except that the crowd
gets bigger every night. This paper is now able
to testify to the advantage of repeating a play
forty-two times over. It was not until the 42nd
performance that the true inwardness of Frances
Ross’s fancy dress was revealed. The present
scribe, not wishing to keep this joyful discovery to
himself, hastens to add that Miss Ross wears black
tights under the grey cloud that does duty for a
skirt. You have to be in the front row to make
the discovery. And all this time the orchestra
lias been revelling in a vision of those fine black
limbs moving lightly under the thinnest tulle, that
rather enhances than hides. N.B.— No vacancies
in the orchestra are likely to occur this cycle.
* * * *
The wonderful series of dramas which the
Lyceum management is producing is, so far, still
on the upward grade. Every play contains more
sensation than the last. When you think the plot
so full that it seems impossible to crowd in one
more missing will, or even half a strawberry-mark
on the left foot, the management conies trium-
phantly forward with an unheard-of explosion, an
uncle who takes poison, and a duke who goes
down in a diving-bell—-and there is still time to
get a drink before the pubs, close. The existing
shocker is called “Right’s Right,” but the name
really doesn’t matter. The public is quite con-
vinced that “The River Mystery,” which will
myst for the first time on Saturday evening, will
be just as enthralling.
** « *
At the Tivoli, Peggy Prycle has come into
her kingdom of appreciation, and there are actually
people who pay to hear her “ turn ” only, and go
away as soon as it is over—with a reckless abandon-
ment of coin very rare in an Australian audience.
The Poluskis have anew nautical item on the pro-
gramme which appeals warmly to everyone who
has sailed on the heaving ocean to Chowder; and
George Wood and Miss Glynn and other Tivoli
favorites boil the emotions of habitues into furious
applause every evening at blank p.m. precisely.
The Tivoli star may always be relied upon to rise
at a definite p.m. and set at ditto, which is a
methodical habit other stars who stay out at night
would do well to imitate.
* * at *
“ The Sign of the Cross ” revival having
duly passed away, Melbourne came rolling back
to the Princess’ on Saturday, and when “The
Harbor Lights ” went up people were paying five
shillings for s.r.o. In this old drama by Pettitt
and Sims, there are two villains and a desperate
Mark concerned in making unhappiness for the
hero and his best girl. Likewise, there is the girl
who went astray with the shinier of the two
villains, and somehow the plot gets shifted
from the bad character of one villain on to
the worse character of the other villain,
and the desperate Mark kidnaps the betrayed
spinster behind the scenes, and his desperate
mother (who is quite an excrescence) topples that
unhappy female over a cliff, and the hero towards
the finish is engaged at great length in rescuing
her from a watery grave, whilst the heroine dwin-
dles into a woman of no importance, and the sur-
viving villain looms larger than his natural size.
The plot seems to have been built to suit the
scene-painter, and it wasn’t well-built, anyhow.
Neither does the scenery lead up to any particular
thrills. One waits in vain for an unknown some-
thing that never comes to pass.
* * * *
The deck of H.M.S. Britannia is an im-
posing “set,” where a squad of local naval forces
go through a course of cutlass - drill to a waltz-
music accompaniment; but whatever happens
aboardship might just as well transpire ashore.
Although the hero (Julius Knight) talks freely
of his chance to earn promotion in a war with
China, he doesift go to sea after all, for he gets a
telegram stating that he has been transferred to
another ship, and can take a month’s leave.
Whereupon the local naval brigade cheers loudly
as the curtain falls, and nothing further is heard
of the war with China. Lots of people wear gilt
buttons, but the drama doesn’t provide an opening
for British valor. In spite of one murder and
some sudden death, “Harbour Lights ” is rather a
tame drama, as times go. The plot is over-dia-
logued. Moreover, the comic relief is tedious in
its irrelevancy, the trouble here being partly
attributable to Miss Florence Terris, who repre-
sents a sailor’s lass (played by Pattie Browne long
ago), after the manner of the consumptive Wally,
in “ Two Little Vagabonds.”
• * * *
One or two bursts of emotional acting by
Miss Ferrar; a first-class sketch of an aged ser-
vant by Atholwood ; and a number of clever
nautical scenic effects, constitute the cream of the
performance. Gaston Mervale, having dropped
his foreign accent, appears to advantage as
Mark, but Julius Knight and Miss Hughes are a
somewhat heavy pair of young lovers, and the two
villains, played by H. J. Carvell and David Glass-
ford, don’t come nearly up to the Firm’s tradi-
tions. The first “Harbor Lights” co. was dis-
tinctly stronger than this. Bert Gilbert, in Elton’s
place, is a disappointment. His broad comedy
lacks finesse and variety, and after he has thrown
off his sailor togs he ceases to waft an odour of
shrimps and mussels across the footlights. Sundry
minor parts are well-filled, likewise well-dressed ;
and the third act opens with a dance of pretty
girls.
** * *
Biondi’s “Scandal in a Restaurant,”
though it seemed on the first night an impossibly
rapid transaction for one man to accomplish, was
really not so rapid as the six-sided son of Italy
could have wished. The story goes that he subse-
quently reproached his dressers (in words mostly
ending in i) for their slothfulness, and put them
through half a dozen rehearsals of changing his
wardrobe, and the result is a more astounding
performance than ever. Biondi’s departure for
Sydney has not yet been mentioned in the Melb.
Opera House advts., but it is understood that he
will take his collection of identities across the
Murray in another week or so, whilst the boom is
still raging furiously. ( When Biondi goes the
Electrical Organ may‘as well depart likewise, and
if that ingeniously foolish toy should happen to
get lost in transit, Australia will endeavour to bear
the calamity with resignation.
** * *
Phil Newbury, who has recovered the full
use of his lucrative tenor-voice, was to give his
“Pop.” concert, at the Town Hall, on Wednesday,
instead of Saturday, this week, and next week he
will presumably take the floor on both nights.
Lightning-sketcher Nolan has joined the co., also
the Biograph has come back, and John Coleman
continues to vex the soul of musical criticism by
getting an encore for his “ turn.” To-night
(Thursday), Lenintone’s concert-co. makes a last
farewell appearance in Melbourne, at the aforesaid
building, which is very much tenanted of late.
** * *
Next Saturday (20th), the E.M.C.C. will
give a variegated entertainment, at the Town
Hall, “to relieve the club of its financial embarrass-
ment.” The programme offers an assortment of
“music, mirth and song,” by many well-known
artists, including W. and M.’s adorable ballerinas.
During the evening, too, a sergeant-major and a
sergeant will combat together on fiery steeds, or
rocking-horses, but whether this military outbreak
is classified as music, mirth or song The Bulletin
can’t say for certain.
** * #
And on Tuesday, the 23rd, the Adminis-
trator of the Government, together with his
comely relatives and a vast multitude of other
superior Melbourne residents, will assemble at the
Town Hall in Shakespearian apparel and form a
gorgeous spectacle on behalf of the Distressed
Actors’ Fund. For some time past J. F. Deegan,
the hon. sec. of the Shakespearian Ball, likewise
Tom Kennedy, the almoner of the D. A.F., have in-
dustriously shaken up the city to a due sense of the
things that ought to be done, and ought not to be
done, at a Divine William festival. They have got
promises of ten complete Shakespearian sets, and
a large supply of refreshment offerings from many
city firms. Numerous unemployed actors will
contribute their services as halberdiers, in tin hel-
mets and things, and the affair promises, with its
procession, tableaux and general splendor, to give
S’easure to all and a handsome profit to the Fund,
ouble-ticket, one guinea.
At Poverty Point.
Divorce proceedings are certainly off, and the popular
couple have been seen “walking out.,” Ala Angelina and
Edwin, he with his arm around her slim waist, and she
with her small head nestling somewhere in the vicinity of
his left lung. After all, there is a lot of the delight of
courtship in “making it up” after little matrimonial
squabbles.
Lemmone considers Adela Yerne the pianiste of the
age. He says : “She is a genius; she combines the
gentleness of the woman with the magnetism of the man.
She is only 19 now ; she will become the greatest pianiste
the world has ever seen.”
Lemmone will lose money on the last concert tour,
thanks to wet weather principally. Last year, about
this time of the season, Lemmone gave 41 concerts, with
only one wet night. And that night Gov. Hampden
came. Talk about the vagaries of fortune 1
He sat alone in a box, with his back to the audience,
his face to the players. He appeared a black object on a
bright-red ground ; black suit, black tie, black gloves ; a
face of black, solemn hue. A face which would have
enabled a lone-lorn Baptist preacher to rake in shekels
with “ Let us pray I’’ An impassiveness which would
have obtained for any coroner the nickname of “ The
Body.” A resignation such as a good, true woman wears
just prior to the birth of her 36th infant. The comedian
at the show —George Lauri at “ Jane.”
Biondi works hard for half-an-hour out of the 24. The
remaining time he puts on adipose tissue. His figure
about the waist when impersonating a female looks like a
bale of wool held together by three hoops—with the
middle one burst.
From all accounts, Cecily Staunton (Mrs. Goldenstedt, a
Maorilander, erstwhile of Sydney), a charming woman
with a very fine contralto voice, is going to make quite a
success in England. Her first appearance in London,
whither she went some time ago, was at a charity concert
given at the Duchess of Sutherland’s town house. Miss
Staunton’s imposing appearance in the tights of Lazarillo
will be remembered by many Australians. She was for
some time a member of the Montague-Turner co.
“ Holdar M.”: The stock-exchange scene in “ The
White Heather,” at Sydney Royal, seems a pretty loud
libel on present-day wild-cat warrens. The scrip-chasers
are represented tearing intruders to pieces and generally
playing the boisterous ass. In point of fact, strangers
are merely ignored, and apart from the bidding the bell-
toppered citizens have long ceased to riot. In any case,
the methods of the mining-speculator and the welched
racecourse-punter lie far apart. Apropos, when the
defaulting Scotch broker pegs out on the floor of the
Exchange (largely by reason of the wicked man’s machina-
tions) every glossy top-hat is respectfully raised to the
majesty of Death except the wicked man’s. This defiance
looks like a flaw in the part.
Biondi doesn't require seven dressers, it seems. But
the Melbourne weeklies, in the first instance, credited
him with that number, and it was nobody’s business to
tone the cheerful exaggeration down. Seven dressers, by
the way, would be decidedly embarrassing.
No resemblance between Biondi and Johnny Sheridan
in their male characters, yet Biondi, as a female, in two
of his sketches is a strong reminder of Widd.v O’Brien.
From which it would seem that there is very little
variety in the tricks and manners of he-womanho'nd.
“T.D.”: For the singer, appearance is nine points of
thp law. Contrast tenor Masters with old-hand M‘Guckin.
M‘G. would step across the platform nonchalantly, bow,
glance down the hall and up to the galleries, give his
moustache a twist, and, towards the end of the piano-
forte introduction, he would throw out his chest and
draw a volume of breath. Masters knows how to sing,
but has no more appearance than a local-preacher or a
church-soloist—which he is, essentially. Tenor Brans-
combe, of aforetime, was another example of a chorister
unmanned for the concert-platform.
“ Shifter ” : About the actress pretending to eat the
apple. Many performers cannot swallow on the stage.
Walter Montgomery, in the breakfast-scene of “ Still
Waters Run Deep,” regularly ate two eirgs, with toast,
and properly took his hot coffee. Other performers can
drink champagne, but have to do with empty mugs.
“ Melb.” : Pace your alarmist. The Board of Health
considers Melb. Royal safe. Shortly after it was
built, nearly 4000 people were said to be crammed into it,
one Sunday night, to hear Chas. Clark. The experiment
was made how quickly they could be let out by opening
all the escapes, and a newspaper said it was done in five
minutes. The Opera House is a tinder-box, the Bijou
entirely upstairs. The Princess’s and Alexandra are as
perfect as can be, on street corners, without the greed of
vestibule bars.
A good Melba notice, by C. F. Stansbury, appears in
the Illustrated American of April 2. The writer
describes Melb. Liedertafel’s concert at the Town Hall on
19th Oct., ’BS. Mrs. Armstrong sat on the stage half-
hidden by the violets she carried, and between her voice
and her violets Stansbury reached a rare pitch of intoxi-
cation. He was living at St. Kilda with Needham, who
conducted this particular concert, and “ it was my cus-
tom almost invariably to insist upon his playing Chopin’s
funeral march for me as a kind of nightcap. I literally
went to bed on it. On that night, before retiring, I called
upon Needham for the march. He played it in his best
style. Somehow, it fell Hat. I looked at him. ‘ Violets,’
said I. ‘ Violets,’ said he. Then we went to bed.”
During the last season in London Melba received
£3OO no less than 13 times for singing at private houses.
Emma Eantes gets always £2OO a night, and Calv 6 even
more. Paderewski has received as much as £IOOO before
his hair was cut. There is money in England.
An actress recently got a tremendous reception from
the gods on her entrance. There was no assignable
reason —it was not her first entrance, but in the middle of
the piece—till somebody found the cause in her change of
dress, which was made up of the colors ,of that day’s
popular and victorious football-team.
There is to be a new kind of Royal spook conjured up
when Julius Knight mums as Hamlet. It is not to be the
old style of ghost, in a grey gauze robe worn over clank-
ing armour, but a regular scientific ghost, produced with
an arrangement of mirrors on the spectroscope principle.
“ Little Minister” Leslie Thompson is, after 10 weeks’
illness, getting about again, though with a white patch
over one eye and a smoked glass over the other. Rheu-
matism followed by iritis nearly killed him, and he was
at one time doubtful whether he would be able to join
Pattie Browme at all. But now he has hopes, and, with
a return of bright weather, should soon pull right round.
Dear Bulletin.— Correspond mt “P.E.,” after showing
the absurdity of the Federici (alleged) story which Nellie
Farren told to a London interviewer, goes on to talk non-
sense himself. “ P.E.” states that Mephistopheles Fede-
rici “ fainted ” on that memorable night at Melb. Prin-
cess’s, when he found that he had no nitro glycerine cap-
sules in his pocket, and “died in his dressing-room ere
the res' Jrative could be procured.” The poor fellow died,
as Nellie Farren said, whilst descending to Sheol with
Faust (Leumane)on the stage-trap. His body was placed
on the table in the green-room. And because he was
actually dead when taken off the trap, and might have
been the victim of an accident, there are medical men in
Melb. to-day who stoutly maintain that Fed erici’s body
was a proper subject for an inquest. Strange to say,
coroner Youll didn’t' play a part in the Federici tragedy!
I may tell you that at least one doctor thinks Federici
broke his neck.—K.
Fitzgeralds’ Circus, billed at Whangarei (M.L.), owing
to stormy weather, did not arrive till 11 o’clock at night.
Not to disappoint the large crowd, the tent was at once
erected, and the performance commenced at 2 a.m.,
finishing just as day broke.
“ Bogan ” : Re “ Nyngan’s ” wail (Bulletin, 16/7/’98)
about the ignorance of backblockers (presumably Nyn-
ganites) in mistaking his lioness for a tiger, a bear for an
elephant, and so on. I was at the show, heard nothingof
the kind, and don’t believe “ Nyngan ” did, eit her. Those
present eagerly followed round a pale person in frock-
coat, who bleated for a space in front of each cage until,
as he approached the last one, a rush was made back to
the lion’s residence, which, it was reported, the pale per-
son would enter when his round was finished ; and great
was the disgust when he merely bowed and walked out-
side. “Nyngan ” is wrong. The public were only inter-
ested in two of the animals present—the lion and the
man—and the man turned d >g on them !
Amongst the collection of exhibits in Sohier’s Wax-
works, which recently visited the backblocks of N.S.
Wales, was a fine group of the Holy Family, the
Virgin being represented with outstretched palm. Fre-
quently after the show a collection of pence and other
small coins would be found in the hand of the model, the
ecret donations of the faithful.
John Hollingshead, the high priest of Gaiety bur-
lesque, is flippant. “ The Legitimate Drama,” he says,
“ or what is understood to answer to that title, is a
drama whose authors are dead, and whose copyrights
have expired. Drama of that kind is not burdened with
authors’ fees, and what is more, not with the presence of
the authors at rehearsal. The manager may cut and
mangle the piece to his heart’s content, without fear of
a stage quarrel or a legal injunction. He can cast the
piece how he likes, and produce it how he likes and w'hen
he likes.” Nevertheless Hollingshead was responsible for
the most expensively-cast revivals of old “legitimate”
comedy that London has ever seen. Sam Phelps, Charles
Matthews, Hermann Vezin, J. L. Toole (then a very
costly “ star ”) and Lionel Brough appeared together at
the Gaiety in matinee productions of “John Bull ” and
other pieces.
Miss Nora Dane, the Melh. Conservatorium warbler
who went ’Ome the other week, is the heroine of the
three raggedest verses in Marshall Hall’s “Hymns,
Ancient and Modern.” The prof, w rote ’em, “extempore
for a Lady’s Album,” and they look it. Especially the
last verse—
Then when ye’re amid your new' friends, Nora Dane,
And the wine and the song pass the table to thee,
O empty a bumper, and sing this refrain —
“ Here’s ol I times and old friends far over the sea!”
Mighty strong wine if it s going to pass the table to her.
“Thorold”: The Ancient Order of Deadheads must
sincerely regret Carlyle Sm.vthe’s retirement from the
show business. To the man who wants to get in on the
nod, the Much Travelled is usually (and wisely) as hard
as nails, but Carlyle w anted some of his father’s invulner-
ability to make a really successful entrepreneur.
“ Stroller” : Re “ M‘G.” The best critics of an art are
its exponents. Every legitimate actor loves his Shake-
speare. From the star to the Poverty Pointer all have
some pet part, and none have so many wor-hippers as
Hamlet. The great st dramas are those that can be most
felt, and every actor knows that Shakespeare makes a
greater tax on his emotions than any other. The antique
form repels, but uncompromising modernity would con-
fine our reading to to day s paper. It is surely worth
while striving to become accustomed to blank verse, for a
little allegiance to the spirit of “ boil-down ” will allow
Shakespeare to grip a modern audience. “M‘G.” plainly
hankers after melodramatic curtain novel situations and
other devices of sensationalism necessary to tickle faded
souls that, have forgotten how to feel. I know a man of
“ M’G.’s ” kidney—a clever journalist, too who declares
Shakespeare no dramatist, and whom I have yet seen
rapturously applauding some music-hall ballad, and
laughing at a corner-man ! That Shakespeare fails to
provide such dramatic fare as this I admit—but then he
probably thought the drama something better than an
appetiser for between the acts.
A bit of real life. Stage-manager (to ballet, at re-
hearsal) : “ Now, then, young ladies ! ” Silence, in which
the young ladies pay not the slightest heed. Then, Stage-
manager (in voice of thunder): “Stand up, you blanky
cows! ” Responsive young ladies (with chorus of voice
and raised right feet and bowed heads): “ Oh, what a
gentleman ! ”
“J.G.”: The effect in “The Sign of the Cross” of a
Christian chorus striking in on the riot of pagan revellers,
and one trying to drown the other, is a crib from Ibsen’s
“ Emperor and Galilean.”
THE SIGN OF THE OROSS A SOUL WAIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A tale of ye olden tyme— a dirge that is done in rhyme—
The doleful tale of a murky sin in a sunny Italian dime;
Of a Roman maid whose sandalled feet went pattering
down the Sacred Street,
And a jewelled pagan who cast his eye on the white-robed
saint as she flitted by ;
And he moaned at night in his costly towers,
Where his palace stood ’mid the olive bowers ;
For he loved this maid of ye olden tyme, and this solemn
dirge that is done in rhyme
Is the tale of that love’s undoing.
A tale of a dismal crime that was done in ye olden tyme,
Sung to the tune of a brassy bell that rings with a dreary
chime.
For a new God born in Galilee came between these lovers
of Italie.
And the pagan dreamed through bis angry hours,
As he drank red wine in his gilded towers ;
Dreamed of a girl who was young and fair, with big brown
eyes and aureoled hair—
So he stole that girl in ye olden tyme, and this solemn
tale in a husky rhyme
Is the tale of that pagan’s wooing.
Then it chanced in ye olden tyme, away back in the
young world’s prime,
That a gaudy Osesar decked out just like a king in a pan-
tomime,
Sent the lovers to die a dreadful death from a coarse, red
beast with a rancid breath,
And the lion ate the sandalled feet
Which one time tripped down the Sacred Street;
And the aureoled hair and the small white hands were
chewed by this beast on the gory sands ;
So her flesh is dust and her bones are lime, and this soul-
ful song of ye olden tyme
Is the tale of that lion’s chewing.
TIYUS SADY.


ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. C. GOLDSTEIN,
(C/O S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —-
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
“Tb€ RCALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists ; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
* * • *
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
assay ores, and treat samples up to 5 tons, by chlorina-
tion, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet or dry crushed.
Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp Batteries, Roast-
ing and Smelting Furnaces, and General Mining
Machinery.*
R. BELL & CO.’S Vestas
—ARE—
. . . British Vestas.
Ans. 1
Reps. )
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings,
Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shaving's, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald
178 William Street,
Mm,bourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ;68 Currie-st., Adel.; Queen- si., Brisk
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The recent Privy Council decision in the case of
Swan v. the Perpetual Executors Association appears to
be pretty rough on the Me'hourne trustee companies. In
188 S the Trustees Executors and Agency co., having
much more coin than it knew what to do with, agitated
for an Act of Parliament to legalise the investment of
trust moneys in bank deposits, with the opTon of with-
dra val at any moment on forfeiture of interest due. The
money earned the usual deposit interest if it remained in
the bank for 12 months, as sometimes it did. The new
Act, or amendment in the original Act, was distinctly un-
derstood to have been passed “to enable trustee co’s. to
deal with moneys awaiting investment to the best advan-
tage,” but the drafting of the clause didn’t properlj ex-
press the Legislature’s intention, and the result of the
blunder is an unexpected liability for the Trustees Execs,
and kindred Melbourne institutions. According to Privy
Council reading of the Law, the co’s. were not entitled to
put their faith in banks, and in any case where the bank
went wr ng, and the investment made, or will make, a
loss, the investing co. is liable for payment in full.
* * *
Melbourne Tramway Co. shareholders, despite
the bitter wail about bad times, have very little to com-
plain of. They got 12 per cant, dividend in 1889 ;16 per
cent, in 1890 ;20 per cent, in 1891 ; 15 per cent, in 1892 ;
and 5 per cent, ever since. And they get their 5 per
cent, on a nominal paid-np capital of £480,000, of which
they only contributed £400,000 —the balance was made
up out of profits. Therefore, they really get 6 per cent,
as their minimum, while their maximum has been 20 per
cent. A concern which can do so well as this even in the
very worst of the bad times doesn’t call for any vast
amount of sympathy when it screws down the wages of
its employes.
• * * *
Ed. Bulletin.—ln your last issue, you refer to
a list of companies published by the Capitalist, in which
it alleged Mr. Lowles was connected with the direction.
At the foot of the list the Capitalist says: “It remains
to be seen what returns the shareholders will get for the
money put into the co’s which Mr. John Lowles directs.”
Just so ; but the Capitalist is opposed to Chamberlain
and all his works, and purposely published a misleading
list. Mr. Lowles’ name appears as one of the directors of
each of the five financing and promoting co’s comprised
in the list, the oldest of which is not quite two years, and
the youngest was formed this year. Financing firms
whose tenders have been accepted by London County
Council for American and Australian hardwood blocks
may be a little flow, but the shareholders think dividends
are sure later on. Two of the co’s are assisting in the
financing and promoting of the New Guinea Land Syndi-
cate. As the shareholders of the four mining co’s (in
which only prospecting expenses have been incurred) hold
scrip in the financial concerns, they are practically secure
from any loss. On the whole, taking the list as it stands,
the writer contends (1) that your term “ cruel ” is mis-
applied, (2) that your accusation of being dividendless is
premature, and (3) that your assertion that they are
mostly, if not all, dead and dying, is distinctly untrue.—
J.R.B.
* , * *
The proposed amendment of the Vic. “ Auc-
tion Sales Act 1890,” by allowing the temporary appoint-
ment of a clerk, or deput} - , on payment of 10s. fee per
day, provides “ for the old man’s annual drunk,” which
Ereviously entailed a dead loss of a month yearly ; should
e continue (as has happened) the spree too long, the
license can be transferred for the balance of term for two
guineas, or, should he die, the executors can appoint an
agent and have the license transferred to him, and so
carry on.
* * * *
Two great carrying cos., Wright Heaton and co.
Ltd., of Sydney, and The McCulloch Carrying co., of
Melb., have amalgamated. Any shareholders of the latter
co. who do not wish to continue their connexion with the
business will receive their capital back with something
like 12J per cent, per annum for the 11J years that the
co. has been in existence.
* * • •
Though the Melb. pawnbrokers would like to
fry Atty.-Gen. Isaacs, on account of his Usury Bill, they
probabiy remember one thing in his favor. Long ago, he
got a decision that an application for a pawnbroker’s
license could not legally he denied. One Abrahams, or
something, wanted a license for a house at Belfast or
Portland, and the license was refused. The magistrates
said the shop wasn’t wanted ; Moses, or whatever his
name was, appealed, on Isaacs’advice; and Holroyd, J.,
ruled that, unless Moses was a proved bad character, he
must get leave to lend his money.
* * * *
“Enquirer” : The difference is mainly caused
by the fact that the Bank of Victoria has less capital to
invest than the other ; it really earns a larger percentage
on its capital. Also, it pays 4J per cent, on its recon-
structed deposits, against the other bank’s 3 per cent.
The Bank of Victoria is really the better of the two.
* * * *
Alick Eorrest has inspected the Kanowna allu-
vial leads. “ A dish of dirt was taken from the dump and
washed in his presence. A 3dwt. piece was obtained and
given to Mr. Forrest. Another dish washed from Dorns’
claim, and a 2£dwt. piece obtained. This was also given
to Mr. Forrest.” Two for Alick !
» * * *
English financial papers begin to write a good
deal about the inability of Westralian cos. to secure com-
petent and trustworthy managers ; and some Westralian
papers reprint approvingly. Certainly some grossly in-
competent men have been employed ; but pretty often
the excuse of a bad manager is put forward to cover the
failure of a bad mine. Besides, a lot depends upon what
the co. expects its manager to do : the manager who is a
miner and can explore a property most effectively and
economically often gets hopelessly lost when asked to tell
what a reef which has just been tapped at surface will
“ go ” at depth ; while the man who has spent too much
time at the desk to have more than a superficial know-
ledge of underground work hedges cunningly, and saves
himself. So during the last few weeks one manager,
whose reputation as a miner and mine-engineer is pecu-
liarly high among practical men, has been described by
the directors, who lately sacked him, as having shame-
fully misled shareholders, and thus laid the foundations
of the disaster that has overtaken the co.
The wise and cautious mine-manager never
writes a report upon his own property—that is, the pro-
perty he is managing—for company-floating purposes, if
he can possibly avoid it—and he generally can. If the co.
doesn’t float because his report was not glowing enough,
out he goes. If it doesn’t float though his report was
glowing, out he goes presently, and curses are showered
on him by furious shareholders, and by direotorssimulating
fury, who want to know where in thunder the reef is that
he said would go 4oz. to the ton. And if the co. does
float, then it is 50 to 1 that things will not turn out as the
promoters twisted his words into predicting that they
would ; and there is still trouble in store.
Also, when a co. expects to get a miner and
engineer in the same person as the chemist and metallur-
gist, and pays for only one man, and an ordinary one at
that, it deserves to be disappointed. Just note that when
even general-manager Stewart, of the B.H. Prop., went
up to report on Chillagoe he had a confidential metallur-
gist at his right hand all the time.
* * * •
The outsider gets, perhaps, the best idea of the
difference between Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie districts by
reflecting that, according tjo Govt, returns, the value of
the mining machinery in the former is £124,200 and in the
latter £2,323,947. The alleged value of all mining
machinery erected in'Westralia has passed the eleven-
million point.
* * * *
Some scrupulously exact person has figured it
out that in the Bank of England niine (Westralia) there
are 111,380 tons of ore ready to be broken down, and that
the lot will yield 95,2240zl gold. The same scrupulous
person, who has gladdened the hearts of the shareholders
with these tidings, further promises that of this gold
63,4500 z. will be profit Unfortunately, no guarantee
accompanies the promise.
* * » *
Great Boulder directors still in very hot water
over the Milling co.’s contract for the treatment of slimes
and tailings by the unknown and untried Konneman pro-
cess. The registered list of shareholders in the co. afore-
said contains only eight names, subscribing for one £
share each, and the others have been kept in the back-
ground. The directors, too; are to get 10 per cent, of the
profits. This mysterious co. is to get more than double
the cost of treating slimes and tailings by the methods at
present at work at Hannan’s, and will divide the gold
after 60 per cent, has been given to the mine find ng the
whole of it. Either a gigantic grab or the Boulder direc-
tors are fools.
• * • *
The W.A. Review, which always says nice
things for the Boulder crowd, and nasty things against
the London and Globe, intimates that the patentee
guarantees to return all the water fioin the tarings free
from any trace of slimes, and, “under these circumstances,
the Boulder shareholders have cause to he congratulated.”
Yes. Pay 12s. a ton, find £20,000 for the plant, and
divide 40 per cent, of the gold, and, in return, the water
is to be returned. Rats !
* » * *
A Kanowna paper gives “the exact version of
Father Long’s experience with the Sacred Nugget.” The
good father was proceeding from his camp to the station,
and met two men carrying the monster. They asked him
to take care of it for them —a very'common circumstance
with persons carrying cwt. nuggets. He refused —as
usual—and told them “to take it to the bank.” He saw
the nugget, and “of course, was utterly astonished.” He
also took the pledge of secresy. What, .became of the
nugget?—that is the question, but the-newspaper is quite
certain of its existence, for “ Father Long saw it with his
own eyes, and is positive in that assertion.” But is his
reverence quite sure it wasn’t a pumpkin? The latest
message from the West says that Father Long told a
Kanowna audience of 5000 people on 11th August that
the nugget was found “ J-mile this side of the nearest
lake on the Kurnalpi road ” —whereupon the 5000 madly
stampeded. Father Long added that the nugget was
found between sft. and 6ft. deep, and weighed 951 b. to
1001 b. And at latest dates the 5000 were still hunting
and blessing Father Long.
* * * *
Many good engineering authorities reckon con-
fidently that the great Coolgardie water-supply scheme
will be a glorious dropping of £3,000,000 of borrowed
money and all that is left of Westralia’s credit into the
desert. The 300 miles of pipes are to be laid on the sur-
face of the ground to save the cost of trenching ; and the
day’s heat and the night’s cold will expand and contract
the 90,000,000 rivets and the 3,000,000 joints, and rot the
india-rubber packing, and raise Cain generally. It is cal-
culated that if one rivet-hole out of every 15,000 opens to
just the size of a pin’s point, all the wafer will dribble
away en route, and not a drop will reach Coolgardie. Con-
sidering the external circumstances and the internal pres-
sure, Coolgardie seems hardly likely to get more than
enough to alleviate its whisky with.
• * * *
Kanowna goldfields now swarms with “ dead-
beats ” and probably ere long the field will he left to the
few that are on payable gold. These are not counted in
thousands, and business people are going broke right and
left through stress of competition.
• • • *
There is hope for outside Westralian low-grade
mines when they begin to talk of economic raising and
crushing, and to compare prices. Fraser’s (Southern
Cross) leads the way with a statement showing gross cost
to be £1 ss. sjd. per ton, development work, office
management, &c., included. This gives 7s. Bd. per ton
profit—on ioz. ore.
* * » *
Kalgoorlie, from an Adelaide man’s view :
“ Good accounts from all the leading mines. Plenty of
vigorous work going on, and yields likely to increase all
round. The market has taken a turn for the better, prices
generally steadying with one or two good advances such
as the rise in Ivanhoes and Associateds. London is also
showing a firmer tendency, and everything points to a
repetition of last year’s Sept, and Oct. flutter. Looks
like a generally improving market throughout Aug. For
a gamble, what about North Kalgurlis ? They are nearly
sure to have some important developments ere long in the
west crosscut. The lode passed through is 16ft. wide,
averaging from f to an oz. all through—nothing startling,
but a strong body of ore. Boulder Central will soon be
getting down into the region of the Brookman Boulder
lode, and it seems a certainty for them to get it within
the next two or three months. The co. has between
£6OOO and £7OOO in hand. Good accounts of Kalgurlis,
but their time, I think, has yet to come ; they are not far
enough advanced with their equipment, and it will take a
year before they are producing. Nicholls returns to take
charge of the Perseverance. He was in Australia last
year representing Frank Gardiner. Lane’s influence is
said to be waning in London, and if there is any trouble
over the milling contract with the Boulder co. the
directors, no doubt, will, rightly or wrongly, try to make
Lane the scapegoat. This remarkable contract is meet-
ing with very hitter opposition from a strong body of
London shareholders, and the feeling against it in
Adelaide is unanimous. The question naturally arises—
Was Lane in London when this contract was made ? If
so, writer would like to drop a sympathetic tear for him.”
* * * *
The Australian Mining Standard: “Gold-
bearing pug at Kanowna is claiming some attention. It
is estimated that there are 60 million tons of it on the
North, Q.E.D., Golden Valley, and 6-Mile leads, and this
will average fully loz. per ton. This estimate as to quan-
tity is a low one, and it may he taken for granted that a
very much larger quantity is available on the leads named,
but the average of value would not he decreased below
the amount, stated hv this extension of the area.” And
how was the too-modest estimate arrived at ? Why say
60 million tons if there are 600 million tons of loz. pug?
Why should Kanowna suffer the odium of having only
240 million pounds’ worth of pug, when it really has a
great deal more Y And this in a mining paper which has
a special issue on the “ Mineral Wealth of Tasmania,” and
threatens to expose the wealth of the other provinces,
if it gets enough encouragement.
Heavy buying in Adelaide of Westralians some
weeks back created a shortage of scrip in London. The
big London houses now give so little support to W.A.
stocks that as soon as Adelaide turns a seller London
slumps. London Critic puts it—“ The London dog is
wagged by the Adelaide tail.” How much federation
would it take to put poor old Sydney in such a position ?
• * * *
Some men holding Lake George Mines shares
at 3s. are beginning to wonder who were the men that got
out at £3 and over.
“ Vic.,” from Hannan’s “ One of Kalgoorlie’s
leading shift-bosses assures me that two of the principal
mines are putting through the stamps almost double the
quantity of ore alleged in their returns for the amount of
gold won.” A very old game, and no doubt practised to
some extent in W.A. .
* * •
Cabled that the action to recover Col. North's
profits as a promoter in the ‘ P underdeiry clea.l has
been dismissed. North promised a Jneeti g
holders to stump up. His executors doing so
because of an action by the vendors of the mine for the
nondelivery of scrip which were locked up while the
boom was raging ; consequently, those vendors are still in
possession of most of their shares. Earl Eirigall nianfuljy
threw in all his interests in another mine which is turning
out well and paying an occasional div. Myrmg talked of
doing many things; from his “Jabber it would not
have been surprising had he given up all his wor j
goods and returned to N.S.W. to inspect rabbits. But it
is much easier to throw' up “ cats ” than to get boomsters
to disgorge profits. When North made his promise, some
crafty shareholder should have called for pen-and-ink
and got his signature to it. As it was, there exists no
contract.
* » • *
The filter-press system of treating slimes, as
adopted at Lake View mine (W.A.), is a great success.
The chief initial trouble Was found to consist in settling
the slimes. The first method of doing this has been
changed. The overflow is now pumped direct into the
presses, and the clear water returned to the battery. A
weak cyanide solution is used first; air is then blown
through the presses ; after which a strong solution is
pumped in for 20 minutes, and then a wash water, tne
slimes are said to vary in value from 10 to lfidwts., ana
after treatment are only worth from ldwt. to ldwt. logrs.,
which gives 86 to 90 per cent, extraction at a cost ot
about 7s. Laboratory tests of the solubility of gold in
slimes can be made by simply treating them in a 25 per
cent, solution, and agitating for 20min., and it may be
taken for granted that, if the gold is dissolved in that
time, filter-presses, such as they have on this great, 'yell-
managed mine, will treat them. It is not unlikely that
the new system will be adopted at the Cobar gold-mines,
if it is warranted by experiments made in that direction.
* * » *
The weekly copper-production of the Great
Cobar mine has just topped 80 tons, worth over 14000 ,
add at least ±l5OO for gold and silver, deduct exes (surely
not more than ±2500), and, say, ±3OOO a week profit re-
mains, which modest amount is divisible in five shares.
The brothers Longworth have one apiece, and so have
Dr. Read, of Singleton, and “ Abby ” Dangar; and "'rder
understands that ex-Justice Minister Gould divides a fifth
with another person. The tribute has some years to run,
and, apart from that, the tributors are the owners of more
than half the shares in the Great Cobar co.; but, inasmuch
as another tribute w'as let over their heads before they con-
trolled the mine’s destiny, they are now working to pull
as much ore as possible out in the time. It is coming out
now r at the rate of 3000 tons a week. What will be left
w'hen they have finished depends entirely on the bottom
levels. To-day it is a great mine, but the grade of the ore
will not stand any material drop in the deeper levels,
where the iron is likely to be heavier, silica less, and when
the oxidised ores now used in fluxing are exhausted.
* * * *
Young Australia (Cobar) : 14140 z. reported
from a seven weeks’ run of cyanide-plant. A few more
yields like this and the heap will be finished. A mine
with a fine-looking future, but it needs big money to work
it in a big way. Taking one year with another, there is
very little in any of the Cobar mines under any other
system.
* • * *
The mining-man of Sydney D.T. gives a good
account of recent developments in Mt. David mine, but,
of course, is unable to find any excuse for the manage-
ment under which the show has groaned There are
several very rich stopes from which the directors must
have been tempted to gouge a sensational crushing, in-
stead of using them to sweeten things. Nothing for it
apparently but to pull down the 30-head mill and rebuild
it elsewhere. The best site, ’tis whispered, has been
“located” by another party. Altogether, Mt. David has
been pronounced a permanent and good mine.
9 » * *
Another .£5OOO cash has been put into “High-
land Chief” Sheepstation by the J.B. proprietary, and
the district breathes freely. Fortunately Bull so
much money he doesn’t know what to do. Deeper pro-
specting is now the order, but those who know like
shallow shows best in that district—deep mines don’t go
down with them.
» * * »
At the Eleanora (N.S.W.) half-yearly meeting
in Adelaide good things were said of the present manager
and insinuations made against the former man, as usual.
An attempt is again to be made to work the lode as it
comes ; time will show how this works out. It failed
with one man before ; yet that is no absolute reason why
it should fail with another. But it is a tough proposition,
anyhow ; and a little improvement in the mine would be
better than all the improvements it is possible to make in
the management of it.
* • * *
N.S.W. mines worked by English eo’s., for the
shares of which there is absolutely no quotation : —Amana
—Wentworth ; Braidwood Proved Mines (what a joke !) —
Cobar Gold Mines, Compagnie des Mines d’Or, Darcy
Estates Gold Mines, Garibaldi, Hillgrove, Glen Elgin
Mines, Golden Gully, Great Victoria Cross, Turon, G.M.
Hawkins’ Hill, G.M. Holam’s Lucky Hill, Inverell Dia-
mond Fields, Lagoon Creek, Lyndhurst Gold Mines, Mt.
M'Donald Gold Mines, Myall United, Mt. Rea G.M., Pam-
bula Mines, Pinnacles, Forbes, Perseverance Rewarded,
G.M. (another joke) Stuart Town G.M., TambooraraCreek
G.M., Tamworth G.M., Tomingley G.M., Turon Mines,
Wentworth Extension, White Cliffs Opals, White Rock.
* * * •
They talk again at White Cliffs of a co-opera-
tive society of opal-getters, with the main object of
putting the gem-stone on the European market. But
past failures in the same direction have made this effort
listless. The fact is, one-half of the miners will not, as
the result of past experience, trust the peculiar gem in
anybody’s hands, while the other half is too hard-up to be
able to afford to wait a couple of months for returns.
* * * *
At last a correspondent has been found to
announce the sorrowful truth about the Wattle Flat
mines—it is that they are nearly “ shut down for want of
funds.” This camp has long suffered from the want of
gold, crushings, and capital—never from the want of news
in which there is often a great want of truth.
* * » *
Since the shock of the July - production
report, Mt. Lyell shares have dodged up and
down, chiefly down, and are now buyable at
from £6 to £6 10s. The comparatively small num-
ber who got out at £l2, and then backed their judg-
ment by “ shorting,” and are now silent on their success,
and quietly waiting to come in as “ bulls ” at the right
time. Looks as if Mt. Lyell has swung its pendulum to its
furtherest point. That happens with nearly all great
mines. When Mt. Morgans were £lB, big wagers were
laid that they would go to £25. They went backwards
instead, and at one time stood in danger of reaching 255.
The drop in Lyells has given the coming copper-boom a
nasty set-back, extending from Zeehan even unto Chilla-
goe.
» » * •
H. J. Brock, of Tas., who 1 ate! y made hisfinal clean-
up, has, let us hope, found another Golden Gate. Through
thick and thin, good and ill report, he held on to his huge
interest in the great Tas. mine of that name. At last the
turning point came, but then even Brock had little idea
of the stayer the mine was. Four years ago he was ready
to take less money for the mine than it has since paid in
divs. which total upwards of a quarter million, and there
are a lot more in sight.
• * * *
“ Walhalla ” : Be John Bull’s mine-managers,
a former manager of John’s in Gippsland considered one
wheelbarrow sufficient for seven men at a soft excava-
tion. His successor found it was customary there to blow
at changing-time three long and three short whistles ; he
thought this a waste of steam, and accordingly stopped
the blowing of the three short whistles. Fact 1
The deepest level at which gold has been got in
Australia is in the New Chum Consolidated, Bendigo,
where, at the intersection of two spurs at a depth of
3520 ft. the metal was found. But, so far, has not proved
to be more than a speck.
* * • *
The Vic. Govt, mining-agent in London has
received a letter from a German gentleman to whom he
furnished particulars of a certain ancient gold reef, this
much-too-grateful stranger promises that a “phalanx ot
Germans will presently interest themselves in the mines
of Victoria.
* * • *
“S.”: Mother-in-law Britannia, with “the
Victorian Gold Estates C 0.,” scoops one of the best things
offering in Vic. mining market for years. The next best
will probably be taken over by J. Bull one of these days—
the drainage of the Sebastopol Plateau, Ballarat, and the
run of all the deep alluvial. To get at this dirt has been
the 30-year-old yearning of every back-date digger who
helped to scoop out the rich gutters down to the level
where the previous wetness became a forbidding sea.
* * • *
Seems likely that the last has been heard of the
long-drawn-out law-fight between the Dry Creek Smelting
co. and the B.H. British co., and that, on the strength of
a substantial concession from the £4240 verdict of Vic.
Full Court on appeal from Hodges, J., who fixed damages
at £2O, the British co. won’t go to the Privy Council.
Whereat there is much joy on the part of some very
influential mine-managing people who don’t come out of
the jumbled business with much credit —though the Vic.
newspaper-reading public haven’t been allowed to see
much of that side of the wretched wrangle.
* • * *
So low an ebb has the Australian Miners’ Asso-
ciation of Vic. reached that the Bendigo branch, the most
numerous in the body and the centre of the organisation
(the general secretary is in the branch), lately had to
adjourn its half-yearly meeting, less than 1 per cent, of
the members being present; and when the meeting was
held there was still present less than the 30 required to
transact financial business. Also there were not enough
candidates nominated for the dozen committee seats.
Membership is maintained on account of the sick and
accident benefits ; but since W. G. Spence “ cut ” from the
general secretaryship and got into the N.S.W. bush move-
ment, all other interest in the body has petered out.
• * * *
Gympie returns for July 7220 tons were
crushed for 59410 z., against 45750 z. for July,’97—a de-
crease of 11820 z., but an increase of 2644 tons in amount
crushed. Yield per ton has fallen from loz. lldwt. 3gr.
to 16dwt. lOgr. Cyanide gave 2900 z that the total
output mounted to 62320 z. Divs., £9356 13s. 5d., against
£11,536 11s. 3d. for July, ’97. Great Eastern heads div.-
payers with £23Bslos.—second div. this year.
• * » *
Gympie boom has quickened a, big litter of
hungry pups. The local miners state it will take half a
million in calls to prove them. Meanwhile, the shrewd
brokers are beginning to come in out of the rain.
* * • *
Mt. Morgan record to the end of May, which
closes the co’s financial vear —Total value of gold raised up
to date, £7,400,000, or 1',800,0000z. from 850,000 tons ; ex-
penditure to raise this, £2,570,000 ; paid to shareholders,
£4,700,000, or £4 14s. a share, leaving balance and reserve
of £115,000. During this year the above-mentioned total
of divs. will amount to some five millions. These figures
only apply to the mine since it was formed into a limited
liability co. of a million shares. For four years previous
to this large dividends nad been paid, but figures are not
get-at-able.
* • m *
In the past, the blunt truthfulness of the C.
Towers mining manager was proverbial. If “ she ’’ looked
poor, he said so in his published report. Now, evidently
seared by circumstances, several of him are putting on
the W.A. gloss.
* * * *
“If you have a friend that is determined to
come (to Klondike) advise him to come by Dyra, over
‘Chilcoot, either in winter or summer ; no other trail is
worth speaking of” —lately wrote a friend of Whiteley
King from the chilly region aforesaid. And, as Whiteley
King’s friends are mostly verra Scotch and cautious, their
advice is generally worth *
-Shearers’ member Poynton, who knows the
country well, states that areas west of Port Augusta,
which once carried 1,000,000 sheep, now have not a single
hoof on them owing to the losses per dingo and drought,
and because of the illiberality of S.A. pastoral legislation.
Yet the province has paid £1,000,000 in the last 10 years
as compensation for squatters’ improvements, and owes
£300,000 more—some of the improvements for which
Govt, paid £60,000 and £70,000 are not now worth as
many shillings.
% • • •
The buyers who “boycotted ” the Woolgrowers’
Co-operative sale, in Sydney, the other day, had as much
right to stop away from that sale as they have to stop
away from A.B.’s bootshop. There is no reason why a
buyer of boots should go to A.B. if he can get the same
boots cheaper from C.D. The Sydney woolbrokers charge
the buyer >d. per lb. on wool, so, if a buyer values wool at
Bd. per lb., he does not bid Bd. for it at the Bing’s sale,
for, if he did, he would pay 3d. x |d. But he bids 7Jd.,
because bids must rise by jd. per bid, and therefore he
gets the wool for 7Jd. x jd. =7£d. At the Co-operative
sale, there is no charge to the buyer whatever, and there-
fore, for wool worth Bd. per lb., the buyer could afford to
pay Bd. But the buyers, as a body, will not bid Bd. at the
Co-operative sale for wool they can get (The Bulletin can
see no logical hole in this theory) at the Bing’s sale for
7fd. Hence the buyers boycott the Co-operative co., and
there is much joy in the Brokers’ camp and much wrath
in the Co-operators’. The latter firm intends sending all
its wool to London.
* * * »
Dear Bulletin.—“ Old Miner” says that the
Griffith and Girofla and others at Chillagoe are not true
lodes, that they are surface-deposits, and that “many of
them (which of them ?) are clean duffered out.” Is the
Girofla not a lode—can it said to be duffered out when
there are 22,000 tons of smeltable ore in sight? Is not
the Griffith a lode, and who will attempt to say that it
has duffered ? Mt. Garnet is a “ big formation of low-
grade ore,” is it ? Is 10 per cent, low-grade ore ? Has
“ Old Miner” ever seen a truer fissure than that which is
filled by the Garnet body ? The worst of it all is that
people like “Old Miner” generalise on differences and,
therefore, are unworthy of argument or recognition.
So I will particularise on this Mt. Garnet. Half-a-mile of
outcrr l j proved by shafts ; a tunnel into the hill at a point
80ft. below the crop breaks into the cleanest and most
definite footwall; a winze from the tunnel down 35ft.—the
tunnel, continued 83ft., is in solid ore—and a drive south
60ft. holeing into a shaft 90ft. deep. And all these work-
ings are in ore —“ low-grade ” ore—lo per cent. ore. And
this alleged formation, which is to duffer-out shortly, is a
thing to particularise on. Judging by the crop, the lode
will be between 100 and 130 ft., and it looks as if it would
go right down as far as Sheol. — Bandolph Bedford.


>•
d
ORIENT
CLOTNIN6
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOE
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
I Opposite \
V. G.P.O. /
Liverpool ai>d Lopdop
(Slobe IpSOraixc Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three I/mulred and
Twenty-eight 'Thousand rounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
Empowered by Act N.S.VV. Vic. 28, 1865.
FIRE INSURANCE
On EVERY DESCRIPTION of PRO-
PERTY, RENTS, and INTEREST.
LIFE INSURANCE
IN ANY FORM. See Prospectus and
Special Table D.
Local Directors:
Walter Cummino Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. 11. E. Eater, Esq. ; and
Eric H. Mackay, Esq.
M. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Oftiee A ust ralasia
62 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
Harrington $ go. [td.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC •
MERCHANTS • •
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY;
Melb. Agents: Messrs. Craven & Co., 179 Collins-st.;
Brisbane Branch: 64 Queen-st.;
Chemicals
Shutters
Have the Latest Kinds of .
Lenses
Plates
Mounts
Papers
Cameras
Sundries.
BST New Complete Illustrated Catalogue (No. 7)
now ready ; post free on application. It contains
full particulars of them all.
See our advt. on page 3 for Latest Novelties. [2
SOCIETY
Melb. University Council found itself un-
able once to consider the removal of a professor
for alleged drunkenness. But only the public
interest was involved in that case. Let us see if
even the tenure “ quam diu se bene gcsserit ” will
prevent said council from taking action against
liberty of speech and pen in Marshall Hall’s case,
at the behest of journalistic Podsnappery and
bigoted religious rancour.
» * • *
What’s the matter with the following ex-
tract from Marshall Hall’s “ Hymns Ancient and
Modern,” anyhow?—
I must confess, to my distress,
That I have many foes,
And every day for them I pray
With thumb unto my nose.
Such beautiful un-Christian truths strike a chord
of sympathy in every human heart. A Bulletin
bard will add a few verses on his own, in a similar
worldly strain:—
AN AUSTRALIAN FABLE.
A mob of sheep noticed the
arrival of a family of rabbits in
their neighborhood, and were
divided in opinion as to the
advisableness of allowing them
to settle down—one party argw-
ing that although their habits
were without doubt objectionable ,
yet they only needed the example
of their betters to become models
of propriety; while the other
party contented itself with call-
ing them harmless devils. Both
parties overlooked the fact that ti question was one of economics and not of morality—until they found
their grazing supply reduced by one-half, and realised that to shut out is easier than to shove out!
Marshall Hall expresses his feelings ra
“ popular ” songs in one of his sweet little hymns •
TO A FAIR LADY, TO SING NO MORE.
Sing, sing no more, sweet lady ! for thy mouth—
Most fragrant bloom of all the rose rich South —
Yon modern English ballad suits as well
As a rank oyster, or a rancid smell !
* * * »
The new Norfolk Island regime seems to
have merely turned that isle of happy memories
into a little hell of paltry jealousies and squabbles
and miserable scandals, the recapitulation of
which, as voluminously set forth by a Bulletin
correspondent, would probably lead to this paper
taking a long lease of one of the jury-courts.
Enough to say that the flood of aspersion reaches
as high even as the social apex of the island, and
that the value of the news forwarded therefrom
to a Sydney daily is asserted to be heavily dis-
counted by the personality of the furnisher
thereof.
The Norfolk Islanders, it seems, now have an
established steam-service to take their oranges to
Port Jackson, where they are incontinently des-
troyed on “ account of a scale which a keen-eyed
officer detected with a powerful glass, but which
can be seen with the naked eye on most of the
N.S.W. oranges.” But as the luxury is expensive,
the Islanders would prefer to destroy their fruit
at home for the future. For the honor of having
a “Government ’Ouse” amongst them, also, they
pay in dear tobacco, dear tea, and dear sugar, and
they are of opinion, on the whole, that they are
paying a lot too much for their whistle.
m * * %
If there is the least foundation for the
charges so freely made in connection with Nor-
folk Island, the persons concerned should be prose-
cuted in open court. A commission of enquiry in
such a case is merely a device for keeping things
dark. And, in justice to the Norfolk Islanders,
action should be taken publicly at once.
THE RETORT COURTEOUS .
ETHEL: “ Was he hard to catch?"
EMILY : “ Oh, no; I told him you were after him!”
Lane’s Cosme colony seems to be going
down-hill fast. Last year showed a decrease in
population, and William’s organizing tour in the
old country proved a failure. Landed in Cosme
some short time ago 15 immigrants, of whom 11
were so enraptured by the prospect before them
that they at once left again for England. It’s no
use talking—l9th century civilised man doesn’t
hanker after any primitive Paradisaical simplicity
—all cabbage, fruit, and fig-leaves. If the Garden
of Eden stood wide open to-morrow it wouldn’t be
rushed for long—and Cosme isn’t quite the Gar-
den of Eden.
* * * 9
N.S.W. Pull Court has dismissed John
Murray-Prior’s appeal against his sentence of
three years penal servitude for abducting a girl
nearly 17 years of age. The girl was a willing
party to the “ abduction and the case hinged
to a great extent on the nice point whether the
mother of the girl, who placed her in Murray
Prior’s service, could re - take “possession”
by putting her arms round her daughter and
imploring her to return home. Despite the array
of talent on the bench, there remains an uneasy
feeling that Murray Prior’s legal rights may have
been in some degree sacrificed to the moral in-
dignation of his judges.
* * * *
Through the exertions of the Chinese
Australian Herald an enquiry is being held
into the conviction of larceny by the Parramatta
Bench of a Chinese named Ah Pat. A constable
found the Chow in possession of 571 b. solder
which he concluded the foreigner had.stolen. The
bench, a Jaypee, was about to “send up’’ the
Mongolian when the latter laboriously explained
that he had obtained the solder by melting old
jam-tins. Solon adjourned the case, and when
next it came before him, the police deposed that
though they had found a cart-load of burnt tins
on accused’s premises, “in their opinion” the e
was not enough to account for 571 b. of solder.
The Bench was then “ perfectly satisfied ” and
prescribed =£s fine or a month gaol. Fiat justitial
* • » *
The Harrold case, still before Adelaide
Insolvency Court, celebrates its second birthday
next month. The examination of the first wit-
ness, senior-partner Harrold, isn’t concluded yet,
and the horde of lawyers engaged in the case—
they have already divided =£‘lo,ooo in legal costs —
are only just warming to their work. '1 he credi-
tors have long since abandoned all hopes of divi-
dend. S.A. Law Society lately brought an
attorney before the Full Court to “explain ” an
extortionate bill-of-costs tendered by his firm in
the same case. Said bill was rendered at-428899
Is. Id., taxed down to 41739 4s. 5d., and after-
wards settled and paid at =£sBo. The whole affair
was, however, a transparent farce. Defendant
explained that the bill was filed without his
knowledge, and the explanation was promptly
accepted.
♦ * * *
The only building in Adelaide big enough
to hold all the J’sP. gazetted lately is the Jubilee
Exhibition. Even then some of them would have
to sit in the organ gallery.
“ Eko ” : lie Prof. Schenk's
theory of the influence of maternal
diet upon offspring-sex, I believe
that snme purpose could be served
by judicious mating. I have al-
ways found that the children will
be of the same sex as the stronger
(physically and mentally) parent.
Who will you find for the father of
half-a-dozen sisters ? Some happy-
go-lucky, under-grown (not neces-
sarily) weak man, while the mother,
of a certainty, is the “ grey mare.”
Again, where there are several sons,
you will find the father the stronger
both in animal spirits and in brain.
Also, where you find half-a-dozen
sons followed by a string of daugh-
ters, you may take it that the wo-
man has become the man’s superior
in physical ability. The reverse is
rarely seen. A number of girls are
seldom followed by more than one
or two boys. In some few cases we
find them coming in rotation, and
ere the two animals are evenly
matched. Thus the man who pre-
fers sons should mate with an in-
ferior, and the man who prefers
daughters, with a superior. I can-
not give reasons for my theory; I
can only state it as a fact. [But
it isn’t a “ fact ” —it’s only an in-
stance the more of the evils of in-
sufficient knowledge and rash gener-
alisation.—Ed. B.]
* * *
“Scotty W.”: Whisky is king.
A N.S.W. teetotal bank-manager
was spending a quiet evening at
home recently—his wife being at a
ball when two huge, hilarious
squatters invaded him and carried
him off by main force to a cham-
pagne settling-up. Each had him
by an arm, and the little, sober
man, watching his chance, tripped
them up. But they held him fast,
and, having outside arms free,
saved their faces, whereas the poor
captive, having no show of breaking
the fall, had his nose bashed to pulp.
Mem. from Omar’s Rubaiyat:
“Drink wine while you live: in
the grave you will long have no
friends, no wife, no wine.”
A burglar broke into the house of surgeon
Stirling, at Melb., the other night, and is now in
gaol suffering a recovery. Unfortunately for the
burg., the surgeon awoke whilst he was overhaul-
ing the pockets of that gentleman’s trousers. A
race down-stairs followed, and the L.R.C.S.
grappled with the intruder in the hall, and laid
him out, chin-up, in the second round. Then the
medico sat on his patient’s chest, and smoked a
cigarette, pending the arrival of the law. The
law led away a very contrite burglar, with an
awful eye, and, being French and a thief of some
humor, the latter suggested as he departed: “I
suppose, doctaire, you vill send in ze leetle heel for
professional services—eh ? ”
* * * *
Some months ago a bare-backed individual
who declared he was Adam broke out in various:
places in Victoria, and rushed round in a leafless
condition enquiring for Eve. He is in an asylum
now, which is a pity, seeing that Eve has at
length appeared upon the scene. She is well on
in middle age, and first attracted attention by
quietly undressing herself in the middle of Simp-
son’s Road, Richmond (Melb.), the other Satur-
day, and then standing up in the scandalous cos-
tume of the Greek slave and addressing the crowd..
A constable, suffused with a furious blush, had an
ignoble struggle with her in the open, endeavor-
ing to get her into some petticoats and keep her
in. A couple of women presently lent a hand,,
and Eve was dressed and removed to the lock-up,
where she immediately disrobed again, and could
only be kept dressed when she was handcuffed
and her clothes sewn on.
» » • •
Passengers on Melb. suburban lines have-
frequently b en overcarried lately, through being
unable to open the swollen and badly-fitting doors,
and in some instances have even had to pay
additional fare for being so overcarried and in-
convenienced.
[?]UCTION TERM.—“ Questioning his ‘Bid'."
I do dislike the men who strike
My cheek and make it burn ;
Though parsons teach that I to each
The other cheek should turn.
I hold I’m right in showing fight—
My creed is Blow for Blow,
The smarting smash I pay them back
With interest, you know.
For all who quail when foes assail
Will quickly come to grief;
The man who’d live must ne’er forgive :
I stand by this Belief.
Of woman born, I view with scorn
The so-called weaker sex ;
Who suffers hurts from callous flirts
Should bend their snowy necks.
I soar above all thought of love,
I candidly aver—
No girl is true to me or you,
And we are false to her.
Her tender kiss amounts to this —
A craving for a Man.
And seeming trust is fleshly lust
In Maud, or Mary Ann.
Thus, knowing what’s she’s really not,
And what she is, as well,
Awhile I fool, then, growing cool,
I bid her go to h—l.
For were she strong to do me wrong,
And bring my sex to “ shame,”
The pretty dear, ’tis pretty clear,
Would serve me just the same.
A fool afraid to harm a maid
Much victimised will be ;
By gen’rous fraud I conquer Maud,
Lest Maudie conquer me.
’Tis Nature’s law, no saintly jaw
Can shift a solid fact;
Success in life is won by strife,
And as I think I act.
Vea, undismayed, in Truth arrayed
I raise my forces small.
To work my ends ’gainst foes or friends
I proudly marshal all.


»'|lAvE You
1 ForgoT te^
?”
22
“DOSE'S CELEBRATED
XS ' EYE LOTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ItOSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. I3P" Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock*
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer.
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citrohella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,j
Oil«of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Garb. Ammonia, Canary Seed. *
Hy. Markwald,
178 Wi ] 1 ian i - s t.., M i.L llO u RN ft;
11 Pitfc-street,
68 Cun-ie-st, Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane.
“ Curly Burke ” : Why is it that
a woman on shipboard—especially in the
tropics—and ashore is so utterly differ-
ent ? One young married woman, com-
ing through the hot belt, “ carried-on ”
most outrageously, and defiantly snub-
bed and neglected hubby, who was on
board, at every turn. Have seen her
since in her own home, and she is
apparently a most docile, domesti-
cated wife and almost prudish wo-
man. Ashore she would suffer all
the frightful mental agony caused
by the vagrant mouse —real or
imaginary rather than raise
her skirts an inch. Aboard she
delighted in treating us to
lingerie displays which sen-
sibly lightened the monotony
of the voyage. Aboard we
reckoned hubby a poor, hen-
pecked weakling, and
shunned him contemp-
tuously. Ashore he
is the dog that barks,
and she smiles respect-
ful admiration at the
voice. Any attempt
to recall the giddy
times aboard she
meets with a blank,
unreniembering stare,
and asks, Don’t you
think Charley is a pretty
bat ? or something equ-
ally irrelevant. And this
is by no means an isolated
case. Long experience
teaches me that it is the
rule rather than the excep-
tion. What is the explana-
tion ?
“ Woollahra ” : Recently
saw a heart-rending sight. The
cart from a religious laundry,
whose work is mainly done by re-
formed Flossies, was taking away
washing from a well - known Sydney
suburban Tottie’s establishment. Fancy
the reformed sinners having to scrub the luxurious
garments of the unregenerate ! And what a train
of recollections it might start! “Virtue is its
own reward.”
* * * *
“5.0. G.” to The Bulletin:—
Your one-sided “ downright ” (or downright one-sided)
correspondent of Aug. 6 is evidently a misogynist.
Although he claims that he “ knows more, from practical
experience, of the seamy side of lovely woman than all
the theorists and thinkers this side of Hades,” I incline
to think Mr. P. Abbott’s wide experience may, after all,
he limited to one bit of perfidy. I don’t intend to make
excuses for “ illicit pleasures,” but it is sheer nonsense to
apply the same brand to all indulgers in such without re-
ference to temperament, temptation, or so forth. Neither
is there anything in the argument that if all women had
to be seduced in public there would be no seduction ; for,
if all married people had to go through all the stages of
matrimony in public, there would be very little mar-
riage. And, do the girls who dread maternity go to the
doctors and midwives with tears and beg them to operate
out of pity, manly or otherwise? No !—they go with a
thumping good fee, as a rule, knowing well that “ no
coin, no operation.” Hard cash is a first essential, and
the amount required only varies with the professional
standing of the operator. Abolish the fee and you
abolish abortion ! The person receiving the fee knows
well the risk run, and charges for it, as well as for the
mere work done.
* * * *
There is a lot of brutal truth, gathered
from hard experience, in this letter from “ Scotty
the Wrinkler ” :
. Dear Bulletin.— “ P. Abbott,” in Bulletin (6/8/98), says
“ they (all women) are weak, and weak people are cruel
and selfish—therefore dangerous.” That there are ex-
ceptions anyone but a girl must admit, but P.A.’s remarks
come forcibly home to me to-day, when I have parted
with a friend who declares that but for women nurses he
would not now be on his way to the Benevolent Asylum.
Only last week another ex-patient of a country hospital
(who is a Guy's Hospital man, too) said that nurses think
the hospitals are made for them, and not the nurses for
, the hospitals. Personally, I find men far more tender
than women as nurses. Nurses are models posing to
trap single doctors, hospital committee-men, visitors and
patients. And there has been a row about the duties of
/worses re using certain instruments and doing certain—
■nve^.l —disagreeable menial duties. What are they there
*foi~? In one hospital in which I was, refitted within the
j last./i#w years, there were no such scruples. The head-
, nurse .knew and did her duties, mopped the ward daily,
and treated everyone, paying and non-paying, alike. But
she is 'the honorable exception. The cooking in most
; hospitals,is abominable, the cleanliness a myth, where it
~depends op women. A bicycle ride and a smile from the
. bachelors qf the banks and offices, are the work of these
. ladies. The enforced attention to someduties isa necessary
. evil concomitant with pay. I saw a matron and a head
, nurse playing.tennis just under the window inside which a
.patient was dyipg. Of course I would not deny them
their tennis, but .all the nasty work is left for a wards-
man or convalescent patient, and the town “ toffs” don’t
think that a tennis-racquet, and a catheter are suitable
. alternating playthings. Moreover, a man patient is
. afraid and ashamed to complain of a female—first, in
. case ; of being accused of unmanliness, and, secondly,
because the other nurses and the men patients will lie to
uthe doctors, so as to back up the woman, and the patient
■will get a rare doing at his next bandaging or liniment-
r.time. One nurse told me that she turned over a con-
sumptive moribund oftener than usual because it has-
tened the end. There is one thing perfectly certain — i.e.,
: in a hospital presided over by a bachelor, and that with-
. out a second doctor, the employment of nurses is inde-
. .cent. With two pillmen the evil would be less —orgreater.
, Probationers ought not to be allowed in country hospi-
; tals. Let them have a month or two of metropolitan
. drill and duty. That would choke-off one-half of them ;
: and on no account ought local girls to be admitted as
learners in their own towns. The reason for this is so
: apparent (hat a respectable mother or brother would not
: allow it.
,*. * * *
(Candid printed notice hung in a Woolloo-
; mooloo window : —“ Furnished r.qom for married
«or unmarried couples.”
NO SUCH LUCK!
TIME-TABLE VENDOR! "’Sure yer life, sir ; a
hundred pound fer a penny."
"No; go away!"
VENDOR: “ Well, then, buy the last lucky one, and
yer dead sure ter get killed !”
The Argus has a long leader congratulating
the House of Lords on passing the Deceased Wife’s
Sister Bill, and thus ending an agitation begun in
the thirties. But, according to its own cable, the
only Bill passed was one enabling children the
issue of such marriages in other parts of the em-
pire to succeed to real estate in England. The
other Bill will be a much tougher contract, and
the bench of bishops will probably have many
another annual worry at its contents.
♦ * • *
The sleep of Tasmania is just now much
disturbed over a dispute about a relic. The oldest
inhabitant swears that the powder-hulk Aladdin
is identical with La Mutine, the despatch brig of
the battle of the Nile. Evidence seemed con-
clusive until another ancient arose and said the
story was wrong in every detail —that the Alad-
din was built at Plymouth in 1825, nearly 40 years
later than the Nile shindy. As relic-worship is
Van Dobsonia’s religion, the dispute is making
far more noise in the land than the battle of the
Nile made in Egypt.
AN EYE FOR BUSINESS.
“ Fennorth o’ nuts, please,"
“ What kind will you have?”
“Thim there cocoanuts!”
A recently-captured leading Melb. pick-
pocket was found to possess a note-book in which
forthcoming social and other fixtures were care-
fully entered. The book also contained such
forecasts as—
July I—Lady Madden’s garden-party (crowd at gate).
July 2—Morning, departure of the Princess co. to Ade-
laide‘(fair); afternoon, opening of Parliament (good);
evening, theatre-party at Royal (good crush in vestibule).
July 3—Evening, Yacht Club ball (balcony for public).
July 4-Yankee Consul’s reception (splendid).
The methodical “ hook ” is now doing a year.
That old English superstition that “ the
body ” must not be touched till it has heen in-
spected by the coroner’s jury still lingers in W.A.
Some little time ago the remains of two people
man and wife —were found in the bush near
Karrakatta, and, instead of causing their removal
to the morgue, the local coroner ordered that a
policeman should stay by them, and keep the ants
and iguanas off, until a jury could be brought out
to look at them. So for 24 hours, in the pouring
rain, a cold and sodden officer kept a vigil on the
lee-side of a tree beside the dead, and chased the
bunyip away, and thought over all the beautiful
wattle poems he had read. A man who keeps two
corpses company in the bush all through a drench-
ing winter night should have some remarks to
make about the wattle that would be worth
hearing.
Isis Standard (Childers, Q.) suggests that
“the colored people be compelled to travel first-
class ’’—with their mates, the employers, hey ?
“ failing which separate carriages should be re-
served for them by all means. ’
The most taking act daring a late perform-
ance of a Launceston (.Tas.) dramatic co. was pro-
vided by a lady spectator. One of her
delicate little footsies protruded itself
unconsciously through the open-work
of the dress-circle railing, and
jogged serenely along in full
view of the pit, to the great
v joy of its ungodly occu-
pants. Yells of “ Oh,
that naughty little
Trilby!” “ That
wicked little Tril-
by! ” resounded
through the house,
and drew all eyes
on the still inno-
cent and smil-
ing owner of
the wildly
wagging foot.
The more the
audience
screamed, the
more the Tril-
by moved, and
the broader
stretched the
fair one’s ruby
lips. At length,
_i pitying male
I spoilt the show by
a whisper, much to
the disgust of the
lower gods.
• *
“ Pak-Mar ” : Sweet
thing—a woman—in a
crowd! On Thames
(M.L.) wharf I was in a
press that almost surged
itself over the edge. A wo-
man in the thick of it, of course.
“Couldn’t understand people shoving
so,” but nathless turned edge-on and
wedged herself nearer the gangway. Yet
when a man was forced against her by
the crowd, she threatened to call the police
and to give him into custody for purposely kicking
her. Twice have I seen a woman strike out with
her umbrella at all within reach, because of a
crush in which they were as helpless as she. The
poets who talk of gentle, helpless woman don’t
mean the one with the umbrella.
• * * *
During the three years that those wicked
doctors, Ramsay Smith and Leith Napier, have
had charge of Adelaide Hospital, there has been
in that institution but one death under anaesthetics,
whereas in private hospitals and private practice
there have been half-a-dozen fatalities from the
same cause. Now a Ministerialist is “rubbing it
in ” by moving for a Parliamentary return on the
subject.
THE INEVITABLY PERENNIAL SPRING POEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A herald thy of favors.
Sweet Sjr'.ng, thy first caress
Upon the threshold wavers,
Half fear, half eagerness.
Tiie boxwood stands in blossom,
And honeyladen bees
Are droning to the ’possum
Their sleepy lullabies.
Immovable and soundless
Some wide-winged bird on high
Is hanging in the boundless
Infinity of sky.
Among the rustling grasses,
By flowers opening
Paint-tenderly there passes
The scented breath of Spring.
It wakes old fancies rooted
Deep in their winter lair ;
It tastes like love diluted
In sunny, languid air;
And thoughts that had been groping
In gloom in darkness blind,
Are stealthily eloping
With longings undefined.
Oh, Spring, I feel you streaming
Through ev’ry tiny vein.
Oh, Love, I have been dreaming
To-day of you again.
A herald shy of favors,
Sweet Love, thy first caress
Upon the threshold wavers,
Half fear, half eagerness.
Near, near—and yet asunder !
Oh, could we thus remain :
Just close enough to wonder,
Not close enough to pain.
No yesterday to double
Upon us unawares;
No morrow, Love, to trouble
A heart with boding cares.
With no bleak shore to land on,
Adrift ’twixt sea and sky,
In self-effaced abandon —
Just Spring and you and I!
VON KOTZE.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Jack Shay: One thing (among others) that is
“ wrong” with Speaker Abbott as Federal leader is that
the state of his ill-health quite unfits him for political
fight Carvosso : Please write five times as big. The
four people who read copy in Thb-Bulletin office are now
all nearly blind, and wear curious Chinese-looking glasses
of various sorts, and not one of them could recognise his
own wife at a distance of 4yds. without trig-lamps
J.J.O'M. : Please-write eleven times as big—also leave
plenty space between lines. We are all blind .. Fair
Dinkum : Unsavory Fred O. (Melb.): May possibly
serve as text for illustration S.E. (Inv.) : Sketch un-
available ... 6xB: Please explain. Do you want to start
such a paper—or what? N. ; : Marshall-Hall’s poems are
mainly hysterical balderdash, and the Argus attack is
Chadbandic claptrap D.: By what law is “ slave-
trade ” changed into “indenturing,” and “slave” into
“kanaka,” under the tropic of Capricorn? ...'. Furrow:
Received J.A.A. : Pars, to hand. Story probably not
yet dealt with Ben Bolt: Pooh!.. . W.H.C. : Recent-
catastrophe-poems are so specially the province of the
doggerelist that only highest-class work would pass ;
yours isn’t quite the lowest class Whilly-Wha : You
are probably thinking of:
They eat and drink and scheme and plod,
And go to church on Sunday ;
And some there arc afraid of God—
But more of Mrs. Grundy 1
Richard F. : Foolish rant Mars. VV. : Doesn’t fol-
low. Some of the greatest rubbish we get is sent along
with cheerful confidence ... Winda: Sweet enough, but
only an echo. Be saccharine on your “ own." ... G: Mac.:
Style suggestive of broken bottles Damocles : Our
opinion expressed by dropping “ ocles ! ” Steff C. :
“Granfer” funniment too laborious .. Mailie : Pretty,
but undistinguished ... Scrivener : Received ... W.N.
(Bendigo): Keep the poem for the girl .... P.L. : “ Berri-
bee” worth bright par. only .... A.J.G. : Large, sloppy
yarn J.H. .- Wail in minor key, with improving ten-
dency. We’re satisfied as we are— F.G.H. : Thanks for_
conundrum . Belah : Right T.R.W. : Viciously de-
cline to “ read 49th Genesis and 45th Isaiah.” Also, poem :
about “ Young Israel’s chosen band ” has been dropped
right in R.B.L. : You’re a decent fellow, but you can’t'
rhyme Siegfried: Marshall Hall odes eagerly'
accepted by Argus J.P. : Flat Eucalyptus : A
dead limb, anyway Cigarette: Sorry unsuit-.
able .L.A. : Too stiff and essayish... Arline : Make
it half the length and lop last paragraph .. Tags :
Don’t write with a needle J.M‘D. : Lacks point ......r
R. : Will print “Thirsty.” J.S.H. :No interest...
Selwyn : Seem admirably calculated for a Chinese news-
paper of B.C. 384 A.A.G. : Poor “ Printer ’’-verse
A.G.W. : You rather overdo it Anot: Sympathetic,
but weak and undistinguished— H.C. (VV.A.) : You have
the right heartbeat, but want practice H. Boulder:
Prose better than verse ; but if you can feel so you ought
to have root-of-the-matter in you W.M.F. : You can’t.
tackle verse yet B.M. (Bath.): All the virtue of sub-.
scription to Tub Bulletin cannot cleanse your matter
Carini: Did you write that Joan of Arc sonnet yourself ?
Shellback : Fine, large incapacity .... Retsalla : Won't
print it, let alone illustrate C.B. (Redfern): “The
cankered city air shall be our fall.” Then it fell
A.V.G. : Sorry unusable L.A. : Not good enough
Soction : Our great regret is that at sucb little functions
the chief mourner is always absent. But you can wear
crape, if you like H.Z. : Received Bluey : Try it on
the dog, but keep your gun handy C.H. (Vic.) : Too
amateurish Warra : Mostly twaddle .... A.J.S. :If you
write three more poems like that the universe will Burst!
.Nell: Declined Cooloolah: Melancholy doggerel. ..
S. (Temora): Yearning too vague—wants tethering ;
too crude —wants cooking Victoria : Nice dull, heavy
name suits it...... Jones (Vic.) : Sorry don’t care for
A.B. (Melb.): Don’t want to hurt your feelings, but it’s
more depressing than Jeremiah .... J.AV.S. (Vic.): You
can appreciate Daley—and drivel like that! M.K. :
Thanks; but the inference hardly seems sufficient for
print Yang A. : Not grit enough in verse H.P.B. :
None up ; returned Nomad : Acceptable M.S. :
“Temptation” declined... E.F.C. : Forceless Fitful : ,
Solemn rubbish E.B. (Warial.) : Not good enough
N (Albany): Par has nothing not easily explainable
Tinlip : Hardlv printable .E.W.: A prisoner is not “ pre-
sented ”at the police-court. The presentment doesn’t
come into existence till he goes to the Supreme Court.....
Tommy J. : The man who pasted his elector’s right on
the door and had to take the whole door to the poll died
long ago. Also, his door crumbled away through age
F.C?L. (Pambula) : Pick-and-shovel humor ... . .Irex : The
most likely address we know is “ Public-houses, Europe.”
L.R. (Q.); No art A.M. : Verse virtuous, but un-
enticing ... Chiam (M.L.): As before Phil A. (Q.):
Dull ... L.M.D. : “ Reason ” won’t pass ; nor “ 8055.”,....
Adlyn : You see the right things, but don’t forcibly state
them .. .Glentaggart : Too long for merit Smanno :
Groaned once Bullaman : You make the 50th bad
bard to day. How would you like to be assaulted by 50
bad bards in four hours? . Bai : Reference too vague
..J.J. : Sent to Ogilvie ; but for most part you only
state the obvious C.G.M. : Thanks ... M.N. : (Miss
Grease). Please send address ... Jerome D. : “L. and
C.” far too bald Dorothy Elton :No address on MS.
It is not enough to send it in accompanying letter
Anna the Outcast: We Ban-anna Winda: Address
wanted. Why not always write it on MS.? Chas.
Farrell (M.L.): Will illustrate.. M.T.A. (R.): Of course
you are a lady. No man ever sends such a joke
Raven’s Plume': Don’t know any artist who could make a
success of it C.S.P. : Queensland-wire and Garrard
items both been printed in Bulletin long ago Vic. :
The stick-up of the Penshurst Bank certainly does look
“a soft thing,” as you say, till one reflects that there
have been three undiscovered robberies of treasure, each
about 1500 sovs., from mail steamers in the waters of
Australia andMaoriland Te Wheoro : Inaccurate, inas-
much as the members of Tas. Assembly sit on 12 sofas.
.Tinlip : Don’t see the horror. It’s only the usual
collection upon an improved plan E.M.P. (Melb.) :
May turn-up in print any time ; great mass of matter on
'hand Jimmie : Received ; not yet adjudicated upon.
John Fitzgerald (Lower Buckland): Please send full
address Rass: Bulletin entirely sympathises with the
Judge who objected to whistling and bawling in his hotel.
C.W.O. : You see, no one will believe that Mr. Pauli, or
anyone else, could knock out Wallace Brownlow as Henri
of Navarre Barto : The suspension of jockeys for
betting is, 6f course, ridiculous. Every human being
connected with stables is bound to bet, sometime or
other R.W. : The proposed “ Melbourne Scottish ”
corps would, in the first instance, pay for its own barbaric
finery, and uncover its legs gratis Sero: “Reid and
Braddon are the only two Australian Premiers not born
in the provinces over which they rule.” Bulletin tried to
make the above harmless observation a few weeks ago,
only the compositor man dropped out the “n0t.”....?.
C.B. : All the same, he is immortal, for did he not com-
pose “The Lost Chord?” which will surely never die......
Yacky : No name-and-address on MS L.A. : Current
matters are, of course, dealt with at once. Election item
too late Jinda: Par matter attended to. Story will
be considered in due course Bolivar: “Prof.” will
print . . . .Ratty : A lie for “ B.” should be either ingenious
or absurd—yours neither .... Bertie : The Judges wouldn’t
love the recorder of all their dubious little jokes....:.
A.H.G. : Neither good enough W.H.R. : “Premier
Byrnes was great in the protozoan state ” begins well.
Then you fade D.S.G. : Infantile Redmot: TwO-
inch wail, untrimmed. Kindly swamp the local paper
with it Veritas : Collection of stale images and shallow
sentiments No. 17 : It’s neitherrhyme nor Whitman.’.


The Callaghan dear.
Those who have never tried us, do not
know what the Callaghan wear means.
It means that the Callaghan, Boot out-
lasts in service two of the other kind.
If you come to ns once, you will come
always, and recommend your friends to
come also.
The Callaghan Wear.
The Callaghan Wear.
The Callaghan Wear.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-st., Sydney.
All Drapers Everywhere.
The Society Debutante.
When a young girl first enters society her imme-
diate sensations are those of attainment, triumph,
and elation. In the first flush of her social career
her imagination opens for her a long vista of
pleasures, whose brightness is unsullied by the
slightest shadow of care. Soon, though, the
novelty commences to wear off, and she finds that,
far from being a life of unalloyed pleasure,
society, like everything else, has its drawbacks.
The health must be kept up, or one becomes a back
number. For work of this kind there is no remedy
on the market equal to Bile Beans. Keeping the
entire system in a thorough state of cleanliness,
free from all waste and impure matter, toning up
the nervous organism, purifying the blood, and
keeping the female organs in regular and thorough
working order, they achieve what no other medi-
cine can do— i.e., a complete mastery over all
derangements of the body arising from over-indul-
gence of any sort. Late hours, rich food, lack of
exercise, &c., all bring on, more or less, severe
maladies, and then a course of Bile Beans for
Biliousness is what you need to put you right again.
Many women suffer untold miseries through com-
plaints peculiar to their sex, and, in the great
majority of cases, these disorders are due to the
presence of waste matter in the system. Here
again Bile Beans show their great worth, as they
cure all ailments of this sort in a speedy and
thorough manner. They are manufactured in one
of the largest and best-equipped laboratories in _
the world at Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A., and stand'
to-day the most successful remedy ever introduced
into Australia. Their price places them within
reach of everyone, and no home can afford to be
without a box of this invaluable specific, whether
the owner be in society or not.*
GLOBE TEAS have wo ml
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 2 57 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 16, 1898.
My Dear Myee—
The opening of N.S.W. Parliament is spread
over two days now, and on Tuesday Gov. Hamp-
den did not put in an appearance. In his place
we had to put up with Commissioners Garran,
Jacob, and Lackey in the catacombs of the
Upper House, and* Commissioners Reid, Car-
ruthers, and Brunker in the Chamber of Persis-
tent Iniquities. “Society,” of course, kept cor-
rectly away. Half-a-dozen new members’ wives,
who couldn’t wait till next day, tasted the distinc-
tion of the downstairs benches, but old fami-
liar female figure-heads there were none.
The most dressy person in the House was Mr.
“Lorry ” Harnett in a fresh lace tucker and clean
frills at his wrists. I noticed that the few femi-
nine eyes present divided themselves between the
tucker aforesaid and that well-known gentleman
who was to have gone pathetically to a foreign
lan 1, but didn’t. The least tedious feature of the
show was the swearing-in of the young politicians ;
and the blushes and crude whitenings of the gentle-
man from Simpson’s Curse and the person from Bul-
lock Hollow were delightful to witness. The new
member for Petersham was also a charming
feat ire. He came up to the deadly ordeal with a
be 11 itifully-brushed hat (evidently a ceremonial
turban) under his arm, and, before taking the
oath, he placed his head-gear firmly on his cranium,
an 1 then gave “ the Book ” a kiss that astonished
the messengers in the corridors. Premier Reid
shocked the House a moment afterwards by
announcing that Parliament would meet at such
an early hour as 10.30, and then things generally
collapsed and people went home to lunch.
The social event of the week was the wedding of
Miss Marcia Cox to Mr. Livingstone Learmonth,
all told. This took place at our own St. James’
Church, the most suitable edifice for a marriage.
In fact, I believe it was built expressly for the
bashful bride, as the front seats turn their backs
on the altar. Society came out in bright patches
for this particular wedding. The Misses Brand,
in frocks of periwinkle-blue, and white felt hats
trimmed up with the same tint, showed that Govt.
House still takes an interest in the pretty sisters
who captured two aides between them some years
ago. Mrs. Walter Allen’s pale lustre was one of
the smartest guest-g owns; true-lovers’ knots in
ruchings of narrow white ribbon ran over the
skirt, and a grey hat with orange in it completed
the poem. Mrs. Willie Mitchell, in white serge
braided with black, kept up her feeling for color
in a glaring hat of rose-red. Mrs. Charles Allison,
sister of the bride, was in spring - green, with a
crinkled pink hat and bouquet of roses ; and Lady
Janet Clarke hid under a large black hat, with
colossal feathers.
The bridesmaids dresses were fashioned in
white satin, and worked with true-lovers’ knots.
These knots were further emphasised in big
frames covered heavily with violets, which the
bridesmaids, Misses Maggie and J eanie Cox, Mi is
Clarke, and Miss Osborne, bore in place of
bouquets. More knots on the bride’s gown aeocn-
tuated the bindingness of the marriage ceremony.
The bridegroom—a tall, smooth-faced, very Eng-
lish-looking youth—wore black-and-white' shep-
herd’s plaid with the regulation coat, and carried
his handkerchief up his cuff, which is a very
correct thing indeed to do. On the whole, the
spectacle was one of the prettiest Sydney has
scrambled to see, and I’m told that the presents
are quite sensational.
Sydney breathes again. The Mr. Fairfax who
married a fetching London ballad-singer is not a
Herald Fairfax. However, worse things might
easily happen even a Herald Fairfax.
The Norfolk Islanders are “not having any”
Administrator of the Government. So great is
their resentment against Col. Spalding’s office that
the natives tear down all his proclamations an 1
even cut the throats of his carriage horses. The
Spaldings probably yearn for the peace of the
Beautiful Harbor.
Our factory-girls are living giddy lives just now
at the rate of a penny-half penny for a pair of
trousers that take one hour to make, supping on
evening amusements given by kind ladies on com-
mittees. One “Factory” lately confided, to an
extra-motherly patron that the girls would liefer
go to sleep at night. But they daren’t say so for
fear of losing their situations and their—well,
wa *es.
An entertainment that only happens once a
year was the Shipwreck Society’s monster meeting
at the Town Hall last week. Lady Hampden did
the honors of the evening by pinning medals on to
brave men who had saved lives at their own lives’
risks, and now trembled like leaves under Her
Ex’s gentle glances. Leading dignitaries, includ-
in ' His Ex. the Governor, His Ex. the Admiral,
and Messrs. Reid and Barton, gathered round the
official table. Society peppered the platform
lightly, and those ladies who rush into low necks
at the slightest provocation crumpled up under
opera cloaks at the sight of Lady Hampden’s
walking-dress and bonnet.
The heroes of the evening included three
heroines, Miss Pratt, a pretty fair-haired girl in a
heliotrope blouse, who saved two lives at the
Parramatta baths; Miss M‘Lean, the lady who
dared the breakers to rescue the captain of the
Kameruka; and Mrs. Hammond, whose pluck was
tested at the wreck of the Maitland. The latter
lady obscured everyone else by stepping up with a
baby in her arms. A touching example of
maternal devotion—the mother who couldn’t resist
her desire to somehow include her child in her
glory.
Mr. Percy Higgins—the tall, good-looking Bondi
hero—received a gold medal and a hand-shake
from Lady Hampden and a hot welcome from the
house. The other gold-medallist, the handsome
Figueroa, who saved his captain’s life in mid-
ocean, was unable to understand the nice things
Her Ex. was saying to him, and bowed ceaselessly
to show he was attending. Before the medals
began lights were put out, and Monsieur Wiegand
played a realistic storm on the organ, just to give
weight to the stories of heroism that followed. I
saw by a note on the programme that the Storm
happened by special permission of the Mayor, and
concluded that our Mayor has lately acquired a
monopoly of the article.
“The Gondoliers” made their re-appearance at
Her Majesty’s on Saturday night with a big
splash and unlimited dazzle on either side of the
footlights. The huge house was dressed to kill.
Every second row in the d.c. seemed to be a
theatre-party, and the fashionable supper-haunt
close by hasn’t yet recovered from the strain of
grilling its record number of chickens that night.
The vice-regal box wore a lop-sided look with His
Ex. and an aide and a big party of chiffons under
Lady Innes’ chaperonage. Mrs. Willie Mitchell,
m white satin and diamonds, was in the trouble-
some bottom box, and had all the stage-flowers
passed over her shoulder; and Mrs. Harry Levy
had her hair uniquely tied up with white chiffon.
Dorothy Vane, the Firm’s new importation,
profited largely by the fall in flowers. Huge
sheaves of vegetable novelties were showered on
her, and among them one animal tribute, a black
kitten in a cradle, presumably sent to allay the
fair Dolly’s dislike to opening on the Thirteenth.
A winsome little creature—the songstress, not
the cat with a deep - speaking voice that
doesn’t seem to match her tininess, and roused
a laugh more than once, the house took her to its
heart, as it were, after the briefest considera-
tion possible. _ Her Tessa frock was a little red-
and-green affair, and she wore a red ribbon in her
youthful tresses. Although her singing voice is
the meekest of mezzos she played with a subdued
little sparkle that allured without blinding. Also,
she has a trick of shaking her fair locks at the
house that is bound to score.
The Herr Pauli of Albani’s co., now plain Mr. —
possibly soon to be St., judging by the adoring
looks cast at him on Saturday—showed to much
vocal advantage as Guiseppe, but his legs must go
into severe training immediately, if that saintship
is to be a real thing. Don’t talk to any woman
about him eclipsing the glory of the stalwart
Brownlow as Henri of Navarre ! Also, a tuck in
the middle of his smile would be an improvement.
At present it reminds one of the old riddle that
asks why smiles is the longest word in the English
language, and answers cause there’s a mile in the
middle of it. Otherwise, he was all heart could
desire, and, when he acquires the light and airy,
will be a bright star of the comic opera.
Charles Kenningham, the new tenor, turned out
to be a fair young man with a light, sweet voice,
an agile manner, and no positive pretensions to
beauty. Slim, dark-haired Carrie Moore, as
Casilda, was the most ornamental figure on the
stage —especially in her second frock of fawn
brocade, that draped itself back to reveal a blue
silk underskirt splashed with pink roses. Mrs.
Henry Bracy’s most portly toilette laid black lace
frills over canary silk, and was topped with a
yellow feather that made wicked efforts to fly
away. Miss Mabelle Darley suffered from stage-
presence and shrilly voice, and crowned her fair-
ness with a sky-blue cap. Howard Vernon, George
Lauri and Mrs. Bracy, in their old parts of Head
Inquisitor, Duke of Plaza Toso, and Duchess of
ditto, gave the performance its longest lift to-
wards success.
Robertson’s lively comedy, “ Ours, ” was played
by a band of charitable amateurs at the Palace
Theatre last week. I regret to say their charity
didn’t extend to the audience. The crisp dialogue
on which “ Ours ” is built up makes the play de-
pend entirely on a vivacious delivery, and vivacity
skipped right out of this performance. The grace-
ful Miss Barton played Lady Shendrin to a Lord
that couldn’t possibly have come back from the
wars alive. Mary Nettley, the sprightly lady’s-
companion, was entrusted to Miss Hogg, who mis-
took companion for housemaid. Mr. Hodgkinson,
as Prince Perovsky, added an additional note of
sadness, and the gloom that lifted a little over the
gentleman who played Hugh Chalcott settled
down hopelessly on the maiden whom they all
called Blannnch! A burst of song from Mr.
Weeks, as Angus, was the one bright spot in the
evening’s entertainment.
“A World of Boredom,” translated from the
French by Madame Gough, is to be staged at the
Palace Theatre, Aug. 25th, for the German
Benevolent Society. Madame Buhrow plays lead,
a i a pretty country lady, who enjoyed a brief
theatrical existence m this city some years ago,
makes her bow before the public once again.
The Society of Artists’ fancy-dress ball is also
hxed for the 25th. Rumors of a wonderful Aubrey
Beardsley Set excite curiosity as to whether the
fair one’s faces are to be made up on strict Beards-
ley lines. This society opens its exhibition to the
public on Saturday, 27th instant.
On Saturday night Alva wisely contributed, as
her last item, Rubinstein’s “Good-night.” This
most artistic little song, which Alva introduced to
-, I T? e y au diences, she sings charmingly, and she
will long be identified with it almost to the same ex-
tent as Adela Verne with Scarlatti’s harpsichord
piece. Connoisseurs detect a great tendency with
Alva to go flat in her upper notes, and declare
that the clever singer is in reality a mezzo-
soprano. She seems more at home in that register
than m the other, at any rate.
Mr. Samuel Masters, though seemingly a rather
soulless individual, always delights a considerable
section of the audience, and Miss Marion Perrott,
who is his wife, by the way, is a singer of exactly
the same stamp. One irreverent critic in Satur-
day s audience went so far as to characterise them
as “stodgy dingbats.”
Concert-goers may be interested to know that
the ultimate end of that wondrous ‘ ‘ wall-paper ”
red-and-gold gown of Alva’s is destined to be
chair-covers. Mdme. intends to make it go as far
as possible on a suite of furniture when she returns
to England.
Adela Verne is certainly a prime favorite with
Sydney audiences, and the reason is not far to
seek. A combination of qualities such as a mag-
nificent power of performance and an entirely
unaffected deportment is so rare as to be irre-
sistible. The great charm of her playing is the
way she invests it with all the fires of youth.
While her phrasing is technically faultless, Ishe
“revels ” in the exuberant passages of a work with
an almost pagan-like enjoyment. The resultant
effect upon an audience is not hypnotic, but elec-
tric. On Saturday night the young pianiste was
encored again and again, and the concert con-
cluded with a perfect furore of applause, in which
Miss Alice Verne shared. Both performers were
laden with flowers.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“ This week Victorian social geography de-
fines Melbourne as a marshall-hall situated
on the banks of the Yarra. Prof. Mar-
sliall-Hall is a thin and gaunt individual with
student-stoop and beetling black brows. No
one ever considered him anything but eccen-
tric. When he takes an early morning stroll
and hears the wise virgins at their piano-practice,
he thinks nothing of suddenly ringing a front-
door-bell and delivering himself as follows to an
amazed domestic : ‘ Tell the young lady that she
ought to have played the concluding passage
faster ; also, she struck a wrong note in the third
bar.’
“Marshall-Hall one evening took a friend who
was musical, but not a musical crank, to the house
o c a third friend for a little light entertainment.
‘ What shall I play ? ’ asked the professor;
‘Vachner?’ (Wagner.) ‘Certainly,’ replied the
host, and ‘Vachner’ was indulged in without a
break for two and a-half hours. Then, turning
round on the music-stool, ‘What will you have
now?’said the performer. ‘ Whisky, ’ ejaculated
the wearied audience. ‘ Whisky! ’ said the offended
pianist, ‘nothing of the sort-more Vachner!’
And he gave ’em another dose.
“A fierce feud rages at present among sweet
grl graduates at the ’Varsity. The musical
s urlents vigorously hold their dear professor’s fort
against those ‘ creatures ’ of the arts and science
schools.
“The story goes that in a certain somewhat
famous Australian musical-class the theory was
one day officially propounded that no one who
hadn’t_ run away with his friend’s wife could
appreciate ‘ Lohengrin. ’ The sex-limitation here
implied naturally put hearers of the excluded
gender on their mettle. ‘Please, Professor,’
piped an ambitious gusher, ‘ would a friend’s
husband do ? ’ True artist, that girl, ready to do,
bear, and risk all for the sake of her art! I don’t
know whether she got much thanks for her zeal.
The Prof, seems a bit inclined to pooh-pooh femi-
nine aspirations. ‘Follow out your career,’he is
reported to have said to his disciples, ‘if it means
trampling over your father and grandmother,’
The lasses present looked a shade half-hearted, so
he put them out of the running on the spot with
‘Of course I don’t mean Girls ! They can’t have
careers. ”
“What a sad experience, too, for the tender
stripling brought by fond parents to play his piece
to the Maestro ! Half-way through his hearer
yelled : ‘Go home, and kill your mother. Then,
perhaps, you’ll be in a mood to interpret the com-
poser. ’
“Black, white, and piebald gowns prevailed in
the Princess d.c. on the first night of ‘Harbor
Lights. ’ The Mayoress’s frock was black; Miss
Eva Robertson’s cape of cream brocade and black
Spanish lace looked like the traditional cloud
with the silvef lining; while a liberal section of
handsome Miss Elliot-Page loomed above the
frankly-cut corsage of her dashing white gown.
Altogether, Berenis was in great form that night,
posing in front of her box with a scarlet aigrette in
her hair, black-gowned ‘ Momma ’ at her side, and
a bulwark of dress-coats warding off draughts
from the rear.
“As a sensible woman, the smart Aitterican
probably realised that for spreading her plumage
she was better-placed off the boards than on.
‘ Harbor Lights ’people don’t dress —they merely
clothe. Emily Hughes, beginning with an in-
offensive pink garment and not such a bad rose-
tinted hat, degenerates from a homely grey stuff
with washy neck and sleeve frills to an unbecom-
ing blue, while even her wedding array of unmis-
takably suburban design fails to redeem the
bride’s raiment-reputation to any extent worth
mentioning.
“ Chic Ada Reeve, tripping in and out from her
seat in the stalls, in fluffy grey pelisse and high-
heeled shoes, looked like her saucy self of the
‘Parisienne’—unlike hubby, whose Torn Dossiter
is a tame-cat version of his ‘ French Maid ’ Jack
Tar.
“ One tires of hearing that precious little love is
lost between the rival ‘Sign of the Cross’ hero-
ines. Ada Eerrar, in her present role of gone-
astray Lina Nelson, must delight the heart of
t'other woman by the abjectness of her prodigal
toilette. Really, considering her chalky com-
plexion, bleached-hemp hair, and rusty-red frock,
all wobbly round the hips, one can almost forgive
the deceiving Squire for declining to acknowledge
her as Lady of his Manor. Of course, she-specta-
tors for the most part took Julius Knight unre-
servedly to their hearts and sighed ‘ How lovely ! ’
and ‘ Isn’t he sweet ? ’ every time his brass-buttons
glinted in the gaslight.
“Talking of aigrettes, they’re distressingly epi-
demic. Girls will wear them to dances, though
it’s bad policy, for partners complain that at close
quarters they’re apt to tickle even to sneezing-
point—and, of course, propinquity is frightfully
important. Besides, the osprey craze entails
great cruelty to birds. The handsomest specimens
are plucked from the heads of feathered martyrs,
which are knocked down, despoiled of their two-
horned crests, and left to die or not at their
leisure.
“Those wedding-bells, ’tis said, will sound the
signal for a general scatter of the bride’s sisters.
The belle of the family, one hears, only waits for
parental permission (delayed on the score of age-
disparity) to announce her engagement with that
elderly fire-eater, while little sister’s fiance isn’t
quite out of the running for a baronetcy. It almost
looks as if the senior spinster of the group might
be ‘ left blooming alone, ’ owing to the impecunio-
sity of a favored suitor. Of course, the lorn
heroine’s stern parents in their own spring-time
did anything but live up to their present-day
prudential maxims. They took the plunge (the
bride was but 17 when it came off) and trusted to
luck, with, as time has shown, the happiest results.
“ Victorian girls, at the instance of Miss Mary
Clarke, have presented the Madden bride with a
diamond-and-turquoise ‘ sun ’ star, costing some-
thing under <£loo. Once upon a time, £6O was
generally set down as the price of a self-respecting
engagement-ring. Judged by this standard, the
Wedding bauble aforesaid looks like a bargain,
considering that it boasts a large centre brilliant
from which radiate diamond rays to a circlet of
smaller stones.
“The thickly-gilt and particularly toney suburb
of Toorak has acknowledged its incapacity to look
after its own poor. The local ladies’ benevolent
society, at last meeting, was hopeless and pathetic
in its confession of apparently incurable insolvency,
and the winding-up of the whole institution is
obviously a matter of only a few weeks. While
slavishly and ludicrously , imitating the maimers
and customs of the English aristocracy, Australian
Sassiety is never so carried away as to forget its
own pocket. If it wished to thoroughly ape the
old ‘ county families, ’ “ The Poor ’ should be a real
godsend as raw material for purposes of feudal dis-
play.
‘ ‘ Those eligible widowers and bachelors lately
referred to by a Bulletin contributor as ‘going to
waste’ in Melb. ’Varsity and affiliated colleges,
have had little peace since that public-spirited dis-
closure. A beauteous Ormond lecturer was brought
to his bearings and led to the altar before he could
say ‘Jack Robinson,’ and now one hears that
peachy-cheeked Prof. Moore has fallen into the
toils of a judge’s daughter.
“Miss Frances Tyrrell-Gill, who has many
times broken out in lectures, will start another
series (of four), at Melb. Athenaeum Hall, on Aug.
25th. Her first subject is ‘ Aurora Leigh, ’ and a
fortnight later she will deal with ‘ Some Women
Poets,’ the discourse starting at 8.30 p.m. on each
occasion. It seems well to mention ‘ p.m,,’ with
an accent on the p., for Miss Frances is just the
sleepless sort of lady to start at half-past 8 in the
morning, if she were not watched.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


PEOPLE YOU KNOW.
No. I.— The Baker
Mr. T. Streater writes : I have received so
much benefit from Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa I feel
that I must thank you for it. lam a baker by
trade, which, as you know is very hard work, but
I am pleased to say that when I ain done of a
night I go home and have a cup of your Cocoa,
and feel quite fresh again, and then I go and enjoy
myself. But before I took to Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-
Cocoa, I used to mess about indoors as tired as
could be.”
Vi-Cocoa will become a household word amongst
us. Prepared from substances of admitted diet-
etic value, Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is at once diges-
tive and refreshing, nutritious and invigorating.
This is the secret of its phenomenal success. It
seems, so far as we can gather, to agree with
everybody, and everybody is agreed in giving it a
good name. Apparently it is the accepted bever-
age of a people who have recignised and appre-
ciated its remarkable health-giving properties.
And certainly in this age of rush and worry, wear
and tear, when the energies of mind and body are
so severely taxed, it is an ideal food.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
As an unparalleled test of merit, a dainty
sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’Vi-Cocoa will bo sent
free on application to any address, if when writ-
ing (a postcard will do) the reader will name The
Bulletin.*
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
definitely cure hydatids, skin eruptions,
BOILS. ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elffin-st., MELBOURNE.
SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
CiJ&rew
m
CIGARETTES.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“Jimmy” Tyson is the owner of 35
stations.
Unlike Gov. Jersey, Gov. Hampden does
not attend anybody’s funeral, but sends his
carriage and an aide.
New word. Alleged that certain Queens-
land newspapers have been hooleyed over the
Chillagoe private : railway concession.
“N.” : While Madden Waxellencics, there
ought to be a pro tern. Judge, for the hydra crop
of appeals from his last period was too awful, and
cannot all be traced to Sir Machiavel Hartley
Bilious.
Vic. Premier’s brass-plate still bears plain
“Mr.” Turner apparently really does despise
the bauble he accepted. Every other Vic. knight
had his new label up as fast as be could get it
engraved.
From an English sketch of “ Billy ” Mur-
doch: “When at home, Mr. Murdoch is a solici-
tor, and he can pass a pleasant hour with his
reminiscences of noted criminals he has defended.”
Next, Billy !
Rabbi Davis entered his 70th year on the
10th and completed his 36th year as minister of
Sydney Synagogue same day. There are but two
Jewish Synagogues in N.S. Wales—Sydney and
Maitland.
The late N.S.W. Justice Manning only
passed one death-sentence in his career (it was not
carried out) —that on Willoughby Andrew, for
shooting draper Bartlett, in King-street, Sydney,
in March, 1890..
The Bulletin hears that Mrs. Grotty
denies that she is to receive .£lOOO a year from her
deceased husband’s estate, and avers that the
R.C. Church authorities have made no settlement
whatever with her.
Obit. Atßandwiek (Sydney), on Sunday,
July 31, Mrs.. Elizabeth Wilson, aged 89 years.
Born in King-street, Sydney, Feb. 3, 18L0, five
months before Dean Cowper, who was generally
believed to be the oldest native.
Tempora mutantur, &-c. Of the 113 mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Assembly of 1884 but 14 are in
the present Assembly. 36 are known to be dead,
.and 12 are in the Leg. Council; Of the 58 mem-
bers then in the Leg. Council but 12 remain, 38
being dead.
The Reid Ministry is the first, since the
establishment of Constitutional Government in
N.S.W., which has enjoyed tenure for the pre-
scribed period—four years—to entitle all its mem-
bers to a life-pass over the State railways at the
suffering country’s expense.
Lesson to Australian authors. Editor
Doidge, of Cootamundra (N.S.W.), got a London
firm to publish a novel; before the novel was given
to the public the firm went into liquidation ; in
due course Mr. Doidge bought back all copies of
his work from the firm’s official as.-ignee.
“Professor Marshal] Hall regards himself
as in some sense a missionary.”— Melb. paper.
The holy men who go on missions
Are eaten by the savage man,
And so—reversing the conditions —
They bite the pagan when they can.
Counsel, to Geo. Lansell, the still active
Bendigo deep-sinker:“ Will you swear you have
not already passed your boundary ? ” Lansell:
“No, I won’t. I haven’t been down any of my
mines for years—not since I was 70.” But the old
man still bustles up at mining meetings, and on
’Change occasionally.
According to Trickett, M.L.0., just re-
turned to Sydney from a cruise round the South
Sea Islands, Stevenson’s library at Samoa is being
distributed in keepsakes to tourists by an obliging
oaretaker! Confirmation comes in a London
man’s recital of how he bought a unique Stevenson
ourio—certainly worth pounds—for sixpence.
“ I’m told that a number of your con-
stituents were no soberer than they ought to be
at the declaration of the poll,” said a friend to
P. E. Quinn, the newly-elected member for Bligh,
N.S.W. “You were misinformed,” replied Paddy.
“The fact is that a lot of them had asked ‘ls
Quinn in ? ’ so often that they were suffering from
cinchonism.”
N.S.W. Attorney-General Want is, by
virtue of office, again a mark for a Supreme Court
Bench vacancy. But “Jack” doesn’t relish
“Your Honor.” When Sergeant “Jack ” Adams
was appointed Judge of Middlesex Sessions in
England, the Chief Justice impressed him with
the necessity of having himself addressed as “ My
Lord.” “Mind,” said the C.J., “if anyone calls
you ‘Jack ’ commit him for contempt.” ,
A Melb. County Court Judge sits so late
that much of the entertainment provided takes
place after the reporters have left. The other day
some sparring between a young dogfish and the
judicial shark was terminated by the latter
tartly ordering the other to sit down and hold his
tongue. In no wise nonplussed, the young ini
stood to his guns, pleaded his duty to his clienl,
and told the Judge'that he would report him to
the Law Institute. Horror sat on the Court, but
the Judge, being, no doubt, somewhat doubtful of
his power as an inferior Judge to commit for con-
tempt, sensibly cooled down, and has since been
less intolerably crotchetty.
Some 20 years ago Fred. Whitaker owned
a small estate at Kopu, about
four miles from Thames, M.L.
The custodian and sole
was a grey-headed darkie named
“ Shanghai,” noted as a devout
Christian and patriotic citizen of
the U.S. Shanghai observed the
greatest decorum throughout the
year except on Independence
Day, when he invariably descend-
ed on the town, got hideously
drunk, and wound up in the
police-cells. In fact, “ Shang-
hai’s Burst ” became a local
synonym for the “ Glorious
Fourth,” and for years Whitaker,
a few days before Independence
Day, would send County-chair-
man Brodie a cheque to pay
for his servitor’s forthcoming de-
linquencies. On one occasion
Shanghai thumped four police-
men and laid-out a publican,
and Whitaker’schequewasn't
big enough to cover the
fines. “Ye kain’t add a
little y’sulf, Mr. Brodie ? ”
asked the penitent nig.
“No,” said Brodie, “it
would only be encoura-
ging you in your evil
courses.” “Waal, den,
boss, yo’d better pay
fer de copmen out o’
de cheque, an’ I’ll
take out de publican’s
black-eye in de cala-
boose. ”
When Gov. Dav-
ey, of the Rov-d Mur-
arrived at Hobart
Town to take charge,
thelittlesettlement' hav-
ing gone to bed drunk the
previous night-remained in bunk-land till ft gun
from the frigate roused it up. The troops turned
out, and, while they were marching, half asleep,
down the old wharf to receive his Excellency, a
disreputable person, with coat on arm, and the
air generally, of a boozed-up dead-beat emerged
from a tavern. “Hullo!” he roared ; “where
away, you fellows? I'm the Governor, and be
d dtoye ! Heave to and present arms, and
belay that blessed music -d ye hear.” Then he
invited the officers to a glass in the pub. The Old
School, with a, vengeance !
Thatdistiuguislied Sydney University man,
Mr. Dan Levy, before offering himself for Eitzroy
Division, called on Premier Reid to see if the
Govt, would support his candidature. “ You are
a young man,” said Georgey-Porgey, “a very
young man. I was 40 years old when I went to
Parliament. Mr. Chapman is entitled to the
Govt, support, you know. Of course, intellec-
tually, you are head and shoulders above Mr.
Chapman; but; then, he has always voted with
the Government and supported us, so we can’t
throw him over. Take my advice, young man:
work yourself in amongst the people, speak in
public on every possible occasion. Build yourself
up, young man, build yourself up, and then, per-
haps, in ten or twelve years the Government may
do something for you.” Daniel left precipitately.
And no wonder i Think of a University gold-
medallist ha ving to “ build himself up ” for years
before he could reasonably aspire to a position
such as might be filled by a political hunks like
Enry Chapman !
WITH COMPLIMENTS TO “JIM."
FRISKY GRASS WIDOW (after a lengthy description of her imaginary conquests) :
“And Jim, is so jealous of me, you knout!”
MALE HYPOCRUTE (Irish, of course) : “ Well, I am sure that is only to be expected."
The only man who ever ran a [taper at the
lone, lorn, Cornstalk, sleeper-getting town of Bog-
gabri (N.S.W.) has just left, and this is the casual
and weary curse which he bestowed on the town
at parting :
In many cases, it is scarcely too much to say, we have
had to drag the citizens along the path of progress by the
hair of the head. And some of them, it must be said,
would almost prefer having their hair torn out by the
roots to moving one step towards advancing the general
interests. Boggabri has not one modern institution, and
scarcely one of the appanages of the higher civilisation
at the end of the nineteenth century. The people are
lying paralysed under the greatest curse that ever en-
thralled a community —soulless content. We do not
mean that content of well-regulated intellect, but that
variety of the article discernible amon ; a tribe of Barcoo
aborigines after they have had a good feed of opossum or
iguana.
There are but two University men in S.A.
Assembly—Squatter Mortlock (Cambridge) and
Paddy Glynn (Dublin). Mortlock, when in resi-
dence at Cambridge, once astonished a noisy
student on the floor above by leaning out of
his window, and, by well-directed shots with a
stockwhip, sweeping the upper window-ledge clear
of the choice flowers which grew in pots up there.
This was because the fourth-storey man was kick-
ing up such a row that the fellows in Mortlock’s
chambers could not study—their cards. “ Morty,”
as he is familiarly called, is a hereditary sheep-
owner with about =B7OOO or =£Booo a year, both his
father and his father-in-law having made piles out
of wool. He is reputedly one of the best em-
ployers in the business, and his stations were let
alone during the sheai’ing strike.
LUNCH VERSUS
GRUB.
BACKBLOCKS PUBLIC SCHOOL-TEACHER (to new
scholars) : “And have you little toys brought
your lunch in that bay?”
NEW SCHOLAR : “ No; that’s our grub!”
Old Stevenson, the new-old member for
Northumberland in N.S.W. Assembly, is the
original “grey horse” —not F. A. Wright. Heis
also the pre-eminent Roads and Bridges member,
and is credited with saying, “Federation may be
a very good thing, but it isn’t as much to you as a
bridge over Ardtaoross Creek.” Many a clerk in
“ the Works ” will waste to a shadow now that
Old Pertinacity has resumed his daily round. He
was beaten at the previous election—according to
himself—“ because he travelled on Sunday, stayed
at Jackson’s, and rode a piebald horse.”
Miss Florrie Schmidt (remarks the Bris-
bane press) is the bearer of letters of introduction
to the Countess of Warwick, the Countess de la
Warr, and T. P. O’Connor. The Warwicks acted
the host to T. J. Byrnes during his English visit,
and T. P. O’Connor wrote up the Q. statesman for
the benefit of the old country. Quite evident
where some, at least, of those letters of introduc-
tion came from ! There was a shriekingly funny
(to those in the know) article in O’Connor’s paper
on the magnificent courage Byrnes displayed at a
certain critical juncture in Q. history. T. P. fell
into the soup properly. He hadn’t the remotest
idea he was eulogising the passing of a Coercion
Act built on the approved Irish mocF l .
When
George Col-
lins Levey
owned Mel-
bourne Her-
ald, then a
morning pa-
per, he once
undertook to
horsewhip G.
P. Smith, ed-
itor of the
Age, but it
was Levey
who got. the
hiding. When
he had retired
discomfited to
his den a sym-
pathetic re-
porter rushed
around and
bought a
pound of
rump - steak
which he
clapped over
the bo s s’s
eyes. “ What
’s that?” cried
Levey, who
was by this
time blind ;
“ it smells de-
vilish like
meat.” “It is
meat,” said
the reporter;
“ but d o n’t
worry. They-
’ve sewn up
Smith in a
skin fresh from the carcase of a sheep.” “ Have
they ? ” said Levey, with a smile ; “ then I’ll take
a whole bullock, if necessary.”
Demise, Gagliardi, of Melbourne Public
Library. Someone writes that he was like Garri-
betta. Not much. A curly-haired little spec-
tacled Italian, familiar to all habitues, and one of
those inconsiderable men a great deal more missed
than many very considerable ones ; indeed the
trustees will have to experiment much before
they replace him, this minor stamp of the great
Panizzi, associated with the British Museum.
Premier Reid, during the N.S.W. general
election, wrote a letter to one of his most classical
metropolitan candidates, in which he recom-
mended him to the electors thus: “You have
always been a true Democrat, and your great
abilities, combined with your sound and progres-
sive principles, make you a candidate OF WHICH
may be proud.” This to a scholar and
University coach ! “Of which” —it broke that
candidate right up.
Rumored that Mr. Justice Owen (N.S. W.),
who has just returned from a health-trip to
Europe, is likely to retire on the grounds of ill-
health. The Judge is 64 years old, and has a ser-
vice of 11 years short of two months. His prede-
cessor, “ old ” Judge Manning, retired on pension
after a service of 11J years. And now “young”
Justice Manning is no more.
Recent Bulletin mention of the old-time
Victorian police cadets reminds a correspondent
of one of them, William Sylvester Pulford, who
died years ago in Maonland. Pulford was
accounted the handsomest man in the force, and
was a great favorite with the fair sex. It used to
he said that the scalp of the lovely, but eccentric,
Lola Montez hung at his girdle.
“ The appointment of a Melbourne man
(Frank Madden, F.R.C.S.) as surgical professor
to the medical school and senior surgeon to the
Kasr-el-Aimy Hospital at Cairo, has adminis-
tered,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent, “a cruel shock to the close corporation of
British medicine, intensified by the fact tha
Madden is only a boy of 25 whose student’
career was exceptionally brilliant.”
Hooley, in his blackmail allegations, is
just one more informer. By his own showing, he
conspired with the other people, and then “split”
on them. It recalls something sung by Anglican
church choirs :
Hooley ! Hooley ! Hooley !
Dollar almighty !
Seeking after golden crowns their lordships came to Jm.
Hooley ! Hooley ! Hooley !
Treacherous unduly,
States that all his biz was done by blessed briberee.
“ H.” : Graham Berry’s autobiog. is under
composition, from a hint in Bulletin columns,
and encouraged by Duffy’s success. It is remark-
able how Berry, Duffy, and Service stood right
out of the Higinbofliam-cwm-M‘Culloch em-
broglio. Berry cannot be too rapid in getting his
work out, but will hardly need spurring as a
journalist. The public will be eager for his sum-
up of Duffy and M‘Culloch especially, with a host
of others. However, Berry is a much inferior
writer to Duffy.
Bishop Montgomery, of Hobart, has a
sensitive horror of being taken for a new-chum.
To get out of that category he has indulged in
protracted exposure to sunshine and considerable
hard manual work. Among his latest exploits in
these lines was a long tramp over Tasmania, with
“ bluey ” on shoulder. A warm glow of satisfac-
tion suffused him when passing swaggies hailed
him as “mate.” Tas. is too sleepy for such an
unconventional Bishop. His Mitreship should get
up among the N.Q. diggers.
Epitaph on the wooden board over a grave
at Jakoits Harbor, Caroline Islands :
Sacred to Wilm. Collis
Boat Steerer of the SHIP
SaiNt george of New Beß
ford who By the Will of
Almitey god
was siviriliery injurd by
BULL WHALE
off this Hand on
18 March 1860
also to
Pedro Sabanas of Guam
4th MaTE drouwned on
the SAME Date his
Back broken *>v W HALE
above
MeNTioned
One of the fads of Argus editor Haddon was
that he would never allow the word “ female ” to
be used in the Argus as a noun. It was, he de-
clared, an adjective, and to speak of “a female’*
was wrong. This point has, for years and years,
been regarded as a superstition m the Akgub
office, until one day a very irreligious pressman
who was there was told of it. He at once quoted,
“ Male and female created He them.” “Where’s
that from?” enquired someone. “ From a book
that is supposed to be in pretty good English,” re-
plied the quoter. “What book?” “ Oh, only
the Bible.” For a quarter of a century that
superstition has prevailed, and nobody on the
paper had read the Bible sufficiently to quote
against it. [Unluckily for the point of the yarn,
“male” and “female” are adjectives in the
passage quoted.]
Joey Hughes, sub-collector of customs at
Townsville (Q.), has been promoted to be Regis-
trar-General, vice Blakeney, gone to the other
shore, and there is much growling among the staff
in theß.G.’s department at an “ outsider ” being
pitchforked over the heads of “ insiders. ” Joey ia
a prim little man, whose only vices, when writer
knew him as the Pooh-Bah of Bundaberg in the
early seventies, were teetotalism and a passion for
growing roses. Once, in a Bundaberg flood (’7B or
’74), Joey, the Customs boatman and writer—
Joey steering and t’others pulling—were “on the
rescue,” and got sucked into a fine, new whirlpool.
Boat span round and round, and Joey said : “ It’s
all up. ‘ Our Father,’” &e. “Can’t you swim ?”
said the writer. “Not a stroke.” “ Then your’re
a damfool to come out—dooty of no dooty.” But
none of that trio was born to be drowned —that
time.
Prof. Marshall-Hall, in a somewhat feeble
imitation of well-known passages of Heine, com-
paring the Greek gods with those that replaced
them, says of the latter
Hideous scarecrows that flop in the wind,
Are your Jew-gods, to frighten the weak and the blind.
The Argus simply shrieks at this insult to its
Presbyterian subscribers, and says :
The “Jew-gods” must be the divinities of Christiana.
Shelley, who was an earnest assailer of the Christian
faith, never goes the length of “ hideous scarecrows.”
He was impassioned in his invective, but. not insulting.
It certainly seems hard to please some people in
the matter of insults. Here are only a few of
Shelley’s “ impassioned invectives ” :
There an inhuman and uncultured race
Howled hideous praises to their demon-God.
—Queen Mob.
These slaves built temples for the omnipotent fiend.
—Queen Mab.
When from its sea of death to kill and burn,
The Galilean serpent forth did creep. . . .
—Ode to Liberty.
I called on poisonous names with which our youth is fed
—Hymn to Intellectual Beauty.


A PERTINENT QUESTION.
Why drink unknown brands of whisky of doubt-
ful quality when the “D.C.L.” Scotch (Black
Bottle) can be relied on as a real Highland
Whisky, thoroughly matured, and of guaranteed
uniformity.*
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
PURE AND WHOLESOME
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a superb stomachic. It
fortifies the system against changes of climate,
unwholesome water or air, and is a most cheering
cordial.
Wolfb’s Schnapps is superior to all other
liquors, as it is entirely free from fusel oil. It
can be relied on as a thoroughly pure and whole-
some spirit.
ĥ
ħ
FlS'* IMtTED MI.
Guaranteed Pure Cocoa and Extract of Malt
Aboriginalities.
m Th® landlord’s remark about hard times
provoked to scorn the grey-headed old man with
the wall-eyed dog. “ You talk about hard times !
Went across the Ole Man Plain once from Moula-
mein to Hay afore there was a fence on it. ’Ad a
good ’orse, but when I left the Moulatnein I ’ad a
drop too much in me, an’ somehow I got bushed.
I travelled all that day an’ night an’ all next day,
an couldn’t find a mark no how—till me ’orse
dropped. Noo it was a case with him, so 1 jabs
me knife into his jug’lar an’ ’as a drink. Then I
walked till night-time, and fell down dead-beat.
When I’d been laying for a bit, I saw a twinkle of
a light about a mile away. Couldn’t walk, so I
went down on me’ands an’ knees an’ crawled. I
gets to the door of a bit of a ’ut an’ knocks, an’ a
woman opens the door, an’, sez I, ‘ For Gawd’s
sake, missus, give us something to eat an’ drink.’
bez she, ‘ There ain’t a bite or a sup here. I’ve
had nothing all day. My ole man has gone with
the cart for a cask o’ water and some rations.’ Sez
I, ‘Sea if there ain’t a dust of flour in the bag.’
She shakes the bag out on a bit of paper, an’ there
was about a spoonful—but just as I gets it in me
’and, bust me if she don’t sneeze an’ blow the flour
to blazes. You talks about ’ard times 1 Come on.
Wally—we’ll get! ”
* * » •
“ Gin Sling ” : lie keeping keg of rum in
thehouse (“8.,” 16/7/98), old “Trunkey” Jones,
of Yarrawon, Q. (title from huge and bulbous
beak), having to leave his place for a few days,
tied the rum-keg to the ridgepole on account of
Mrs. Trunkey’s splendid thirst. And, as the lady
was partly paralysed, Trunkey thought that his
treasure was safe, but on his return tne first thing
that met his gaze was Mrs. T. in a state of bliss
on the floor, with a gun and a tub beside her.
She had put a bullet through the keg and caught
liquor in the tub. And yet the cold-tea crowd
will tell you that swipers are silly !
* » * «
“ Geology ” : When recently camped for
the night at Euroa, in the Kelly country (Vic.),
was visited by an old battler, who, after casual
conversation, confided to me his “game.” Had
small squares of gal. iron, with holes punched in
them, which he was selling as bullet-pierced
pieces of Jones’ pub. at Glenrowan, scene of the
Kelly-gang’s last stand. Had got as much as
half-a-crown for them, but thought he would have
to quit soon, as folks around were raising Sheol
UGO BIONDI, the quick-change character actor.
Photographed for The Bulletin by Talma, Melbourne.
about missing sheets of iron. Anyhow, had
enough lucre to put in a comfortable twelve
months in Melb. His best customers were Dead-
wood Dick devourers. Afterwards met a city
bushman near Tarcutta with one of these relics
slung'round ms neck under his shirt. He handled
it as the devout would a crucifix. “ Yes, pard ! ’
’ phigged liy Ironclad Ned at the hold-up
o G-lenrow n. Crood ole Ned -he was real grit! ”
* * * *
In che cattle-duffing days a N.S.W.
country stock-and-station-agent was offered 200
head of cattle at £2 per head, and agreed to take
delivery and pay cash on a certain day, the two
vendors telling him where they were camped.
Meanwhile, however, being chummy with the
local “trap,” he borrowed the latter’s uniform,
put it on, and, with a couple of men, rode over to
aforesaid camp. No sooner did the “ duffers ”
see the uniform than they cleared full-gallop, and
the bogus cop. chased them several miles, while
his men drove the cattle into town. Next day he
auctioned the mob at .£5 per head.
, , , .
“Face”- An niit hack miblinan wbn naorl
-race . An out-back publican who used
to train a couple of bush racehorses had a pig that
had been born with the strange delusion that he
was a racehorse. He was very speedy even “off the
grass ; but when he took to exercise gallops with
the prads in the morning he put on condition fast,
ard by the time of the annual shearers’ races he
was fit to run for a kingdom. ’ When race-day
came, however, he was tied-up in the calf-pen, but
smelt the battle from afar, chewed the rope
through, and, getting out just as the horses were
gomg to the post for the Buggabroo Handicap,
trotted round and unassumingly took up position
on the inside. He didn’t get well away, though,
and when they settled down he was two lengths
behind everything, but going well within himself.
At four furlongs he was still a length to the bad,
but, rounding the home-turn, he cocked his tail
and came with a great run, and, getting up in the
last stride, won by a snout. He received a great
ovation from the shearers, but a protest lodged by
u i the first horse for interference was up-
held, and Bawley was disqualified.
* ♦ v *
A Perth (YV.A.) daily received a wire from
its correspondent in a small mining town ‘ ‘ Raid
on gambling den last night. Thirty prominent
townspeople arrested. ’ This sounded so promis-
ing that the sub-editor immediately wired for full
details with names, but received in reply—“ Not
a dam fool! Kxpect to live in this town several
years yet. ”
* * o «
“ Tommy J.P. ” : A recent daily
paper, under “Troubles of a Country Clergy-
man,’ relates that while the rev. was on
a journey, the mare he was driving had a
foal! Should have been “ Troubles for Country
Clergyman’s Mare.” Try to imagine the sort of
man who would work a mare till she foaled ! The
average country clergyman (R.C. excepted) is a
tyrant to a horse. Under-feeds and overworks ;
particularly when the moke is somebody else’s.
* « * *
The world’s muddiest town is Zeehan
(Tas.). Recently a resident sued the authorities
for damages re the loss of a sow smothered in the
mud of the main street. Working horses lose
every vestige of hair out of their tails after a re-
sidence of a few months in the district. The ten-
dency _ to baldness in the latter extremity of the
moke is induced by mud collecting in the hair of
the tail in such masses that the hairs are uprooted
one at a time, and eventually the horse is left with
an end like a bologna, but comparatively Imppy.
You may know a man who has lived in Zeehan 12
months by his extraordinary gait: he lifts his feet
as if drawing them out of a bog, and pushes each
one ahead as if it weighed half a cwt. It takes
the individual who has escaped from Zeehan
several weeks to get rid of the Zeehan stride and
cultivate a gait unsuggestive of the struggles of a
hobbled cow in a glue-pot.
A newchum happened to stop
at an out-backer’s hut for the first
time, and, unaware of the rigid
economy obtaining, was asked
whether he would take milkor sugar
with his tea, and replied “ Both.”
Whereupon a youngster rushed to
the door and shrieked to his parent,
who was working in the garden,
“ Dad, come in, and see the man
wot’s goin’ to have 1 Both t' ”
* * •
It isn’t often the jackaroo gets
the laugh on the old hand. Old
Mac. drove out one day with his
Jacky to see a patch of lucerne
that had been sown on a dried-up
lake adjoining a river. “If rain
does not come soon, that will go,”
said the squatter. “ Why not irri-
gate it ? ” remarked the other.
“ Plenty of water in the river.”
“ Too late and expensive to get an
engine up this season. I’d give
£ 100 to see that crop flooded. ’ ’ The
next day Mr. Jackeroo came out by
himself and had a look round, and
not long after, he asked the old man
if he would abide by his word
about the £lOO. “I will,” said
Mac. ; “but how the deuce can you
manage it ? There’s not an engine
in the district.” “Let me have
your blacksmith and another man
for a day or two and I’ll save
your lucerne.” “Hum! I hope,
Mr. J., you’re not one of these rain-
machine lunatics ? ” “ Never mind,
sir ! —you agree to pay me £lOO if,
in a week, I flood the crop.” An
agreement was prepared and signed,
and, assisted by some neighboring
cookies, glad to get the work, the
green one simply syphoned the river
water over on to the lucerne. He
had discovered that the crop was
below the level of the stream, and
if you had met old Mao. a week
later, you would have seen him
immersed ,in a work on hydraulics.
The imported English-made supplement of
a N.S.W. paper, published right on the banks of
the Darling, contains this :
caterpillars six inches to a foot long are common in the
vicinity of the Darling River, Australia,
And that scribe quite forgot to add that the
biggest caterpillar, which is sometimes 2ft. long,
has a powerful singing voice, and builds its nest
of broken bottles and half-bricks. It is a kind
father, except when it takes to drink. The hair
on its back is 10in. long, and it feeds mainly on
ar S e lizards and sheep. It lives to a great age,
and th . en it! ff oes to a retired place with other aged
caterpillars, and they all burst in a row at 6.15
P- m - precisely. In the Ear West the only way
bushman knows the time is by the bursting of
very large caterpillar. When the western
caterpillar has finished eating a sheep he always
throws the bones up in the air to a great height,
and when a large number of them have been eat-
sheep at the same time the effect is very
remarkable.
* * *
More Buljim. They worked on adjoining
sfcations > and were as brothers. Rum was their
crimson thread of kinship. Bill got a five-gallon
keg, and invited Jim over to help drinkit. When
ifc was gone they sobered sufficiently to quarrel,
Bill “didn’t see why he should provide all the
grog . j im had drl / nk more - n h * did and j im
oughter pay for his wha ck.” At last Jim pays
over half the price of the keg and departs in high
alcoholic dudgeon. Then some of the “boys”
chipped in with a suggestion that Jim had gone
TRADE PATHOS.— “ HOME, SWEET HOME.”
to lay an information against Bill for selling grog
without a license. Still muddled, Bill rushes off
to police-station. Bill: “Did Jim So-and-so
make a charge against me of selling him rum
without a license ? ” Sergeant M'Ginty (scenting
a “ case ”): “ Er —um —l believe so ; did you
really sell him the grog ? ” Bill admits the fact,
and, in explaining, gives full details to the ser-
geant who thereafter files a charge in accordance
with “ information received. ” Result—next court-
day Bill is fined .£3O, and the intelligent “ beak ”
orders that half the fine be paid over to the in-
former— Bill himself 11
* • • •
While a M.L. bank-clerk and his fair one
awaited the bank’s permission to be made one,
an ancient but gilded squatter came along and
was smitten, whereupon the lady “ chucked ”
Adonis for Silenus. The betrayed youth heard
no more of her until years after, when he had be-
come a stock-and-station agent. He was wonder-
ing, one day, how he’d get across the Rangitata
River, when he saw a boat with a woman in it
whirling down-stream, while along the bank sped
an ancient, shouting, “ Good-bye, Emily darling !
I’ll meet you in Heaven.” The ex-bank-clerk
plunged in, and after a severe struggle got the
lady safe to shore—to find that she was his fiancee
of long ago. While she was duly expressing her
gratitude, the antique gentleman came up and
fell upon her neck. “Your father?” maliciously
inquired the rescuer. “No; my husband!”
“Well, by George, if I’d have thought that I’d
have let you rip!”
* ♦ * *
“V. ” : The jackeroo came to the station
fresh caught and rigged out, with swell top-boots
and all the rest of it. We filled him up first night
with snake and centipede yarns, till his hair nearly
turned grey. Next morning, after lugging on. one
boot, he turned deadly white and started yelling
for an axe, a gun, and boiling-water, meanwhile
stubbing his toe against every post he could see.
We got him down, and, jerking his boot off, found
that he had been trying to kill a toothbrush that
had mysteriously got into the toe of the boot.
* * * *
“ Tahune ” : A Tas. navvy lately shot him-
self accidentally, whilst after wallaby, and, two
days later, same thing happened, in same circum-
stances, to his brother. Recalls an incident
in Scotland. A relation of mine and a friend
were out shooting, when the latter, in forcing lus
way through a hedge, accidentally discharged his
gun, and was killed instantly; and my relative,
in afterwards demonstrating the manner of the
accident—and, in his excitement, forgetting his
own piece was loaded—shot himself, though not
fatally, in precisely the same manner.
* * * *
Some shearers were in an advanced stage
Of spree at an Upper Murray pub. A momentary
lull in the hullabaloo induced a tiger-snake to
crawl into the bar to investigate. One of the
muddled roysterers caught it, and, shaking it
gently, said, “ See here, boys, is one of my pets
come to see me. ” The snake fastened on his hand
l' I ’"'a flash. He looked at it with drunken sur-
p i a moment, shifted his grip, and said,
“ What, you ! would you bite me?” put
its head in his mouth, and bit it off. There was
no doctor nearer than 60 miles, but someone
carved a hunk out of his hand, and next morning
he was sober enough to inquire “What ’d I
knock myself against ! ”
* * * *
D. B.—Camp sol bush. In HI mes.
Cine hme las nit find evything dito. Sml larm
elk gone, bot ink upset. Want elk wak morn.
Set 6 befor go out. Lisn ; hear tik. Can’t mak
out. Go outsd. Sc ony Micks cow. Struth ! elk
insid cow ! Idea ! Clk set 6 ; go of, set cow of,
Bell, cows tal, set me of. Wkd rit—l nib, no gd
now. Drop ink in gun-cap, squz out of wht shirt.
Fored rbrev. Can U advts ? Mik jus com liv 2
mil. Larf. Say cow tuf cas ; et mis shmy of lin.
Et pr bts—rbbt-try. Thnk swal tomhk mis. Clk
gree wt hr al-ri ! Harlin 1
* * * *
Thursday Island magistrate to aboriginal
witness for defence : “ You know what an oath is,
Billy?” B.: “ Baa), me know.” M. : “Suppose
you tell the truth.” 8., after long pause: “ Sup-
pose me tell 'em truth, mine think it Boss belongah
me lose ’em plurry case ! ”
Before Pittsworth became a
farming district there used to be
good shooting there, aud geese
were plentiful. A Toowoomba
sport was much interested in the
Pittsworth blacksmith’s boast that
he never came home without a bird,
and proposed an excursion in com-
pany. When ready to start the
smith produced a long-barrelled
muzzle- loader, the rusty barrels
fastened to stock with wire. This
he loaded with a handful of pow-
der, heavy wad of brown paper, a
bolt-head, some nail-heads, and
other scraps of iron, and a second
plug of paper. Then the pair be-
took themselves to a small water-
hole, where timber made stalking
easy. The smith crawled to within
30yds. of a flock of geese, and,
after he had taken aim for about
five minutes, there was a 13-ineh
report ; and when the smoke
cleared a couple of birds were on
the ground, and also the smith,
stretched motionless beside his gun.
Fearing the awful weapon had
burst, the other raced to the spot,
and found the smith insensible.
But he soon came to, and eyed
both geese and gun with intense
satisfaction. “Well, now,” he
said, “this is lucky ! It’s generally
half-an-hour or so before I comes
to my senses after letting her go
—but I always gets my goose t ”
* » *
“ Efchelle ” ; Australia wor-
ships Horse. Way-back family-
procession on way to races, 30
miles off. Father on horseback,
with baby in front and 4-year girl
behind ; mother with another in-
fant, and 7-year son behind ; older
sons riding barebacked on each side. Pleasure !
• • * *
Thomas Troy, a 60-years’ resident, of
Mittagong (N.S. W.), who died, the other day, on
the brink of 80, probably held the record for the
price obtained for flour from wheat grown on his
selection at Mittagong. In the gold-fever days
he started for the Ovens, where a rush had set in,
with several loads of flour, and sold out at £lO
per bag.
* • * *
“ Nomad ” ; In northern Westralia— -i.e.,
from the Murchison to the De Grey—fair hair is
common among the aborigines. I say “common”
advisedly. I know places on the Gascoigne where
the majority of the women are fair-haired. Their
hair is that pale-yellow color which one generally
associates with the blue-eyed Saxon ; it is some-
times straight but generally curly, never woolly.
The skin of these natives is often a light-brown,
approximating much more nearly to the Malay
than the Port Darwin type—and there is probabl,
an infusion of Malay blood in them. Have any
readers noticed fair-haired blacks elsewhere in
Australia ?
A “BULLETIN” PORK SUPPER.
“Russ ” : Re bower-birds’ mimicry, I used
to wonder to hear the call of a turkey on a station
whei’e there were none, till I found that the
turkey was a bower-bird. Have also heard them
imitate a cat’s mew to perfection.
* * * *
How Bill voted : “ First, I draws a line
all round the paper, and gets ’em in a ring fence ;
then I sees they was all good blokes, and I puts
my brand on every blanky one of ’em, my oath.”
Asked what he thought of Federation ? “ I don’t
take much stock in these here fancy terbaccers;
give me a plug of old black twist afore the world.’’
* » * *
Schopenhauer evidently intended the tol-
lowing for this column. He is illustrating the
proposition that the strife we every where see in
nature “ is only the revelation of that variance
with itself which is essential to the will,” and
goes on :
But the bulldog-ant of Australia affords us t he most ex-
traordinary example of this kind ; for, if it is cut in two,
a battle begins between the head and the tail. The head
seizes the tail with its teeth, and the tail defends itself
bravely by stinging the head ; the battle may last for
half-an-hour, until they die or are dragged away by other
ants. The contest takes place every time the experiment
is tried.
He gives as his authority a “ letter by explorer
Howitt, reprinted in Galignani’s Messenger,
17th Nov., ’55.”


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS —White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Austi’alia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufactmers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY
An attempt made to introduce saltbush
for fodder in the huge Geraldton district of W.A.
has, so far, had very modified success. One sort,
however (halimoides) promises well.
A Bendigo man bought a small flower in a
pot from a local florist the other day, and whilst
loosening the dirt with a knife, after taking the
purchase home, turned up a 22-dwt. nugget.
Since Zola became the champion of Drey-
fus the Parisians have decided that some of his
books are quite too shockingly immoral.
Yet another Cecil entered the English Par-
liament a few weeks back, so that, although Curzon
is gone, Premier Salisbury still has a little family-
party of seven to back him up in the. Commons.
By the way, ambitious Curzon’s retirement to
govern India is ascribed to ill-health, but—if there
is really anything behind his seizure of one of the
biggest plums of officialdom—may not cousinly
jealousy have something to do with it ?
In Unterwalden, Switzerland, it is neces-
sary for the young man to be circumspect. For
should his bride present him with a too-early
first affection-pledge there is a fine of francs from
50 to 100, according to the amoufe of previousness.
At Unterwalden lately 60fr. wa3 gathered in from
a benedict who became a family-man just three
months after marriage.
Mr. Prank Senior, who has been chemist
to theN.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S.W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
h
SoftCaO'/aS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 6/6.
*
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. KIKK lillO IUK tea,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
MARCUS CLARKE, at 28 years.
Photo., Johnstone O’Shannessy, Melbourne.
“Poor Matthew, he’ll never get on with
(tod.” — R. L. Stevenson on hearin<j of the death of
Matthew Arnold.
Here are some ringing verses by Edgar
Wallace, a young South African soldier. What
of Kipling’s is any better ?
LONDON GALLS.
There’s a voice that calls to Mecca, there’s a voioe that
calls to Rome
(O the Holiest of Holies ! O the Temple and the
Shrine !)
There’s a bleating from a pasture, and it draws a wand’-
rer home
(O the friskings of the yearlings, and the lowing of the
kine !)
There's a penetrating whisper that can rise
above the gale,
From the cot of thatch and plaster, from the
oaken-gabled hall ;
From the limpid lake of silver in the verdant,
velvet vale ;
From the heather and I he shamrock ;
Hear the call !
There’s a voice that calls the waster who has dropped his
name —and cut !
(O the voice of Club and Chamber, and the Arc-light
burning blue.)
There’s a voice that calls the trooper in his daub-and-
wattle hut,
(O the midnight cabs that rattle from the Strand to
Waterloo.)
There’s a voice for ever calling, from the Square
and from the Slum :
From the Hornsey Rise to Brixton : from
St. Saviour’s to St. Paul’s.
Tis the never-changing message of the ever-
lasting “ Come,”
To the Brick and to the Mortar,
London calls 1
You may still the voice of conscience, and suppress the
blush of shame.
(O the deed that made you outlaw : O the Folly and
the Sin 1)
But never man ignored it when the call to London came.
(0 the call from belfry tower : O the clanging banging
din 1)
’Tis the grassy green of Greenwich, with the
deer among the fern,
’Tis the bleak, blank streets of Poplar, when
the drizzling fog-mist falls,
Tis a weary aching whisper and it murmurs
“ O return ”
To the Elegance—the Squalor,
London calls 1
Tis the swelling roar of Epsom, with the backers seven
deep
(O the rush around the Corner and the finish on the
straight!)
’Tis the tinkling hum of Henley, as it snuggles down to
sleep.
(O, the light-lined laughing river, with its fairy-fancied
f6te).
’Tis the growl of Ratcliffe Highway, ’tis the
lisp of Rotten Row :
’Tis the beauty that entrances, ’tis the
horror that appals :
’Tis the fireman’s horses tearing to the mid-
night sky aglow,
’Tis the commonplace the novel London
calls !
It is early morning Fleet-street, when the throbbing
presses fly
(O the Father of the Chapel! O the ticking talking
tape 1)
It’s the Universal High-street, where the World may see
and buy
(O the steamboat of Newcastle, and the Feather of the
Cape).
’Tis the Heart of all Creation where the Veins
of Commerce meet.
’Tis the centre seat in Gall’ry : ’tis the booked
and numbered stalls.
’Tis the Barrow in Whitechapel ; ’tis the
Brougham in Regent-street :
It’s a vague and restless—something 1 London
calls !
It's the rustle and the jingle on the Foreign Office stairs :
(() the starred and jewelled Levee ! 0 the Rulers of
the Land !)
It’s the crowd around the Stretcher and the burthen that
it bears
f <> the Ward in darkened silence. O the swiftly running
sand !)
’Tis the message of the Letter, ’tis the message
of the Wire,
’Tis the dainty hand that V types ” it, ’tis the
awkward fist that scrawls.
’Tis the Memory that sickens, ’tis the Thought
that burns as fire !
’Tis the life that’s worth the living !
London calls !
it's the cheering of the Commons, and the cry of “ Who
goes home?”
(O the bell that rings Division ! O the Seat beneath the
Card)
Tis the ohoir-boys’ voices rising to the lofty painted
Dome
(<> the flutter of the pigeons in the flagged and mossy
\ ard).
It’s the Sabbath hells that echo thro’ the silent
city streets
It’s the Love that has no Reason : it’s the
stroking hand that mauls !
It’s the Master : it’s the Tutor who prepares,
and it completes,
It is London—and it’s London —
And it calls!
Tollemache’s readable ‘ ‘ Talks with Mr.
Gladstone ” reveals that the G.O.M was in favor
of keeping the Poet Laureateship vacant for
awhile after Tennyson’s death, because “by far
the greatest of English poets (Swinburne) was
practically out of the running.” Also, it gives
the G.O.M.’s opinion of Parnell—“ He had states-
man-like qualities, and I found him a wonderfully
good man to do business with, until I discovered
him to be a consummate liar.”
“H.”: I knew Marcus Clarke well for
about 15 years, dating from before he began to
write. French was a mother tongue with him,
Balzac his idol. The writing of “His Natural
Life ” was fearfully uphill work. At first he was
seized by literary enthusiasm, when he visited
Port Arthur, and saw the virgin field, but the
book palled on him utterly, with its instalments
due for a month y periodical. I have heard the
publisher say that the worry over the copy was
enough to turn his hair grey. Yet Clarke auda-
ciously and impudently strung it out for the
money. For all this, the devourers of the tale in
the magazine, through which it went three times,
with Tom Carrington’s London Journal kind of
illustrations, would not part with a word of the
redundancy.
Of the Linotype, Sydney D.T.’s manager
Wynne, who introduced it to Australia, says :
“ I made a special trip to America to investigate
type-setting machines, and I found the Linotype
infinitely superior to all others. Several years’
experience with the machine on this paper has
proved it of immense benefit—to public, paper,
literary staff, and compositors. To import 16
Linotypes, as used on the D.T., would cost ,£650
per machine ; over £lO,OOO. And the cost of type-
setting with them—for interest on their cost, for
their depreciation by wear and tear, for driving-
engines, and for wages—that is inclusive, is
per 1000 ens of type, an “en ” being a type-
measure about the width of an average
letter —as compared with Is. Id. per 1000 by
hand composition. So, considering that this
paper sets 5J millions weekly, the saving weekly
in type-setting is roundly £200; yearly, say
£lO,OOO. This saving is, under the laws of com-
petition, expended in other channels ; the. Daily
Telegraph distributes amongst people just as
much money as it did formerly, but the
expenditure goes in literary and artistic
work; we employ more writers, more cor-
respondents, and get a higher class of work as
well. Hence the public benefit immensely. The
compositors’ staff on this paper was cut down from
110 to 30. But these have more money, more
time, more pleasure. The Linotype does not
waste the compositor like the hand system
It does not keep
him on a per-
petual grind ; it
does not start
him at 6.30p.m.
to -finish him by
2.30 a.m., to re-
finish him by
bringing him
back two or
three hours
daily to distri-
bute his type.
On the contra-
ry, it allows him
t o completely
finish by 1.30
a.m., and as it
distributes its
own ty p e it
gives him 17
clear hours out
of 24 for rest
and recreation.
And it pays him
2s. 9d. per hour
as, against Is.
9d. per hour at
hand - composi-
tion.” F. J.
F. J. BEVAN, of Sydney D.T.
staff, the man who set 18,000 ens
of type in an hour.
Photo., Kerry & Co.
Bevan, of Sydney D.T. staff, is the fastest-
known Linotype operator in Australia ; his record
being 129,015 ens in 8 hours ; an average of lb, 080
ens per hour—which total represents 11 tull
columns of D.T., or two weeks’ compositor’s work
by hand-composition. Bevan, fed by copy and
uninterrupted, has recorded 17,940 m one hour.
The whole companionship of Sydney D.T. aver-
ages 11,000 per hour, so Bevan is red-hot. He is
a Welshman who came to M.L. at the age of
eight, and began type-setting at nine, his motive
then being to make money. He schooled at his
father’s night-school and at others till 15 years
old He says: “I have been on seven or eight
small papers in M.L., and one small paper, now
defunct, in N.S.W. I have been on Sydney D.T.
staff for seven years : at hand-composition I have
kept up 3000 per hour, made =£B 12s. in one week,
The Mergenthaler Linotype.
£2 on Friday night. When the Linotype was
going to be introduced the rumors were pretty
strong. ‘ The machine would burst and scatter
us to the skies ; the fumes from its melting-pot
would choke us in a few months,’ &c. So far, all
we operators have had the best of health ; I got
married some time back, but that wasn’t on
account of the machine. I can’t see why opera-
tors should get nervous at the Linotype; it is
only over-anxiety to make speed that causes ner-
vousness.”
Madame Alva.
The portrait of herself that Alva prizes most has
the face nearly worn off by her httle daughter s
kisses, and the whole picture crumpled by the
child fondling it to her breast. This child of three
years is in pfris, and, unlike her mother has tried
from infancy to sing. Alva, now about 25, never
attempted singing until she was 16-that is, sne
never did more than join at church with a deep
and thankful amen at close of hymn or chant, She
had played tennis, cricket football, bdlmds had
used a gun often and fatally ; had ridden a horse
straddle-wise. But she had never aspired to sing ,
she was so overshadowed by her sister, her family s
accepted singer ; Alva was the
pianists. But once, at the concert
which broke up school for the holi-
days, the girls took it into their
heads to make Alva sing. Her
temperament responded ; she sang
them a song of an old maid, wink-
ing her eye the while at the expense
of an unpopular mistress. Directly
after, Alva was summoned before
the head mistress. She went, ex-
pecting to hear that ruffled tyrant
declaim upon the sin of the winking-
eye, but to her relief and surprise,
she found that the originator of the
summons was a musician. He said
that Alva’s voice was purposed for
Italy ; he persuaded Alva’s parents
to send her to Carelli.
She lived with two other girls in
apartments in an immense house
overlooking the Bay of Naples. r J he
three students adjusted their hours
of study to suit each other. By the
law of the house, they might not
begin before 8 a.m., or continue
after 11 p.m. But between those
hours, if anybody with cat-call or
howl or other sound annoyed the
students practising, these had only
to inform the Chief of Police in
order to have the malefactor
warned, seized, tried, fined. Carelli
began with'a twenty minutes’ les-
son ; taught Alva three times a
week with no home-study for the
first nine months ; the next six
months he gave her one hour daily
with no home-study ; after that, she
had one hour a day with the master
and three hours at home. The first
two years were confined to scales.
One day, during that time, chancing
to be where students were.rehears-
ing “Norma,” her ambition was
born within her. In the master’s
absence she took a part, and lost
herself. A thumb and finger pin-
cered on her ear returned her to
fact with a shock ; but before she
could quite recover she had been
walked out of the room and ad-
monished by the master. At the
end of three years she left
Oarelli, and, without rehearsing and without one
lesson in acting, in three weeks appeared at Co-
vent Garden. Subsequently she went to Milan
to Moretti, “the greatest living master—for
while Carelli is marvellous for voice-placement
and for patience, Moretti has more knowledge,
more intuition.” She is still Moretti s pupil
“ Whenever in Europe I have a few days
I run to Moretti to clean up my voice a bit.”
She holds the blue ribbon qf England, the in- •
vitation from the Condon Philharmonic to sing.
During the past 100 years it has come to only four
singers—Jenny Lind, Patti, Melba, Alva. In
September last year, at Bergamo, the birthplace
of Donizetti, in the Donizetti theatre, where the
walls sweat music, Alva sang with triumph. She
was presented with a magnificent bouquet nine
feet high, a gold medal, and a crown of silver
oak-leaves. Two nights after, Melba appeared—
with a limelight full upon her face. The audience
disapproved ; began beating the floor—turn ! turn !
turn ! turn ! turn ! tum ! tum ! tum ! and, as Melba
essayed to sing, the noise rose to clamor ; angry
shouts burst from all parts of the house : “ Put
out the light ! Alva didu’t have it! Put out the
light 1 Alva didn’t have it ! TDM ! TUM ! TUM !
Put out the light!” The light was put
out* and Melba, motioning with her hands to the
audience, sought to deprecate their feeling against
her, and began singing. Then someone discovered
a skylark flying about the roof, and quickly the
whole audience saw it, and caught the suspicion
that Melba had had it let in, with the hope that
it would twitter when she sang the cadenza. Had
the lark joined her, there would have been a riot.
As it was, Melba sang the cadenza divinely ;
the audience forgave her, and she received a
bouquet and gold medal. It had been touch-and-
go with her; for the Italians seldom parley. They
throw cabbages and ha’pennies. They howl down
Albani. They rush Ferrari, the conductor, drag
him out of his seat, carry him out of the theatre,
pitch him into the gutter. The law on their
statute-book is that a performer insulting an
audience may be arrested and imprisoned. A
gesture from Salvini got him three days’ gaol.
' Alva came to Australia for her husband’s health.
One of her dresses costs more than she receives in
Australia for two nights. Alva, born of Spanish
mother and English father, priding herself on her
English birth, was married four years ago in
Switzerland to St. John Brenon of Idoagh, the
head of all the Brenons, the knight of the Big
Wind, the Brenon Bawn, a friend of the Prince of
Wales, a journalist, musician ; a gentleman who
has measured with twine a skirt of the Queen of
Great Britain and Empress of India, and found
the length 32 inches and the waist 44. Brenon
says that Alva is as lissome as a tiger, with
tremendous energy. Alva says that her hus-
band hears her soales in bed of a morning
and corrects her without mercy—“ the third note
is weak.” he’ll say. Alva says : “ People told me
that if I had a baby my voice would go.” Her
husband says: “Her voice has improved much
since marriage.’’ It was in ’93 that a little bird
called love came and whispered something to St.
John Brenon concerning his heart and Alva’s.
Then editor of Piccadilly, he couldn’t forget the
lovely voice of Alva. When he brought Oscar
Barrett to hear her, Barrett said : “ She’s Spanish,
is she? I’ve heard many voices that toe the line,
but, my God ! this girl has leaped over the orches-
tra ! ” Gomes, composer of “Lo Schiavo,” walk-
ing down a street in Milan, heard Alva singing.
He found his way upstairs, and knocked at the
door of the room. “I am Gomes,” he said;
“ whose is the divine voice singing my music ? ”
Alva says : “At the first, on coming forward to
the footlights, the heads of the audience look like
so many eggs. But on turning my eyes away and
again looking before me, I can recognise faces
easily. I come with confidence ; with this reeling’
towards the audience —‘ I can sing better than any
of you ; I am going to do my best, and my best is
very good.’ Before coming on the platform 1 am
intensely strung, and after leaving it I am all of a
tremble. I sometimes come home and cry.
“ To students I say that constant work is the
only road to success. To the ambitious I say that
girls do not know the up-struggle, and that one
big cause of failure is, that after being six week-
MADAME ALVA .
Photo., Talma, Melbourne.
in Italy, girls think they know more about music
than anybody else in the world. Within the
last quarter-century only about ten of English,
American and Australian singers have come to
the front. Yet, there are 10,000 musical
students at the three London Academies. After
years and years of work the artist begins humbly ;
Patti’s first cheque was one guinea at Covent
Garden; Hall, box-office keeper there for 43
years, has that cheque now, and wouldn t sell it
for .£5O. Melba, after long, hard work, sang in
’B6 for three guineas as Mrs. Armstrong, at the
Masonic dinner of Drury Lane Lodge, when Sir
Augustus Harris was worshipful master. How,
Melba, who 12 years later, sings Juliet beautifully,
gets £3OO a night for concerts and from £l5O to
£2OO a night for opera. If she ever comes to Aus-
tralia, she will come under the management
of J. C. Williamson. I saw Melba give him her
hand upon it, at the Savoy Hotel, three years ago.
One part which has helped to make Alva famous
is the double one in “ Mefistofele,” when she is
first Marguerite, the woman ingenuous and sen-
suous ; and second, Helen, the woman who knows
all and is sensual. One great Italian critic
describes Alva’s voice “of most musical quality,
with passionate temperament.” A treasure of
Alva’s is a set of verses presented to her with the
author’s homage by Carducci, a senator, and the
Tennyson of Italy.
S. A. MILLS.


MUST GO STRAIGHT— CAN’T WRIGGLE NOW.
“The fortune of war has left me in the position of Premier, and the duty is laid on my opponents of assisting my efforts to bring about Federation, as the duty would have lain upon me of helping
them had the result been otherwise.” —PHAMIER REID.


\t
7*ser. 7/fpe
5
Ji"
*>
7^ H
1^94;
Sx\%
%\S*
»» 4 «
% £ %
* 'sAn
\%V%
\%S %%
%■%%.%
* % "»%•
S'
Argus?" Afa'
rf/porfeuf A'Z A yp "y /
fatfs ?rje ~7fa~ /
2/&7bsjdfo-r /
/fall's hook x , Jiouj>?>f7y
oecazgeyou Sa/<£jf~//
NS s>7rocK(ml^y
/]/e l)P€p TS/er? Z
tli e \ r ' t ~
fJ,! ‘e St) the ,° f Vorj, \
.<* >C? '«fo
A ■* t S * C
( %0 o ’ to
nt
"f )0
yoTi- Ws&f~ to
be dYiSioetL i*jto 'se' - -
op iife J>usfty<fsf
Itfifc '— f/o Sir, it is you. wi>o vfa&T
dr ¥ss' v 3' df olL -recorded. A daTfeX
Siyce X 'fipsyr'i bu t jbr"t/p, pufur'e
yoidl corpe o'n?e.
. ~, ihr.iict't Vie-
- 1 0. * c ot•' i ' 1 „ n \ r .> v\n»!
*- . o con id
sk"isConencT *** t."bnt
13 ,»ke Want the otbtw » t elnse
ss Liw:
■;s“«=K «- f
Excel^ ' •
o0f! 5 Sug&Ploy
J *W\K* W**
'$ 'cytiZ'p- r
MELBOURNIANA.


Australian Depots for Promo Cameras.
THE PREMO SENIOR.
THE PREMO A.
ĥ
REMOS
RODUCE
ERFECT
ICTURES
Illustrated Catalogues Free
on Application.
THE PREMO SENIOR SPECIAL.
THE LONG FOCUS PREMO.
BAKER & ROUSE
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
260 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
81 Queen-street, BRISBANE ;
375 George-street, SYDNEY;
65 Rundle-street, ADELAIDE.
AGENCIES :
Hobart, Launceston, Perth, and Fremantle, W.A.
Bogar, pure Silver-plated, 22s 6&.
With covers, 30a
A. Saunders,
large-siae 8-bar Amethyst, 86a
16c. Gold „ „ 46a
USX.
(ST
Pure Silver-mounted Purses,
7s 6d, 10s, 16s, 20a
A*w Style, Love Bird and Chain
Gold, 8s 6d.
A. Saunders.
S-bar Gold Brooch, 3 Pearls, 12a
16c. Gold, 22s 6d.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls, £8 6s.
6 Diamonds, £i 4s. Very strong brooch.
A Saunders.
New Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
Bed, Blue and White Stones, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 265.
16a Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2los and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Out Dia-
mond, £3; smaller
Diamond, £2, £2los,
gin. wide. .»
Send for Price List.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 15c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
18a Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamond, £5 ss;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
9c. Solid Gold Dia-
monds, 2 Red or Blue
Stones, 10s 6d.
18c. gold, 3 Sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Dia-
monds, £3; Double-
cut Diamonds, £3los
and £4. Send for
illustrations.
Any .\ame.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 16s ;
16c., 20s, 265; 18c.,
86s, 30s, 355, £2.
A. Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 5s 6d.
A. Saunders.
9c. Chased Links, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold, 40s. Silver, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 10/6,12/6,15/-, 20/-
A. Saunders.
Entree Dishes, pure Silver-plate, on Hard White Nickel,
67s 6d (4 pieces). Other houses charge £4 4s same articles.
WE SELL DIRECT FROM THE MAKERS.
Highly Recommended.
WATCH
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
mss
m
A
The 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases,
£4 4s, 15 years’ guarantee ; ditto, 14c. Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £3O watch.” Ladies’
“beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
The Utmost Satisfaction.
Old Jewellery
RE-MADE
to any Design.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, ‘ 5 10s, ,60, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
. Price .illustrated Book
A. Saunders.
Sugar Scuttle, Pure Silver-plated,
168 6d, 20s, 25®.
A. Saunders.
Hew Design Wish Gold Brooch, 4
13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Butterfly Brooch, 10a.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers. 9c.
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Gold
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s : extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
Quite New.
9c. Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond, and Redstone, 355.
Gold Baby Brooch, with Safety Pin, 5s 6d.
15c. Gold, larger, 12s 6d.
Send for our Complete Illustrated Price
Book of Watches, Clocks, Jewellery and
Silver-plate. POST FREE.
A. Saunders.
(juite New Gold Bird, White Pearls and
Amethyst Heart, 21s. ; 16c., £2.
A. Saunders.
Butter, Pure Silver-plate,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra Strong, 10s ;
16c. Gold, 158. ; 18c. Gold, 20s ;
Silver, 3s 6d.
qQ
A. Saunders.
16a Gold, Pure Diamonds, Rubies,
or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Dress Studs, 12s 6d.
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphires, other styles,
3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
Gold Heart
Locket,
Plain, 8s 6d.
Chased, 10s.
r
Child’s Cups, 10s 6d,
15s 6d, 20s. Pure Silver-
plated. 15s Od and 20s
are in Silk Cases.
A. SAUNDERS,
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, 815 George-street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY, N.S.W.


“Struck Down for Death/'
His Own Words.
Experts said he could not be cured
HIS PERFECT CURE A SURPRISE TO EVERYBODY.
(From the Freeman's Journal.)
(BY our own reporter.)
Mr. J. Hawkes, of Hawkesview,
Guildford. N.S.W., is now one of the
strongest and healthiest-looking men one
could meet in a day’s march. We heard
that for five long years he had been a terrible
sufferer, and that a course of Clements
Tonic had completely restored his health,
so this paper [The Freeman's Journal, Syd-
ney) dispatched a reporter to see him.
“ You look as though you’d never had a
day’s illness in your life,” said our reporter
on seeing Mr. Hawkes.
“I may look well enough now,” was the
reply, “and
My Health is Perfect,
but once I was struck down for death. The
doctors have given me up, and it seemed as
though nothing remained for me but to
settle my affairs of this world and prepare
for the next.”
“You must have had a narrow squeak,
then. Wha' first caused your illness V”
“ It must have been coming on for a long
time before it showed itself. My occupation
was very trying. I was a market gardener,
and I carted large quantities of vegetables
to the Belmore Markets. This necessitated
getting up very early in the morning, and,
as a matter of fact, I often waited up all
night so as to be first in the field and get
the best prices. My meals I got at very
irregular hours. I began to get a
Queer, Giddy Feeling,
which I can hardly describe, and one day,
after I came back from the markets, I was
seized with a fit. That was the beginning.
I temporarily got better of this attack, but
I was a changed man. Shooting pains
w uld suddenly dart through my back and
head, after which a feeling of sickness and
Faintness would Overwhelm
me. My digestion went all wrong, and
what little I ate did no good, for I got more
like a confirmed invalid every day.”
“ Did you see a doctor ?”
“ Yes, several; but they didn’t know
what was the matter at first; but some of
them said I was suffering from a sluggish
and disordered liver, and they gave me a
whole host of directions as to diet and how
I was to live, besides any quantity of medi-
cines. I tried hot bandages to my back and
abdomen, but got no relief from them, nor
did the doctors’ physic do me any permanent
good. All day long I was in such a sluggish
state that I cared for nothing. I was in a
sort of sluggish
Stupor or Lethargy,
which never left me. I suffered in this way
for over five years. At last I got into such
a despondent state that when I wished to
see the doctor I was too nervous to drive to
his house. I was frightened of going off
through the r baking of the cart, so I was
forced to accept what support I could get
from a friend, and crawl along with him and
the help of a stick.
I had got so Weak
that I couldn’t walk without a stick. My
face was drawn, and anyone could see in it
the pallor of a locg-continued disease. What
I have described was my usual state, but
every now arid again the shooting pains in
my head and back would become more in-
tense, and then I should have another fit.
Thinking that perhaps I could obtain better
treatment I
Went to the Hospital.
Three doctors there gave me a long and
very careful examination, but they could
not tell definitely what was the matter.
And all their medicines and attention failed
to cure me. Every doctor asked me the
same question, * What is the matter with
you ?’
This Silly Question,
in my enfeebled state, used to rouse and
irritate me. ‘ That’s what I came to you to
know,’ I replied.”
“ Your case must have seemed hopeless ?*
“ Yes ; I h-rd very little hope of ever
getting better I became very low-spirited 1
I took no interest in anything I
Consulted an Fxpert
in liver disease. He told me that my liver
was in a very bad state, and led me to
understand that
I Could Never Expect
to be cured; so I gave up all hope of getting
better again. I resigned myself to my fate.
I felt that I was already in the grasp of
Death, and lay in bed expecting my end.”
“You cheated death, however, judging
by your appearance. ”
“ Yes, and this is how it happened. My
nephew recommended Clements Tonic. I
got some, hoping it would at least relieve
me.”
“ And did it Mr. Hawkes ?”
“ The first dose was more use than all the
other medicines I had tried. It was very
effective, for it »
Struck at the Root
of my complaint. From the first Clements
Tonic had a stimulating action on my liver.
The pains in my back were soon easier, and
my head felt light er and clearer than it had
done for a long time. ”
“ Did you still have fits ?”
“ No, not a fit; it stopped them at once.
I persevered with Clements Tonic, and it
was plain to everyone that I was getting
better daily. I
Sacked the Doctors and scorned
their prescriptions. Their me-
dicines did not touch my dis-
ease. Clements Tonic cured it,
and all the evils went away without my being
aware of it. My appetite returned, I put
on flesh again, and soon got strong. I lost
all that tired weary feeling of lassitude and
was quite bright and cheerful, and instead
of sitting half stupefied in a chair all day or
Lying like a Los
in bed, I felt lively and energetic. A few
weeks’ treatment with Clements Tonic quite
restored me, but, of course after five long
years’ illness one cannot expect; to
Rebuild a Wasted System
in a week, but the way Clements Tonic
brought me along was a perfect surprise, not
only to me, but to everybody. The only
regret I have now is that I had not been
lucky enough to strike Clements Tonic at
the start. If I had known its value earlier
that first attack would have been my last,
and I should have saved
Five Lons Years of SufFerins*
I am thankful, however, that I came across
Clements Tonic when I did— * Better late
than never.’ It entirely eradicated all
disease from my system, and did what
doctor’s physic could not do in all those
years. In short, it saved my life.”
“ And may I publish your endorsement,
Mr. Hawkes ?”
“ Certainly, it is the simple truth that
I have told you ; I am here to prove it, and
all the neighbours know I was
Knockins at Death's Door
for five years. I have proved Clements
Tonic a genuine article ; I owe my life to it.
Why should I, or anybody else, object or be
ashamed to endorse such a valuable medicine.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
L Jam is Hawkbs, of Hawkesview, Guilford,
la the Colony of New South Wales do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of eleven folios and
consecutively numbered from one to eleven, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and
also contains my full permission to publish the same in
any way; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the
various Departments of the Government of New
South Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu
thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary and
•xtra-judioial Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Fairfield this sixth day of July, 1898,
before me. _
WILLIAM STIMSON, J.P.,
Fairfield
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS
NICHOLSON & CO-
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Coolg'ardie
International Mining
and Industrial
Exhibition
To Tie OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
For Schedule and particulars, apply G. WILLIAMS, Secretary, Coolgardie, W.A.
vaafyuiztvi&va
Stimulating—Nutritive—Exquisite in Flavor.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
SCBSMBD
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED I
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Dr. TARRANT,
E.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.5.1., L.M.R.C.P.E.,
m
liililii
*
ħ
hh
ħ
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulas formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few' diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are aftiicted. 1 may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answ’ered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARItANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
INTo Mian ox* Woman.
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is vour intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations ami Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, w'ho has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced }heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advioe
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
vou experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water. Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &o. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely KTo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, .Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannoi warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write to perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
cjl^ - Jqj*
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.


Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
GENERAL ELECTION!
. . The C’rect Political Tip . .
XJKTAKTIMIOXTS
TOPS THE POLL
VOTE !
BiCLy TEA.
Good Second : GOLDENIA. All others nowhere.
ENORMOUS MAJORITY !
Gramuna FocLali.
Dead Heat.
In every Constituency, both Before and After
the Poll.
WHITE
HEATHER
In much request.
WHISKY
Sole Proprietors and A rents : -JAME j INGLIS & CO.,
Dean’s Place, SYDNEY. Wholesale Only.
Easy to Explain.
lIP THIS HAD OCCURRED ANYWHERE:
ELSE THAN IN AUSTRALIA THERE
MIGHT BE GRAVE DOUBTS ABOUT IT.
If this were published outside Australia—that is
if the statement given below went the rounds of
the European or American press—Australian
readers would not believe it. In the very nature
of things, men and women will not believe that a
simple herbaceous remedy could have such an
effect upon humanity unless the patient is a living
well-known witness. Investigation into this case
is courted. Ask Mr. J. A. Stewart office, 407
Collins-street, Melbourne—manager of the Camp-
bell’s Creek Dredging Co., of Castlemaine, and see
if he will not corroborate personally what he writes
publicly.
He writes :—“ I have used Warner’s Safe Cure
for some time for my liver, and find it superior to
anything that could be obtained. lam fully con-
vinced it is a splendid medicine for the above com-
plaint, and I feel justified in recommending it to
all liver subjects.”*
Important Announcement to our City and Countrp
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY *»> CO.,
Furniture <& Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Room"., 324 Georg 3 Street, Sydney,,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, G-lassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction 1 too ins.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sate,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Queensland—Alienalia.
Northern Q. —Mottleland. Central Q. —
Skewbaldland. South Q.—Piebaldland.
The Hume electorate, represented in
N.S.W. Assembly by Opposition leader Lyne,
has not a newspaper published in it.
S.A. Premier Kingston has now been in
office for five years, and “ hopes to remain on the
Treasury benches for five years more.”
One modest Labor-party political debut-
ant paralysed Q. Assembly last week with a
maiden oration lasting three hours and ten
minutes!
Between Ist Jan. and 31st May, 1898, 90
Chinese arrived in Victoria from Tasmania, as
against 49 for the whole of ’97. The back door —
Van Dobson Land.
Of the 35 Labor-members elected to
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly in June, ’9l, but nine hold
seats in the new Parliament, three of whom do not
now belong to the “ Solids.”
Byrnes’ Govt. (Q.) has ruthlessly dropped
the Arbitration and Conciliation Bill. Next
move ? It will run it as an election cry ! and
many ass-voters will trot after the stage bunch of
carrots.
In Queensland, death left six big official
billets at the mercy of the dominant crowd. Four
of these have been filled by properly-branded
applicants. It will be curious to see if the remain-
ing two are similarly disposed of.
Premier Byrnes still hankers after an
extension of the Federal Council idea in lieu of a
direct Federation of Australia, and members of his
party anticipate that it is into this channel his
influence will presently be thrown.
One hundred and forty-nine Japs, in one
batch landed on Thursday Island. Premier Jap.-
treaty Byrnes : “ I suppose these had sailed from
Japan previous to the Govt.’s latest passport in-
structions having been given.” That was all !
Labor-member Browne: “ Has the Govt, con-
sented to their introduction ? ” Premier Straddle-
rail : “ No.” Then why permit them to be landed
in contravention of an alDj°d distinct policy ?
M‘Lean, of Marrick-
ville, who veered from
“Yes” to “Yes-No” at
N.S.W. elections, was one
of Reid’s shaky supporters
who had to be helped along
with Govt, blankets. In-
stead of being sent to the
local Mayor or to some
really charitable organisa-
tion, these blankets were
forwarded to M'Lean, who
is said to have handed
them over to the W.C.T. U.
—which would take pre-
cious good care that no
drunkard or moderate
drinker should participate
in the bribe. It is “up
to ” some Democratic poli-
tician to call for a return
of the blankets given by
Govt, at election-time, and
he should also ferret out
particulars regarding the
recipients.
A N.S.W. returning
officer complains in the
daily press of the “filthy
state ” in which many
voters’ rights were present-
ed to him at the election,
and suggests that there
should be some established
place at which rights might
be left until needed.
Which recalls that in the
early days of Victoria, as
numbers of single men
found it inconvenient to
carry their rights about
with them, Paddy King, a
King-street (Melb.) publi-
can, agreed lo take charge
of “any-number.” Atone
W. Melb. election Paddy
had not less than 400 in his
cash box, and every one of
those “rights ’ went block
for the late Capt. M‘-
Mahon. No one enquired
whether therightful owners
presented them or not.
A Maoriland Labor-
member has crystallised
into Bill form the old Bul-
letin proposal for a Legal
Enquiry-office or Bureau,
at which information on all
legal procedure and legal advice may be obtained
at nominal cost by any person needing them.
The Govt, is said to favor the proposal.
“ Laborist ” to The Bulletin
T , . , .. xr« w
Of the three new Labor-men returned to N.S.W.
Assembly the brainy W. G. Spence, if he hasn’t come
into active politics too late in life, should make most for
solid strength in the Parliamentary Labor-party. He is
one of the few in the movement who knows when to hold
his tongue, hence his undoubted influence in labor
circles; he is withal a good debater. Sam Smith, the
Seamen’s secretary, has so much square-jawed per-
gistency in his composition that he is likely to be some-
what inadaptable to the successful give-and-take of poli-
tics. Not, the sort to run from an enemy nor has he
nows enough to appear to run away. W. A. Holman is
somewhat of an oratorical rocket, a fine speaker—with,
by the way, heaps of literary ability—and will probably
be placed on view as the show-man of the Party if his
nice complexion stands the wear-and-tear of the parlia-
mentary machine.
One (country) candidate at N.S.W. general
election paid three scrutineers a guinea each to go
to three different polling-booths. When returns
came in, there was not one vote for the candidate.
Not even his scrutineers supported him.
S.A. Leg. Council holds four University
graduates— Lance Stirling and President Baker
(Cambridge), Martin Basedow (Germany), and
Dr. Campbell. Sad to say, they are all hard-shell
Tories. “ Education is bad for the masses.”
Victorian Taxation Commissioners make
demand on Vic. M’s.L.A. to pay an allowance on
account of their Parliamentary free-pass if within
the year they have used the railways for private
business. A precedent which should be adopted
in N.S.W.
Labor-member Turley, in Q. Assembly :
“ If Nelson was still Premier he would have rati-
fied the New Guinea concession, and not one of
the crowd behind him would have dared to raise
a murmur. They would have been as dumb as
oysters. ”
No N.S.W. electorate was more hotly con-
tested than the Barwon. In Brewarrina alone,
although the Federal candidate, W. N. Willis,
scored a big majority, hardly one of his ardent
supporters got off without a black eye or other
contusion.
Dear Bulletin. —Ever strike you what a
lovely picnic we shall have in the near future by
trying to block the Chow or sending him home
again, when his country will belong to Russia,
France, and Germany? What price a German
Chow !—C. J.
Q. Labor-leader Glassey (to a Bulletin
man): “ Why should we move a no-confidence
resolution now ? Byrnes has a majority. We’ve
counted noses. We should be defeated, and
Byrnes would go to the country all the stronger.
Wait awhile.”
No necessity for N.S. W. Opposition-leader
Lyne to sit idly by while Federation is maturing.
Let him table a Bill forcing the Government to
utterly abolish State school-fees (as in Victoria),
and another Bill, similarly coercive, imposing (as
in the other provinces) postage on newspapers.
When Reid cries that he can’t spare the £70, 000
school-fees, Lyne can hand over the postage to
salve the loss.
Some way-back returns in the N.S.W.
elections which illustrate the “ secresy of the bal-
lot ” : —Day Dream (Sturt) 2 ; Karpakora (Went-
worth) 7, of which all but one went one way;
Mallee Cliffs (Wentworth) 6, all oneway; Salis-
bury Downs (Wilcannia) 10, all but 2 (? manager
and overseer) one way ; Langawirra (Wilcannia)
8, 7 one way ; and others in Bourke, Barwon, and
elsewhere of the same sort. It is not wonderful
that, in these circumstances, only about one-fifth
of the votes in such electorates are, as a rule,
polled. Even Speaker Abbott, with a nearly 3 tol
majority in Wentworth, got under 450 votes,
although in his electorate are the three fair-sized
towns of Wentworth, Balranald, and Menindie.
CONVINCING.
POLICEMAN : “ Come along, my boy, you’re drunk.”
YOUTHFUL INEBRLATE : “ ’Ow can I be drunk, when I'm a Rechabite? ”
Speaker Abbott’s rejection of N.S.W.
Agent-Generalship, after a six-months playful
toying with the proffered office, degrades both the
office a “ d the Government which sanctioned the
proceeding. ihe Agency-General ranks as a
l- f f q. , " 5 J ...
, . btate, and constitutional practice
has uniformly insisted that such offices are to be
filled by negotiations which preserve them from
being publicly associated with “ rejections.”
*. „ •, ■, ,
I 1 Tom present appearances it looks as if
Barton will have much difficulty in getting a seat
in N.S.W. Assembly. P.yers, who apparently
promised to resign in" his favor, seemingly altered
his mind ; Goodwin’s Gunnedah constituents are
Q n Qr ,„ji„ „„„„„„ . , , , . °
, 'X , er ? e 4° that statesman making room
* or "he F ederal leader ; and from all accounts it
would take a team of tigers to make the effusive
Chanter redeem his promise as to resigning his
Deniliquin seat.
Minister Young still hungrily eyes the
N.S.W. Speakership. The manner of his extru-
sion from the office on a former occasion whets his
appetite for another experience of its power and
pay, and, if J. P. Abbott’s health fails, he will
try for the cushion.
A. S. Lilley, son of that old war-horse, the
late Q. Chief-Justice, will contest Bulimba at
next election on Democratic lines. The seat is
at present held by Oily-Gammon Dickson, but, as
he was only seven votes ahead at last election,
Lilley has an excellent show.
Pearler Clark suggests a neat and simple
way of stopping the Jap. influx, if Q. Govt, really
wants to stop it. Let the granting of pearling-
licenses to aliens cease, and the brown plague
will soon lsave Thursday for a more congenial
dime, says Clark. Come, Premier Byrnes !
The breach between Premier Kingston
and S.A. Labor-party now seems quite healed.
The “ cave ” was chiefly brought about by the Op-
position, who tactlessly tried to make capital out
of the quarrel when it was in its incipient stages.
The Premier, on the other hand, “ lay low.”
Govt, makes a splendid tenant. One N. S. W.
post-office (writes a Bulletin correspondent) pays
in rent one-half as much again as a shop next
door, although both shops and dwellings are iden-
tical, being part of a terrace and owned by one
landlord. Govt, never asks for a reduction.
From a N.S.W. back-blocks editor’s letter;
“I worked very hard for theßarton candidate here,
but couldn’t quite manage it. The thick-skulled
farmers said they wanted protection against
Victoria ; that’s what killed us. * It takes 15 years
.to get an idea into a cookie’s head and 30 years to
"get it out again.”
Tas. Upper House, mostly wealthy pas-
toralists, promptly fired-out the remission of stock
and meat taxes proposed by the Assembly. A
public agitation is compelling the Assembly to
reintroduce the proposal. If ever the Tassies are
to fight their Leg. Council, the present enormous
price of meat should start the row.
“New Guinea will progress if monopoly is
refused. Some people demand a monopoly of the
rubber-industry. I am opposed positively to
monopoly in any shape or form.” Who said this?
Governor Bill Macgregor! to the editor of the
Endeavour Beacon (Cooktown, N.Q.). Jumping
Janus! Here’s a memo, for the Premiers’ con-
ference.
Ex-Attorney-General Homburg, S.A., one
of the most curious mixtures of aggressive Radi-
calism and stolid Toryism in Australian politics,
comes along with a Bill to provide for the right—
the right, mark—of the agricultural tenant of an
absentee landlord to buy bis farm. Aimed mostly
at the South Australian co., whose hand lies very
heavy upon Homburg’s largely-German constitu-
ency.
“ Gunbar ” on the Federal railway pro-
blem :
Dear Bulletin. —The methods of provincial railway
management are even more immoral than your com-
ments picture them. The water roadway towards Europe
for the exports of N.S. Wales passes by the doors of
Melbourne and Adelaide. By water, Melbourne is 600
miles from Sydney, and Adelaide is 1100 miles from
Sydney. The products grown in far Western N.S.W. ter-
ritory, within 200 miles of Adelaide, must (to please
Sydney merchants) travel 500 miles by rail to Sydney, and
lioo thence to Adelaide, which place they might reach by
interprovincial Freetrade and Federal railway control in
200 miles ! This means that, for the purpose of augment-
ing the greatness of Sydney, the backblocks must be left
a wilderness, and its products must get an unnecessary
jaunt of 1400 miles in reaching Europe, and the N.S.W.
Western grower must pay all this needless freight.
Labor-member M‘Don aid in Q. Assembly,
last week, to this effect (condensed) :
I know that certain papers in this country were
nooleyed (!) —new verb—to get the Chillagoe Bill passed.
It is known that a certain leading paper in Brisbane was
offered a bribe to boom it. I know that a certain M.P.
conducted certain business in connection with it when it
came on.
*• Ordah ! ” yelled the Speaker, and he and others
called for specific “ charges.” The real core of the
reply : “ You grant an enquiry and I’ll make the
charges fast enough.” Result outside: A tre-
mendous accession of active flying around Bris-
bane, here, there and everywhere, for no visible
reason ; also a little spurt in telegraphic receipts
—“Reply, collect.”
** H.F.” : An election pointer. The
power of the culvert has been overrated ; during
the late N.S.W. contest a member, who has
brought a metalled road to nearly every elector’s
backdoor, and caused Govt, money to flow like
milk and honey in the land, only scraped in by
the barest majority. His opponent, having
neither brains, ability, or speaking power, spent
three months in a house-to-house canvass of the
entire electorate. Not a man was missed, even if
he had to be followed miles to his work ; every
woman was spoken to, every baby admired. The
would-be member said little ; but is a splendid
listener. “ There is a great deal of truth in what
you say, Mr. Cocky.” This recipe works like a
charm. Other things equal, the good listener
IN CHINA.—“THE SINS OF THE TUSH."
AH BILLER: “ There goes a missionary.”
AH JON: “ 'Eave arf-a-brick at him.”
AH B.: “ He’s come over from Australia!"
AH J.: “ 'Eave two bricks at him, and then go and
stoush him — I’VE bin in Australia.”
beats the good speaker all the time ; for what we
want, most of us, is not to hear the other fellow,
but for the other fellow to hear us.
S.A. anti-Federalists, in their desperation,
now point to the proposal to go on locking the
Darling as a proof of the selfishness of N.S.W. ;
but Premier Kingston, when drawn on the sub-
ject, would only go so far as to say that he wasn’t
sure the work would injure S.A. at all. The chief
direct effect of the locks will be to check the flood-
waters (which now tear uselessly to the sea, often,
indeed, doing damage by the way), and allow
them to pass down gradually, thus maintaining
navigation. Obviously, the lower part of the
stream must benefit as well as the upper. The
only time when the lower part will suffer will be
when a light rain comes on the watershed, after
prolonged drought, when the “fresh” now ex-
perienced will not be felt below the first one or two
locks. But the loss of these "freshes” should
be more than compensated by the conservation
and gradual letting-out of the flood-waters.
“ Lictor,” from Westralia :
Rumored coalition Govt, in W.A., with O. J. Moran,
nominally member tor Kalgoorlie, as Minister of Mines;
goldfields’ people would rather put up with Mr. Lefroy
than this. They do not know much good or bad about
the latter, and, in this case, would rather trust the
devil they don’t know than the devil they do know—know
too well, unfortunately. The whole thing may be a flam,
for Moran should be well aware he would have no chance
of re-election here, where the very mention of his
name in a crowd is a signal for general boo-hoo. He is
always loud in condemning the Govt., but invariably
votes for it in the House. The recent dismal failure of
the loan jn London is all set down to the tactics pursued
by Forrest and his gang in seeking to kill the whole
country for the sake of Perth and “ Flogmantle.” John
Bull wants better security for his money than two evil-
smelling towns, with wild wastes beyond, which would be
the result of Forrest’s centralisation schemes. The latest
plan of Govt, is to bring in woman suffrage. This, while
the goldfields now have about one-thirtieth of a vote
each ! The idea in W. A. is that men’s voting-power shall
be regulated, not by their numbers, but by how many
bags of potatoes or bunches of carrots they can grow to
the acre. And now woman suffrage is suggested
because there are comparatively few women on the
fields they have received broad hints to stay
away. However, the sudden liberality from those
who never suggested anything liberal before, will be well
received On the fields, where woman voting is in high
favor. The people here can afford to chuck the farmers’
wives in and still outvote them as long as their own
names are left on the roll. By the way, there is no real
vote by ballot here. Perhaps that will be added when we
get Woman Suffrage passed. Separate delegates from
both Esperance and Norseman have been visiting the
fields on the relative merits of the two railway routes —
Ooolgardie to Norseman or Esperance to Norseman, and
thence on to these fields. Everywhere except at Cool-
gardie the people are quite 50 to 1 in favor of the Esper-
ance line. The knowing ones believe the Coolgardie-
Norseman route was put forward just to make division
amongst the people. Since they can’t agree they won’t
get either. Forrest isn’t such a fool as some take him for.
THE DISPERSERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The stench of twice one hundred smells
That blend to form a whole—
The eye that marks the prosing swells,
The egg that seeks its goal;
The “ bounders ” slinking through the gloom,
Half-marked and gone again
The bulging bags that wait their doom—
The Yes-No Fatman’s bane.
Hit, and hard hit! the yoke drips down,
The softened, sick’ning squash—
The laugh that over-rides the frown—
The squirm that checks his bosh—
The rage that chokes the liar’s power—
The curse on him who throws —
Till streaked with egg and sleeked with flour,
The vapid wind-bags close.
A.


New System of Healing!
* _
The Polypathic Institute and its Remarkable Work.
With absolute certainty of locating disease, they cure beyond reasonable doubt in all cases.
28 York Street, Square, Sydney.
Thousands
Cured
Annually.
ĥ
Thousands
Cured
Annually.
Db. WILLIAM FLETCHEIi HALL, The Eminent Diagnostician, of the Polypathio
Medical Institute, 29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
The Diagnosis of Disease.
Without looking at the Tongue, feeling the Tulse, or any previous hnoieledge of the case.
Polypathy claims the freedom of accepting the good and rejecting the bad in all systems ; it has formulated
special treatment for itself in all chronic cases ; it prepares its own medicines, and applies them in the light of
nineteenth century progress.
THE POLYPATHIO MEDICAL INSTITUTE, SYDNEY, where more capital is invested, more physicians
e- 'loved, more patients treated, and more CURES made, than by any other System in the world. 29 YORK
i tEET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
You are earnestly invited to come, see, and examine for yourself their institution, advantages, appliances, and
success in curing the chronic ailments of suffering humanity.
Their patients are numbered from all parts of the world, and so remarkable has been their success that one
pauses in wonder at the superior qualifications of a man who can, FROM A STRICTLY SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE
OF THE STRUCTURE OF MAN. TELL DISEASE AT A GLANCE, WITHOUT ASKING ANY QUESTIONS,
LOOKING AT THE TONGUE OR FEELING THE PULSE.
They treat all Female Troubles by the Poly pathetic Method, which does away with the speculum examination,
rings, pessaries, and all local treatment.
They also desire to impress upon all men who are suffering from the errors of youth that they have the justly
celebrated Hindoo Remedy, so well and favorably known in the Old World as the “ Anti-Agnechal Tabloid Method.”
All desiring to test the system will have such opportunity.
WRITE.
IP YOU CANNOT COME TO THE INSTITUTE FOR CON-
SULTATION, WRITE FOR A LIST OF QUESTIONS.
WRITE.
Free Consultation to all who call until Ist Sept.
Hundreds successfully treated every year by mail.
WE HAVE THE MOST PERFECT SYSTEM FOR TREATMENT BY MAIL EVER
USED IN THE COLONIES.
The Management of the Polypathic Medical Institute have leased the entire building, 29 YORK STREET,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY. This building has been most thoroughly re-modelled, and is now fully equipped,
and furnished with Reception Rooms, Consultation Rooms, and Laboratories, all complete. All of the Polypathic
Institutes are presided over, in the Medical Department, by fully qualified medical men, whose credentials are second
to none in the medical world, and they are fully registered by the Medical Boards of the colonies in which they
practice-in full compliance with the medical laws.
Polypathic Institutes have the Largest Private Laboratories of any Private Hospital or Institute in the
World, and they are also presided over by expert chemists, fully registered 'by the Pharmaceutical Boards of the
colony in which they reside.
+.
Polypathic Medical Institute,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
• Of Consultation—lo a.m. to 4 p.tn. DAILY. Evening Consultations—TUESDAY,
THURSDAY, and SATURDAYS, 730 to 9.
NOTE.—One of our Physicians WILL VISIT PARRAMATTA EVERY FRIDAY, and give
Consultations at Woolpack Hotel, from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
To solace the wounded feelings of Just-ice
Gould, ignominiously thrown out of Singleton
at N.S. W. general election, a banquet was
given the other day. Dull old Sunday Bbunker
sent a letter about the “untarnished record”
of the Minister who refused Justice to Suf-
FIKLD. Dull Minister Smith —another ejected
leg slative has-been—gave his discredited poli-
tical company. Minister Young condoled with
Singleton electors on their mistake. But the
gein of the evening was this ladleful of parsonic
grease :
The Rev. Dr. White grave the toast of “Our Guest.”
Were he Homer, he said, or Julius G.esar, he would in
every feature make Mr. Gould’s character shine. Mr.
Gould was a man of comely presence-(cheers)—a win-
nirur manner—(cheers)—with |natural parts of a high
order. (Continued cheers). He had discipline, culture,
talents, graces, energy, and was loyal, philanthropic and
just. (“ Hear, heat-.”)
A copy of the Suffield pamphlet has been
posted to Rev. Dr. White— with a note asking
special attention to the pages telling how three
times Minister Gould’s department offered to
release Suffield if he would petition for mercy,
thereby abandoning his claim to an enquiry
according to law—and the adulator of Minister
Gould’s philanthropy and justice is hereby in-
vited to explain why on earth Gould’s depart-
ment took such pains to set free before the ex-
piration of his sentence a man who, if he is not
innocent, is a degraded ruffian.
The S.M. Herald has, by this time, ap-
pointed more than half of Premier Reid’s following
to the vacant portfolios, no doubt with the wily
idea of raising the hopes of many of his sup-
porters, only to make them more bitter when
they find themselves “left.”
A Cure for Tick. —Bouncing bargains
brings business, but business does not bounce,
unless you know where to buy. All readers
of The Bulletin know that McLean Bros,
and Rigg, Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide
and Perth, is the best and cheapest house for
ironmongery, guns, ammunition, fishing tackle.
Spot cash, bottom prices.*
The Bulletin is glad to see that the
people of Lambton are taking a new interest in
the Suffield case, and that an influential com-
mittee has been formed to collect subscriptions.
Mr. A. Griffith, M.L.A., whose conduct in urging
Suffield to accept the official offer of release formed
the subject of some criticism, has placed himself
at the head of the movement. The Bulletin
suggests, however, that Mr. Griffith should appeal
to the new Minister of Justice, whoever he may
be, to grant Suffield’s petition for an enquiry
under section 383 of the C.L. Amendment Act;
and, if the request is again refused, once more
refer the matter to Parliament. If Suffield is in-
nocent, he should not serve one day of an upjust
sentence that Parliament can spare him.
Keep YoGr BtiSipess It) YoGr Ovit) Napds.
The ONLY TRUE and EFFECTIVE BUSINESS COUPON SYSTEM
IS THAT SUPPLIED BY THE USE OF
The Storekeepers’ Coupon
0 2 4 JAN -9
L. CONRAD
Butcher
and Meat Preserver
WNDIEV STREET
Return £5 In Checks *
and Receive &/•
M 10.00 A
Register.
IT CONCENTRATES your
CASH BUSINESS by giving-
special inducements to your
Customers to regularly pur-
chase at your Store.
IT ISSUES a DATED and
NUMBERED PRINTED
COUPON with every trans-
action, which is a statement of
the transaction, a RECEIPT
for the MONEY PAID, and
which at the same time bears
your advertisement.
Full Particulars on application to
2 6 8 JUL I ’
BAYNES BROTHERS,
Late Graziers Batchers
BRANCHES IN ALL PARTS
CITY ANO SUBURBS
Return £1 in tickets
and receive t/- In good*
DO 1 2
REGISTER
COUPON VOUCHER.
REGISTER
COUPON VOUCHER.
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER COMPANY’S
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA:
393 &EORGB ST., SYDKTEY.
Telephone No. 2976. W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager. P.O. BOX, 1035.
i\
<?e
99
n
A
ri
wSIm
So
ft**
*
*
ft
_ v\
w
m
aVM
ft
ft
r ~4 i|i
*MMWm
8
£
A
I IN ■ OA R
i\\V.
tv.
More trouble over faith-healing : an
Adelaide woman whom the healers took into their
“ Home of Truth ” out of the hands of the doc-
tors, with the idea of curing her of hydatids by
supplication and strenuous belief. They have
turned out a very interesting lunatic, and she’s in
the asylum now. When the boss-healer called at
the house of the invalid, her coarse, sceptical big
brother cheerfully knocked him down, and re-
peated the operation with great accuracy until the
healer resolved to remain down. At the Home
of Truth the professional expert of the Christian
Metaphysical Society undertakes the cure of any-
thing, from toothache to cancer. This paper
never hears of the faith-cure without recalling the
sage criticism of a suburban butcher : “If these
fellers can cure anythin’ by faith, why don’t they
set-up in business an’ cure corn’-beef on them
principles ? ”
Pure faith the tallest mountain lifts,
Says our evangelist.
We may believe him when it shifts
A small hydatid cyst.
One Cook, a very old hand on the Upper
Hunter, died at Singleton lately, aged 87. He
had spent 70 years in the district, and well knew
the tyrant Mudie, of “ Castle Forbes,” at whose
place, he used to recount, he once saw Gov. Dar-
ling. He remembered the execution in 1833 of
Hitchcock and Poole, two of the men concerned
in the “ rising ”at Castle Forbes. He was choke-
ful of ancient Australian lore, and would talk by
the hour of the bushranging exploits of the Jew
Boy’s gang, and other notable incidents.
N.S.W. Criminal Courts went on with
business on the day of Justice Manning’s death.
The other Courts adjourned. As the respect con-
veyed by adjournment is not a personal one, but a
mere cut-and-dry judicial courtesy, public con-
venience might very well be given a voice in such
matters. Should a N.S.W. Supreme Court Judge
die just over the border from N.S. Wales, say in
Queensland or Victoria, judicial etiquette dis-
allows the suspension of Court business. Adjourn-
ment consequently depends on a technicality, and
is really no indication of honor. The Judges in
the Criminal Courts almost apologised for keeping
open, although the guilt or innocence of accused
persons hung in the balance.
**oia©i
|L^_
IM
tfe
mmw
:
ms
m
Given ]uiay
An illustrated and interesting Booklet, entitled
“All about Dunlop Tyres for ’9B-9.” Replete
with useful information to all cyclists. Photos
of Australian Beauty Spots, Racing Champions,
Record Tables, etc. As the issue is limited, it
is necessary to send or write to us for a
_ _ COPY AT ONCE.
The Dunlop] Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 Kent-street, Sydney;
and at Swanston-street, Melbourne; Franklin-street, Adelaide ;
King-street, Perth; and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
mill, fllont it ptete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
74
CASTLEHEAG-H ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Paivnbrokinr/ Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
FBR MOKTXH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, v
AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
AUnsmmt
! u
HEAD OFFlcI)
IKTERSECTION HUNTER,BUGH and
Castlereagh Streets
• SYDRey •
Established - 1879,
Office in
rfIifMSAL INCOME and INVESTED
Funds Exceed £2oo.oooSterling,
HanJc of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGS! STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,010 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Auditors :
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
Londn Office—Old Broad Street.
With .Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New-
iZealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
CRAIG & AITKEIN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites
for SALOONS and
Hairworking.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Sealpets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
ASSISTANTS Engaged for the Country.
A Silver Watch
m- GIVEN AWAY. *W
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
N*V*R B* W*T*o
T A W*T*H.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods
“ The Manager English Watch Co. —Miss Shcllery
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and~chain re-
ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
theni. All Saints Coli eg •, Bathurst, 19t.h July, 1898.”
Address—THE MANAGER,
The English Watch & Jewellery
Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe TrCistccs, CxectitorS,
AND
Coippaoy Litpitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... £60,000
RESERVES and Undivided Profits used in the
company’s business ... ... ... £45,198
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ... £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Coll ins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. ' .. 500,000
Amountof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up . .. £1,0*4,801 10s.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esc., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry GvlesTurner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M’Nall, R. H. M’Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M’Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 JBisJiopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited,-Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Liercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
‘-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gtiarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lon a -n.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, e<e.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Cj/yne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFEICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
David graham m Co.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
Spring Suitings Juat °f eaea -
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
LADIES’
AT REFORM
PRICES
AT REFORM
PRICES !
TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
K-ole Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham & Co.,
.73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM;
Price Is.; per Post Is. 3d.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 20, 2 p.m.
-Buninyong, Wed., Aug. 24, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, August 27, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Saturday, Sept. 3, 12 Noon.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, August 20, 2 p.m.
•Konoowarra.Tues., August 23, 5 p.m
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 27, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, August 20, 2 p. m.
-Barrabool, Monday, Aug. 22, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Aug. 27, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CIIKKENT FAKES TO ALL FOKTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Vv T m. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
N GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EX!‘I!ESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their 'ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other informal ion, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
J 4fii
4/y
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
"IVESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
I ' STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
AIRUIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & 00., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
The Universal Land and Deposit
Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
Of 250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TAEBENTURES ISSUED, redeemable in three or five
' years from date of issue. Interest: 3 years, 6 p.c.
per annum; and 5 years, 7 p.c. per annum -payable
quarterly or half-yearly at option. The holder of Deben-
ture Bonds has a security in the assets of the Company—
past, present, and future. Deposits to limited amounts
received at 5 p.c. per annum. THE UNIVERSAL LAND
AND DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED has never reconstructed
or suspended in any way since its formation in 1891.
Advances made on Freehold Property, Bills Discounted
on deposit of Deeds. Business arising out of Real Estate
transacted in all Australian colonies. Depositors in the
country can remit by cheque, personal attendance at
Sydney unnecessary. Correspondence invited. Fullest
information from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
Cable Address—Riemseil.
Code— Moreing & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 267, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarice & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Bldott’3
INVESTORS’ 6UIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors, »
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Land, &c,
perthT -
WEST AUSTRALIA.
£l6 each BUILDING SITES, close to City, in a few
years will be very valuable. Easy Terms. Torrens Title.
Plans and all information from
Ernest €. V. Broughton,
Valuator under R.P. Act. 260 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Innamincka (from Sydney)
Friday, August 19.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Saturday, August 27.
ALBANY, -v
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle I
to l
YASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Innamincka (from Syd.)
Friday, August 19.
S.S. Marloo (from Melb.)
Saturday, August 27.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Saturday,
August 20.
S.S. Innamineka, Saturday,
August 27.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., f/i’D., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Arcadia ...
Rome
Himalaya
Oriental...
Britannia
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, A 65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, Parker g (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HOBART,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates,
MESSAGERIES_ MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling: at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including- table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
flTlliuraith, flpEacharn 8 (Jo-
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
Eor Specially Reduced RateSj Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn 8s Co, Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the-
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America..
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. IM. Coy. Ltd
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE— B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Co.
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
No. 196.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18s 6d ;
15-ct., £llss ;
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 137. ,
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls, £3.
No. 201.—Set Links.
•t , t,. Gold, £1 5s ;
ib-ct., 12 ss; Silver, 6s 6d.
l®C#3ka«Li
i 3
No. 139.
oct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
tin (F*
No. 198.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 16s 6d ;
16-ct., £llos ;
Silver, 4s.
No. E 864. 9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted New Designs, 12s 6d.
No. 111.—New Bar Brooch,
Amethyst and 9-ct. Gold, 10s 6d.
Bbe
No 682.—15-ct. Gold Brooch, Horseshoe
and Whip, Ivy Leaves, £1 10s.
No. E 550. —9-ct. Gold.
Pearl and Turquoise Brooch, assorted
pretty designs, 10s 6d.
No. E 1765. —9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted Newest Designs, 9s 6d.
No. 208.
15-tt. Gold Heart,
10s 6d.
9-ct. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 162.
3 fine Diamonds,
IS-ot. Gold, £i 17s fid.
ftai
Mm
Ktf
No. 141.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, set Rubies and Pearls, £2.
No. 235.
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Diamond,
£ll2s 6d.
No. 142.—Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9-ct. Gold, £3 3s ; 15-ct. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller sizes in stock —9ct., 255, 355, 50s ; 15-ct., 655, 87s od.
15-ct.,
set Pearls,
15s 6d.
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18-ct. Gold,
9-ot. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
16s 6cL
No. 136.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 6s.
No. 398.—Elegmt Electro-Silver Bread Fork,
7in. lout;, 9s 6d.
No. 245. —Sterling Silver Cedar Pencil Case, 4s.
No. 396.—Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork, llin. long,
Pearl Handle, 14s 6d.
I"' '** 1
gf
k
gm
No. 285.—Finest Out Glass.
Silver-mounted Salts Bottle,
16s 6d.
Size larger, 18s 6d.
No. 416.— Handsome Clock, 7in. high.
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops, and two
Gilt and Leather Traces, £1 7s 6d.
No. 361. —Very Elegant fine Electro-Silver,
6-bottle Bamboo Dinner Oruet,
Wicker Handle, £3 ss. 4-bottle, £2 7s 6d.
m
8«i
No. 316.
Solid Silver Sweet Dish, 3Jin. long,
10s 6d.
No. 265.—Medal.
9-ct. Gold, £llos ; 15-ct., £2 15s.
Silver, ss.
No. 388.
Electro-Silver Plated Jam Spoon, 6in. long, 3s.
ElectrorSilver Plated Butter Knife, Pearl Handle, 6in. long, 3s GJ.
So 402 —Combination Revolving Soup and Entree
Dish, consisting of Electro-Silver Stand, Entree Dish,
Fish Drainer, and China Soup Dish. Set of 4
most useful interchangeable articles complete, £5.
No. 400.
Electro-Silver Knife Rests, 3J4> n - l° n gi
4s (id per pair.
Solid Silver mounted Comb, from 10s (id to .01 Is.
No. 414.—Elegant Clock;
6in. high, 17s 6d.
No. 417.
Elegant Gilt and Nickel Nau-
tical Clock, with Enamelled
Flags, B.Jin. high, £1 Is.
mm
No. 369.
Elegant “Queen Anne’’Electro-Silver Afternoon 'lea
Service, 3 pieces, £2 10s.
\\
3 SB
MBBii
IBS!
Dnli
Qpra
ESSi
BEM!
sliSißSs
<3k
SOQ
BBD.B
m
vrm
No. 364.—Very Handsome Electro-Silver
Dinner Cruet.
6-bottle, £4 4s. 4-bottle, £3.
No. 84721.
Solid Silver Manicure Set, in case, £2»
NOTE.—The various illustrations shown, above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (bO pag e. )
ely
m the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will be
STEWART
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND. PERTH.


IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DKINK . . .
Williams’
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
One N.S.W. general-election candidate was
responsible for a bull that deserves immortality :
I deepb’ deplore that men are to be found in our midst
whose business it seems is to use their utmost endeavor
to put class against class; who, when any little dispute
arises, rush “ like flies to a sore on a horse’s back,” and,
by throwing oil on the flame, as it were, widen the breach
between the contending parties until all the better feel-
ings we should have one towards another are lost sight of.
And the man who did that was a Scotchman,
named Strachan.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
jjgg*' gpzr
Every line denotes a point of “Red Bird”
g/gf^
superiority.
1. New nickel sf.ee! frames with drop bracket— easy steering’, easy running, and
indestructable. / ,
2. New flush joints with inside taper reinforcements.
3. Over-hanging sprocket, direct chain pull.
4. New half-inch pull “B ” chain.
5. New hub bearings, each ball in separate steel case, no friction, no wear.
6. New cones, balls cannot get out of alignment.
7. New crucible steel square cranks with new detaching device, no cotter.
8. New narrow tread with oval rear fork.
9. Chain pull along line of fork, no side strain.
10. New seat pillar adjustments without nut and bolt.
11. New bottom bracket bearings, only require adjusting once a year ; and fifty
(50) other improvements which space will not allow us to itemise.
Our catalogue will give you further particulars, send for one.
THE GOOLD BICYCLE COMPANY, LIMITED
Australasian Branches —64 King-st., SYDNEY (Head Office) ; 245 Collins-st.,
Melbourne; Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ; Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
Factories - Brantford, Canada. AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
HAVE YOU FIVE MINUTES TO SPARE ?
If so, you cannot employ it better than by inspecting our stock of celebrated ENGLISH CYCLES, comprising—
Premiers Simpsons Sparkbrooks Calcotts St. Swithins Eurekas
We have imperative instructions to clear these wheels—all ’97 stock—at about HALF-COST.
Country buyers write for particulars. You will never have such another opportunity.
STERLING CYC ,E DEPOT, 75 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The A.J.C. has closed its teeth upon a lump of
3old iron in its proposed attempt to wipe out pony-
racing. In th*> past the Club has ignored the little-’uns,
but in self-defence it has now to take action, as the crowd
will not stand Randwick on off Saturdays at any price—
a state of things the A.J.C. puts down to the people pre-
ferring to “do in their little bit ” with the ponies. The
best letter that has appeared in print on the subject is
“Cosmopolite’s,” in last Saturday’s 11 krald—the marvel
is how Sir James ever allowed it to see the light. “ Cos.”
points out the A.J.C. twaddle in singling out Warwick
Farm and Rosehill as “honorable exceptions” amongst the
proprietary clubs in virtue of their not racing ponies on
their courses. “ Does not every turf habitu6 in Sydney,”
remarks “ Cos.”, “ know that pony-racing was carried on
at Warwick Farm so long as it yielded a profit, and at
Rosehill until the Kensington racecourse, belonging to
the same proprietary, had been got into full working
order!” s
The A.J.C. cannot put down pony-racing, so
the next best thing would be to try and regulate it. But
whatever they may do vvith the pony rabble, they had
better not run the Kensington people too close, or the
latter may retaliate to some purpose. For should Ken-
sington decide to race against Randwick on “ off ” Satur-
days, the A.J.C. may rest assured Kensington would not
be unattended.
• * • •
TattersalPs Aug. meeting at Randwick last
Saturday did not bring together much of a crowd. Mr.
“ Jack ” Smith’s Gozo sired no less than four winners out
of the five, three of them starting first favorites—which
reads like a record.
• * • •
They all do it. A Sydney syndicate drew in
• ‘ Tat tersal l’s ” s weep on a race at Randwick the other day—
a horse belonging to a very wealthy and prominent club-
man. Upon being approached as to accepting a whack
of the plunder for a start, the big man replied—” See the
trainah. I nevah interfeah in such mattahs.” When the
trainer was waited on, he demanded half the sweep,
under the threat of “scratch.” One-third waioffered to
the trainer, who retired for a confab with his principal,
and upon his return gave bis ultimatum of half or no
start. In the end, seeing that the ticket-holders meant
to stick to their offer of a third, it was accepted, and the
horse started. And yet the aristocratic racing body, of
which the owner in question is a big factor, deplore the
evil effects of “Tatt’s” sweeps upon racing generally.
* * * *
A gilded young Sydneyite, who has taken to
pony-racing, receiveth daily further enlightenment about
the peculiarities of that ingenuous sport Having a
pony “going ” the other day, he asked a friend if he had
backed the gee. “ Not yet,” was the reply ; “ I’m wait-
ing till I see what Jim Snooker does.” “ Who the deuce
is Snooker?” “Oh! Snooker’s your jockey’s keeper.
Owns the kid, you know ! ” What Snooker backed won,
but it did not carry the young man’s colors.
• • * •
Two Grand National meetings were held last
Saturday, one at Melbourne, where the punters betted
with Mo, and the other at Adelaide, where the totalisator
was in use. Compare the starting-price of the winning
horses at each meeting :
Adelaide, Melbourne,
with Totalisator. with Ikey Mo.
First race ... £8 to 1 £4 to 1
Second do. ... £4 12s. 9d. to 1 £2 to 1
Third race ... £lB Us. to 1 £8 to 1
Fourth do. ... £4 12s. to 1 £2 10s. to 1
Fifth do. ... £1 13s. to 1 £2 10s. to 1
Sixth do. ... £8 18s. to 1
So that an investment of £1 on each winner at Adelaide
would have given the punter a profit of £4B 6s. 9d., while
the similarly fortunate Melbourne punter would have
been but £l9 to the good.
* * * *
When Ditto won a race at Caulfield on the same
day that his stable companion, Iron Duke, brought off a
little coup, it was argued that the Sydney horse had been
lucky in getting home. Judging, though, from the way
in which Ditto cut down Pirate at the finish of the G.N.
Steeple, last Saturday, there wasn’t much amiss with his
previous win. A greatly-improved animal is Ditto. At
the beginning of the year he was running unsuccessfully
among the light-weights. On Saturday he humped the
respectable burden of list. 41b., giving 221 b. and 141 b. to
the second and third horses respectively.
Floater (13st. 71b.) broke down whilst racing
prominently in the Caulfield Steeplechase, otherwise he
miqht have taken second place, next to Redleap, in the
records of the big events. Redleap holds the record with
13st. 121 b., or 91ti. more than Daimio carried three years
later. The Manifolds' champion, however, ran the four
miles in half-a-ininute less time than Redleap took.
Is racing over the sticks intended to improve
the breed of horses? Ninety-nine out of every hundred
jumpers are gelded.
Musketeer and Wait-a-Bit, both of them public
fancies for the coming Cups, cut pior figures in a mile
and three furlongs spin at the V.A.C.T. meeting last
Saturday.
Suppose a “ book ” laid the odds to £lOO against
fifteen starters for Ditto's G.N. Steeple. At starting-
prices the books could get “round” by laying against
eleven of them, with the certainty of winning either 10
per cent, or 14 per cent.
Fifteen starters for Ditto’s G.N. Steeple—
starting prices were 4 to 1 against one, 8 to 1 against four,
and 12 to 1 against the next six horses. Now, supposing
a “ book” laid the odds to lose £lOO against each of those
11 starters, he would be “ round” on his book, anyhow,
with the certainty of winning either 10 per cent., or 14
per cent, of his gross receipts in the probable event of the
favorite getting beaten. Also he would have four horses
running for a “skinner.” And if he laid his money
against those other four— viz, 16 to 1 against Songster, 20
to 1 each against Montrose and Mailboat, and 33 to 1 against
the “ rank outsider ” N.Z., friend Ikey Mo would have
fully £145 in his bag. Of this he would have to pay back
£125 if the favorite won, £ll2J4over either of the next
fancied ones, and £lO3 if the outsider got home. Thus
the victory of the favorite would mean a profit to him of
about 14 per cent, on the gross receipts ; either of the 8
to 1 chances winning would leave him a profit of 22 per
cent., and the outsider, taking only £lO3 back from the
bag, would leave him a 29 per cent, profit. Well, the Vic.
Totalisator Bill proposes that the machine shall deduct
not less than 5 nor more than 8 per cent. How much
money does the punting public stand to save in a year by
gambling with the machine (which returns a third of its
profit to the charities) instead of with Ikey Mo, who
spends all of his profits in trips to Yurrup and other
luxuries?
* * * »
The result of two recent Cup commissions
should convince owners that the days of bookmaking are
past. About Merloolas less than £lO,OOO was all that
could be got, and in the case of the St. Alban’s double,
Majestic and Manfred, the amount was even less, ab-
surdly short odds being offered by some of the so-called
big men. Also, it is pretty well known that a Vic. horse
would have been supported by the stable long ere this
were there any possibility of getting a fair price to a
decent amount. The man with the bag prefers to retail
his wares to a fatuous public at his own price rather than
to to the trouble of making a hook to cover earl}' wagers.
Business, certainly, but the business of a suburban store-
keeper, and not the sort of business done by the bookies
of bygone days. Strange that owners cannot see the
advantage of direct contact with the public through the
totalisator.
* * * *
What straws these racing people clutch at!
Nor’-East broke down and was scratched, but, we are
gravely told, “his connections greatly fancied him for
the two Cups.” The veriest crock engaged has only to
win a suburban hurry-scurry for his chances in one or
other of the Cups to be solemnly discussed in newspaper
sporting-columns. Recalls a certain old Westralian shep-
herd. An enthusiastic sport, he had lost count of the
Melb. Cup winners since Carbine’s year, and mention of
horses he had never heard of induced reflection. “ I’ve
often wished,” he said, “as I could’ave taken my old nag
over.” “His old nag,” with a coat that suggested a
straggler from last season’s shearing, was just then en-
gaged in an abortive attempt to flick a fly off its flank.
“ I don’t say he’d win, you know,”continued the aspiring
owner, “ but he’d make some of ’em sit up. I never seen
some of them ’osses you talks about, but I bet him and
me could make some of ’em look pretty green.”
• * * *
Majestic and Manfred—the Cups “ double ”
from the St. Alban’s stable —are a pretty pair of rogues to
put one’s shirt on. Majestic has run a game race occa-
sionally, but Manfred never, thusfar. Last year the
stable-lads backed Manfred for Melb. Cup.
* • * •
Up to last week Melbourne’s most Respectable
daily had not made the slightest move in favor of the
Tote Bill. Which suggests that certain people connected
with the paper are duly grateful for Alf. Joseph's effusive
friendship.
* * * «
_ No time is to be wasted about the ’climatisa-
tion of Auruni at ’Otne, for the stout little “ Clydesdale ”
is to be raced this season. The shifty Newhaven’s sorry
displays are too bad to be true, so ’bis to be hoped that
Aurum will be able to hold his own with the best of the
Englishmen, and thus prove that Australian form is not
tons behind that of France, Austria, and ’Murka, each of
which countries has had representatives good enough to
down the English best on their own racecourses.
» * * *
At Sydney Grammar School Sports A. H.
Stewart made a clean sweep of all the championship
events, running and jumping. He won the 100yds. in
10 3-5 sec., 440yds. in 54sec., and 220yds. in 23sec., cut-
ting dovvn the school record for the latter event by lsec.
He carried off the broad jump and high jump with 20ft.
lljin. and sft. lin. respectively. The football kick also
fell to his lot with 58ft. 7in. Young Jack Carruthers, a
son of Minister J.H., won the 220yds. handicap under
15 years.
* * * *
“Holdar M.”: The toughness of a Sydney
rugby footballer. Last Saturday, in the final senior con-
test, one man played in bare feet, while another cast his
impedimental boots aside. This, in a game where the
dislocation of ankles and smashing of shin-bones are
too ordinary events to call for comment.
* * * •
Athletic item from Barrier Mixer, August 8 :
“ A footballer’s picnic. Yesterday Broken Hill Football
Club entertained the visiting team of Port Adelaide
footballers at a picnic at M’Culloch Park. The party,
which numbered about 120, left Sulphide-street station
shortly after 10. Showers spoilt the afternoon’s enjoy-
ment, and the pleasure-seekers were more than once
driven to the shelter of the booth. For a long time
things went on swimmingly. The party had brought
along 72 gallons of beer, and the opening attack on this
supply kept nearly all hands engaged. There was over
half a gallon of beer to each man, on a rough calculation,
and as some were better ‘ sinkers’than others, naturally
enough the pugnaciously-inclined drank enough to bring
their fighting qualities to the surface. A row started,
and things for a time were ‘ willing.’ The man who
breathed the word ‘fight’ was accommodated on the
spot. After four Or five on each side had settled their
grievances the efforts of the sober and peacefully in-
clined prevailed, and the picnickers were brought home,
if not in all loving kindness together, at least with all
outward signs of hostility buried. The beer was all
drunk. The majority of the Port Adelaide men left last
night for home.”
• • * •
Fitzroy (Melb.) footballers had a victorious
career in Adelaide recently; they easily beat the three
leading local teams. For rough play 7 the matches rivalled
some of the goriest of Rugby encounters.
• * * •
On Saturday, 6th inst., two legs—one at Sand-
gate and t’other at Bundaberg—were broken at Q. foot-
ball matches.
Sam Fitzpatrick, the loutish-looking lad who
used to perform indifferently with the gloves at Larry
Foley’s White Horse Hotel, is spoken of by the American
papers as the equal of O’Rourke, Davies, and Madden,
the very cutest of Yankee pug, managers.
* * • *
M'Auliffe, of Melb., and Burden, of Sydney,
met at Golden Gate Athletic Club (Sydney) last Saturday
night. M‘Auliffe had the best of matters until nearing
the end of the second round, when a right on the
“point” brought down M’Auliffe, and spoilt what pro-
mised to be a well-contested go. Time saved M’Auliffe,
and he came up for the third round, when Burden effec-
tually followed up his advantage and made the Melb. man
quit. The fact that a man has a “ point ” would have
been better left undiscovered. It spoils most mills now-
adays.
* * * t
In his return match with Peter Maher, old
Australian Joe Goddard put up a much better battle than
was expected. Maher dropped Goddard many times, but
Joe was not to be denied, and “ mixed it” in something
like his old style. In the seventh round Goddard’s right
eye was laid open, and Maher’s was closed. The pace was
too hot, however, for the old stager, who, after a terrible
onslaught by Maher in the eighth round, threw up his
hands.
* » * *
Yousoff the “Terrible lurk’s” wrestle in
Yankeeland with Lewis, known as the “ Strangler,” must
have been “a little bit of all right.” The Turk slung
Lewis about like a shuttlecock, and, when the Yank flat-
tened on his stomach, the Turk got a strangling “ holt ”
on, and was only dragged off when Lewis Was black in
the face. Lewis varied the monotony by making his
teeth meet in the unspeakable’s thumb, but Yousoff wa
not to be denied, and Lewis acknowledged he was beaten
at his own strangling game. Yousoff’s next wrestle was
on the La Bourgogne, when she wentdown—Yousoff went
down too—with between five and six hundred passengers.
• • • •
Quarter-master Sergt. Savage won the Queens-
land revolver championship this year. Jack Hamilton,
M.L.A.. winner for seven years running, didn’t compete.
* * * *
A humorous feature of Melb. dog-show is a
gigantic Scotchman who stands at the door of the
Exhibition Building as the proud amateur fanciers lead
in their pups. The massive Caledonian is a sort of pre-
liminary censor, and every animal that strikes him as
being ridiculously inferior is blocked there and then.
Exhibitors for the first time, wrathful at the interference,
loudly protest: “We have paid our entrance-fees and we
have a right to show our dogs. Where’s the secretary ? ”
Taking a firm grip of his huge bludgeon the Horatius of
the dog-show roars : “Dinna mind aboot the sect.ry but
joost ye tak the mongrel beastie oot o' this or All bahsh
him over the heid.” And he would, too, and the show is
thus prevented from extending all over the Carlton
Gardens or bursting through the fence into Nicholson-
street.
* * * *
A few score busbmen who have any time during
the last quarter-century had the satisfaction of a knock-
out by the knuckles of “ Paroo Jerry” will drop a silent
tear upon this announcement of Jerry’s death. Once
Jerry used periodically to hold up the Paroo townships ;
but in later years he came down to wanting ticcapenny
like the rest of ’em.
* * • »
Recent lacrosse-matches in Melb. —intended to
boom the game—have tended to illustrate its roughness.
In the match between S.A. team and M.C.C., one player
had his head split open, another nearly broke his jaw, a
collision between two players ended in their retirement,
and one or two other minor casualties happened which
were not considered worth mentioning. Lacrosse must
be a beautiful game when the word goes round to “ make
it willing.” Saturday’s match between N.S.W. and Vic.,
on Sydney Cricket Ground, resulted in a win for the
Southerners by IG gaols to 3 ; the play, throughout, how-
ever, having been much more equal than these figures
would seem to indicate.
* • • •
S.A. Cycling League has a credit balance of
over A'Boo, and can claim to be the only Australian League
to make a profit on last season’s racing. N.S.W. League
lost £1450 and Vic. £4BO. Cyclists who prefer the rich
Australian to the miserable European prizes will probably
find things a little different next summer.
* • » *
The statement that “ Tattersall ” holds <£13,000,
18 months’ unclaimed Consultation-money, recalls the
almost unbelievable fact that a sporting man, who in his
day proved a veritable milch-cow to the “higher” class
of Australian “ guns,” once backed a winning double for
£5OOO with a well-known Sydney bookie, and, the wager
escaping the memory of the backer, the five-thou. was
never drawn. Writer was at a well-known Sydney sport-
ing resort one night when the same man—who was, and,
strangely enough, died, a very wealthy man—was playing
a game of billiards upon which some hundreds in bets
must have depended. The pigeon, who was half-seas-
over, v’anted but six points to go out; and the balls
having been left in easy position he was just about to
make his stroke when an onlooker cried, “ A fiver you
don’t score ! ” The player turned round to take him up,
when his opponent shifted a ball some inches, making it
an almost impossible stroke. Wealthy mugs are not so
plentiful as of yore, and the game isn’t what it used to be.
Which recalls the simple manner in which the
notorious Tarbeaux just missed a good thing. When
Tarbeaux first arrived in Sydney he was thought by the
sharp people to be an immensely wealthy Yankee mine-
owner, and a “ mug.” To carry out the character he
lost some hundreds, and then a rendezvous was made for
Botany, when £6OOO was to be put on the table ; and he
was to play a man to be named, until one or the other
had lost their t'3ooo. A young gentleman known to be
very proficient with the “ brads ” was brought specially
over from Melbourne to take the mug down. The day
arrived, and a perfect cavalcade of flash cabs and traps
was about to start for Botany from a sporting pub., when
a much-travelled person, just arrived from another pro-
vince, happened to be passing, looked in, and, recognis-
ing the “mug,” gave the good thing away.
It is related of Tarbeaux that some particularly
smart Melb. people got him to a house and “ rang in ” a
lot of marked cards. Between deals Tarbeaux asked the
host if he would have any objection to his sending out
for a pot of paint and a brush. In wonder, the smarties
asked him what he wanted with the paint. “ Only to
mark the cards more plainly,” said Tarbeaux ; “ the
marking is so indistinct that I’m afraid you must have
much difficulty in following it.”
A FITTING GREETING.
The daily journals, Harry Trott,
A story told to set us sighing ;
Worse fits than yours, yea, worse a lot,
They gave to us ; there’s no denying
That thoughts of “ dear old Trotier ” dying
Made multitudes of people sad—
Good life! we all were taken bad.
’Twas true, O, captain of renown !
You lay a while by fits prostrated,
Because you let your strength run down;
But still the case was overstated ;
And now, with thankfulness elated,
We hope the doctors soon will tell
Of Trotter getting fit and well.
And though you lose “ a bit of form,”
We hope ’twill be but fat exuded.
Your famous bingey, round and warm—
The bit of form which so protruded—
Made difficult the work you did.
A bard were blinder than a bat
If he had failed to notice that.
Come slim and smiling to the crease,
And score as in the days departed—
A lighter player in the piece,
But not less light and kindly-hearted.
We dry the tear that lately started,
And wet the other eye somewhat
Our toast: “More runs to Harry Trott ! ”
A Name for the Federal Capital.
“Vic.”: Gladstone is on everyone’s list
for the Federal capital, and will poll two to one.
“N.” : Another Australian town-name of
insignificance may be picked. There are other
Washingtons in the States.
“ Squid ” : What about “ Bartown ” as a
name for the Federal capital ? Compliment to
the Daddy of Federation. Indicative of preva-
lence of wigdom in Legislature. Also suggestive
of the golden-haired Flossiedom (and pub.), to
which so many members are partial.
“H.W.”: What do you think of Grey-
town as a name for the Federal city ? The grand
old chief, had he been ten years younger, would
very likely have been the first Gov.-General of
Federated Australia.
“ C.W.” : Re the Australian Federal capi-
tal. The same sentiment which induced the
Americans to call their political head-quarters
“ Washington ” should induce local unionists to
plump for “ Parkes ” or “Barton.” But how
would “ Concordia ” do ?
“J.J.8.” : No, the Melb. crowd which
watched the returns of N.S.W. general elections
wasn’t big enough for any Federationist to whoop
about. Also, it was chiefly composed of ex-Syd-
neyites, as any listener might have learned for
himself. No, we are Australians only for one
day in the year—Cup-day. Would suggest that
this great event be nationalised by calling the
race the Australian Cup, to be run only in the
Federal capital. Said capital to be known as
Cupville. Perhaps, then, if offered to N.S.W. as
a loving tribute to her motherhood, even Reid
might be satisfied.
“ A.A.A.” : At a pinch, I consider Datel-
graphia or Reid Town would do; but for a nice,
quiet, typical, Australian name 111 go nap on
Wantville.
The Crotty will-business finds a curious
parallel in the testamentary disposition by
which a recently-deceased English parson left
nothing to his widow and children and <£Bo,ooo
to the British and Foreign Bible Society—which
body, however, is giving up half the spoil ;
whether or not of entire spontaneity is not clear,
as such a will stood a good chance of being upset
upon dispute.
Sands and M‘Dougall are re-issuing a well-
bound series of views of Victoria published by
the old firm of Sands and Kenny in 1857, when
5000 copies were sold. Many old colonists, like-
wise young Australians, will be glad to get this
work in a cheap form. To the former it will bring
back memories of their early days, and for every-
one who knows the modern Melbourne —not to
mention Ballarat, Bendigo, and Geelong—these
40-years-old pictures are interesting.
Chief Commissioner Chomley scoffed with
a violent scoff at the suggestion that he should, in
his capacity of boss Vic. policeman, suppress
Marshall Hall’s poor little pomelets. Further-
more, he poured out on the snuffiebusting sugges-
tion a series of cerulean lyrics from “ Madame
. Angot ” and other azure operas, and asked why
they had been allowed to exist all these years.
Clearly Chomley is too big-minded for a little
community which tolerates the Argus, and will
have to look out that he doesn’t get suppressed
himself.
In a Sydney suburb the other day the
housefather had a funeral, and next day the widow
received this indignant letter signed “ A Friend
of the Family
Mrs. . Dear friend, —Accept my deepest sympathy
in your sad bereavement, but, at the same time, whoever
the undertaker or undertakers, was, he ought to be down-
right ashamed of themselves for the way in which they
galloped and tore along the Lane Cove-road, about one
o’clock yesterday, enough to shake the inside out of any
poor being who chanced to be inside. Whoever they
were, they shall never do anj-thing for me while
Mr. [a rival undertaker] is alive, on the . He
has done work for me, as I know him to be the oldest
man of business on the Shore, and can be trusted out of
sight for steadiness and punctuality. lam very sorry for
your trouble, and more especially the way and rate that
the hearse travelled to the boat.—l remain, A Friend of
the Family, and a witness along the road. P.S.- Kindly
excuse the liberty I take in writing to you. It is very
disgraceful to see anyone, with a hearse in particular, to
go as they did, instead of conducting it in a proper
manner.
Unluckily, this ingenious attempt to show that
Codlin was the friend (not Short) came under the
notice of Short; and, this being a modern age,
far from the chi valry of Dickens, Short applied
for damages in the District Court, and got £5O.
Poor Codlin !
Prof. Mitchell, at a dinner given by the
(S.A.) Teachers’ Association to editor Bonython,
of the Advertiser, said that owing to his enthu-
siastic exertions the School of Mines had been
raised to a position of rivalry with the University,
which has cost .£lOO for every £1 spent on the
former instiution.


The Shield of a Great Name
Protects the Riders of the
Massey-Harris Bicycle.
i. .. They Run Easy and Keep Running: Easy ....
MASSEY-HARRIS GO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA. -"“ST"
Australasian Branch : 163*169 William-st., Melbourne.
BBAKCH Depots: 245 Collins Street, Melbourne; 885 George Street. Sydney;
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
SHORTHAND
Thoroughly Taught by
Post. Mr. F. W. JONSON,
20 years 7 Certificated Teacher (of Rivet-view College ;
Petersham and Ashfield Govt. Technical Schools).
SYDNEY TYPEWRITING SCHOOL, 21 Elizabeth-street.
Tel. 3015. Pitman’s Books. MSS. and Documents typed.
.awt BUY A GUN unless you first look at the
D°name, or (should you happen
tou will regret it. GENUINE GREENER tiUPiS>
can he obtained from all principal dealers «n Australia.
From 10 to 80 Guineas. Address all enquiries to W. W.
GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney; or to Vic. Rep.,
0 W BUOKLAND, 16 Curral-road, Elsternwick, Melb.
66 DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
“ Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
>J. F. McJierniott,
Terms on
Application.
General Agent for Australasia,
48 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
’ ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ Til 15 <lf ESPENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ell s’ Kill "-street < ollec Enlace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-cTa,y!
Yesterday!
and Xo-m orr ow !
TYTE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street., SYDNEY.
fISF Agent for “Naumann” and “ Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
(Dolf American High j|rt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. IS Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
(1
MA CK LIN
HENLEY
GBJMLEY
QUADRA NT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable..
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SiVNEV.
The Victorian Road Championships—2s m5O Riles
THE CUP PRESENTED BY THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.
Value 50 Guineas.
- 't
sr
: > x - .
m&FJ
■■ ■:." a
.-. 1
ES
MliMtalHiiai
The races are open to all Victorian Clubs, and each Club
Saturday, 6th August, and resulted "
in a win for A. C. Middleton ; A.
Calder was second. Both men rode
sends four men. The first event (the 25-mile) took place
on
ħ
CYCLES
fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
Sole Agent 3
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
George-street, Sydney; 139 Elizabeth-street. Melbourne; Adelaide-street, Brisbane; 33 Rundle-street, Adelaide;
Hay-street, Perth.
A second New Guinea Syndicate is in the
field, and it is stated that its representative is on
the spot. “ Where the carrion is,” &c.
Good photographs have been occasionally
made by a few skilled enthusiasts without a lens,
and in a camera made out of an old candle-box,
with a cardboard slide secured by hairpins, after
some such design as might have been revealed to
the pre-historio man. But the average man and
woman of to-day pursue the pleasing pastime
under fairer conditions. “ Kodaks ”in endless
variety, and fitted for every class of work, are at
their disposa , and at a small cost. The compact,
elegant, and useful “ Preino ” is also theirs for
asking at the “ Austral ” warehouses in the capital
cities of the different colonies, the central and lead-
ingdepfits for photographic suppliesin the Southern
Hemisphere. To the exceeding comfort and
convenience of amateurs who desire to make their
own prints, Messrs. Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.
have now dedicated a new printing-paper under
the name of “ Simplex,” which requires no dark-
room for manipulation, no costly or cumbersome
developing outfit, but turns out highly artistic and
permanent prints, complete in every particular, in
fifteen minutes. Demonstrations of the fact are
made daily to their customers by a staff of com-
petent operators at each warehouse. Some splendid
specimens of Simplex prints are now on view at
the Sydney warehouse, 375 George-street. #
S.M. Herald’s Vienna correspondent on
the international chess tournament at Vienna—
which, it has since been cabled, was won by
Tarrasch, with Pillsbury second, Janowski third,
and Steinitz fourth :
The international chess tournament has been going on
in Vienna since June 1. There are 20 players, and each
has to play two games with each of the others. There
are 10. prizes. Pillsbury, the American champion, Dr.
Tarrasch, the German, and Janowski, the French repre-
sentative, are taking the lead. It may safely be antici-
pated that the laurel of the first prize will fall to one of
them. Steinitz, the old lion, it at present bracketed
fourth. Despite his genius, old age is beginning to tell
upon him. Sometimes his powers do not hold out.
Recently he gained seven games running, and lost on
four consecutive days. Still, he excites the admiration
of the chess world. This time, however, he will hardly
be in the front rank of the winners. But all his opponents
—and in this tournament all the greatest players of the
world are engaged, except Lasker, Mason, arid Winawer
—ungrudgingly admit that in regard to theory he
is superior to them all. He is no doubt the greatest
chess genius of the age, and before him was nobody that
so enriched chess literature, that discovered so much
that is new in tactics ; none before him had penetrated
so deeply into the imponderabilities and invisible subtil-
ties of the royal frame. For instance, one sees a frame of
which every master player would say that it must be
drawn. But Steinitz finds out the microscopical differ-
ence in the position perceptible to no one else, and with
his subtle tactics drives his opponent into a corner, and at
last frains a decided advantage. The bright star of the
tournament is Pillsbury, the young giant. Despite his
youth he is a mighty theorist. He is only 26. He wields
the stwpest weapon in a most elegant manner. This
younv man, with the finely-chiselled features, is most
gen is? His whole personality is most distinguished.
His play is vigorous and bold. He plays to
win, never for a draw’. In the first turn he de-
feated both his dangerous competitors ; in the second
turn he has so far had equal success. Janowski,
who represents France, although a Pole of Jewish ex-
traction-nowadays the French have no great chess-player
—is also one of the most interesting types among the
champions. He plays lucidly and boldly. Dr. Tarrasch
is the very opposite : he is distinguished by true German
persistence. For him certainty and caution are the firs!
things. The Viennese players, Marco, Schlechter, and
Dr. Halprin, belong to the same school. They all play
for a draw’. They venture nothing ; they undertake
nothing; but before all they will not lose. They prefer
the safe half count of a drawn game to an unsafe whole
one. Tchigorin, the Russian champion, is likely to be
near the front. He is still in the full possession of his
powers, but his play is very unequal. He is a splendid
player, and a much-dreaded opponent on account of his
impetuosity. Like a bull he rushes at his opponent with
his horns. He plays for life or death. He gives no
quarter. Among his last 26 games there was only one
draw. He whipped Pillsbury most unmercifully by his
magnificent combinations. The general favorite is, how-
ever, Blackburn, the old English fighter wont to conquer.
Approaching age is the enemy of all glorious chess-
players. Also in Blackburn’s case Nature is asserting her
rights. He is rather behind. One must observe him
when he loses. When others would display all the phases
of passion, Blackburn shows inexpressible sweetness, per-
fect calm, the utmost good humor. At such moments he
likes to use Hebrew’ slang, which he evidently learnt in
his frequent intercourse with Steinitz, the late Dr.
Zukertort, Winawer, Mises, and other great players of
Jewish origin. In this tournament with its 20 players six
belong to the Hebrew race. One phenomenon observable
in the mighty wrestling of these champions is very
singular, namely, that it is not always the greatest
courage, the superior mind, which carries off the victory.
Mysterious, inexplicable forces are at work which lie
hidden in the player s personality. Steinitz, for example,
has never won a game from Janowski. He has always been
beaten by him ; so that the other day Janowski said he
did not understand how anybody could lose a game
, against Steinitz. On the other hand, Janowski has never
, won a game from Dr. Tarrasch. In all tournaments Dr.
Tarrasch has utterly beaten him, so that, jokingly, he
says Janowski is his best customer. The late Dr. Zuker-
tort, one of the greatest chess heroes, was miserable w’hen
he had to play with Steinitz, being used to say he could
not stand his look, and suffered dreadfully during the
game. In fact, though in some respects superior to
Steinitz, he never won a match against him.
Dr. Springthorpe, of Melb., who lately
addressed Sydney Univ. Medical Society, is re-
ported by S.M. Herald as saying that “ man is a
complete organism, consisting of body, mind, and
spirit.” “Mind” is an unscientific term for a
doctor to use when he apparently means “ brain,”
and there is no more reason for classifying man as
composed of “body” and “mind than there is
for dividing him into “body,” “limbs, and
“ hair.” The human organism is a unit. Where
Dr. Springthorpe gets his “spirit” from, and
what he means by “ spirit,” and why he separates
“spirit” from “mind,” are questions that would
surely puzzle Dr. Elliot Smith, that bright, young
Australian to whom British Med. Association has
just awarded £l5O a year for the prosecution of
researches into the formation and changes of the
brain.


Came vein Near Dglng
Blood Bad; Abscesses Formed; Health Gone.
We are glad to publish the testimonial of
Miss Annie Snook of Auckland, New Zea-
and, who suffered intensely for years, and
who was quickly cured when she obtained
;lie right remedy.
35s
AA
"ir-
<?A>
a
fo
“I was a strong, healthy woman until
aboutlive years ago, and while living in Eng-
land was recovering from an attack of
measles. I took a chill, had a relapse and
came very near dying. My blood was left in
a very bad state, abscesses formed on my
body. I was confined to my bed two-thirds of
the time. At times I was unable to move.
For two years I failed to obtain any relief.
So finally I was advised to come to new Zea-
land. After coming here I remained about
the same, trying many remedies without ob-
taining any benefit. About a year ago after
reading one of your advertisements I determ-
ined to try
Mt AVER’S
Sarsaparilla
Very soon after using it the abscesses began
to heal and my general health very greatly
improved. I followed up the treatment and
am now as strong as ever. I cannot too
highly recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a
blood purifier and tonic.”
For constipation take Dr. Ayer’s Pills. They
promptly relieve and surely cure. Take them
with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla : one aids the other.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
T 1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully OO per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
t JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
THE
DEAF
9EAB
|TW” “Camnon Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
.Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
[comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
Igerous) wire or metal attach-
rment. Recommended by physi-
cians Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent,
22b Colli ns-steeet, Melbourne.
h
fringes,
Natural Curlv, from 3/l8 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t>in. lone, 5/G. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2JQ per oz.
We are the clieapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigz'l-I,
110 William Strbet,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prico List.
Prompt attention given to Country Orders.
ĥ
Gladstone was quite young in political dis-
tinction as compared with Lord Mansfield, who
died the other day. Mansfield entered the Com-
mons in 1830, and was First Lord of the Treasury
four years later. At the early age of 34 he dropped
into a peerage and ceased to be a promising
politician.
Adelaide item n some tremendous doings
of the Order of Enslaved Bricklayers :
The encampment of Knights Templar, &c., was held on
June 24 (St. John’s Day). This is one of the greatest
festival days for Knights Templar throughout the world,
and is always observed in the city by the members of this
distinguished Masonic order. The Preceptory in Ade-
laide is named the Percy Preceptory of the United Reli-
gious and Military Orders of the Temple of St. John of
Jerusalem, Palestine, Rhodes, and Malta, and owns
allegiance to the Grand Priory of England and Wales.
In accordance with custom the encampment held at the
Masonic Hall, Waymouth-street, on Friday evening was
made the occasion of the installation of the eminent pre-
ceptor-elect for the ensuing 12 months, the fortunate Sir
Knight, who had been; chosen for this high office being
Sir Knight James Ohidlow. The majority of the Knights
Templar in Adelaide attended. Sir Knight R. M'Michen,
18th degree, P.P., was installing master, being assisted
in the working by Past Eminent Preceptors Sir Knights
Fred. 0. Bowen, 18th degree, as director of ceremonies,
also Sir Knights Sumsioit, 1 ■ th degree, P.P., Roberts, P.P.,
Munton, 18thdegree, P.lt, and Klaiter, P.P. After thein-
stallation Sir Knight Chidlow appointed hisofficersfor the
ensuing 12 months as follows :—Senior constable, Sir
Knight Harry B. Taylor, 18t,h degree ; junior constable,
Sir Knight F. Herring ; chaplain, Sir Knight J. Le M. F.
Roberts, P.P. ; reasurer, Sir Knight F. W. A. Ivlaur,
P.P. ; registrar, Sir Knight Harry B. Taylor, 18th degree ;
marshal, Sir Knight G. L. Muller, 18th degree ; captain
of the guard. Sir Knight F. W. H. Popham ; almoner, Sir
Knight F. J. Rengger ; herald, Sir Knight F. D. Harrison ;
standard-bearers, Sir Knights C. G. Gurr and H. J. Pud-
ney ; inner-guard, Sir Knight H. A. S. Meadows ; outer-
guard, Sir Knight W. A. Tucker, 18th degree ; organist,
not appointed ; director of ceremonies, Sir Knight F. C.
Bowen, 18th degree. P.P. Sir Knight W. Sumsion, 18th
degree, holds office as prior from the provincial priory.
After the encampment was closed, the Sir Knights ad-
journed to the banqueting-room, where a very enjoyable
hour was spent, and the following toasts were duly
honored :—“The Queen and Knight Teraplary,” proposed
by the eminent perceptor, Sir Knight J. Chidlow ; “ The
Most Eminent Preceptor,” proposed by Sir Knight Mun-
ton, 18th degree, and was very feelingly responded to by
the E.P. Other toasts w'ere duly honored, which con-
cluded a most successful gathering.
Verily it is a great occasion when Sir Knight
Smith, of the corner grocery, gathers himself
together and appoints himself to be standard-
bearer for 12 months of the Percy Preceptory of
the United Military and Religious Order of St.
John of Jerusalem. There was a time when these
old military monks were the hardest fighters on
the face of the globe, and the story of how they
held Malta against the Mohammedan legions is
one of the loudest slabs of picturesque bloodshed
in history.. And now poor, little, meek, bandy-
legged, drapery Smith appoints himself a Sir
Knight of the order, and lifts up the old
red banner peacefully in the refreshment-room.
Also, the outer-guard, who used to hold the
battered gate against the myriads of Solyman
the Magnificent, stands with his tin sword to
keep Adelaide’s stray dog from leaning against
the door. If old St. John of Jerusalem had
known what strange, commonplace people would
hang their belltoppers on him in years to come
he would probably have gone out of the saint
business in disgust, and given his halo to his
smallest boy for a hoop.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
' BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
D.S .MAI R
D. S. MAIR, the Up-to-Date WATCH REPAIRER,
684 George-st., Sydney, having fitted his centrally situated
workshop with the most modern tools and appliances ne-
cessary for the execution of high-class workmanship, re-
quests all persons unable to call personally to forward
Watch Repairs to him by Post, as implicit reliance can be
placed upon his work, which is guaranteed 12 months and
will give satisfaction. Best Eng. Mainspring, 2/6 ; Clean-
ing and Regulating, 26 ; Hairspring, 2,6, Jewels, 2/6;
Staffs, 4/- ; Cylinders, 3/6. Please mention this paper when
sending repairs to D. S. MAIR, 684 George-st., Sydney.
Otaki (M.L.) Mail :
The Te Kota road certainly should prove a favorite to
lovers in search of a quiet resort, being in fact an ideal
spot for the purpose.
!! ! !
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind. Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEKIM9,
t£4 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
**l.s
•>:l"
n
JjJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL» opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
7/0 FREE.
Our 50s. SOLID SILVER
KEYLESS HUNTER
WATCH to all comply-
ing with tliis advertisement and the offei
which we shall send. It would be ridicu-
lous to expect us to continue giving away these Watvhes
for anv length of time. So kindly send at once ii you
wish to secure A SILVER VW AT CH . For 7,6,
post free, we will send a Solid Gold BroOs.ii or Scarf 1 in,
together with our Marvellous Offer, and on your comply-
ing with offer we shall forward our 50s. Watch. Under-
stand, we charg'e no money whatever for these. Watches.
Number is limited. Money refunded in full if sent too
late. Send 7s. 6d., with stamped addressed envelope.
—ADDRESS—
THE MANAGER,
The glebe (Hatch (Jo., [td.,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
The Owl Drug Stores,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst St eets,
SYDKI lEY
Being direct importers and cash
BUYERS, our Drugs and Toilet Requisites
are of the BEST QUALITY and sold at the
LOWEST PRICES. Prescriptions Dispensed
by first-class Registered Chemists, and faithfully
prepared.
ECONOMY, EXCELLENCY, & FIDELITY
—Our Motto. Call and inspect our Store, and
you will be satisfied.
Te’ephone D. COBCROET, Proprietor.
2636. W. E. ARNOLD, Manager.
Medicines carefully packed and forwarded to
all parts of the Colonies.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT'S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In £lb., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
12-
T*OOK OF NATURE
" —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding hack of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron op Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6 ; post 3/-
HOW TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free IS. THE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIB. BOBEBT BEAR,
Cheap Ooolv Dexaot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Smelting Co. or Australia
(LIMITED),
DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), near SYU3XTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
-
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWAB.RA”
•.BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER. LEAD BULJ.IO
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For ail information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. WfflraroßGy Manager, The Smelting Gmmpamy of Australia,, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London I'edical Record
For
INFANTS
9
Bender’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesdle Houses.
“‘Bengers Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Alfalioe Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
A. Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which Ido most heartily wish you. Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Svdney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen. Dear
Sir,—l think it mv duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir.—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for over seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most happy to recom-
mend vour remedies to anvone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness : John Hagerman (my husband), caretaker,
Tivoli Theatre, Sydney.
A Cyclist Cured of Files.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excruciating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist
Narrandera, N.S.W.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
w'eeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my w’ork-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin.—" Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing'
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas. —“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S. A. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr. Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.— “ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “ It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
mission in the Herbal World.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration'the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seenat the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
Herbal Remedies are gradually pushing their
way forward, entirely taking the place of those
remedies which contain mercury, arsenic or strych-
nine. .
The Australian press has fully recognised the
noble mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise
bestowed upon him from this important source has
not only been most whole-hearted, but also very
generous. Space will not permit to repeat one-
tenth of his best press notices, but few will suffice
to show the public the estimation in which Herr
Rassmussen is held by the Australian press.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common?” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of testimonials to that
effect.
IMPORTANT
WARNING...
Patrons of Herr Bass-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
se serai unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the conn try _
setting out that they
are Herr Bassmus
sen, or Herr Bass-
mussen’s authorised
agents —which state-_
ments are absolutely
false , as Herr Bass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
"sell his Bemedies or
Herbs anywhere.
m
m
Herr Rassmussen, TJp-to-Date Herbalist »
IMPORTANT
- - WARNING
Herr Rassmusse n
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR ” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RasSlUUSSeib
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letter's containing money should be registered.
APVKC FREE.
H
rM
Si
1
flit
AH©
'a' V \i
ALFA LINE PILL S?
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD * NERVES.
AWARDED
tWO GOLD
EDALS!
Herr Rassmussen’a
Rlfalioe Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Rassmussen’a
AlfalifyQ Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Alfalioe Uoi'fer&al Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills,
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfallne Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but, most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packer. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills -Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65.; 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder-
ful Remedy for coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder- Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guarante d
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo derful f >r Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6*. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation-Is Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted. ...
Eleetric Bcits— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Su.pender Bandage-This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office: 547 George Street, Sydney
And. Important Branches ass Follows:
Brisbane 160 Qneen Street (near Creek-st.)
Melbourne 150 Bonrke-st. (opp- East. Markets) I
Adelaide 154 Rnndle-st. (near York Hotel) [
Ch. Towers - Royal Arcade, Mosman-st.
N.Z.— Wellington I - 91 Lambton Quay |
ħ


‘ ‘ Mr. Gladstone speaks to me as if I was
a public meeting.”— Queen Victoria.
The very beery banquet at Singleton to
the defeated ex-Minister Ghould had characteris-
tically funereal surroundings. There were two
dead Ministers present; a live parson (a very
necessary adjunct for Christian burial) proposed
the toast of the evening ; the presiding chairman
was the local undertaker; the secretary of the
banquet committee is secretary and trustee of the
Singleton cemetery ; the decorations were fixed
up by the rival undertaker’s best man; the
caterer was the local grave-digger ; and the
local coroner provided the cordials. Under such
circumstances it was almost impossible to expect
Ghould to come to life again, but, as a clincher,
the committee thought fit to invite the new mem-
ber, so that he could “ down ” Ghould if his poli-
tical corpse showed the slightest sign of revival.
The folly of allowing clergymen to have
any share whatever in the government of even
quasi-State educational institutions threatens to
be illustrated in the Marshall-Hall case. Melb.
University Senate is largely composed of clergy-
men, and is, accordingly, a strongly-biassed tribu-
nal in any matter in which such a trenchant and
unsparing critic of the clergy as Marshall-Hall is
concerned. The council contains among its mem-
bers the Bishop of Melbourne and several nomi-
nees of the clergy-run Trinity and Ormond Col-
leges. Any decision which either of these bodies
arrive at will be open to grave cavil on sectarian
grounds. This should not be possible in a great
State-subsidised institution.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
FAST STEAMING.
A shipment of Ogden’s Guinea Gold Cigarettes
has just reached here in 37 days from Liverpool.*
■A. Solid. Silver Watcb.
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY!
Can you read this :
IW* A * S
T* M *
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions :—That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address—THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney.
Amusements.
rjIOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
23rd AUGUSTIB9B.
.-. GRAND
Shakespeare Costume gall
IN AID OK
The Dramatic Charities.
“Dances, Masks, and Merry Hours.”
— (Love’s Labour Lost — lV., 3.)
Pageaotry !
Poetry!
Ronjaoce!
_ Revels!
GORGEOUS SPECTACULAR PROCESSION.
SPLENDID TABLEAUX.
OLD TIME DANCES.
A. Magnificent and Memorable Festival!
“ ’Twere good you do so much for Charity.”
—(Merchant of Venice — lV., 1.)
J. E. DEEGAN, Hon. Secretary.
Theatre royal, melrourne.
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Bateman and Maurice.
Commencing SATURDAY, 27th August.
The Trip Round the World
In 80 Days.
In which Mr. CHARLES MAURICE will appear for the
first time in Australia, and will sustain the character of
Passepartout, as ylayed by him with immense success for
500 nights in Europe.
The Box Plan will be open at Allan’s 20th August.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, and SIXPENCE.
■DRISBANE. THEATRE ROYAL.
Redecorated, New Scenery, Auditorium altered, Seated
for 1000. Population, 100,000. Times now prosperous.
Rent Low. Fares paid for good speculations.
Apply, Terms, etc., Mr. WALTER BENTLEY.
Publications.
h
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme- -
Lenormand’s ; celebrated <
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 3s.——
SECRET
Photos,
(2; Is.
LOVERS
Paokaga <
18. ,
(■Continental Supply Agency,
( Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
HOWTO
SAFELY
CURE THE
LIQUOR
HABIT.
A PAMPHLET with thousands
of Testimonials from Clergymen,
Physicians, Merchants, and all
classes des-C «if W *U
criptive of *-'*'* fXOj sent
gratis and post free. This is the
only remedy which can be used
SECRETLY at home with cer-
tainty of success. Address —The
EUGRASY CO.. 62 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
NOW BEADT.
Victoria Illustrated in 1857.
—BEING A—
REPRODUCTION of the ORIGINAL EDITION
Published by SANDS & KENNY, in 1867.
PRICE 10/-
3ANDS and M‘DOUGALL LIMITED,
And all Booksellers.
Amusements.
fpiVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The POLUSKI BROS.
THE SISTERS GOVELIi.
Miss Peggy Pryde Miss Nettie Waite
Mr. GEORGE BEAUCHAMP.
Mr. G KO. H. WOOD. J. W. WINTON.
MILLER A. FRASER. Miss MARIAN AINS-
WORTH, Miss NELLIE WILSON, WALLACE KING,
Mr. FRANK i'ORKE, Miss ALICE SIMMONS.
OPERA HOUSE, MELROTJRNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Signor UGO BIONDI. D. H. CASTON
JULEENE AND D’ALCORN.
THE SISTERS TERRY. LITTLE IVY SCOTT.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. Mr. CHAS. FANING.
Foreman & Fannan.
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
“PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mosorovb.
Every Evening ! Saturday Matinee, at 2 1
“THE HARBOR LIGHTS.”
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as LIEUT. KINGSLEY.
Miss ADA FERRAR as LINA NELSON.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
TTER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mitsgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Brilliant Inauguration of the Comic Opera
Season.
LAST 2 NIGHTS 1 LAST 2 NIGHTS !
“THE GONDOLIERS.’’
SATURDAY, Aug. 20—YEOMAN OF THE GUARD.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—6s., 35., 25., and Is.
Town hall, Melbourne.
83F“ 20th AUGUST.
SATURDAY
SATURDAY
SHILLING
“ POPS.”
“ POPS.”
JYJEWB UR Y-SBAJDA COY .
Continued success of Mr. JOHN COLEMAN, Australia’s
Favorite COMEDIAN, in an entirely new entertainment.
S3T" MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME.
Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
Amusements.
HALL,
SYDNEY.
»p O W N
Under the Patronage of
Bis Excellency the Governor and Lady Hampden ;
Hon. Chief Justice and Lady Darley ;
His Excellency the Admiral and Mrs. Pearson ;
His Honor Mr. Justice and MrS. G. B. Simpson;
The Right Hon. the Premier and Mrs. G. H. Reid ;
Sir Julian and Lady Salomons ;
Major-General and Mrs. French ;
The Right Worshipful the Mayor and Mrs. M. Harris.
SATURDAY EVENING,
27th AUGUST, 189 S.
Complimentary Concert
—TO —
Miss Florence Schmidt,
ON HER DEPARTURE EOR
EUROPE.
MRS. PERCY CREED
MRS. R. H. TODD
MR. LIVINGSTONE HOPKINS
MR. J. D. FITZGERALD
ITon.
Secs.
DR. R. H. TODD, Hon. Treasurer.
All communications to Box 869, G.P.O.
Plan open and Tickets at Nicholson's on 17th August
f|lH BATHE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
TONIGHT! Thursday, and Every Evening,
BLAND HOLT’S
First Antipodean Production of the Greatest of Drury
Lane Successes,
THE WHITE HEATHER.
Written by Messrs. Cecil Raleigh and Henry Hamilton.
With suggestions by the late Sir Augustus Harris.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day tickets at Gunther’s Hotel
Cigar Store.
Royal standard theatre, Sydney
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereaeh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
95th \
WEEK f
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY.
95th
WEEK
“EAST LYNNE."
Wed., N. Sydney ; Thurs., Waverley ; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
stories), Is. 3d.
LATEST LONDON DESIGNS.
Gold BELL and CHAIN BROOCH, 12s 6d.
Slllllllllllllllllllilfe
riiiiiiiii
■iin
Real Ruby or Sapphire BROOCH,
15c., 18s 6d ; 9c., 13s 6d.
Our GOLD NOVJWiT BROOCH, 2Us.
With Octagon Amethyst and Pearl Bird.
m,
gif
illllllllHilll!
Hi)
GOLD 2-BAR PEARL BROOCH,
9c., 10s 6d; 15c., 17s 6d.
Gold HEART and CHAIN BROOCH, 9s 6d
Gold BUCKLE 2-BAR BROOCH, Pearls and
Red or Bine Stones. 17s 6d.
Gold and Amethyst SHAMROCK,
Lucky Wishbone Brooch, 20s.
Gold Harne or Motto BROOCH, 8s 6d ;
Plain, without name, 7s 6d.
Lucltv 4-Leaf
SHAMROCK
PENDANT,
Solid Gold Mount,
10s each.
Real Amethyst
H EA RT
PENDANT,
2/6 each.
Q
Real Amethyst
BUTTON HOOK,
Very Pretty and
Useful.
2s 6d each.
Please Send
for our
Illustrated
Slips of
Very Latest
London
Novelties.
POST FREE.
GOLD AMETHY&i HEART BROOCH,
13s 6d.
P
15e., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 255. ;
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set with Red and
Blue Stones, 12s.
SEE
IP
Gold 3-Bar PEARL BROOCH.
9c., 15s ; 15c., 22s 6d.
NEW GOLD BIRD BROOCH, 8s 6d.
XL
eiir
Pearl and Ruby or Sapphires.
9c., 12s 6d ; 15c., 21s.
New Rustic Bar, Ivy and Gold Pearl Set
BIRD BROOCH, 13s 6d.
as
Gold IVY BAR BROOCH, 10s Cd.
With Looped Chain to Heart.
KOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address — 90 KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
American Waltham match Comp. Watches
are the most Perfect Timekeepers it is possible to make. To increase the Sale of
WALTHAM WATCHES, and also give the Australian people at the same time
a PERFECT WATCH for the same money they have been paying for a poor make,
we have decided to sell to the Australian Public
DIRECT AT OUR WHOLESALE PRICES!
We send Goods Post-pa ; d to any Colony on receipt of Money Order or Draft.
14-carat Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or
Gent’s), case, guaranteed 5 years .. ..£276
14-carat Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or
Gent’s), case, guaranteed 10 years .. .. 3 0 0
14-ct. Gold Filled Double Alberts, syr. guarantee 0 8 9
14-carat Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or
Gent’s), case, guaranteed 15 years .. .. £3 15 0
Gold-Plated Watches (Ladies’ or Gents’, with the
“ America ” movement 10 0
14-ct. Gold Filled Double Alberts, lOyr. guarantee 0 15 0
When ordering:' Watches, please mention if Plain or Fancy Case is wanted.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH DEPOT,
IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
J. LANDES,
Mahasxr.
riIHE MAGIC DOUBLE RUNNING BIT.
A To control Runaways, Shyers, Bolters, Luggers,
Hard-mouthed and Nervous Horses. To prevent Bolting
and Baulking of Racers, Steeplechasers, and Hurdle
Junipers. For Mouthing Colts and breaking-in Green
Horses it is the only Perfect Bit. Specially recommended,
after exhaustive trial, bv the Animals Protective Society
of N.S. W., as the Only Humane Bit. Sent, Post Paid, 10,6.
Ready for attaching to make Ordinary Bridle into Magic
One. Testimonials from the most prominent Horsemen
in N.S.W. VAN BUSKIRK MAGIC BIT CO., Imperial
Arcade, Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
BEWARE OF FRAUDS.
TYR. MALING’S REMEDY is the ONLY GENUINE
~ CURE, rapid in action, INEXPENSIVE, can be
given secretly. Original letters of-thanks from well-
known citizens can be seen on application. Call or write
for particulars. No home made unhappy by drink should
be without it. Address
MANAGER, Maling Institute,
3S Elizabeth-st., SYDNEY.
eTRATHMIIi
Choice Old Highland
SCOTCH WHISKY
TRADE
MARK
c Un-castlE
Fine Old
SCOTCH WHISKY
23
m
IT
IT
I
MM
CURES
’ r\
OFTHE X°
E.
CURES
MAN of
SPRAINS
BRUISES
STIFFNESS
NEURALGIA
LUMBAGO
RHEUMATISM
ACHES, PAINS&c
HORSES OF
SPRAINS, CURBS
GREASY HEELS
SPRUNG SINEWS
BRUISES, CUTS
BROKEN KNEES
SORE SHOULDERS
SORE BACKS
SPLINTS &C.
A SPECIALLY Effectual Remedy for ECZEMA. Has
always cured this troublesome disease when every
other treatment has failed. Another one testifies :
“ Elan's Town, via Daylesford, Vic. Messrs. S. Cox and
Co., Melbourne. I, Walter James Quick, of Egan’s Town,
near Daylesford, a resident since 1555, and 72 years old,
hereby declare of all my experience I never came across
such wonderful Ointment as Solomon Solution. After
suffering seven years’ torture from Neuralgia, and tried
all kinds of remedies, also several doctors, this is the
only remedy that gives me relief. Several old folks about
here who have used S. Solution for rheumatism are re-
lieved after a few applications.—Yours faithfully, Walter
J. Quick.” .. . Very Best Results “ Callaghan Creek, .
Vic., 4th June, 1897. Messrs. Solomon Cox and Go. Dear
Sirs,—l have used Solomon Solution on a horse for a
strained tendon in the fore-leg with the very best results.
Yours truly, J. Tobin.”
Westralian Agents—Messrs. Learmonth and Co., High-
st., Fremantle ; South Aust. Agents—W. R. Cave and Co.,
Grenfell-st., Adelaide. Sold by storekeepers, chemists,
and saddlers throughout Australia. Price in Victoria, 2/6
and (triple size) 5/- per jar, or sent direct, adding 6d. for
postage, from the Patentees and Sole Manufacturers,
Solomon Cox & Co., 422 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SNADLER,
SYDNEY and SUBURBS.
Established 1854 —44 Tears.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HO VIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BR^AD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel. ,
No. 312.
Head Office
Tkl.,
No. 312.
73 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
feet. It has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
ONE NONEST MAN.
T'vEAR SIR, —Please inform your readers that, if
written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after year's
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.


IN’S
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
Strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELUM’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
HfIELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of-all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WOR&S,
Feckham, London, England
The
Authoress off
“BOOTLE'S
BABY,"
says : —
“ Most
decided!} .
use KOKO,’
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myseif. It is a
nice clean preparation too -
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrift, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best pressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating.
and its unique testimonials prove it to, be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i 2/6 and 4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS C 0„ LTD,
16, Beyis Marks, London, England.
Publications, etc.
'VS
*.
-Ballet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, ati.i
Confes-
sions
of a
ĥ
Post Free, 1/6
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
Madame’s List of Union*'
Books and Novelties on
application.
lAMOND SONG BOOK
COO SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National Songs
of every Country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC, COMIC.
SENTIMENTAL, and other songs. Many old-time favour-
ites long since out of print, priceless on account of tender
memories, and cannot be had elsewhere. Complete list of
t e Songs for a Stamp. This wonderful book will be sent (post paid)
1 roughout Australasia for 2s. 6d, from ANGLO AMERICAN
1 iTI ’LTSHING CO., Commercial Chambers, Sussex Street, Sydney,
1 .S.W. Stamps 2d. extra. Agents wanted for this and other Fast
S .nog Rooks. Mention this paper, when writing.
Books. Boo, < £ - Books-
Having devoted special attention to the SECOND-HAND
BOOK TRADE, particularly Educational Works, I can
supply you with nearly any book that is required for all
examinations, at nearly one-half of the published prices.
Also the Latest Works on FlCTlON—namely : The Mar-
tian, by Du Maurier ; Sir George Tressady, by Mrs. Hum-
phi ey Ward ; Perlycross, by Blackmore ; in the Tideway,
by Annie Steel; The Bird of Paradise, by Dutton. These
Novels are very popular, and are selling rapidly, Is. t»f.
each, post free. Also, Robbery Under Arms, by Rolf
Bolderwood ; Treasure Island, by Robert Louis Stevenson;
King Salomon’s Mines, by Rider Haggard—each post tree,
Is. Should you require ANY Books, new or second-hand,
kindly advise R. W. SKINNER, New and Second-nand
Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney. Telephone 301".
ħ
NEW UP-TO-DATE
PUBLICATIONS.
The Soiled Dove, bein'?
the History of a Gay Young Lady, very spicy ; Miss
Skittles, the Girl with Six Husbands, also very spicy;
Sappho’s Gay Life in Paris ; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s Art of
Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very spicy, post free Is. 6d.
The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes; The New
Receipt Book : How to command the Love and Admira-
tion of the Opposite Sex, STERILITY and Impotence-
each, post free, Is. R. W. SKINNER, New and
Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Telephone 3043.
MALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
JL Price Warung. Is. 3d.
lii Perth papers, laborers are now adver-
tised for at ss. a day. “Go West, young man ! ”
On a Far-Northern goldfield, recently, an
eccentric Frenchman challenged an alleged Portu-
ese nobleman to the field of honor. Not the
‘ first time of asking,” by any means, but on this
occasion the Frenchman had been so cruelly in-
sulted that nothing but combat a. outrance could
'ipe away the stain. The seconds accordingly
met and, after momentous deliberation, fixed the
fight for the following Saturday, on the cleared
space in the front of the store ; weapons to be I
“ Colts ” and each man to have five shots. At the I
appointed time every soul on the field was on hand I
to see the fun, and “ the boldest held his breath” j
ts the seconds placed their men back to back, i
handed each a revolver and instructed them at a |
riven signal to walk five paces forwards, slew i
round, and blaze away. The word was given—the
crowd shrunk back respectfully ; the combatants
stepped their distance, wheeled, and let drive at
each other handsomely—getting off four goes a-
oiece without a hit. But at Porty’s fifth and last
hot down went Frenchy with piteous calls upon
" Mon Dieu ! Mon Dieu ! ” The awe-stricken
•rovvd carried him into the store, and stood
olemnly round while with a pocket-knife the
rounded man’s second extracted from his carcase
-a dried pea ! But Frenchy never knew—and
oonor was satisfied.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
limples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
igurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin,
s. bottles. Made in London *
“ Nulla,” on a domestic subject of special
U.S.W. bush interest:—
The W.C.T.U. lady, who says to the “ fallen sister,”
“Now, my dear, who is he?” and the howdee who
refuses “todeliver” the unfortunate unless she names the
bantling’s father, are well and widely known ; but the
Registrar, who “frightens” the poor girl into confessing
the father’s name when she goes to register the baby, is
a comparatively new thing in sociology. The new powers
of the N.S.W. Registrar are rather alarming, and it is
wonderful how spicy details spread round the country
town (“ beautifully slow ”) in spite of the Registrar’s
secrecy. What was the matter, anyhow, with the old
plan, which allowed a man to obtain and fill in a form
and return it by post to the most convenient Registry-
office? I, myself, had occasion just lately to register a
“ new addition,” and offered to till in the form, was
refused, and never felt so small in my life as I meekly
answered the catechism of the man with the pen, spelled
the kid’s name to him (the wife had chosen it, and it
wasn’t John), and realised that this new sort of father-
confessor had it. in his power to question me “on his
own,” I being ignorant of what was in the form. If there
had, by bad luck, been any “shady places” or “sore
spots ” in my matrimonial arrangements, and that man
had got his pen on them, I would certainly have spread
him out, I felt so uncomfortable. As it was, I left the
oriice dry as a vacuum of all personal information, and I
don’t know what else could have been told about
my family. Surely there are enough obstacles
in the way : of the mail who seeks : to. popu-
late the country respectably without these new regu-
lations. The man on the cross gets the best of things,
as usual — he does not register the baby. Old Hayseed
lives 15 miles from one town and 14 from another. He
does business chiefly at the 15-mile town, and having bad
another olive-leaf added to his table, walks into sue
registry office and demands “one of them forrums for the
missus to fill up.” The Registrar tells him about per-
sonal registration, &c., &c., and suggests that he may
answer the questions. At “ place of birth ” he stops
I and informs Hayseed that he can’t register at that offioe,
he must go to the 14-mile town. “ The missus ’as ’ad
eight, and never no trouble afore. Gimme a forrum and
she’ll fill it up right es rain and post it to t’other chap.”
The Registrar explains again. In due time Hayseed
turns up at the 14-mile town and scratches the answers
out of his head fairly well till he is asked his wife’s age.
“Blessed if I know. Does that alius go in?” “Of
course.” “ Polly alius filled ’em up afore. Wot does it
matter, anyhow? I ain’t ridgistring the missus, I’m
ndgistring the kid. Can’t you leave it out? 1 ” “No.”
“ Well, I think she’s about 40.” “That won’t do. I
want the exact age.” “Wot else do yer want? Dover
want to know ’ow old me father was w’en ’e broke ’ees
leg 7 ” “If you have any other children you had better
obtain their ages while you are about it.” “ These ’ere
bloomin’ noo regilations is a noosance,” muttered Hay-
seed as he tumbled into his saddle to go home and tell
the missus that the baby wasn’t “ registered yet.”
“ The Guvment might as well fine a man a quid as ’ave
’im ridin’ about two or three days, w’en a couple of tup-
peny stamps ought to do the trick.” And so say all of us.
1 Silver Hatch Free.
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one,-write to us with-
out delay With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed'envelope), for which we wall send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Potosi Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAH CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Goughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
h
gOLEMANE’S
EUGALYPTE
EXTRACT
Is indeed “MONARCH” of
all the Eucalyptus Extracts
on the market, as it is ONE
QUALITY onIy—FIRST, and
Guaranteed Pure.
For a COLD, a BAD
COUGH, or any CHEST
TROUBLES, there is no-
thing can touch it. It is
Euealypte pure and simple
Without Adulterants,
/ k 1111}ELL’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
\Z' Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and Is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.
WAWEjJA
£ rec
f jndi6E;Tion
AamTyg,
\^s
/i E/s CACHE
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine!
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. Od.
Sole Agents :
A,
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- sto, Sydney
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
' Ladies should always Knit with
B EE
HIVE
KHITTIHG
Wools
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino,! Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world tor quality, colours, softness and durability.
m
SEE "this trade A ark'
is t)N FUFRY.SKEIN.
Trade Mark Registered.
Established 1785.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Also Beehive ”
Hosiery&Under-
wear manufac-
tured from the
‘Beebive’Woois.
J.sJ. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has restored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts.. Sydney.
Jack : I hear the Yankees are going to
give ov<w using powder and shot
in their war with Spain.
Tom : How are they going to win,
then 1
Jack: With St. Jacobs Oil. it
CONQUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET.
IN LARGE AND SMALL CAKES,
EVERYWHERE.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
icurwJ of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy.
;arad will be pleased to send the means of cure to ail
■sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
mo charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
o Mr- WILBER KELLOGG. 89 Pitt-street, Sydney.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
I Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
nmt
lillllllll
mij
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12/6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 '-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35'-. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/1 1 . Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 3,3. Warm
Travelling Bugs, 13/6 Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
si/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Hugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
r, O make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
The Lowest Prices—
The Highest Testimonials—
The Finest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recom-
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
fDinerva peptonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, has been reduced to the
public from 2s. 6d. to Is. 9d. The high quality of
the preparation has not been reduced.
Minerva Peptonised Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. large size, and to Is. 9d.
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street, by enclosing with the above
price 6d. extra to cover postage. Sample bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Go-,
Manufacturing Chemists 8s Pood Specialists.
LONDON : 15 and 17 Fore-street Avenue, E.C.
NEW YORK.: Kemble Building, Whitehall-street.
SYDNEY : 56 Margaret-street.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
DRROBERTS’:
Friend
>©■
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
AND ALL D/SOPDERS OF THE
STOMA CP & L/VER .
or ALL CHEMISTS ///£- X 2/?EACH
BEACH & BARDICOTT L°. BRIDPORJ.
SK/rf MEASEf
D?ROBERTS
AND WOU/VDS
or every
DESCRIPTIor/'
A
SoCUE?
MTV POST FREE
WATCHES- Clocks- jEM/ELLERY-BIRTriDAT*
Weddiinlc z CHRisTEflirlc Presents
H- NEWMAISI• 1755177-FH?ARFTri St.
OPPOSITE C:RO.
MF.T.BOTTRNE.
MELBOURNE.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
grift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ĥ
"arried Ladles.
&3T Send Four Penny-
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2
post free.


Influenza, Measles, Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Anaemia, General Debility,
Indigestion, Insomnia, Fevers, Ladies* Ailments.
These and other Diseases have been Repeatedly Cured , after Ordinary
Medicine has failed, by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
Influenza Cured.
THIS CURE IS ONE OF MANY.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT TELLS OF HIS
MARVELLOUS RECOVERY ATER
ATTENDING THE HOSPITAL IN
VAIN.
Mr. Hinnigan, who in traffic circles is a licensed
vanman by occupation, has something to boast
about. He told a reporter from the Sydney
Worker what it was. Said Mr. Hinnigan :
“ My illness started as a good many other illnesses
do—with just a cold. At first I didn’t take much
notice of it, for I’ve often had colds before and got
rid of them in a week or so. This time, however,
I didn’t recover in the ordinary way, but began
to get thin and weak.
“ This made me feel a bit
nervous, especially as I
couldn’t tell exactly what
was the trouble with me, so
I went to a chemist and got
some medicine. But as, in
spite of the physic, I con-
tinued to get thinner and
weaker, I went up to the
Sydney Hospital. The doc-
tors then examined me, and
told me I had a severe
attack of influenza, and that
I required medicine and
rest. I did as they ordered
me, and took my medicine
regularly four times a day,
but I did not feel any bet-
ter for it. I slowly con-
tinued to get worse and
worse. I lost my appetite
altogether. I ate, certainly,
but I might have been
“TO THF VATV ” chewing up so much paper
TO THE VAN. {or aU the pleasure that
eating gave. I also lost my voice, so that I had
to go quite close to people if I wished them to
hear what I was saying, and my face regularly
caved in about the jaws, and became a sort
of dingy yellow color, something like a piece
of dirty paper. I was just able to crawl
out in the sun on fine days, and I was more
than once taken tor a fever-stricken New Guinea
miner. I attended the hospital regularly from
June last till the middle of July without any im-
provement, when I bought a box of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People. I fancied I felt an
improvement soon after starting the Pills, so I
determined to give them a fair trial. The Pills
did me more good than I could have hoped. In a
week’s time I was fairly on the up grade, and
began to get quite cheerful and to eat my food
with relish.
“ I stuck to the medicine, and took altogether
four or five boxes, and in the course of about six
weeks, by slow but sure degrees, I was completely
recovered. Considering what a wretchedly weak
and miserable state I was in, I think this is a very
quick cure, and it quite astonished my wife, who
expected me to be ill for months. I can only say
that I am now as well as ever I was, and I believe
my cure is the result of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People, and I shall recommend them to
everyone.”
Pale and Sallow Girls.
HOW TO OBTAIN THE BEAUTY OF
PERFECT HEALTH.
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the springtime of youth.
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and
an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale, yellow, or
greenish complexion, and a languidness of step
that bespeaks disease and an early death if proper
treatment is not promptly resorted to and per-
sisted in until the impoverished blood is enriched,
and the functions of life become regular.
Upon parents rests a great responsibility at
the time their daughters are budding into
womanhood. If your daughter is pale, com-
plains of weakness, is “tired out” upon the
slightest exertion; if she is troubled with head-
ache or backache, pain in the side, if her temper is
fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition
of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
for the most dreaded of all diseases—Consumption.
If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly ; they will enrich the blood and restore
health’s roses to the cheeks; bright eyes and
lightness of step will surely follow their use, and
all danger of consumption and premature death
will be averted.
4,
Headaches Cured.
“ Merrylands,” Barradine Creek, via Narrabri
and Pillaga. To the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co. —I have much pleasure in ordering another
box of your wonderful Pink Pills. I can safely
say they are a wonderful medicine ; from the use
of them I have derived great benefit. I have
already had two boxes of your Pink Pills, and I
am now ordering a third ; but I can already testify
as to the good your Pink Pills have done me. The
first box I received in the summer months, during
which time I suffer extremely from headaches, &c.
Last summer I enjoyed splendid health, being
never troubled with either pain or ache. I
heartily recommend them to all sufferers as being
a really good medicine. Yours respectfully,
Elizabeth Forrest.
ħ
Heart and Kidney Troubles Removed.
“ Six boxes cured me,” said Mr. Carl Mont M'Croy, of 204 George Street, Sydney,
to a reporter, and that was after I had been
attended by doctors in vain, and tried several
different sorts of medicines. My heart trouble
was, I suppose, the most serious. I used to be
seized with violent spasms in the left breast, which
nearly doubled me up in agony. After these fits
I would be panting and quite exhausted, and
my heart would palpitate frightfully for more
than half-an-hour. In addition to this, I had a
lot of trouble with my kidneys. There was a
continual dull, leaden, dragging pain in the lower
portion of my back, which was especially bad after
I had been lying in bed. Nothing would make
my kidneys act properly. My heart and my
kidneys got worse and worse, notwithstanding the
most careful attention of my doctors. For five
months I lay on a bed of sickness. I had fallen
away to a shadow, and my bones nearly came
through my skin. When £ felt there was no hope
left for me, I read a story of a remarkable cure by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I asked for them, and
with some trouble I managed to get them. It
was after taking a few pills that I had for the
first time for months a really refreshing sleep. I
procured some more pills, and at the end of a fort-
night I could see I was making rapid headway
towards recovery. The distressing symptoms of
my kidney complaint began to abate, and my
heart almost ceased to trouble me. Day by day
I got better, and after taking six boxes I was
completely cured. My recovery was very rapid,
for in ten weeks’ time I was as well as ever I was, and have never had a single symptom
of heart or kidney disease since.”
0
m
MR. 0. M. M‘CROY.
NONEST APVICE FREE.
Do you suffer from Influenza’s after-effects,
from Rheumatism, Measles, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Lumbago, or any trouble whatsoever ? If you do,
write to us, describing your case fully, and we will
answer you absolutely Free of Charge. Your letter
will be regarded as sacredly confidential. You will
be answered with the greatest privacy and deli-
cacy, and will be told whether Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills have cured cases like yours or not.
We do not sell pills to people whom we do not
think they are likely to cure. We invariably re-
turn money, if sent, in such cases. We are to be
trusted, if only because it is to our interest to
treat you fairly. We can afford to be candid.
Please Address: Dr. Williams 9 Medicine Co.,
Queen’s Place, Sydney.
Liyer Trouble and a Weak Stomach.
INDIGESTION AND DEBILITY FOR YEARS —HER STOMACH WOULD
NOT EVEN RETAIN BRANDY AND EGO —WEAKNESS, HEADACHES,
AND SEVERE GIDDINESS.
A LADY TELLS OE HER CURE.
Mrs. Elizabeth Duggan, of “ Lochiel House,” 525 Latrobe-street, West Melbourne,
is a lady who has been most marvellously restored to health by a course of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People, after she had suffered most
acutely for years from chronic indigestion, liver com-
plaint, and general debility. Seen recently by a reporter,
she chatted as follows : —“I am 36 years old, and have
been a resident of West Melbourne all my life. About
two years ago my health broke down, my stomach
wouldn’t contain its food, and I sank into a terribly low
condition. Even brandy and egg would not stay on my
stomach for more than five minutes. Sleep deserted me,
and I often wished I were dead, as I was a nuisance
to myself and a burden to others. I was admitted to
two large Melbourne hospitals, and, although I received
the greatest kindness and attention at both, I was really
a wreck when discharged, and quite unfit to carry on my
duties. Several doctors also attended me, but did me no
good at all. I took a large number of patent medicines,
and these likewise had no beneficial effect. The pains
in the back of my neck, the excessive weakness of my
sight, severe headaches, giddy sensations, and general
weakness never deserted me. About nine months ago I
was reluctantly persuaded by a young lady to try Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. Now I look
back to the day I started taking them as the
luckiest in my life,” declared Mrs. Duggan, enthusi-
astically. “Altogether I took ten boxes. The second
box produced a wonderful effect, and this became more and more pronounced as I con-
tinued with them. My appetite has returned; my indigestion, pains, dizziness,
sleeplessness and weakness have vanished. I am up with the lark. My work
is a pleasure instead of a distress, and the longest day is never too long.
I start work sometimes at five in the morning, and keep on till late at
uight, yet I have no feeling of tiredness or langour, and for this lam indebted to Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. A number of my friends are taking them upon my recommenda-
tion, with good results, and as my little girl is not well I intend giving her some ; I am
sure they will cure her. One of my doctors told me I was suffering from indigestion and
liver complaint, but he did nothing for me. Make whatever use you like of this testi-
monial.”
1
Rheumatism and Sciatica Cured.
ANOTHER GREAT N.S.W. MIRACLE.
(Blayney Advocate and Carcoar Herald.)
A marvellous cure of rheumatism and sciatica
after 14 years’ of suffering, having been reported in
the town, a reporter from the Blaynet Advocate
and Carcoar Herald was despatched to obtain
some details of the illness and cure of Mrs. Lay-
land, wife of Mr. John Layland, a well-known
and highly-respected resident of Blayney, who is
the engineer of the railway pump-house. Mrs.
Layland readily consented to give the required
information, and spoke with great enthusiasm in
praise of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, as will be seen
from the following interesting account of her
wonderful cure :
“ For fourteen years I suffered excruciating
pains from rheumatism in the arm—so bad, that
I could not raise my hand to my head. It affected
my arms from the shoulders to the finger-ends;
my hands were swelled up, and I couldn’t move
my fingers.
“ I also had sciatica in the left leg and couldn’t
walk about. The illness affected me more in the
winter time. A doctor was attending me all
the while, and although he was very attentive
to me, his medicines only gave me tem-
porary relief. I also tried eucalyptus, and
all kinds of patent medicines, but got no benefit
from any of them. During the whole time
I was never entirely free from pain, and I got
that way that I did not care what happened tome.
About eighteen months ago, a lady friend, who
used to come and help me to do my housework,
recommended me to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People. At first, I refused to give them
a trial, as I nad spent such a lot of money in tak-
ing all kinds of medicines, without deriving any
benefit. But my friend at last persuaded me to
take them, and thankful I am of it, for after I
had used a few boxes, I was thoroughly cured,
and have not had a pain since. I can now get
about and do my housework, and, after the four-
teen years’ pain which I suffered, the entire cure
made me feel like a new woman altogether. The
cure must be permanent, as I went through all
last winter without any pains whatever. I have
recommended the pills to a large number of my
friends, and can advise anyone suffering as I did
to take them. They are indeed a wonderful medi-
cine, and cured me after all other means had
failed.
The Change of Life.
ALL TROUBLE CAN EASILY BE
AVOIDED. READ BELOW.
What Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills will do for
women at the change of life is shown in a case re-
ported in the Dewsbury (Eng.) Chronicle. It is
that of Mrs. Benjamin Smith, who lives at Han-
over-street, Dewsbury. The change of life had
left her weak and miserable ; with constant pains,
dizziness, and shortness of breath on the slightest
exertion, together with chronic rheumatism in the
head and eyes. The pain in her head was too
acute for words ; she got no sleep either by day or
night, and her agony was at times so great that it
took two people to hold her in bed. A skilful
doctor was called in, but did no good. “My
cheeks would swell up as big as saucers,” says
Mrs. Smith; “my eyes were as red as fire, and
there was no getting rid of the pains in the head.
I also suffered from a sluggish liver and a weak
heart, and at times my eyesight was so bad that
objects before me seemed but dim shadows.
“ 1 saw an account in a newspaper of a cure
similar to mine through the use of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, and my husband urged me to try them.
Before two boxes were used the pains had disap-
peared as if by magic, and the continued use of
the Pills for a little more than a month has left
me enjoying as good health as ever I had in my
life. I consider Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills a bless-
ing, and as I know there are thousands of women
who suffer in silence from troubles having the
same origin as mine, I am grateful enough for
what they have done for me to tell my story, in
the hope that some suffering sister may be simi-
larly helped, and you have full permission to pub-
lish what I have told you, which statements can
be verified by any of my neighbors.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People are
sold by chemists, and by the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Company, Queen’s Place, Sydney, at 2s. 9d.
a box, or six for los. 3d., post free, but they are
genuine only with the full name on each box.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are offered to the pub-
lic with a full confidence because there is no
disease arising from a watery or impoverished
condition of the blood, shattered nervous forces,
which they have not cured when the directions
have been faithfully followed, and the treatment
persisted in. It is well-recognised that upon the
healthy activity of the blood and nerves, and the
vital organs dpending upon them, depends the
mental and physical well-being of every adult.
It is that which gives the rosy blush to the cheek,
and the soft light to the eye of the maiden. The
elastic step, the ringing laugh, and the strong
arm of youth own this main-spring. How soon
does anaemia rob the face of color, the eye of
brightness ? The blood becomes impoverished,
the victim pale. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People enrich the impoverished blood, vigor
returns, and the bloom of youth again mantles the
faded cheek.


CIGARS FREE
Cl< SIMMONS
St.*
DROPS') IN THE SLOT WTOfffS
(Hi
mimiiiiHiiimmiiiiimiiiiHiniiiiiiiiimmnimimmiiiiiii
MICK SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
No Extortionate Prices,
We give Value for Money .
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Value
in N S.W.
T- JK WRBKTCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter.
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
h
s
E
L
P
F
E
E
D
I
N
G
FOR
COUNTER
USE.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery, 13rush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery* Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites Send for 1 nee lost.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPETITION - .
WINES Bed Bmnds ° } SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
I
t&Ys\
8
w.rjtej
- |K.> j
UM
CIGARETTES
Are (oHsuMEpYEARLy
1 \ 1 v. > ujl o'uM. —^
i
5,000 Miles|
OF
The Awakening of Mrs. Morton.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
During that short walk home from the ball, Mor-
ton was very silent. His wife, walking by his
side, did not like this silence. In the fitful glare
that came from his cigar she saw that his brows
were drawn moodily and his face was stern ; she
fancied it was also pale. It made her thoughtful
and uneasy. Did he know anything, she won-
dered, or did he guess ? The very possibility
made her shiver and wish she were away from
him.
Anyhow, it was all his own fault. Why was he
always so gloomy and cold ? And why had he
been so anxious to quarrel with her that night
when they were starting for the ball ? Surely he
could have been kind on that one night. And in
contrast she pictured Vance—so pleasant and
gentle. No ! she did not love Vance, but, then,
she did not love her husband either, and Vance
was so very kind.
The more she thought about the matter the
more glad she felt of what had happened in the
conservatory at the ball. The world would sneer
at her, of course; she would be notorious while
she lived, but she would get away from the
gloomy, fretful man at her side, and surely Vance
would treat her well, after all she was sacrificing
for him.
In the darkness she shot a glance of triumph at
her husband, and again she shivered when she
saw his face in the cigar-glow.
He had always reminded her of a slumbering
volcano. Quiet and thoughtful, he seemed to
have no passion, no feeling—till he was roused.
Then ! She had seen him really angry once. A
man insulted him once publicly, and the volcano
awoke. People were careful not to rouse Morton
after that.
Now she remembered that incident, and her
heart beat faster. What if he knew and was only
biding his time ? She tried to banish the fear
born of this idea with the reflection that in a few
hours she would be beyond his reach, and then she
would be revenged for his coldness.
She hurried straight to her room when they
reached home, glad to be away from him for a
few minutes. Morton, still with that gloomy ex-
pression on his face, sat for a long time by him-
self, smoking and thinking deeply. Then he put
the light out and went upstairs.
• * * *
Morton and Vance had been intimate for years,
so there was nothing extraordinary in Morton
calling on his friend, as he did, late in the afternoon
of next day ; yet Vance wished he had not come.
“ Let us go for a walk,” Morton said. “ Away
into the bush, where all is fresh and sweet —and
innocent! ”
That last word caused Vance to look quickly at
his friend, but the face at his side seemed quite
unconscious.
“ Is anything innocent ? ” Vance said, cynically.
“ Those sweet-singing birds are death to the in-
sects ; disease may lurk in the balmy breezes ;
and snakes creep through the flowers.”
“ In the grass, too,” Morton laughed, cleaving
a bluebell with his walking-stick. Again Vance’s
eyes sought the other’s face, and again it told him
nothing.
They had strolled a distance from the town, and
about them the trees were high and thick. They
had not spoken for minutes. . ~
“I am leaving town to-night,’ Morton saicl,
suddenly.
“Where are yon going?” Vance asked, sur-
prised. .
“ Sydney. By the eight o clock train.
Under Morton’s keen gaze, Vance did not dare
to allow his satisfaction to appear in his face. At
nine o’clock he, too, was leaving town in the
opposite direction.
“ It is sudden,” he replied, calmly. (>
“ Yes ; a message came a little while ago.
Still they walked on. Morton had settled back
to his habitual moodiness, and Vance grew tired.
“ Shall we rest ?” he asked.
“A little farther,” was the reply. Only a
little way now.”
“ We shall be late home.”
“ What matter ? Home ! ” The last word was
almost a sneer. _
“ You will miss your train.”
“My train ! Ah, yes, I had forgotten. We
will rest awhile.”
Vance stretched himself out on the grass, with
his elbow on the ground, and his head resting on
his hand. Morton standing beside him, idly
tapping his boot with his stick, looked down at
him. ,
“ What a handsome fellow you are, Vance, he
said, at last. “No wonder all the women love
you.”
Vance looked away and laughed, but said
nothing.
“So different from me,” Morton went on,
steadily. “I am dark, cold, and gloomy. You
are sparkling and gay. Women always prefer
your style to mine.”
Vance, conscious of his treachery to the man
at his side, scarcely liked the trend of the con-
versation.
“Shall we not be late home? he asked.
“You seem anxious to get back, Vance,” Mor-
ton laughed. “Is it, then, so important that you
should return?”
“ Important ?” Vance laughed uneasily. No.
“ Well ! Where is the hurry ? How long have
I known you, Vance? ”
“ About five years.”
“Five years! Long before I was married,
wasn’t it ? And only now I realise ) what a hand-
some man my friend is ; queer, don’t you think ? ”
“ Queer to hear you talking rubbish,” Vance
said. „ T .
“Don’t deny your beauty, Vance. Look at
that wavy brown hair; how it floats in the
breeze. Pity to think that some day you will die,
Vance.”
“ Die ! ” Vance looked up quickly.
“Of course, like the rest of us; and that pretty
skull will sound as hollow as —mine, if perchance
someone kicks it from his path.”
“How queer you are to-day, Morton, Vance
said, uneasily. “ Please don’t talk of death.
“Why not?” Morton was tapping Vance
lightly on the head with his walking-stick. It
comes so simply sometimes. For instance, just a
particle more vigor in this arm of mine, and your
skull would crack like an egg-shell.”
“For heaven’s sake, Morton ! ” Vance’s voice
was growing very unsteady.
“ Just a particle more vigor,” Morton repeated,
again dropping the stick lightly ; “ only the
smallest particle.” Vance looked up quickly.
Something he read in the eyes above him caused
his face to pale to a sickly whiteness, and he
attempted to rise.
“ Morton ! ” he cried, wildly.
The mocking expression of Morton's face had
suddenly departed, leaving it set and stern, and
his eyes gleamed redly with a fierce anger. The
stick rose rapidly in the air, and came down whist-
ling . . . He stepped back and regarded his work,
grimly. Vance lay inert, and the wavy brown
hair was rapidly taking a brighter hue. Kneeling
beside him, Morton felt his heart, and was seem-
ingly satisfied to discover a feeble fluttering under
his hand. Then he brought some water from an
adjacent creek in the injured man’s hat; bathed
the face, and neatly bound up the wounded head
with a handkerchief. Next, he turned the uncon-
scious body over, and firmly bound the hands be-
hind the back, and lashed the feet tightly together,
with a piece of cord, which he took from his
pocket. Then he sat near by, resting both hands
on the stick, and watched the still face, intently.
One —two —three hours, he sat. And the sun
went down, and above gleamed the stars, and
through the trees came shadows and shafts of pale
light from the rising moon. Then Vance stirred.
At the first movement, Morton seized his head,
and forced between his teeth a gag he had made
in his hours of watching. Vance’s eyes opened.
“ Better, now ? ” Morton hissed, peering at him,
in the dim light. “ A particle more vigor in my
arm, eh? You infernal hound, I should have
killed you; and I would, but that you are not
worth hanging for.”
Silence for an instant, during which Morton
looked at his watch in the moonbeams which stole
through the foliage.
“I have missed my train,” he laughed. “No
matter. It is nearly nine o'clock. You know
what that means, Vance. You may stay here for
awhile; / will keep your appointment. If you
get lonely, occupy your time in thinking what an
infernal fool you were to intrigue with a woman
at a public ball, when her husband was around.
Au revoir.”
Morton set rapidly off through the bush, alone,
and soon he came to a point where a road circled
sharply around a hill. On each side the scrub
was dense, and he had just hid himself in the
thick shadow when he heard crunching footsteps
on the gravelled road, and beheld a woman ad-
vancing slowly in the shade. She was clad as for
travelling, and carried a small handbag. Morton
crouched back and smiled.
The woman came to nearly opposite his hiding-
place ; stood and listened intently, and then re-
traced her steps a hundred yards. Up and down
that hundred yards she paced slowly, stopping
anon to listen as though expecting someone, while
the hours went by, and Morton crouched, watch-
ing, in the shadow.
At length, with signs of impatience, she looked
at her watch. Morton looked at his watch.
Eleven o’clock. With a last look down the road,,
the woman hurried off the way she had come, and
Morton emerged from his lair and looked after her,
smiling.
♦ * * *
When Morton got home about midnight he
found his wife sitting over the fire. She looked
round silently at his entrance. He stood beside
her, watching her face in the firelight; then she
timidly glanced up at him.
“ You are up late,” he said, softly, meeting her
gaze. “ What is the matter ? ”
“ I was lonely,” she said, not looking at him.
“And I waited up for you.”
“Forme? That is unusual.” Morton could
not prevent the sneer in his voice. She had always
been so cold to him —this wife of his.
“I have been thinking,” she said, wearily.
“We have never understood each other. 1 have
always thought that you did not love me ; I was
certain that I had no love for you. To-night, I
found that I do love you —dearly.”
“Why to-night?” he asked, smiling, his face
turned from her.
“ I used to compare you with other men,” she
went on, unheeding his question, “and the disad-
vantage was always yours. You were cold,
gloomy, passionless ; they were warm, gay, and
attractive. I was very sorry then for our marriage,
and I pitied myself. To-night, however, it came
to me that perhaps the outward gaiety of other
men is only the cloak under which they hide
treachery and deceit—especially towards a woman.
Those plausible men are not to be trusted —and I
know now that I love my cold, gloomy husband.”
She had risen to her feet, and her arms were
about his neck.
A slight passion broke through her sobs.
“You must promise me something,” she said.
“ Take me away from this place : I hate it.”
“ Curious,” he said, smiling ; “ everybody seems
tired of this place all at once. Yance left this
evening—unexpectedly. ’ 5
At the name she grew white ; then she laughed
indifferently.
“ Gone—has he? I am not sorry. I always
disliked Vance.”
He smiled as he kissed her. He did not again
refer to going away.
Later, Morton went back into the bush, and
that night Yance left the town. I never heard
that he returned.
P. T. FREEMAN.
Printed that lianji, who has been for some
months in India, has fixed up things satisfactorily
in “ his state,” and isn’t, after all, to be cast a lone
waif upon the world. In token whereof he has
“taken some shooting” in England or some-
where, and is going to “ do the thing well.”
Mildura Vincent’s joust at the Vic. Govt,
in a British court, without even saying “by
your leave,” calls to mind a famous case of the
early Forties. Judge Willis, who had been
appointed to the newly-established Port Phillip
Court, was “amoved” from his position for
sundry reasons by N.S.W. Governor-in-Council.
An investigation had been held, but the Judge
had not been heard in defence. He accordingly
petitionedtheQueen to upset the Order-in-Councii,
and the Queen referred the matter to the Privy
Council. Gov. Gipps, then in England, was
made defendant. N.S. W. Government was not
notified of the proceedings, save in the ordi-
nary official despatches of the Secretary of State.
To prevent the case going by default, Gipps in-
structed counsel to appear on his behalf, but Willis
tried to block his efforts by asking the Council to
go on with the case at once. It, however, gave
Gipps’ counsel time to work up a defence, with the
result that the Privy Council (W. E. Gladstone is
recorded in the law reports of the time as a sitting
member) advised the Queen that the colonial Go-
vernments had full power to “ amove ” a Judge,
but that, as in this case Willis had not been given
a hearing in his own defence, the Order-in-Council
should be revoked. And it was revoked accord-
ingly. Another notable case of the “ amotion ”
of a Judge, which also reached the Privy Council,
was that of Boothby, of South Australia, who
held such peculiar notions on the legal status of
Supreme Courts in the colonies. There was a
Tasmanian case of “ amotion ” also, away back
somewhere.


w THE MOST REFRESHING, COOLING) & HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE,
Lx
Trade Hark)
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW RCWTtI WAGES:
Sydney-Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co . D Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D Cohen & Ca,
Hm mm*
SKND Yu UR ORDER TO DAY.
will more than please you*
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£J2 ios., f. o. b. vessel New York Cost of carriage, about
t-T' Description * Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
po ished and handiomely carved, Po inches high, 48 inches,
ongand 22 inches deep. Action. 5 octave manual of keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful po'den-toned r< eds, J 3 slops.
Right and left knee swell. Fiee with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Fach Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to f iq. Refe ence, First National Bank here,
National She: and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co
y ■ ■> w, Wll , -
•*
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
BOULESTIN BRANDY.
The finest French Brandy imported into Australia.
May be had at the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, and all the
and Spirit Merchants.
leading Hotels and Wine
ASK FOR BOULESTIN.
W'l-towAisr
,’m mark
1 Corset
Wiu-oWfIiST Corset
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS WILLBE WORN.
PERFECT IN SHAPE.
LE N GTHENS THE WA I ST.
B E A UTI FI ES TH E FIG UR E.
W'ttoWA'ST Corset
MARK
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
ASK FOR
W'bvov/A'ST Corset
of ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS*
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN BY
F.w. LEE, Camden Buildings,
a 16, GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY.
ħ
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
(Unde? Royal Patronage.)
Contains ov<
Modern Luxury,
sington Gardens
MOD ERAT E TAR IFF .
Sil
Queen's Gate Terrace, London
S.W.
h
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
ĥ
Tractio 11,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Po table Railway
Locomoti vex,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MiNTNO MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKEP, M.r.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “ THI STLE ” OIL ENGINE.
The Dry Country.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Shrivelled leather, rusty buckles, and “ the rot ”
is in our knuckles,
Scorched for months upon the pommel while the
brittle rein hung free ;
Shrunken eyes that once were lighted with fresh
boyhood, dull and blighted—
And the sores upon our eyelids are unpleasant
sights to see.
And our hair is thin, and dying from the ends,
with too long lying
In the night dews on the ashes of the Dry
Countree.
Yes, we’ve seen ’em “ bleaching whitely ” where
the salt-bush sparkles brightly,
But their grins were over-friendly, so we passed
and let them be ;
And we’ve seen them “rather recent,” and we’ve
stopped to “ hide ’em decent ”
When they weren’t nice to handle and they
weren’t nice to see;
We have heard the dry bones rattle under twenty
thousand cattle—
Seen the rags go up in dust-clouds and the
brittle joints kicked free ;
But there’s little time to tarry, if you wish to live
and marry,
When the cattle shy at something in the Dry
Countree.
No, you needn’t fear the blacks on the Never
Never tracks
For the myall in his freedom’s an uncommon
sight to see ;
Oh ! we do not live for trifles—and the trackers
sneak their rifles,
And go strolling in the gloaming while the ser-
geant’s yarning free.
Round the myalls creep the trackers—there’s a
sound like firing crackers—
And—the blacks are getting scarcer in the Dry
Countree ;
(Goes an unprotected maiden ’cross the clearing
carrion-laden
Oh! they ride ’em down on horseback in the Dry
Countree.)
But you don’t know what might happen when a
“ tank ” is but a trap on
Roofs of hell, and there is nothing but the blaze
of hell to see ;
And the phantom water’s lapping—and no limb
for saddle-strapping—
Better carry your revolver through the Dry
Countree !
But I’m feeling gay and frisky—come with mo and
have a whisky !
Change of hells is all we live for (that’s my mate
that’s got D.T.);
We have fought through hell’s own weather, he
and I and Death together—
Oh ! the devil grins to greet us from the Dry
Countree;
Us who fight through blazing Hades for the
fashionable ladies—
For the dressmakers in Paris, for the unknown
absentee,
For the globs of grease black-coated, oily-tongued
and brazen-throated,
Grand establishments in London for the Wool-
King’s family—
For the rich, and for the needy—all that’s foul and
vile and greedy—
For Australia’s staple product in the Dry
Countree.
HENRY LAWSON.
Redhead Junior.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His real name I could never ascertain. Redhead
Junior we all called him, in contradistinction to
Redhead Senior, a brawny, bearded, carrotty
miner who was sinking a shaft at the bottom of
Fossicker’s Hill.
Redhead J. belonged to the irrepressible variety
of Australian youth. His precocious depravity was
redeemed by an occasional flash of humor which
endeared him to the rough fellows around him.
He it was whose ready wit paralysed our worthy
Sawbones when that gentleman, mounted on his
fat mare, had disturbed Redhead and his youth-
ful comrades bent on a peaceful game of marbles
in the middle of the road. For as Bolus, M.D.,
rode through the urchins and scattered them to
right and left, is it not recorded that the voice of
Redhead Junior was heard asking sarcastically :
“Yah! what does fellows on fat ’orses care?”
What indeed, ye Democrats—what does fellows on
fat ’orses care ?
If Redhead was great in retort, he was magnifi-
cent in apology. To a policeman who laid hands
upon him and charged him with pelting a hapless
Chinaman almost to death (an offence of which he
was probably guilty), that youth most vehemently
protested his innocence. “ Peltin’ ’im,” said Four-
foot-six, with the air of an injured martyr, “ why,
bli’me, I ony lammed ’im with me fist! ”
To Redhead Senior complaint was made even-
tually that Redhead J. had not only “ lammed Ah
Cow with his fist,” but that he had also climbed
oyer that meek-eyed Celestial’s fence and stolen
his oranges, and the burly parent announced
his intention of meting out strict justice on the
first occasion of his encountering Redhead J. The
latter, however, was an able and skilful strategist.
About an hour after the parent had descended the
shaft, and his mate had departed for a time, the
auburn locks of the son appeared approaching the
windlass. “ Hello, Dad ! ”
Redhead S. (from below): “ Hello ! ”
R. J. (producing a couple of huge rocks): “ Say,
Dad ! Coin’ to belt me for stealin’ Ah Cow’s
oranges ? ”
R.S. (emphatically): “ I am. I intend to knock
pertickler hell out o’ you.”
R. J. (dropping a small pebble on his dad):
“ Dad, I’m goin’ to drop a rock d’reckly.”
Here a torrent of crimson language rose from
the shaft, and a second pebble feLL More lan-
guage, and then a third pebble.
“ Say, Dad! ”
“What?”
“If you’ll say you won’t leather me, I won’t
drop these rocks.”
“Redhead Senior (faintly); “All right, sonny.”
R. J. : “ ’Pon your honor.”
“ ’Pon my honor.”
* * * *
And a short time afterwards the high conflict-
ing parties were seen sitting peacefully together a
few. yards from the shaft—Redhead Senior bor-
rowing a fill of tobacco from his amiable offspring,
who beamed upon his parent with a patronising
smile of unspeakable superiority.
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Mrs. “Rorty” Jackson.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bowdler was driving home his cattle from market
unsold. He was the owner of a selection away
up in the hills ; also of innumerable debts to
which he clung with affectionate tenacity. It
wa3 Bowdler’s dislike to reducing his liabilities, in
fact, which accounted for the present journey,
just as it had been responsible for a similar trip
every sale-day for months past.
Bowdler was being pressed for money, and
although his stocking was reputedly pretty deep
he always made the same excuse—“lf I could
only sell a few cattle, now. . . . Times is very
bad . . . but I’ll try the market again next
month.”
These visits to market he duly made, as a mere
matter of policy, but placed such a high reserve
on his stock that he had always to drive them
home again.
The creditor that troubled Bowdler most was
his new neighbor, “ Rorty ’’Jackson, a bachelor
of over 40, who had purchased the next selection,
and with it a debt of about <£2o owing by Bowdler
for a dividing fence.
“ Rorty ” never failed to mention the obligation
to his neighbor on every possible occasion, and
when at length he began to threaten, Bowdler
started on the monthly trip to the township.
But Jackson, doubtful of Bowdler’s good faith,
was also at the sale this afternoon \ and, shortly
after his wily debtor had ridden away once more
with his stock, Rorty took out a summons. Then
he had several drinks at the pub. and, accompanied
by a bottle of whisky, started in his spring cart for
home. By the time he passed Bowdler about half-
way, in the clear moonlight, Rorty was very drunk
sitting huddled in a corner of the cart, with the
reins loose and the horse jogging on unheeded.
An hour later, at a twist in the track near his own
gate, Bowdler came upon the overturned spring-
cart with Jackson partly underneath it. The
horse, turning too sharply, had run the vehicle
against a tree, broken the harness, and bolted.
Jackson lay on his back, moaning, with the cart-
frame resting upon his legs, whilst from far over-
head amongst the giant Gippsland gums a single
streak of moonlight fell upon his corpse-like face.
“Lift the cart,” Jackson faintly said, and
Bowdler got a sapling and levered up the cart so
that Jackson, with many moans, was able to
wriggle clear. His leg was broken.
How he was conveyed to Bowdler’s house, and
put to bed, Jackson learned afterwards ; for he
was unconscious when the stalwart Bowdler girls,
with their father, hoisted him into the dray. It
was afterwards, too, that he learned how the eldest
Miss Bowdler—a damsel of 25 years or so had
ridden for the doctor, who, after the leg was set
said the patient must not be moved.
Thus Jackson found himself in the camp of the
enemy. When the summons he had taken out
arrived, Bowdler read it through in a casual way,
and threw it in the fire. “No need to bother
about that,” he chuckled. “ Plaintiff’s safe ! ”
And Mr. Bowdler to show that he bore no
malice—went across to the fence over which the
trouble had arisen, good-humoredly removed a
panel, and turned his stock into Jackson’s pad-
dock. Later on, with a couple of his masculine
daughters, he paid a visit to Jackson’s hut, of
which he had obtained the key. They stayed
some time, and what they brought away the dark-
ness hid, as it did the old chap's grin.
Jackson had been laid up about a week when
Bowdler said to him one morning, smiling, “By
the way, I got a piece of blue paper from you the
other day. ”
“ Don’t mention it, Bowdler. I’ve been think-
ing of it all the time lying here. We’ll call that
score wiped out when I get up.”
“Thank you,” said Bowdler. “Of course, if I
could only get a reasonable price for the cows ”
“Never mind ’em; I’ll give you a clear
receipt,’’ Jackson said, and Bowdler, feeling
grateful, went out to see that his stock was feeding
on the neighbor’s grass.
Jackson’s leg was slow to knit, and as the days
lengthened into weeks the eldest Miss Bowdler
spent more and more of her time with the
patient.
What they talked of, the unlined walls didn’t
tell, but one day, when Jackson was on crutches,
Miss Bowdler came out of the room with flushed
cheeks ; and, while the sun sank over the ranges,
she hurried across to Jackson’s paddock, deliber-
ately turned her father’s stock out, and closed up
the fence. On her way back she met her father.
“ What did you do that for ? ” he asked, angrily.
“You’re not going to steal our grass,” said the
eldest Miss Bowdler.
“Ho ! ho ! That's the game, is it? ” And the
ancient laughed immoderately.
Nevertheless, he lost no time in preparing a
certain document; but when he took it in to Jack-
son for signature Miss Bowdler said: “ John
couldn’t think of signing that at present; he’s too
weak.”
“If he don’t, my oath! I’ll charge him pretty
stiff for board and attendance.”
“And we’ll charge you with— -theft !” was the
emphatic response of Miss Bowdler.
Next day Jackson hobbled over to his own
place, the parson was brought from the township,
and in due course, at the instance of the new-
made Mrs. “ Rorty ” Jackson, another debt-sum-
mons was served on Bowdler.
He paid !
DARGO.
Melb. General Cemetery, which was
“opened” in 1853, now has over 200,000 bodies
interred therein; the area, originally 60 aores,
is now 100 acres.
“Sir,” — Are you hard on clothes? You can
get more wear, look nicer, and save cash by wearing our
Gold Medal Tweeds, only 455. per suit, to measure (12s.
6d. for trousers). If in town, call in ; we send patterns
free to the country, so no matter in what town you are
when you strike this paragraph, we can send samples
and give you satisfaction by our easy method of self-
measure. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-
street (only), Sydney. (These tweeds took the First
Prizes and Gold Medals at the late Royal Agricultural
Show in Moore Park.)


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
mwm
]^ OR. I’.iTi °ns and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
i Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORT H A
GUl'*. A A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly i emove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening th r ‘
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Aledieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is l|d, and 2s 9d each.
The WORLD looks on
and LAUGHS and
drinks its
EPPS’S
COCOA
just the same.
WHY?
Because it has been pronounced
• by the World’s best judges
GRATEFUL & COMFORTING
not for a day but for a lifetime.
It is the World’s standard of
EXCELLENCE and nothing
can alter it.
H3F" JE* overty Pointers
Tour Cue it —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
r?F“ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
8 HOLLOWAY'S I'ILLS AND OINTMENT.
I There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease., IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
f
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
ħ
S NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors, i
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London; [
and Export Oilmen generally. [
RETAIL EVERYWHERE. 1
h
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
THE LAST OF SIX
:*♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
FOR
23 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
AvrMdge’s
UjQpglftnic
BE SUEE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much, safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at I*. lgd., 2s. 9<2., 4s. 6 d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
CSFTBISHT.
SOLD BY THE LAYERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
Ci.se, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER 00., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Don’t Delay.
Stop tliat Oougfii!
• • • TAKE • • •
p
IRISH moss
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe,
Is. Box.


* large
ST
HIGH-CLASS
£P~'-' '-HEB
184 T.
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
►EY-HARRIS CCL LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq’rt’rs, 1(13-1(59William-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address;
SB Broadway, George St. West. Sydney
Depots ancl Agencies almost every v.lr
Catalogue Irea, on app.ic^Uon,
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street. Melbourne;
Brookman’a Building, Adelaide.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
ĥ
FIRST-CLASS RESIDENTIAL HOTEL.
Pekfect Cuisine. - - Moderate Charges.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
P ATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK
<She JJbbo.t
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
„ SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
(Australasian Branch.)
toi) P6n>pis}g Efygipc Cori)paoy
Simpson Brothera
(Australasian Branch.)
k S2 Clarence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, N.S.W.
REGULAR PATTERN
A.gexxcies s
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
AT)7PT A TDT7
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCAREE & CO., EREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
ew Zealand : f- POSTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Eoundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTIINCtTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in. Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE
"W- c. ZEIXIDieXIDG-IE: <Sc GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
h
What is Health?
Jffieumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FA It HER, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
'these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
n>>
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure.
A
ĥ
\
Jars (concenfcd.), 4/6, post 4/10
depots;
“OLEAC
SYD hit—M. H. Hobwitz, 84 Pitt St.
Adelaide-Hakbis & Kemp, 6 Bundle St.
Mblbodbhe—Fbed. J. E, Bhillips, 317 Collins St,
Self Applied.
& ICE CO.. LTD.
"PlrtTlPAT*c Country Milk Trade ; tlie Factory System
of Butter-making' (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
IG Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL
OP SYDNEY with
PLACES
Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.—
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Prm
KING- STREET and 23 ROYAL
mgements may be made at either of
Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE”
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT
25 HARBOUR STREET,
ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
iH
bRH
m
0
The Roger Rolls
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
SO Clarence Street, Sydney
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MINING MACHINERY,
Steam Engines and Boilers.
(All Sizes in Stock.)
Patentees of Ropp Straight-line Furnace, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mill, Frue Concentrator, “James” Ore
Feeder, Roger Rolls, Dodge Rockbreakers, etc., etc.
7 -^°T E -~~We are now manufacturing- in Sydney, for the Associated
(yo d Mines of W.A. Ltd., four sets of 36x16 Roger Rolls, weighing
twelve tons each, the largest ever made in the colony.
Bathe’s
Baki "9 Powder.
ħ
THSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
& Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OE THE
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double -rip, box spring triggers belt steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each complete ’
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
luce J '" T ~
ion
»w>v, *■*•■*' liwuu .I.v/uiucu WILII iU l Lilt! I "*‘
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge machinesandcleaners complete. Usualprice t 21, reduced £7los ea complete
Cartridges can he supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6- 6(1 per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Ordersniustjie made payable to Weadon, Thomas & Co.
THE LONDON SMALL. ARMS COM PA NY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES
-Tangent Spokes(all Niekle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross). Rim Washers (lid’ -ross)'
Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 6 Brooke’s
Saddles 66, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90 Semi lor traile lllvdraterl P
Jr*t. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia,
up to date, 07, tS, £9, £lO, il2, guaranteed'l2 months. Trade supplied.
Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74
Clarence-st.,
Sydney.
h
435
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
'X'lae C3-eo. IF*. Blalie 3VEai*xfjsf. Co.,
DIRECT ACTING STEAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
W. Jb". & John Barnes Co.,
FOOT, HAND, and STEAM POWER MACHINE TOOLS and GENERAL MACHINERY.
B. F. Stnrtevant Co.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FOPGES, etc.
Representative in Western Australia —J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO.,
„ New Zealand-J. BURNS & CO.,
Fremantle.
Auckland.
