

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Besti
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
lancbt.
E. G. WATKINS «S& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—you—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
& CO.,
56 and 91 YORE STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briscoe & Co., Melbourne; Briscoe, Mac Neil & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe & Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, I ondo.i.
:v :
Safi t Hitoilll
.
Over 22)0 jty uro-sfixtracc rs ao.d and at worlt
i .
A
+*<r
O',: O'
o*£*cu
V °,Ct
O A 7 I*
‘A
B. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-m wtt street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR BROADBENT’S HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
And tXia.* &g>± it;.
PROOF
y C
i JNv: >
* Oft
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Blight Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“ COURIER ” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
PROpF
bow
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISE7
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IK
. . • ELECTRICITY I
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention usfed with
such great success by
3E3. J. & X>. CURRA.3W,
TAILORS,
112 Eing-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
After all, is the Best.
PIOMEER
LEATHER|
feELTINC'SI®
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Chsapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWiCMk SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the .
Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms. pox> Proprietor .
Interesting to Brandy and Whisky Drinkers.
mHE imports of case Whisky during the year 1897 amounted to 115,357 cases,
-I- those of case Brandy to 43,723 cases. These figures exhibit a marked increase
in the consumption of Brandy, and show a strong tendency of the public to revert
to that spirit as their favorite drink. It was thought by many that the consumption
of Whisky was fully eight cases to every one of Brandy, whereas the proportion is
only about 2$ to 1. ... The wholesomeness of
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
BOOMERANG BRANDY,
attested by the highest authorities, and its adoption by the House of Commons, the
War Office, leading hospitals and clubs, etc., has tended to bring about the above
result. In Cases, Casks, Flasks, and Half-Flasks.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales
ELud Queensland.
Poverty Pointers
Tour Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
KOBART.
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
stories), Is. 3d.
The Bulletin
Vol. 19. JSo. 961. |
[Saturday, July 16, 1898,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


At Dawn and Dusk: Poems, by Victor J, Daley.
Sydney : Angus & Robertson.
B Y
APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY
GOVERNOR.
THE
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. AUSTRAL.
Farrar’s Studies in Currency, 14s, posted 14s 9d ; Glad-
den’s Christian Pastor, 10s (3d, posted 11s ad ; Morris’ Ire-
land, ’9B to ’9B, 10s 6d, post 11s 3d ; Tout’s Empire of
Papacy, 7s 6d, post 8s ; (lonian’s Art of War, vol. 2, Middle
Ages, 21s, post 22s ; Packard’s Text-Book of Entomology,
21s, post 22s ; Williams’ Britain’s Naval Power, Part
11., 5s 6d, post 6s ; Bailey’s Pruning Book, 6s, post 6s 6d ;
Dixon Kemp’s Yacht Racing Rules, 6s, post Cs 6d ; Con-
cise Dictionary of Antiquities, 21s, post 22s ; Wiggins’
Penelope in Scotland, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Steevens’ Egypt in 1898, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Gould’s (Nat)
Famous Match, 2s, post 2s 4d ; Dale’s Peril of a Lie, 2s 6d
and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Vogel’s A Maori Maid, 2s 6d and
3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Elliott’s Gold, Sport, etc., in My-
sore, 2s 6d and 3s (id, post 3s and 4s ; Baring Gould’s Mar-
gery of Quether, etc., 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s;
Waite’s Cross Trails, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Grand’s Beth Book, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Becke and Jeffrey’s Mutineer, 2s 6d aud 3s 6d, post 3s and
4s; Atlee’s Seasons of .a Life, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s.
Just Published. FERRIS’ NEW POCKET ROAD MAP
OF NEW SOUTH WALES AND CYCLISTS’ TOURING
GUIDE, showing Roads, Railways, Territorial Divisions,
Head Offices of Local Land Boards, and Places where
Local Land Boards hold their Sittings, Is, post Is 2d.
Just Published. THE MINER’S AND PROSPECTOR'S
POCKET GUIDE. A most useful compendium of in-
formation relating to Mineral Ores, Metals, etc., of Aus-
tralia, with an easy method of Ascertaining Specific
Gravity. By T. R. Suttie, I6mo. 2s ; post 2s 2d.
To Arrive Shortly, Cheap Edition of Lord Roberts's
Book, FOBTY-ONE YEARS IN INDIA : From Subaltern
to Commander-in Chief. By Field-Marshal Lord Roberts
of Kandahar. The New Edition will contain, in readable
type, the whole of the Text arid Appendices which are
comprised in the two-volume edition, and will likewise
include all the maps and illustrations. The volume,
which extends to upwards of 600 pages, with a full index,
will be handsomely bound in scarlet cloth, and gilt-
lettered on the back. 8s 6d ; post 9s 6d.
ORDERS BEING REGISTERED.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
, George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications,
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
“I GO TO GATHER KNOWLEDGE,”
BUT AS YET HAVE FOUND NO BETTER SMOKE
THAN
THEY ARE
... CAM€O CI«;AR€TT€S ...
Faithful in Manufacture . . .
Delicate in Flavor . . .
Pure in Quality . . .
THE RED PAGE.
Denver Times (Colorado, U.S.) prints a state-
ment, based on comparative observations, that moisture,
not temperature, is the leading factor in production
of mental energy. The theory is that food-crops not
frequently rained upon when the seed is maturing are
deficient in nourishing phosphates—volatile in the air and
precipitated in rain-drops, for which they have affinity.
It is affirmed that children in “the sunny States (e.g.,
California) think quickly, but not profoundly ; in the
moist hut low-lying States (.e.g., Michigan) they think
profoundly but not quickly ; and in the moist and ele-
vated States (e.g., Colorado), they think quickly and pro-
foundly. A suspicion of Coloiado advt. hovers, however.
Jack Shay : The adaptation of Australian
flora and fauna in decorative art is strarig -Iy neglected.
I presume the triumph of hall decoration in Sydney is
the Palace Theatre, with an Indian decorative scheme:
the others jumble Greek, Indian, Persian, Moorish, and
Egyptian ideas, colored and executed in the German-
English-French or some other hybrid manner. Yet
Lucien Henry, in the old School of Arts, showed that
Australian forms are as capable of decorative treatment
as any in the world. For proof, look at some terra-cotta
work on the Beimore Markets, and upon the Australian
Gaslight Co.’s Hay market offices. For household decora-
tion we have Chinese, Japanese, and Indian fans, textiles,
and gew-gaws, while imported oleos and engravings
hang on walls covered with papers representing flowers
and foliage of the Northern Hemisphere. And such mag-
nificent decorative units as our waratah, Christmas bells,
ferns, rock-lilies, and so on—as our birds and quaint
beasts—-are left, unnoticed. The prices paid for interior
decoration in Sydney are high, but the contractor is not
a designer, and merely submits designs plundered from
the Coniinental trade journals, and executes them in
the wares there advertised. I recommend the sphere of
Australian decorative art to any designer seeking a
speciality.
Arthur H. Adams : William Watson, in a re-
cent Fortnightly, takes a curious objection to Stephen
Phillips’s “ Woman with the Dead Soul.” Watson char-
acterises this piece of work as the “ phantasmal offspring
of the embrace of gaslight and London fog,” and contends
that the poem is not a tragedy. According to W.W.,
tragedy is the overthrow of something great, and he in-
stances Lear, &c. “In these insignificant and immemor-
able women’s lives,” he says, “no material for tragedy
exists. If a palace or a fortress falls, we tremble; we
don’t stand aghast at the oollapse of a mud hut. ... A
solar eclipse and the snuffing of a candle are two different
matters. . . . The tragic Muse is never a lady of demo-
cratic or socialistic proclivities.” Wherein it seems to
me that Watson, who is Milton modernised, looks back
too much upon the past. Bacon looked at the lower
classes merely in the light of comedians, and reserved his
tragedies for those who wore golden crowns. Yet the
gradual destruction of even the vulgar little soul of
Phillips’s “ Woman ” seems to be as true tragedy as the
dramatic fall of some great person on the world’s stage.
There is probably as much tragic import in the bankruptcy
of a struggling green-grocer as in the crash caused by
Ernest Terah Hooley. The difference is purely one of
dramatic possibilities.
Emile Sigogne, in L'Art Moderne : “ Quoi qu i>n
faase, le pouvoir ornateur sera toujours chez elle [la
femme] une exception. Le idle nalurel (le In femme,
o’eat d'dveiller le cerveau de l’homme, c’est a-dire d’etre
la fdcoude inatisfnh ieo de s«a pensYs et de sea oeuvres.
Faireagir, bien plus qu’agir elle-mbmp, fnire penaer bien
plus (|ue penaer ell •-meSme.” Whence the anlithesis:
In t’ie world ' f matter ’I is man who fecundates and
woman who brings forth ; in the world of spirit roles are
reversed. So?
R. S. Gundry writes to Lond. Literature . April
23:—“ In reviewing Professor Morris’ ‘ Austral English,’
you say the attempted (hnivalion of larrikin from the
French ‘ larrmi,’and the E glish diminutive ‘kin’ may
b“ unhesitatingly rejected. Perhaps so. Rut it is a
curious fact that the very word ‘ larreohin ’ exisls,
though it may he only in patois. When Robert Vr. suc-
ceeded his brother in the eountship of Roulogne A.P.
1278, he defined and enlarged the poweis of the mayor
and sheriffs (dchevins) Ip giving them authority to ‘ con-
noistre, enquerro, manyer et jugier tous mimlr s, lons
arsins, tous raps, tous larrechins, tous homicides,’ &■•.
Horde’s and oil’s are char icteristic ■of Boulogm se. A
vache is a ‘ vack ’ and a chat is a ‘ kat-’ in local patois
still. So F at—obs rving this peculiarity—* larreohin
pronounced Anqlice gives the exact sound of the Austral
word. That it applies, here, not to the person hut to the
act —being an archaic form of larcin is a criticism which
I hasten 10 anticipate. Ido not venture even to suggest
transmutation of ineioing, nor to ask where it could
have been hiding during toe centuries.”
Thomas W[ )ar ton (Amor, journalist) after visit-
ing an exhibition of impressionist pictures:
“ And if the purple curfew lolls the knell of purple days,
And the purple herd winds lowing upon the purple lea,
And the purple plowman homeward plods his purple way,
You may leave the world to darkness—but don’t leave
it to me.”
Despised D. Sladett finds a good word on A. L.
Gordon : “ He was a man whose personal vehemence has
not often been paralleled in poetry.”
To Correspondents. Buzz: Dead subject—and not
much of a subject any time .. Tim B.: Item rejected for
three sufficient reasons which you must guess at.... J. K.
Murdoch : “ Replying to ‘ Deniliqum,’ the lines—
With Aesop’s lion, Burns says: - ‘ Sore T feel
Bach other blow : hut damn that ass’s heel!’
are by Burns, and were directed against a certain meenis-
ter who objected to the lines “on seeing the royal palace
at Stirling in ruins,” which closed—
The injured Stewart line is pone,
A race outlandish fills their throne:
An idiot race, to honour lost — 1
Who know them best despise them most.
1.e.., the reigning British h0u5e.).”.... Received :A. (Al-
bury); Tom Jones; E.W.D. (Melb.) ; J.R . Scribbler:
Don’t care to start interminable discussion—of small
general interest here. And can’t see your allusions with-
out word-twisting... J.F.D.: “The only thing I find fault
with in the disturbing line of the Ballad of Reading Gaol
is that it was not her bed : it was their bed. Listen to a
woman showing a she-friend through the house —‘This
is my lied.’ Anyone would think the disgusting male
portion of furniture slept in the bath-tub or the dog-
kennel. Did anyone ever hear a woman say ‘This is our
bed?”’—But you see it wasn’t their bed—whence the
trouble. It was hers aid the other fellow’s—and the
other fellow won’t come into the metre Grip:
Thackeray and Wilde don’t compare as quoted. .
Victor Daley’s Poems.
I have been sitting in front of this sheet of
paper half an afternoon, trying to catch shadows.
Of all Australian—bah ! why narrow the poet’s
kingdom?—of all modern verse-writers Daley is
the most elusive : he calls up fifty thoughts in
your mind, and the fifty twine in among one
another till there is no disentangling them. One
remembers with regret all the words that ought
to describe him, and don’t, because their real
meaning has been so sullied with constant wrap-
ping of poorer stuff “ glamour,” “fantasy” (the
keyword of the whole book) and all their synonyms
and variants. And presently one gives up
the attempt to .describe, and sliitts out of the
writing-chair into an armchair, and lies up in
front of the fire soaking one's mind in the rich,
full, perfumed atmosphere of poetry that this
enchanting book carries with it.
Afterwards one writes verse such as is printed
above.
This is a new thing in Australia (I do not refer
to what is “printed above”). Hitherto we
have had personal verse, the work of men whose
characters one can divine from their product.
They have, as a rule, described life from the out-
side. They have told us stories about the men
they see, sketching them often enough with con-
siderable sympathy : or they have given us pic-
tures —line-drawings—of grim or barren or
delightful scenery, with notes as to the effect
of the scenery cu their minds : or, leaving
the things they see, they have written very
fair verse- themes on subjects they have read
of, classical or otherwise. Putting aside this last
class, their work has always been a matter of ob-
servation plus thought, a mechanical mixture of
the two : you see what they want you to see, you
hear the sounds their ears hear, and you feel them
beside you explaining the ideas which their own
brains, quite distinct from yours, have conceived
about their subjects. Once or twice, maybe, they
see visions—when Kendall dreamt of Orara, when
that great previ-i m of the Commonwealth came
to Bruntou Stephens more than twenty years ago.-
But mainly they are thoughtful illustrators of the
Book of Australia—black-and-white artists—who
themselves so feel this particular quality in their
work that they are content to publish the serious
and the comic illustrations side by side. Du
Maurier and Leech can afford to do that : but
imagine hanging a caricature between two
Turners !
With Daley we have passed outside this land of
simply-rendered fact. The vision is upon him
not once nor twice, but through all his work. His
verse is the verse nob of his character but of his
mood : or rather, of a mood, of the poet's mood,
thrilled with the poetic temper, not with the mere
fancy of an individual verseinaker. Open this
book where you will, you are caught at once into
a land of dreams. I try it: this copy is brand-
new, and hasn’t yet acquired a habit of opening
at favourite places. I light upon this :
“ Oh, what are yon gray ghosts and wan,’*
The parson cried, “ who seem
With coloured strings of beads to play,
As in a dreadful dream? ”
“ Damned souls,” the First Mate said: “they sit
And count, through endless years,
The moments of Eternity
On beads of burning tears. ”
Again :
What of her face ? Her face, meseems,
Was such as painters see, who muse
By moonlight in dim avenues,
Yet cannot paint: or as in dreams
Young poets see, but when they try
To limn in verse, are dumb —so I.
And again : —but this time I have opened on that
loveliest of all the visions, the “ Sunset Fantasy,”
so recently reprinted that I will not again write
it down. Dreams, dreams, everywhere, and the
indefinable, uudefining air of dreams; now the
chill vague mist of Lethe stream, now the rosy
mist of passionate desire, now the mellow mist
that is scarcely more than rich fullbodied air,
through which all things glow opalescent in the
joy of having lived. For in these poems every-
thing has had life —not the mere reflection of
human moods, but its own vivid and abounding
life.
On the boles of gray old trees
See the fly iiiy sunbeams play
Mystic, soundless melodies —
A fantastic march and gay:
But the young leaves hear them— hark,
How they rustle, every one !
And the sap beneath the bark,
Hearing, leaps to meet the sun.
Misty dreams, abounding life—there seems to be
some contradiction here. There isn’t. The same
sun that draws the mists up to it draws our life
up too. And the sun is master of Daley’s verse.
What though it does begin with the fading day,
by Lethe, by Kendall’s grave—turn the page and
we are in sunshine : the world is aflood with it,
the wine is full of it, it sets the verse aflame.
For colour, music, scent are one:
From deeps of air to airless heights
Lot hoio he sweeps, the splendid sun,
His burning lyre of many lights /
And the heat of it lasts. Though, with another
of these perplexing contradictions, more than half
the poems seem at first sight to be laments—though
the writer’s ostensible attitude towards life is that
of middle age regretfully contemplating its past
enthusiasms—though his mood is that
All the glory and the glow
Of life are passed, and dead, and gone :
yet the glow is not gone. At dusk there come
chill breezes, and one shivers a little : but this is
a dusk stiff warm with sunset, that remembers a
das’ full of life and splendour, and stirs already
with the thought of splendid dawn.
This is new, I have said. But it ie not really
new. We have had it with us for fourteen
years or more : and there ought to be many of
The Bulletin’s readers who already treasure in
scrapbooks a goodly part of this volume. “The
Nightingale,” “Voices,” “ Laohesis ’’ —surely
these had not, till this republication, gone the
way of most ephemeral verse ? And some of us
remember with quickened breath the first sight of
“Cares ” ; which, but for its lack of colour, would
be the best thing in the book. That metre, at
any rate —whose very simplicity makes it difficult
to manage—has given Daley three of his most
striking successes : “Cares ” aforesaid, the gem
“Passion Flower,” and the magically effective
“ Lethe” that has been placed in the forefront of
this volume. Here again Daley stands apart from
the mass of Australian versewriters, in his com-
mand of many rhythms and his unvarying power
to make them sing. Next to “ Lethe ” stands the
complex organ-toned dirge for Kendall: “Passion
Flower ” begins a song-cycle that for sixty pages
charms you with the power and variety of orches-
tral music—a cycle that is the book’s heart, utter-
ing itself
Between a sleep and a sleep.
Compare again the elan of “ A-Roving ” (from
which I have already quoted) with this, techni-
cally the same metre :
When the moon a golden pale
Lustre on my casement flings
An enchanted nightingale
In the haunted silence sings.
Nor is this power over rhythm a mere trick caught
from Swinburne. “ Years Ago,” certainly, is an
obvious study in his manner, though well worth
its place in spite of its imitativeness : but else-
where the song is genuine, the cadences are sin-
cere—that way, you feel, the words came flowing
for pure love of beauty.
Perhaps the peculiarity which will soonest occur
to a casual reader is the almost entire absence of
“local colour”. We have got into the habit of
thinking that an Australian poet’s business is
with Australia. Our “black-and-white” men
have accustomed us to the expectation of swag-
men and bullCckdrivers and bush not to mention
the Southern Cross—every time we open a book
with a Sydney or Melbourne imprint. Now
“ Let a fellow sing o’ the little things he cares
about ”
is an admirable maxim : but suppose he doesn’t
care, and is constrained to sing because the public
thinks it does ? Why, then you get Kendall,- in-
stead of more “Rose Lorraines”, wasting him-
self on Jim the Splitter and Billy Vickers. Then,
as you hunt through Convict Once for “ The
Dominion ”, you find yourself floundering among
Great Pig Stories and “ Marsupial Bill.” It was
time to put more accent on “ poet ” and less on
“Australian.” After all, though the foundations
of every building must be laid in the soil of some
particular country, the edifice itself rises into air
that is common to all the lands of all the world.
Our verse has been—will continue to be—built, as a
rule, on the pattern of our houses : low, one-storied,
airy, wide-verandahed, room added to room mostly
on the one pattern, comfortable enough, but scarcely
dignified. The scent of the bush is about it, the
stables are fairly close by, and the woolshed is
never far away. It is better that this should be
so. These are the things that most of us care
about, and among the gum trees a slab hut is in
bf tt r taste than pilasters and) stucco. But we
have room, too, for statelier buildings, based no
less firmly on Australian earth, but not sprawling
all over it : we have room for poetry tliat rises
into the higher air, that feds the breath of the
elemental passions, that is stirred and swept and
purified with those great wind-currents that have
the whole earth for playground.
Of this sort is Daley’s work. Nor, my cynical
friend, am I exalting it beyond its deserts. One
may admire Me eunal’s Circe without calling
him Praxiteles. My point is that Dalev has the
note of universality which gives a man promise of
permanence for his work. One may hope that;
three hundred years hence he will be remembered
among English-speaking writers of to-day as Cam-
pion is among Elizabethan lyrists. Meanwhile,
his reward will be acceptance wherever men of
his tongue can be set dreaming in tin- fireglow of
reeal 'e l emotions. And it may he that he will
be remembered all the more readily because there
is so little of the individual about his verse. One
never feels the man standing outside his work,
away from it, looking at it for defects, adding
touches here and there: one is in the presence
neither of teacher nor of preacher : but one sees
all the hopes, all the p'eisureS, all the passions
and regrets of life edged with shimmering colours,
touched with fantasy : the white light of scientific
vision breaks into a rainbow as it passes through
the prism of the poet’s mind. “Fantasy,”
“ magie,” “enchantment ’’—that is the soul of the
book. You have the rest, too, at times. There is
local colour : the drought of “ Her Last Day,” the
fine Wine-Song, the somewhat-too-late-appearing
“Old Wife and the New.” There is thought,
especially in the sonnets. But everywhere there
is magic, there is glamour—not weird, but warm :
not fearsome and grim of ritual, but mellow with
delicately fragrant incense : as when in a mood of
dreamy exaltatiop there swims before your eyes,
incarnate in the glowing crystal, the dear face of
the woman you love.
ISHMAEL DARE.
The scents of every faery flower
That in Titania’s garden blooms,
Threading her slumbers, hour by hour,
With delicately rich perfumes,
Breathe here about these dainty songs,
And charm us, till we understand
The haunting cadence that belongs
To every rhythm of Faeryland.
Out of the glowing brazier streams
A lucent vapour, spreading slow,
Whereon the singer’s aery dreams
Like magic pictures fade and grow :
While, half a shade and half a sound,
Through every dream a sorrow thrills,
As though some wistful breeze had found
Aeolian harps among the hills.
The dim mysterious music dies—
The wavering vapour melts away ;
We open our enchanted eyes
To blink reluctant at the day :
And still, as gray years come and go,
Not all impossible it seems
That life is richest while we know
The fantasies of faery dreams.
Ife was understood, of course, that Charles Van
Lerberghe’s item of verse is an odour, and un-
translatable. What could be done was to simu-
late its impression ; and “Erica,!’ “Nil,” T.M.,
and W.H.D. have tried unsatisfactorily. All
that can be said for “Mervyn”—a good deal—is
that this effort is rather less unsatisfactory.
Yea, always have they made their songs on me.
When the spring blood warms in the mulberry
Their songs are of the sweetness of my mouth,
And of the shadowy depths of all my hair
Subtle with scent like showers that come on drouth.
And when the wine-fruit purples still they sing.
And now their songs are of the eye-stars peeping
Through fervent heavy lids that veil their light,
Veil their sweet light, as veil the clouds in grape-time
The sky to make it less than summer-bright.
Yea, hear their songs. All the sweet scents and spices
Of all the flowers are mine. The dear delices
Of all sweet lights. My swaying form would shame
The morning-glory’s grace. And ah, my breasts
Have all the graoious curves of flower and flame.
MERVYN.


» M
»
-WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervotis Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER—A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
committing' himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for nearly all the walks of
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, the experience of 20,000 men
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly endorsed the treatment of
a
i
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “ Rescued at Last” by the
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to pruv:
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the remarkable treatment
which lias made both fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
WALLACE.
In the Laboratory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch >
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have-you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued ?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy ?
Do you have ringing in the ears ?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly ?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor ?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has'the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
I
p ecirrj
All Trams stop at the Boor .
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to thatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Noyv
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City-
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
m
TYPE.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 10 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer —in fact, all
classes and condition of men—should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs.;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth, and Bathurst Sts.,
SY3D3XTEY.
Please mention this Paper when writing.] Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
I ■
&
li
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed bis studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by dilierent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his. profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Ifounir Iffien!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely:—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &e., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
;ind should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Bo Ifot
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared quest ions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIB! ONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,' “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOUB« U' : ’’
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTA FREE
COUGHS, COLDS on tho CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE. —Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. Cd. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any' address
when not obtainable locally.
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Ligb-t and Life.”
This valuable Medical Boole will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address— S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
FREE
-7
Sf,
Vi
OLD
SU.NBU,
FIMg
HA
<2>
'V
&iC
vT
£ty£
S
H
Y
P^op
THt IKIUIVIPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man w'e will mail
ONE copy 10 NT lltlo L Y
I'RIO 10, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
4 TRIUMPH/ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
¥m. LANGSTON, M.8.C.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
VARICO
v ATROPHY in M enN
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit —A benefit that you feel, know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed. 6 stamps. Address-
. J. HiNTON-WILLIS, A
Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melb. Jk
OH, MY BACK!
X
i
IT PAINS IP I BEND OVER.”
IT PAINS IN THE MORNING.”
IT PAINS AT NIGHT.”
I AM TIRED ALL THE TIME.”
A WEAK BACK is a very aggravating complaint. 1!
mnVps lifp rmsprn.hlp n.nrl t.honsn/nds would be Oil
makes life miserable, and thousands would be cured
if they know how. Plasters give only temporary relief, ii
any at all. Drugs are often worse than useless.
DR. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT
is the proper remedy for all such distressing complaints.
It warms the back and kidneys with a gentle glow, gives
the muscles an elastic feeling, and cures permanently.
You will never need another piaster if you will try it.
£3F Our “ Book No. 2” gives price-list and full particu-
lars. Call or send 2d. in stamps. It will be sent in plain,
sealed envelope by return post. Rupture. —lf Ruptured,
send also for “ Pamphlet No. I.” Address : MAGNETIC'
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or
W. 11. SOUL & CO., 158 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SPUING HANDICAP. August 13.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me. _ : : shares in the above
Name _
Address,
ADELAIDE G.N. HURDLE. August 13
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERS ALL.
Address.
£ : :
METROPOLITAN S. September 13
50,00 0 Subscribers a,t 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name ■ ■ ■ 1 :
Address
CAULFIELD C. October i 5.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
T - t' k in the above.
Name
Address
£ : :
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name ■
£
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscriber’s at 20.
TATTER SAL L.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name .
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Priee pedueers
‘Friends of the family’
—AND—
Up-to-date merchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
UL
M ELBOURIME.
ACCOMMODATION for “PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. jjfW" All tastes and pockets suited.
H rite for Card of Tariffs.
BOOMS
OB BOABD
AT OPTION.
jGJCg
ns
WSjjji
THE GRAND CENTRAL.
OPPOSITE G.R.Q.
CENTRRL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
,f SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Toronto Hotel,
Lahti
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, eepeciaHp suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
i ve prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
“ Tales of the System/’
/-\rvr\S
G-O TO HIET.T«-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stumps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. G«l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vi- din & Co.
74 ELIZAHKTI' ST LET, SYDNEY,
N.S. >.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 spring's, wheels 4ft. 4in. high, or lower, silver dash, com-
plete, with lamps, £8 17s. 6d. SULKIES, from 055.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ; Double-seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 80s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES,
70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles, 70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s.
LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’ SADDLES
(best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
11. HILLIER,
135 & 137 Sussex-street, Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of
Vehicles and Saddlery, Sarven Wheels, Spring's, etc. -
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order saddles fr >
this advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. Shl\ l> rOtt A.
Send for a Catalogue.
Sulliies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
t£3T Send for Price List. t&Ji
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Best Quality CANVAS HORSE RUGS, cheek lined, 8/6.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH,
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
ms 1 .
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E, LYNN
LINTON,
says:—
44 1 have used
your ‘ KOKO ’
now since June
last, ancf I have
not only st pped
the falling out,
; which had been
excesiive after a
severe illness,but
lhave an entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As I tiiii not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara
tion.”
V-,
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
KOKO MARICOPAS COY., LTD., 16, BEVIS_MARKS L
LONDON,
ENGLAND.
THE
Plum’
Plum
£ T ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
VTf trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, v\ e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s fid.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. • Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEM, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
look A.T OUR. RJt-t-XC jS S
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ proflts, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buekboard Buggies, £9los
-DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l. _
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2.
Jfj s
Including Splash
hoards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£B.lB. 6.
Note Our Only Address :
Send
N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
for ou.r 111 u.a tr a,teci Catalogue.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
Uortli Queensland.
James Walters Proprietor.
TAMES WALTERS will always be pleased to see any
U 0 f his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will jpve him a call at, the CLUB HOUSE. The
In*-. o’Lm,in-iofonriation to be obtained from J.W.
on
iifr i*2
FOREIGN STAMPS.
£< ETS of 12 Cuba, 9d.; 50 Spain (fine), 2s.
© 9 Porto Rico, Od.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d.
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. 6d.; 8 New Cale
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, 6d.
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d.
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets :30 differ
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d. ; 150, ss.
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., orstamps
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Daley’s Dorg Wattle.
“You can talk about yer sheep dorgs,” said t.b-
man from Allan's Creek,
“But I know a dorg that simply knocked ’en
bandy !
Do whatever you would show him, and you’d
hardly need to speak.
Owned by Daley, drover cove in Jackand i,ndv
“We was talkin’ in the parlor, me and Daley,
quiet like,
When a blow-fly starts a-buzzin’ round tilt-
ceilin’.
Up gets Daley, and he says to me, ‘You wait a
minute, Mike,
And I’ll show you what a dorg he is at heelin’.
“And an empty pickle-bottle was a-standin’ on
the shelf,
Daley takes it down and puts it on the ta' do,
And he bets me drinks that blinded dorg would
do it by himself—
And I didn’t think as how as he was able !
“ Well, he shows the dorg the bottle, and he
points up to the fly,
And he shuts the door, and says to him —‘Now.
Wattle | ’
And in less than fifteen seconds, spare me days, it
ain’t a lie '
That there dorg had got that insect in the
bottle ! ”
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
“Donovan’s Niece.”
The parson says, Sundays, as Heaven’s a place
W’ere all them as gets there ’ll meet, face to face.
An’ never fall out, nor feel gallied nor that,
But pal up ’armonious, like peas in a hat!
Well, parson, he oughter know how it ’ll be.
But say it’s like this : suppose Billy an’ me
An’ Steve o’the Mill, an’ big Donovan’s niece
Pre-empted in Heaven upon the same piece !
Now you know as Billy stuck up to that gel
Since ’ow long ago it is I couldn’t tell,
An’ Em-well, she seemed not to hate it too bad
For Bill was about the first bloke as she had.
Th en me ! Well, it wasn’t as I went about
With other coves’ heifers, a-cnttin’ them out,
But Em knocked me endways fust innin’s ! gord's
trutli !
To think she were Bill’s were like losin’ a tooth ’
So me an’ Bill quarrelled, an’ me an’ Bill fought,
Got drunk an’ done lots o’ things coves didn't
ought.
An’ Em would love William for maybe a week,
Then give me a fortnight while he chewed th-
leek. "*■.
That’s ’ow things went on for a twelvemonth or
more,
Till each of our feelin’s was racked to the core.
She said “Yes”-to me, an’ she said “Yes” to
Bill, < „
An’ then took an hooked it with Steve o’ the
Mill !
It’s all very well for the parson to say
There’s no rows in Heaven. But I want to lay
That we’ll make it willin’ up there on our lease
When Steve comes to glory with Donovan's niece !
S.A.
NIL.
“Sorry to Go.”
I watched by the homestead where moonbeam
and star
Made a glory of night-time and danced with
the dew,
And the bush-wind that whispered from range*
afar
Set a-tremble the kurrajong leaves as it blew ;
And down by the river,
With white waves aflow,
I bade a farewell to the homestead for ever,
And sighed to the night-world, “ I’m sorry to
go ’” „ u
Sorry to go
And Echo came answering “Sorry to go.”
1 saddled old Dauntless at gray of the dawn
For a last swinging gallop on Moondarra plain
He circled and plunged till the girth-straps were
drawn,
And snatched at the snaffle and reached at the
rein ;
And swiftly behind us
We left the red glow
Of the sunrise that spread her pink mantle to
wind us,
And magpies awaking sang, “Sorry to go,”
“ Sorry to go ”
The bush-birds came mocking me, “Sorry to go.”
I called to my lover, a chain from her gate,
She came to the vine-tree to bid me goodbye,
With white arms to weave me a necklet of state
And red lips to smother the sound of a sigh ;
Oh ! kisses rained warmly !
Oh ! tears that must flow !
To-morrow the sorrow where head and white arm
lie,
To-night the low whisper—“ I’m sorry to go,”
“ Sorry to go ”
Heart to heart answering “ Sorry to go.”
I held for a moment an old comrade’s hand
Burnt brown with the sun-fire and roughened
and scarred,
I saw at the touching the whips and the brand,
The camp and the muster, the steers in the
yard ;
And since I have clasped them
In weal and in woe,
1 To the toil of the world that has -roughened and
rasped them,
I leave the brown hands ; crying “ Sorry to go,”
“ Sorry to go ”
“ Good-bye ! ” and “ God-speed ! ” and “ Sorry
to go'”
N.S.W.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


f^OtOal
Established 1849.
Society.
Hip Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
m Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
MIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ;
DTHTJAD r\ rpnpnn ht » tu m a d o O
T’TT/'iCJ T T mmi ,V;7r iA. . 1»A. VX. , lU.U.A., V-'llcll L llltlll ,O A
’ Ks<l ' ’ W ' MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN onuiu, r.sq. ; j. x. WAJ.ivr.it. ns
ouaiaxi ALBOIT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
A nual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
ti p . rr® CUI P^ ated Funds •• Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
ie 0 SH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £415,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £335,030.
FXeaid Office : 87 Pitt—street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON. Secretary.
'
*f= S
RATES :
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereag'h-street, Sydney.
P&B Buberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(o-lOths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
radway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
fpfß
r
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH A CO. LTD.. O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Agents: *
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Sandfobd & Co., Adelaide.
Geo. Ross, Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
Schiedmayer & Soehne !£ : ®X.A_IKrO S
The
Sole Agency
for these
Delightful
Pianos
is held by
Messrs.
Nicholson & Co.
* *
*
George Street, Sydney.
Tb€ Fs'rnj of SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE has
been established over one hundred years.
TS|€S€ PiaßjOS hear the very best reputation for
workmanship and beauty of tone.
Tbc is unexcelled by any other maker.
TbsSC PsaOOS Will stand the most trying climates.
Messrs- St Co. have a large
stock of the SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE Pianos
Tf)€
Prices for these superb instruments are most
moderate, also they can be had on the Time-
payment System.
NICHOLSON & CO..
' n-nTQqj.vi.l iu'-.-utt
SOLE.
AO ENTS.
Tattersall’s Hotel and Cafe,
SYDNEY,
Comprises a Magnificent Block of New Buildings running
through from George-street (opposite New Markets) to Pitt-
street (opposite Lyceum Theatre) ; and located within a
hundred yards of Her Majesty’s, the Palace, and the
Criterion theatres, and three minutes from G.P.O.
Electric Light throughout; Telegraph Office; Telephone 728.
Every facility for Visitors and Families, whether on busi-
ness or pleasure. Perfect attention throughout day and night.
TAB IFF: - - Bs. per Bay upwards.
\V. J. ADAMS, Manager.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
dr. s. lever,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
TWEE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means « / Hridf/emork.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit an}' mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-98 S 3 v tlney
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
Ladies.- call and
see our OH 10AP
i A OH I NT MS, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc.
boyal arcade,
S. ROWLEY Sc CO.,
opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
Cl,«
ILIE
QMPAM
L MTS
ipn
a®
ifadc \KlijEy Mark
CO-tcA/
-1 y. rROPRIETORt
«Distillers Co,
EDINBURGH.
‘“‘•••Pi .ijuihu.ni, JJ, • uinllf fh
J'LI fi ;/.* ,i/,17 ,i»W
kZr/'-'-W /hill
Mli / b ‘ b,u * “j /wtuMifii
n mb A'U.ir
*v !bu£s/>j f’rrwy
Drink
IDoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“ for the stomach’s sake ’’;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
(you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L.
9
THE LAST_ OP SIX.
PRICE Is.; . . per Post Is. 3d.
Sydney Lager and Bock Bier.
BEST
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
“ N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all comers.
CHEAPEST -
Costs LESS than any other Lager in the market.
is
a Perfect
Winter lager.
Quality.
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney in
his analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol. J
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
flavour
Brewed and
Bottled by
Try it - -
Obtainable in draught or bottle at all leading hotels.
Bottled Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld„ Moore Park, Sydney.
Manager, Aug. J. Metzler. e ™ J J
_■ bee., I. H. Jackson.
IP®
i
/ ~ fy~ 'Af %z.
je? 7
f 1 W
■■ i ••
-■*■ . 1
11
Hi
an
■ i
m
e
;
■I
SI
■
M
fiSf\
K-
m
V:
p : ;iyii'>. : 4-. ; ':- : ■i.j-j'Sji.#; ■


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi,. 10.—No. 961.
'SATURDAY, JULY 16, 1898.
Price, 6d.
* BATHURST, Tuesday .-—A number of burglaries
havs been committed recently in the outskirts
of the town. The police are unable to detect
the offenders. A few nights ago a burglar
coolly entered the house of a gaol whrder during
the absence of the man and his wife. A young
child had been left in the house while the
Darents were absent, and it being disturbed by
Use arrival of the burglar began crying but
the intruder pacified it by supplying it with lol-
lies which he found during the search. Before
completing his search for plunder he was disturb-
ed, and cleared out, having secured some money.
or fan f acfcCt/joftS nc> * v '
/icly<z fia /£<c sna.c{C /& 7fee <Ufo~ fo-tfafe
AurgZctrs
Miss Maud Fitz-Stubbs, assisted by Mrs. Frank
Blayden, gave a piano recital of her new waltz,
"The Premier,” at Paling’s rooms, yesterday
afternoon. There was a large attendance, Includ-
ing the Premier (Mr. Reid), to whom the waltz Is
dedicated. Since her celebrated "Heather,” Miss
Fitz-Stubbs has not written such an acceptable
and brilliant waltz as the present one. The
themes are melodious, of agreeable rhythmical
variety, and sonorously harmonised. "The Pre-
mier” will prove a great favorite in the ball-
room.
z/// Tit same; fit 3uTTeti/t prefers 7Zc
Celebrate yP-srto STactc-W<= Jlq .
A
/z/fCaTS/'faaf/on a/77af.
"Greet//re hardens ctr c Jevtf /a Cowty
'sfifancks /* rec/toAOf r and a
l/7qoroccS />ros<?Cut/o*. of y \-Q/w A O6 c bj^ /a / yesna Oz-gcty
Mr L C. Russell Jones, M.P., has been notified
by the Colonial Secretary that 50 pairs of blankets
have at his request, been granted to the Hospital
for Women and Children, at Lewisham.
Al/ST/ZMM
ana&n£?ecf-ors7?icsht. Jy%a/-*** f**
7% e Sxyrtct atfwt//'
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bu'T.etin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum, ... ... ••• ® ?
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 U 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... U o o
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin offi.ee Twenty
Shillings sterling —with postage added where required
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., andall Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly 'understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous or
other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted.for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. i’he conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchauge,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
A Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa.— R. A. Ttiompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal : F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. —IF. M. Smith A Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
■ '-Westralia and Ataoriland.
In consequence of ,l,e imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovin&dl Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (exeepi' J f'J: r d l Mand) is.now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There ivill be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the u nreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper editio n of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JULY 16, 1898.
The Lost Legion.
The New South Wales Labor-party proposes
to fight the approaching general election on
five main issues—abolition of the Legisla-
tive Council, a State Bank, Federation on
Democratic lines, old age pensions and Local
Government. There are a multitude of
other matters in its programme, but, so far
as the present occasion is concerned, these
are the main planks of the Labor platform.
All things considered, however, the present
appears to be as good a time as any for the
party to seriously reconsider its platform,
and the planks thereof, and its attitude on
the platform, and its prospects of falling off,
aqd the possibility of the platform itself
becoming deserted some day through the
vanishment of its present inhabitants, and
left to bleach by itself in the political
wilderness. The Labor-party of New
South Wales has now fought three elections,
and it isn’t so far forward at the end of its
third Parliament as it was at the beginning
of its first. It is smaller, for one thing,
and it has become so tame that it will
feed out of the Ministerial hand. It started
by giving support in return for conces-
sions, and now it gives the support and
doesn’t get the concessions. It wants
local government, which the present
Ministry deliberately threw overboard
three years ago when it was within a
short distance of accomplishment ; old-age
pensions, which th i present Ministry doesn’t
even promise ; the abolition of the Council,
and the Ministry declares that it won’t
abolish the Council and won’t even abolish
the nominee principle of appointing council-
lors ; and a State Bank, which the Govern-
ment partly promised and then wholly
dropped. Also, it wants Federation, and
the Reid Government has taken back Jack
Want, who truly described himself as the
arch-destroying angel of Federation. Yet
the Labor-party consistently supports this
Ministry.
Even the most beautiful political plat-
form, built of the most beautiful planks
imaginable, isn’t necessarily of any value to
a party. In politics man cannot live by
planks alone. For all practical purposes
it is better for the country to support
the man who advocates one small reform
and has the needful energy and brain and
tactics to carry it, than the party which ad-
vocates forty large reforms and hasn’t the
capacity to carry one of them. In both
Queensland and New South Wales mere
plank has been the curse of Labor in politics,
and if the two parties could have sold half
their political planks and bought good
leadership with the money they would have
been far further advanced than they are.
New South Wales doesn’t doubt for a
moment that its Labor-party sincerely ad-
vocates Local Government and old-age pen-
sions and a State Bank and Council reform
and the other things, but even if the party
advocated all these things 40 times harder
than it does, it is no use returning (hat
party to Parliament if it hasn’t enough in-
telligence and good guidance to do something
towards getting them. Otherwise, it might
as well go out into the desert and there sit
down and have an inward yearning after
reform all by itself. And if the party follows
a Tory Government just the same after that
Government has given up even professing to
adopt any features of its policy —after it has
dropped Council reform and Local Govern-
ment and the fiscal referendum and the
State Bank and almost everything else over-
board—the prospect is poor in the extreme.
* * * *
The New South Wales Labor-party has
one permanent excuse for following Reid—
that the other man is Lane and no sane
Democrat could be expected to follow h ; m.
But there is no earthly reason why it should
follow either of them. When Reid deliber-
ately voted for every proviso in the Common-
wealth Bill that a Democrat could seriously
object to —when he tore up the Local Go-
vernment Bill, and dropped the State Bank
and the Bill for bursting up big estates, and
declared himself a supporter of the nominee
Council, and became a great and gorgeous
borrower, and broke his promise about the
fiscal referendum, and gave no useful support
to the minimum wage, or old-age pensions,
or the absentee tax, or anything else that a
Democrat could reasonably desire—then
it was time for the Labor-party to leave
him. And if Lyne was no better than
Reid in these respects, then it was a good
time for the Labor-party to continue re-
maining aloof from Lyne. The obvious
third course was for it to become again an
Ishmaelite party fighting for its own hand
and opposing every Government alike until
it either grew strong enough to make .a
Government itself and carry out its own
policy, or till some leader appeared who
would accept its policy, dr enough of it to
make it worth while to support him while his
usefulness lasted. If there is a third party
in politics, and neither of the other two
parties will accept its programme, its obvious
course is the one which Parnell followed—-
to be a third party, and fight parties I. and
11. indiscriminately, and to keep on doing
so till some new order evolved itself out of
chaos. If its conduct forced parties I. and
11. into an unholy coalition, then it would
gain strength both in the country and the
Legislature as being the only refuge for the
enemies of the Coalition, and all the Coali-
tion's enemies who came to it would adopt
its policy from necessity.
* * * *
The policy of support in return for con-
cessions was good enough while there were
concessions. Now that there are practically
none, and the Government proposes to fight
the election on a policy which consists
almost entirely of preserving the Upper
H ouse, and preserving it as a strictly
nominee institution, the spectacle of a Demo-
cratic party going to the country as a joint
in the Ministerial tail is painful and ridicul-
ous. Politics are essentially a matter of cir-
cumstances, In Queensland, where there
was a reasonably Democratic Opposition to
coalesce with, and a bitterly Tory Govern-
ment to oppose, the Labor-party wrecked
itself by keeping apart ; its refusal to coalesce
with the Opposition simply kept the Tory
Ministry in office. In New South Wales,
where both the old parties are equally Tory,
it should hold aloof from both and play a
lone hand—so far as local politics are con-
cerned. The weakness of the Labor-party
is that neither of the two old factions is
seriously afraid of it as a possible competitor
for office. No party is ever likely to
get into office which doesn’t include at
least one financier who seems capable of
taking charge of the most important depart-
ment of the State—the Treasury ; and there
isn’t a single individual in the Labor-party
who has shown signs of the necessary capa-
city to do so. And so long as it continues
a mere horny-handed Labor-party, instead
of an all-round Democratic party, there
seems little chance of improvement in this
respect. Also, there is no chance of a party
without a financial policy ever forming a
Government of its own, and the pride of the
Labor-party is that it has no financial policy.
Therefore, it doesn’t obscure the view of the
loaves and fishes of office from either of the
old parties. They peacefully take their turn
of portfolio and salary just the same as before
it existed. And while they can do that—y
unless the Labor-party makes itself obnoxi-
ous in other ways—it isn’t likely to make
much progress.
* • * *
The sum-total of it all is that the New
South Wales Labor-party is going to the
country as the cordial supporter of the lory
anti-Federalist Want. Also, as the sup-
porter of Minister Ghould, the man who
refuses Suffield a hearing, despite the
almost absolute certainty that that obscure
toiler was unjustly convicted. Also, as the
enthusiastic backer of the Ministry which
is going to preserve the nominee Council
and which threw Local Government over-
board, and broke its promise about the
Referendum, and which doesn’t even profess
to seriously support a State Bank, or old-age
pensions, or an absentee-tax, or a minimum
wage, and which was going to burst-up the
big estates with its Closer Settlement Bill,
but thought better of it. And, in parti-
cular, it is going as the supporter of the
man who voted for practically everything in
the Federation scheme which the party
objects to —the equal State representation
in the Senate and the three-fifths majority
included. Yet it claims to be an indepen-
dent Democratic body, and strongly denies
the aspersion that it has sunk its indi-
viduality, and become a mere section of the
Government following, and a servile atom
drifting with the ever-changing breeze of
Reid’s policy. Possibly it has preserved
some kind of a political individuality, but, if
so, it is but little apparent to the naked eye.
Some More Federal Programme.
One day last week, in Sydney Temperance
Hall, Premier Reid gave a further exposition
of his new Federal policy, and incidentally cast
some light on that dark mystery in the N.S.W.
Governor’s speech which read—
(2) Some of the financial provisions to be re-cast.
The re casting which he desires, it now appears,
includes the taking over by the Federal
Government of the education system and the
existing debts and railways. Possibly it may
also prove to include a number of other things,
but these have, come definitely to the surface.
The transfer of the railways, however, is not to
include the transfer to tlie Commonwealth
Government of the work of construction, so it
is only a miserable half-measure, after all. So
far as Premier Reid has got, therefore, the
alterations he desires in the Federal Constitu-
tion Bill are principally as follows :
(1) Equal representation in the Federal Senate to be
abolished, or
(2) In case of deadlock the two Federal Houses to sit
together and decide by a bare majority, instead of a
three-fifths majority being required to carry the measure
in dispute.
(3) Money bills not to be amended by the Senate.
(4) The Court of Appeal to be remodelled in some way
not specified.
(5) The capital to be in N.S.W. (This proposal is not
put in so many words, but Premier Reid wants Australia
to adopt the plan followed by Canada. And Canada,
when it drew up its Federal Constitution, fixed the
capital definitely within the territory of the most popu-
lous province).
(C) No alteration to be permitted in the boundaries of
fiiiy province save with the consent of that province.
(N.B. —The boss majority in a province never does con-
sent to sacrifice any territory. This clause means that
North and Central Queensland are to be permanently ex-
ploited by the ruling gang at Brisbane, and are always to
have their political centre at that enormously remote
town. Also, that unwieldy Westralia can t be cut up as
population increases into manageable provinces ; and
that the Federal Government pledges itself for ever not
to interfere on behalf of any oppressed section of any
province, but to always uphold the boss crowd in the big
city.)
(7) The debts to be taken Over bodily by the Common-
wealth.
(8) Existing railways to be taken over, but the right of
construction to remain with the States only. (Therefore,
the greatest advantage of Federal railway ownership will
be sacrificed in the interests of a mean provincial
jealousy. The great benefit of complete Federal control
is that "the Central Government would be independent of
provincial boundaries. In constructing new lines it
could simply endeavor to give every district the shortest
railroad to the nearest city. It could profitably develop
Western Vic. and N.S.W. and South-Western Queensland
by short lines to Adelaide, instead of leaving them deso-
late because the business to be done won’t pay for the
hideously long lines to Brisbane, Sydney, and Melbourne.
It could develop and enrich all the Riverina by carrying
the Victorian lines across the border. And it could make
a great railway right across Australia from east
to west, which is practically impossible under
the provincial system, because South Australia can’t
very well afford to build her section of the railway across
a desert merely to carry traffic past her own ports.
Premier Reid wants to sit hard down on any possibility
of making a national railway system, and to stick to the
old policy, whose object is to drag “our” trade to “our”
big city at any cost.)
(9) The division of the Federal surplus, if there is one,
not to be left to the Federal Parliament.
• * *
In all these proposals, George Reid looms up
as the same treacherous and unsatisfactory
Wriggler that he has always been. In the Con-
vention, he spoke eloquently and enthusiasti-
cally in favor of equal representation of States
in the Federal Senate. He declared that equal
State representation was “ one of the first prin-
ciples of the Federal enterprise.” And he
voted for equal State representation ; his vote
stands out conspicuously in the Convention
Hansard, page 355 (10th Sept., 1897). There
were only five “ noes ” ; two from N.S. Wales
and three from Victoria. With regard to
the three-fifths majority required to decide
anything in the joint Federal House Reid,
the Wriggler, voted for that also, as recorded
on page 980 of the Convention Hansard (21st
September, 1897). He also spoke strongly in
favor of the three-fifths majority, and the only
N.S.W. delegate who voted against it was
M‘Mielan. When the proposal that the Com-
monwealth should definitely take over the rail-
ways was before the Federal Convention, Reid
voted against it (Convention Hansard, page
163, 25th Jan., 1898). And when it was pro-
posed that the Commonwealth should take over
the State debts Reid furiously opposed the
idea, and it was his individual vote which pre-
vented the accomplishment of what he now
alleges to be absolutely essential. On page 1653
of the Convention Hansard (Ist March, 1898)
it is recorded that the proposal to transfer the
State debts to the Commonwealth was defeated
by 19 votes against 18, George Reid being
among the 19. If he had voted the way he
says his convictions lie, the thing that he says
is absolutely essential to the Bill would have
been put in it by a majority of one 1
* * * *
So far as concerns the other points : Premier
Reid never even called for a division upon the
right of the Federal Senate to amend money
bills, or rather to suggest amendments in them,
for no power of amendment was granted to the
Senate in the Convention scheme. And he
never once asked the Convention to give any
special guarantee that the boundaries of exist-
ing States shall never be altered. Also, with
regard to the arrangement that the division of
the Federal surplus should be left after the first
five years to the Federal Parliament’s discretion
and sense of justice, Reid voted in favor of
that, as he did of everything else which he now
seriously objects to ; it was carried entirely by
the votes of the N.S.W. delegates and the pro-
posal itself came from N.S. W., and the divi-
sion, and G. Reid’s share therein, are placed
before the public eye on page 1089 of the Con-
vention Hansard (17th February, 1898).
* * * *
Therefore the reasons why every N.S.W.
elector who wants Federation should vote
against Premier Reid at the coming general
election are these five: —(l) Everything of
any importance which Reid objects to in
the Convention Bill he voted to put there,
and in most cases he hollered loudly for it as
well, and utged others to vote for it. (2)
Having done his level uttermost to put certain
things'in the Bill he urged the people of
N.S.W. not to vote for the Bill because of these
things which he had put in it. And he pro-
cured the technical defeat of the Bill in N.S.W.
because of the things he had put in it. (3) He
now asks the people of N.S.W. to give him a
new lease of power and office and salary on the
ground that he is going to ask the other pro-
vinces to take out of the Bill thfe things he
insisted on putting into it! (4) He asks the
people of N.S.W. to regard him as their one
reliable patriot because he saved them from
falling victims to a Bill which, he alleges, would
have proved utterly ruinous—by reason of the
things which he did his uttermost to put in it.
(5) And whether he did these things out of
base, grovelling jealousy of Barton, the man
who overshadowed him at the Convention, and
out of a mean desire to wreck “Barton’s
Bill ” ; or whether he did them through a de-
sire to wreck Federation ; or whether
they arose from mere crookedness of soul and
an utter inability to be honest—the fact re-
mains that all these things prove Reid’s poli-
tical promises to be not worth the paper they
are written on. Whatever his programme may
be, or whatever his assurances may be, tiie one
short answer is that no promise or programme
or assurance front the boss Wriggler of Austra-
lasia is worth a cent. Other politicians may
be elected or rejected on their programmes ;
George Reid, the man who never goes straight,
can’t be, for the sufficient reason that almost
the only thing he can be relied upon not to do
is the thing lie has pledged his political soul
that he will do.
* • * *
Two at least of Reid’s proposed amend-
ments —the. abolition of the three-fifths majority
'and the federalising of the State debts—are
distinctly Democratic, and if they were pro-
mised by a politician who hadn’t fought his
hardest against them and whose word was of
the least value, they would be a hope-
ful feature in the case. The federalising of the
railways would be a splendid Democratic re-
form also, if it were carried out in its entirety,
and if it was offered by a man whose assur-
ances were worth even a speck to the
ton. But the proposals that the Federal
Government should squash all demands,
no matter how just or urgent, for the divi-
sion of the present unwieldy States, and
that railway construction should be maintained
on the present expensive, cumbersome, and
purely parochial lines, are utterly Tory and
retrogressive, and it would be worth while to
use even stronger language about them if any
of George Reid’s Federal proposals could be
taken seriously. But coming from an incurable
shuffler and from an alleged Federalist who has
just taken the bitterly-provincial Want back to
his spacious corporation, they are hardly worth
discussion. All the promises of the N.S.W.
boss contortionist are overshadowed by the
knowledge that they are mere political contor-
tions. Whatever concessions N.S.W. wants,
it is no use sending, as the messenger who asks
for them, a person on whose political honor
the other negotiating parties can place no
possible reliance. It is no use for the
N.S.W. Democratic Federal party to elect as
its leader the Premier who voted for every
distinctly Tory feature in the present
Bill. It is no use electing as any kind
of a Federal leader the man who associates
with Jack Want, and who deliberately
wrecked the last Federal movement by insist-
ing on putting things in the Constitution which
(the country has his own word for it) have to
be taken out to make Federation possible. It
is also no possible use electing as a Federal
leader the man who is already doing his best to
wreck the next Federal movement by demanding
impossible concessions whose only visible pur-
pose is to buy the adhesion of the ruling gang
in Queensland, and to catch votes in N.S.W.
And when the wrecker who voted for every
Tory proposition in the present Bill asks
ks.w. to reject Barton on the ground of his
alleged Toryism, that malicious slander and
misrepresentation alone should be sufficient
reason for dropping the utterer with a brisk
thud into oblivion. N.S.W. requires some
reliable guarantee that if it re-elects Reid
because he is going to demand certain conces-
sions he won’t announce, after he is elected,
that all these concessions would be utterly
ruinous and disastrous. That is what he did
about most of the things which he loudly
demanded in the Convention, anyhow.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Federal Railway Policy.
The very latest Federal attitude of Premier
Reid is his proposal that, in addition to the
posts and telegraphs and other works which it


was proposed in the late lamented Bill that the
Federal Government should take over, the
public debts and the existing State railways
shall also be transferred bodily just as they
stand. This is the idea which The Bulletin
advocated from the first—with one important
addition, that the construction of new lines as
well as the management of the old ones should
be left in charge of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. If the Australian Government isn’t to
have power to extend its railways over Aus-
tralia wherever it can find profitable traffic,
and without regard for provincial boundaries,
then it will be such a badly hampered enter-
prise that it will have very little show to make
the railways a paying speculation. And there
is no reason why it shouldn’t have such power,
save the old parochial blindness which Premier
Reid expounds as follows :
But, the gre'at p unt is that this country (N.S.W.) would
never allow a system of transferring the railways which
did not protect as as to our absolute freedom of develop-
ing oar internal resources by means of extensions of ex-
isting lines, or new ones.
Quite apart from the fact that the fat
gentleman who runs N.S.W. at present
can hardly say for certain that that province
will always remain as narrow and ignorant as
it is just now, there are sundry objections to
this view of the case. The biggest objec-
tion is that “ us ” in this matter doesn’t mean
N.S.W., but Sydney, where George Reid’s
personal interests are located, and where the
importing crowd is whose votes keep George
Reid in his billet. The far South and the far
West don’t want to be developed by having to
pay fares and freights over 450 miles of railway
when they have convenient ports about 200
miles away, with which ports the provincial
system of railway construction absolutely
refuses to allow them any direct connection.
And Reid, as the advocate of the provincial
railway construction system, doesn’t care a
straw about their development; it is the
development of Sydney at their expense
which he is considering. Federal railway
control, with the power of construction in
the hands of the Federal management, and
no border tariffs, and all rates charged by
distance only, would be the best thing that
could happen to N.S. W. in general, and N.S. W.
would gain more by it than all the other pro-
vinces put together. Such an arrangement
would, to all intents and purposes, shift
Jerilderie, and Hay, and Balranald and all
the country thereabouts, between 200 and 300
miles nearer to a big city, and the additional
value that would give to a large extent of
N.S.W. soil, and the extra N.S.W. population
it would bring, and the extra revenue it would
produce for the N.S.W. Treasury at Sydney,
would be something enormous. Similarly, the
western and south-western counties of N.S.W.
would suddenly find themselves 300 miles
nearer civilisation, and with railway possibili-
ties at their door instead of about 250 miles
away, and that would add some millions more
to the value of N.S. W.’s dreary backblocks.
“Our” sacred right to develope “our” re-
sources in a purely provincial spirit is the most
ruinous curse which ever fell on the back
regions of N.S.W. And Sydney shares in the
curse, but its politicians are too parochial to
see that the waste of coal, and time, and money,
and energy in hauling N.S.W. property 450
miles when 200 is sufficient, are all so much
chucking of good cornstalk money into the
deep, deep sea.
The Garnishee.
Not content with finding a rich constitutional
bill-of-fare for the present Yic. Parliament,
the Turner Govt, is going to make private law
hum in the direction of common sense. The
Attachment of Wages Bill, which will, no
doubt, rouse considerable opposition in the
Leg. Council, proposes to bar attachments of
wages of less than £2 per week, and, in doing
so, merely brings Yic. law into line with what
has been the law in conservative England for a
number of years. Whatever abstract jus-
tice there may be in the practice of
attachment, the fact that its abolition
will tend to minimise some of the worst evils
of the credit system as it affects the poorest
classes, is a powerful argument in favor of abo-
lition. There is grave reasou to suppose that
undue facilities in the way of credit are held
out to small wage-earners by shopkeepers and
money-lenders who know how to use the
thumbscrew of attachment when the time for
payment comes. The system, too, operates
harshly on the lenient creditor and in favor of
the bloodless one. It also ignores the fact that
the hard-working wife of the average wage-
earner is in all equity entitled to a fair share of
his weekly wage —that she has indeed as much
contributed to earning it as he has. Finally
the system as now practised is really the result
of the unintended operation of rules of court
which were framed to meet the devices of far
higher game than the poor wage-earner. It is
therefore most desirable that the Bill abolish-
ing the system in such cases should find its way
to the Statute-book, and thus protect the small
home from the ravages of the rapacious creditor
just as it is protected already from the rapa-
cious landlord in the case of rent.
Post Mortem Justice.
•“Danton ” to The Bulletin :
What may happen to a man under the criminal law of
Victoria will be curiously illustrated if the Privy Council
upholds the appeal in the Ludlow cases of larceny and
assault Barrister Fisher tried to get the decisions
upset on an important point about the advisability of
evidence, but was refused by the Full Court. He
announced his intention of appealing to the Privy Coun-
cil, a id vainly endeavoured to tret a suspension of the
sentence, pending the appeal. A stay of execution would
have been granted almost as a matter of course if only a
question of property or contract was involved, but in
such trifling matters as life or liberty it has to be refused.
The case is being proceeded with, Ludlow appealing in
for ml pauperis under the Royal prerogative of mercy.
This involves such a long and intricate procedure that
the man’s sentence will have expired before the appeal is
finished. It is not surprising, therefore, to find that
appeals in criminal matters are very infrequent, the
principal Victorian ones having been that of Levxnger, a
manslaughter case in the 70’s, the Mount and Morris case,
and the cabled-and therefore abortive Deeming appeal.
N.S. W. supplied two important ones in late years—the
Kops case (an infornxl pauperis one) and the remarkable
and far-reaching (almost revolutionary) Makin case. Vic-
toria has another case on the stocks for the Privy Council
—the peculiar presentment point of the Seidel case.
Some reform in the direction of speedy appeals, stay of
executions, and provisions for cabling: appeals, are
urgently necessary in all the provinces in criminal cases,
and should not be delayed even should one hope very
sanyuinely for the establishment of a final Federal Court
of Appeal. The fact that a man may be hanged before
hi s undoubted right of appeal can possibly be exercised,
sounds like burlesque, and is undouotedly a stain on the
honor of the country tolerating it.
The Man With Clean Hands.
Sleath, M.P., clamouring for a Royal Commis-
sion to clear his character from Levikn’s
frenzied aspersions, was pitiable after his own
exhibition of abuse—the exhibition which Levien
had jumped to his feet todeuounce. Sleath, who
had been guilty of many offensive interjections
during the sitting, contrived to crowd into his
speech more charges of villainy against absent
men than even the N.S. W. Assembly is accus-
tomed to. Among other things, he made
accusations from which it might be inferred
that Barton had taken bribes and had in-
fluenced returning officers at the Conven-
tion election to put bogus votes to his
credit, and had faked the Referendum
vote; and he heaved charges promiscu-
ously at other people. But they were every
time people who weren’t on hand to whip the
bully. Levien, whose anger (assuming, as he
said, that Barton was his friend) did him
credit, was simply maddened by prolonged
disorder of a disgraceful character in which
Sr.eatn took part. When Sleatii, who had
played the fool all night, was vaguely charged
with offences, he was the first to whine for a
Commission ; and the members of his party
supported him. Now, he charged other men
with offences which are almost as abominable in
their eyes as the tilings which Levien charged
Sleatii with are in his; and it seems, therefore,
about a fair thing for the same party, which
talks a lot about even-handed justice, to in-
stitute an inquiry into Sleath’s charges,
Sleath being, of course, called upon to formu-
late and prove them as Levien was. That
Barton and the others are not likely to take
any notice of Sleath’s charges against them
ought not to matter to the party ; it
should rather make the party, assuming
that it has some respect for itself, the
more anxious to see that this even-handed
justice is done. Besides, in important
matters, the Labor - party members vote
solid ; and every member’s vote may there-
fore be decided, as it generally is affected,
by the vote in caucus of every other member—
including Sleath. This party must, therefore,
if it doesn’t want to run a great risk of being
knocked out, see that no single member
of it is held in contempt. Sleath,
whining for the Commission, said he must
go to the country with clean hands ; and, if
his hands aren’t clean, seeing that Labor mem-
bers join hands in voting, every other Labor
member’s hands are likely to be smudged. The
party’s clear duty, then, is first to express its
opinion on Sleath’s hands after inviting him to
substantiate the odious charges which he flung
round ; and then, if it finds that he is a
reckless calumniator and a coward, to put the
hon. gentleman where the dirt won’t do them
any harm, anyhow.
♦
The Vic. Law Commission has elicited some
strong evidence of legal comtnonsense from
Purves, Q.C., whose political utterances have
not always been so convincing. Purves’s re-
marks upon the jury system are worthy to be
cut out and pasted in the public hat :
Juries in cases of slander, libel, false imprisonment,
malicious prosecution, seduction, and breach of promise
of marriage are beneficial to the public, because you have
not one dominant or solitary mind. . . . We know that
among our own Judges there are men who have their
little idiosyncracies. There are biases the}' are unconscious
of, but nevertheless hard to fight against. When we have
questions of law well-expounded by learned men like
Judges, followed by intelligent juries, it is an advantage
we should not lightly throw away. . . . Judges are averse
to juries—naturally, for the reason that they consider
themselves the best of juries. In some cases, no doubt,
the Judges are, but in others they are the very worst.
... In cases of libel we find the actions are almost en-
tirely against the press. There you have a great paper
at once brought into opposition to the Judges who in
most cases have been politicians, who are civil servants,
and hold strong opinions on matters l hat may be the
subject matter of political or party strife. ... In cases
of slander, the Judges may be inclined to place the
strictest legal interpretation on certain words. If a man
were to call another an infernal thief it would be slan-
derous, but a jury would recognise, under certain circum-
stances, that it might merely be the outpouring of vulgar
abuse. . . . We know that a pretty female plaintiff or
defendant will get more sympathy than an ugly one, and
a female litigant more than a male. Twelve jurymen, it is
true, have 12 times the sympathy, but then they have an
opportunity of toning it down. A Judge would have no
such check.
Purves, Q.C., speaking evidently with some
consciousness of his own violent prejudices,
makes out a good defence for the jury system
(by winch lie has earned a big income for many
years), but he doesn’t find perfection in the
present working of it. “If the Commission,”
he says, “ could devise some means of purifying
the jury-list it would do a great service to the
country.” As regards jury-squaring, he speaks
with legal caution. He has never felt satisfied
in his own mind that a jury has been squared,
though he admits that “ certain low-minded
people of low repute ” (two of whom he can
name) used to do a considerable business in
pretending to square juries, and put bribe-
moneys in their pockets without attempting
to approach the jury. Of amateur “ jury-
squarers ” — i.e., personal friends of the prisoners
—and of “squaring” by other means than cash
bribery, Purves says nothing. What he means
by purifying the jury-list is a classification of
jurors, with a view to getting the right men
into the right courts. Now, except that the
old English law disqualified butchers from
having a voice in “hanging-jobs,” the selection
of juries has never been subject to reasonable
control.
4.
1894 gave the first N.S.W. general election
after the passing of the Electoral Law r making
the possession of an elector’s right a sine qwt
non for voting. At that election there were
270,000 (in round numbers) on the roll, and of
these 204,000 voted. Why? Because the rights,
being just received, had not got mislaid or lost.
The next general election was in ’95. Then
only 141,000 voted. As W. J. Lyne says, the
number on the roll must have been rather
more than on the preceding occasion. The
political whipping - up was also quite as
vigorous. Hence the decline of voters may
be fairly set down in soin.! part to the fact
that the rights were then over ft year
old, and had consequently gone largely
out of existence or out of sight. Ihe next
general election was for Federal delegates, when
the voters totalled 139,000 ; and the latest was
the Referendum of the other day, when they
totalled 137,000.
Dear Bulletin. — Has Georgy Porgy had this
trump-card re N.S. W. Civil Service superannu-
ations up his sleeve all along, ready to be
played at the last moment to secure the Civil
Service vote at the general election ? It looks
rather like it. Georgy gave his reading of
clause 62 that C.S.’s who retired voluntarily
were to receive a refund of subscriptions sans
any gratuity, though no one, by reading the
clause, could see why the latter could not
be claimed also. However, the Public Service
Board adopted Georgy’s reading, and, in
answer to inquiries re resignation, retirement,
&c., assured C.S.’s, to their satisfaction, that
they would receive a refund when they retired
from the service. The word “retire” was
scrupulously adhered to, which looks as if they
knew something was in the wind. C.S.’s, being
taught to regard the P.S.B. as king in its own
right, joyfully left the “ poor old stranded
wreck,” and many who resigned since have
actually received a refund of their subscriptions.
Then Mr. Russell is refused. Why ? The
Full Court next decides that retirement does
not mean resignation, and the civil-servant
don’t know where ’e are ! Of course, Georgy
will promise to put all right, and the C.S.’s
will vote for him to a man. Do you think you
see it ?— Civil Servant.
N.S. W. Postmaster-General Holy Joe Cook
had the unspeakable gall, in opening the
electoral campaign at Parkes, to declare that-
the increased coal-export was “ attributable to
a Freetrade policy.” In that case, the fact
that the price obtained last year for that ex-
ported coal was the lowest on record, and that
the miners’ wages were the lowest on record
also, must likewise be “ attributable to a Free-
trade policy.” For instance, in 1892 N.S. W. got
£1,028,000 in solid cash for its exported coal,
whereas in 1897 it dug up and shipped 500,000
tons more coal than it did in ’92, and only got
£952,000 in all. If the coal export biz. is
regulaUd by Freetrade as Holy Joe Cook
alleges, then it is evidently Freetrade which
caused N.S. W. to do so much more work for so
much less money. Postmaster Joseph also
repeated the weary bosh that the Reid Govern-
ment had kept the finances straight despite the
fact that it bad remitted £858,000 of taxa-
tion. The N.S.W. taxation in 1894, the
last year ot Dip.bs’ finance, was £2,745,700
and the taxation for 1897-98, accord-
ing to the accounts just published, was
£2,570,489, so the amount of taxation remitted
is £175,000 instead of £858,000. Further,
Joseph told the public that the year’s surplus
was £122,000, which is about the steepest yarn
on record, seeing that the GoD-fearing Govern-
ment has just issued accounts showing that the
revenue was £9,482,134 and the expenditure
£9,480,015, and that the surplus is exactly
£2119. Possibly the miserable reporter has
been misrepresenting Joseph, or possibly that
good but ignorant man has been misled by bis
colleagues. But if he really said these things
and knew what he was talking about, J. Cook
is a sad evidence of the amount of tough politi-
cal fiction even a good local preacher will do
when his billet depends on it, and he has got
liis eye fixed on the dross of this world and is
hustling with a great hustle after the root of
all evil.
Dear Bulletin. —N.S. W. Shops and Factories
Act commands employers to make all sorts of
provisions for the benefit of their employes, and
limits their rapacity in the art of turning
human flesh and blood, especially juvenile flesh
and blood, into profits. But stand on Redfern
railway-bridge any morning and watch the
multitudes of girls—l might say female babies
—trooping to work on foot ! These are appa-
rently the nothing-a-week-to-begin-with ap-
prentices at city sweating-hells. I have traced
many of them to Waterloo, Leichhardt, Forest
Lodge, and other suburbs which are a fair walk
before or after work for a healthy man. And
yet these baby drudges walk it night and
morning, as early as seven and as late as ten !
And, God help them, what do they eat mean-
while ? During the recent spells of wet weather
it was piteous to watch the child-women tramp-
ing along in the rain for lialf-a-crovvn or nothing
a week. Their parents’ poverty debars them
from paying fares, and the children’s own earn :
ings are not sufficient to do so. The contrast
is at hand in the crowds of fat and well-clothed
men who dash up and down, morning and even-
ing, to the railway in four-horse ’buses or cabs
and trams, finding money for such creature
comforts out of the commercial city mill, which
is grinding the bodies and souls of the mothers
of the future generation so exceeding small.
Fancy wet feet and clothing on a 14-year-old
embryo woman all day, even if the law does
compel her employer to provide her with a chair
to sit and shiver on ! It is a matter which in-
deed gives a lot of value to a careful reading of
Henry Lawson’s “ Faces in the Street.”—
S.O’B.
Queensland, which already taxes nearly every-
i lung, including coal, which comes from N.S. W.,
and which has put a huge export duty on wool
to keep it from travelling by N.S. W. railways
or going to N.S. VV. ports, now proposes to
grant a bonus of £d. per lb. on chilled meat ex-
ported to the other Australian provinces, so as
to cut out, as far as possible, the meat-grower
over the border. Also, it intends paying a
bonus of £1 per ton on wool auctioned in
Brisbane, so as to prevent it going to the
Sydney auction mart. Considering how
Queensland, despite all these things, is still
described as N.S.W.’s “natural friend and
ally,” while the much milder bounty policy of
Victoria proved it to be a bitter enemy, it looks
as if the Anti-Billious complaint about boun-
ties was a very hollow mockery indeed. The
real object of the proposed Federation of the
three Fiastern provinces is that N.S.W., as the
central State, would naturally be the site of
the Federal capital.
Germany is not at all likely to sell her share
(ancf the best share, too !) of Papua to Britain
and Somers Vine. What with recent annexa-
tions in China, and the expectation of more to
come, a probable piece of the Philippines, the
Carolines, and an eye always open towards the
Malay Archipelago, that most potential and
least-exploited of all island groups on earth,
Kaiser Wilhelm’s Land forms a very con-
venient basis of operations. Apropos of the
Carolines, some 12 or 13 years ago Spain was
on the eve of declaring war against Germany
on account of the latter, in a sudden fit of
flag-hoisting fever, having taken possession of
that labyrinth of tiny atolls. Spain claimed
the prior right by discovery 300 years ago,
and Germany gave up the finest aggregation
of brown beauties in the wide Pacific —for
that’s about all the islets produce, bar copy for
Louis Becke.
+.
J. L. Godfrey writes to The Bulletin, from
Palmerston, N. Territory of S. Australia, under
date 27th June :
An attempt is being made by the British Govt, to
alienate a large tract of country here to Japan, for the
purpose of forming an industrial colony thereon, under
the following terms4ooo sq. miles of land on the Victoria
River, having a good harbor and splendidly watered, is
to be given on condition that the “ syndicate ? ” settles
five persons to the mile within three years. Thus 20,000
Japanese would gain a foothold on the best land here,
forming an alien colony in close proximity to the over-
land telegraph and cable, and constituting what we
regard as a constant danger to the whole of Australia. We
are informed the S. A. Govt, cabled to England asking
that the negotiations should be stayed, pending intended
legislation, and received the reply that “ Negotiations
between the S.A. Consul for Japan (J. L. Parsons) and
the Home Govt, had been commenced.” A thoroughly
representative meeting, held last night at Palmerston,
decided to urge S.A. Govt, to resist by every means
possible, and, failing their compliance or success, to
send an appeal direct to the Queen. We feel
assured that, if this invasion takes place, the
days of white rule in North Aust-alia are over. The land
on the Victoria River is i p rted on by the Govt.
Geologist as “ possessing all chara teristics of coal-bearing
country,” and therefore, should coal exist, would be of
immense value to the northern half of the continent. We
oppose the sale, lease or conveyance in any form what-
ever, of any land to foreign Powers. Also the introduc-
tion of alien subversive races while white men are equal
to the performance of the work required. Individually
we are helpless, but as we are of opinion that we are
acting for the best interests of all Australia, we feel
justified in asking Australia’s help in preventing the
admission of an element which from the very inception
would b§ a very indifferent servant, and in the n ar
future possibly become a very bad partner or perhaps—-
master. A committee was appointed to watch the course
of events, and their object in writing to you is in order
that Australians shall know of the attempt made by Eng-
land on our autonomy.
It is now cabled that, in consequence of the
representations of the Kingston Govt., the
promising steal has been quashed—at all events,
temporarily. But until there is a Federal
Government to hold the Territory this sort of
danger is always looming. The Territory is
British soil temporarily lent to S.A., and S.A.
isn’t strong enough to hold it against the alien
and the nigaer shindykit single-handed.
♦
Consider this situation. If the debts and rail-
ways are handed over to the Federal Govern-
ment, as they certainly should be, but the
power of constructing new lines is left in the
hands of the provinces (as Premier Reid advo-
cates), which it certainly should not be, and
the capital is fixed in N.S. W., as it probably
will be—say, in a'new district on the Western
slopes—how would the other provinces stand ?
They could have no communication with their
own Federal capital except by a long round vid
Sydney, unless N.S. W. chose to construct rail-
ways to their borders. N.S.W. could force all
the trade of the Federal capital to go to Sydney
simply by refusing to construct these lines,
and it probably would refuse—no province
would be likely to throw away such a valu-
able trade as that. It could simply seize
the Federal capital, so far as trade went,
for its own private use. Its short answer to
the demands of Queensland, Victoria, and S.A.
for railway communication with their Federal
capital would be that it would have to stand
the loss, if there was one, on these railways, as
far as the respective borders, out of its own
provincial pocket, and it believed there would
be a loss, and, anyhow, it was the sole judge as
to whether there would be a loss or not, and it
couldn’t afford to take the risk. Which is still
another reason why not only the existing rail-
ways, but the power of railway construction,
should be in the hands of the Commonwealth
Government. No one province should be
allowed to annex the Federal city for its own
exclusive purposes, and, under the provincial
construction system, the province which gets it
will almost certainly do so.
+
Maoriland Tory party seems to take it for
granted, no one really knows why, that there
will be another election shortly. Yet the only
real sign of weakness on the Government side is
its lack of debating power; since Ward left
the Ministry Seddon and M'Kenzie have to do
practically all the talking for the Government,
and M'Kenzie is getting old and feeble, and
besides he never talks without putting his feet
into tilings badly. On the other hand, the Tory
party lias no policy. It has found it neces-
sary to promise that, if it gets into power, the
democratic legislation of the present Govern-
ment will not be interfered with, so the
Tories merely ask the people to throw out
the men who followed a democratic
policy because they believed in it and
put in the men who will follow the same
policy without believing in it. The only real
complaint is that taxation should be reduced
because of the chronic surplus, but then, if
taxation is reduced because there is a surplus
which goes to pay for public works, borrowing
must be increased. And the idea of ejecting a
Government for having a surplus is novel. The
only hope of the M.L. Tories seems to lie in the
fact that even a good Government grows weari-
some when it has lasted nearly eight years.
The Democratic party carried the elections in
1890, 1893 and 1896, and another victory in
1899 would be an amazing record.
Ben Tillett, in his farewell remarks to his
Melb. friends, laid stress upon the point that
when he spoke of “ workers ” he didn’t mean
manual workers only, but all who live by their
toil. Tillett has done a great deal towards break-
ing down the Trades Hall fallacy that working-
men are a class apart from the disunioned wage-
earners.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £49,349,231
Increase in Assets during 1897 ... ... ... ... 4,187,992
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 10,508,995
Increase in Surplus during 1897 ... ... ... ... 1,513,749
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 198,159,549
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897 ... ... 7,513,284
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL Dl RECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C. ;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
; S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Telephone 2761.
(LATE OF MELBOURNE)
TAKES THE LEAD
[ifelike and Artistic portraits.
NEW STUDIOS :
308 GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY.
OYER LLOYD & COLLINS > .
LLEWELLIN & CO..
GEM MERCHANTS, .. .
.. . LAPIDARIES Etc.,
177 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Deal Largely in Opal. Out or repair any Stones.
Simplest—Most Durable —Best
Tioht _
running
0
). MACHINES
Write (or our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
■ for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
'
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ White Heather.”
Her Majesty's “The Little Minister.”
Royal Standard Henry’s Dramatic Co.
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
Town Hall. Lemmone Concert Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ The American Girl.”
Bijou “Miss Chicago.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Royal. “The Middleman.”
Town Hall Newbury’s Saturday “ Pops.”
The “Little Minister” duly introduced
sweet Pattie Browne to her old Australian ad-
mirers at Her Majesty’s. She is a very thrilling
Pattie—even a brighter Pattie than the one
of ye olden time—and she and the quaint Scotch
comedy proved worthy of each other. The writer’s
verdict is that the ‘ Minister” is the brightest,
freshest and most novel production which has
adorned the marble halls of Sydney’s big theatre
for many a long day ; also, that the co., which is
largely of local construction, shows more all-round
qualit3 r than nine-tenths of the imported co.'s
which have labored on thesesame premises. There
is a new atmosphere about the “ Little Minister.”
After viewing it in all its aspects, it seems strange
that no previous dramatist should have dreamed
what a fund of wild mirth there is in the kur-r-rk,
and the hard, moral elder, who seems to cut his
own hair, and the little old Scawtish town where
the meenister is a god and nobody whustles on the
Sawbath. The backview of the three elders of the
Auld Licht kirk, when they call to inquire into the
rumors that the Auld Licht preacher is out late
running after a strange, outlandish woman, is a
comedy in itself, and the front view of them is
another. It is some little time before the granite
piety of Thrums has fairly soaked into the audi-
ence, but when it does the awful situation of the
minister, burdened with a barefooted siren who
insists on calling herself his wife, begins to be
appreciated. It isn’t much of a situation to one
who doesn’t fully understand the blessings of old,
dry Scotch piety; but to anybody who knows
that solid animal', and its tough, droughty creed,
and how it gets its front feet in the trough as it
eagerly dines on the light spiritual consolation of
Job or Exodus, there is a lot of joy in it. An
archbishop found racing in a partially nude state
on the sea-shore, at Chowder, couldn’t be in a
much worse position. The elders break into the
minister’s house and seize the evidence of his
guilt in the shape of a very thin little pomdet
addressed to the strange woman, and the smallest
elder, having never met with poetry before,
opines that it is sound Christian doctrine out of
“ Epheesians.”
* * * •
There is a small, unobtrusive story run-
ning through the play, but the story matters
comparatively little. The general purpose of
things is to build up a shrieking joke upon a very
awful variety of Sootchbyterianism. When the
strange girl proves to be a nobleman’s rich
daughter, who is calculated to adorn the kirk and
make other kirks burst with envy, and the
minister is really married to her, all ends happily.
The bad poetry is forgiven, and the minister, who
had been locked out, is re-admitted with
enthusiasm, and the three elders who cut their own
hair are prepared to fight anybody who casts an
aspersion on their pastor, or who even alludes to
the fact that he was running after a stockingless
female in the woods at a late hour. Pattie Brown,
as the stoekingless siren, is a very charming
vision, and her rendering of the part is just about
faultless. Even the toughest variety of Presby-
terianism which ever grew among the Auld Lichts
of Thrums would hardly be proof against Pattie’s
bright eyes and winning ways. Cecil Ward still
holds the part of the Minister, the man who was
specially imported for it being laid up through the
cold orthodoxy blowing on his back. For the
good of the play, that gentleman had better re-
main laid up ; he couldn’t possibly fill the skimpy
pants and the ancient swallow-tail much better
than Ward, and he might easily do it a very great
deal worse. Oily Deering and the imported
Frank Macvicars are the two wildest jokes among
the pious elders, and, after a hard race, Oily Deering
just wins by a head on account of having shorter
comedy legs than the other man. His Sneeky
Hobart, if he was spread over a larger surface,
would rank with the Private Secretary, and be-
come an institution. The old Scotch dame of
Miss Eloise Juno absorbs most of the glory that
is left after Pattie Browne and the Minister and
the two most astonishing elders have got through,
but Cathcart, Sweeney, and Misses Beatrice Day
and Athena Claudius are all bright ornaments in
the ancient town of Thrums, and Thrums itself is
a fine scenic effect. The “ Little Minister,” if he
gets his due, should rage profitably for the next
two months or so.
** m *
The Alva concert season starts at Sydney
Town Hall on Saturday, when this paper hopes
to conscientiously repeat the appreciative remarks
it made during the Melbourne season. Madame
Alva, also Miss Adela Yerne, Lenimone, and
Samuel Masters all come to Sydney with much
Vic. laurel upon them, and tenor Samuel is re-
ported to be good to look upon as well as musical,
and calculated to fall on the feminine heart and
break it in six places.
** * *
Nothing of a disastrous nature has hap-
pened at Sydney Tivoli, where Peggy Pryde,
Winton, Geoi-ge Wood, Marion Ainsworth and
the Terry sisters form the backbone and most of
the ribs of a strong bill. Last week rumor was
laden with a faint whisper re the possible opening
of a rival variety co. in Sydney, but the whisper
blew away almost before it started. Sydney can
keep one variety theatre going, but it is in too bad
disrepair to maintain two.
The “White Heather " boom at Sydney-
Royal hasn’t weakened at all. Probably the rather
unusual end of Baker is one cause why “ White
Heather” has caught on. That utterly disrepu-
table character is walking sideways at the bottom
of the sea— the very last place where a gentleman
would expect company —with the fatal document
under his arm, when Albert Norman falls on him
from above, and as Baker’s air-tube is cut during
the robust unpleasantness that follows he naturally
suffocates on the sand. All the heroine’s hopes of
happiness depend on the document which Baker
has under his arm at the bottom of the sea, and
when it is recovered everything ends happily.
A view of London Stock Exchange, where the
heroine’s father drops down dead, a bankrupt
bear, is also a somewhat unusual effect. The
London Stock Exchange is the only place on earth
where business is mostly done by 1300 respectable
gentlemen yelling within an inch of their lives,
and frantically tearing up paper, and leaping
four feet in the air. Huge transactions are
understood to take place while these 1300
honorable gentlemen are in the air, and vast sums
of money change hands when they .come down.
Those who remain solvent bounce up again, and
those who go bankrupt remain down. If a casual
stranger comes, the 1300 gentlemen tear his clothes
off and dash his hat over the further rim of next
generation, and then cast him out. Bland Holt’s
picture of the London Stock Exchange is a very
interesting representation of the place where the
shrieking brothers live and bound and rush madly
at each other and hurriedly make a pencil memo,
in a small book. How the aged broker who is
too old and heavy to jump contrives to make a
living there Heaven only knows.
** * *
The dust of no-one-knows-how-Jong has ac-
cumulated on that old drama “Under the Gas-
light,” which has sat up temporarily in its grave
by way of making an appearance at Sydney
Lyceum. If that dust was inspected under the
microscope it would probably be found to contain
scraps of the plesiosaurus and the labyrinthodon,
and traces of the pterodactyl, and the germs of
Genesis and Babel. Still it is so long since any-
one had the gall to stage “ Under the Gaslight ”
in Sydney that it might as well be new, and, re-
garded as a melodrama, there is no very dreadful
objection to it. It is built on a tale about a child
who was changed at nurse. When the she-ghoul
who did the nursing was cast out for undue adhe-
siveness to property she took her mistress’s infant
and left her own. Therefore her own infant
grows up in luxury, while the mistress’s infant
leads a life which is mostly one tremendous whack,
till, at the early of six, she inserts a small,
cold, dishonest hand into her mother’s pocket in
the street, and her mother seizes her and adopts
her, and brings her up as her own child. There
is peace for 13 years after this, at the end of
which the old nurse and the gentleman with the
exploded hat break out and claim their
alleged child, and drag her for a few
exciting months over the face of the globe. Some
dark scheme of loot which isn’t very well defined
necessitates the bumping of the heroine’s glossy
head against many things, and causes her to be
thrown into the river, and dragged out again, and
violently shaken, and run in, and run out, and
locked up, and bruised, and entrapped. In fact,
nearly every kind of disaster happens to her ex-
cept dog-bite, and liver-complaint with violence.
By way of an extra, the ancient soldier who
sympathises with her is fastened on the railway
line so that the gradual delayed slow train from
N’York may run over him, and the girl who is
kind to her is pounded on the head with a boot.
And, just when things are getting so complicated
that they look past untying, the accomplice with
the lame hat is caught burgling, and has to ex-
plain the whole thing as the price of his liberty,
and being released he is going out to cane the old
woman for not giving him a timely hint that his
enemies were coming, but it transpires that a cart
has run over her outside, and she is dead.
• * •
One thing at least may be said for
this scream of dramatic art; there are plenty
of worse screams in existence. A number
of ordinary people pervade it in a very ordinary
way, and a few of the characters rise above the
ruck. Miss Watts-Phillips, as a fighting girl
with a smudge on her countenance, gives the
show a lift on many occasions when it is dropping
into the sere and yellow wail, and her slavey is
not mere shriek—she rises at times to the level of
art. Also, she is alive all the time. Diver, as a
flashy ruffian with a rag wisped round his scrawny
throat, is another notable personage, and Har-
court and Lawrence Dunbar, also Misses Melville
and Burdett, shine casually at intervals. The
gradual protracted express which arrives by aggra-
vated snail from New York, and professes to run
over Dunbar, but doesn’t, has also some points
about it, but not very many.
** * *
A remarkably unamateurish performance
of “ Les Cloches de Corneville ” took Sydney by
surprise last week. For three nights the Criterion
was packed so tightly that a fourth performance
was given for ticket-holders who could not get in
to the original three. The Lewisham Hospital
benefits to the extent of some JHOO, and amateur
operatics benefit so lavishly from the quality of
the performances that the word amateur has lost
its old sad sting. Mrs. Fleming's Germaine was
a bright effort that brought down all the flowers
of the house every night. Miss Josephine Deakin’s
stage experience and natural vivacity made
Serpolette as successful as was possible with
such an ineffective make-up, and such a coyness in
the lingerie scene. When one is invited sweetly
to “ Look at this, and look at that,” one naturally
expects to see beyond the bottom frill. Mr.
Beattie’s Gaspard was a clever dramatic study,
finely acted, and finely sung. Mr. Burns-Walker
stiffened a little in the flowing Marquis cloak, but
kept his singing voice flexible and forcible. Hazon
drilled the chorus to a high pitch of excellence.
The tone was admirable, and a finely graduated
body of sound rose up at intervals from the name-
less beings billed as lady and gentlemen amateurs.
Rivers Allpress led the orchestra, Mr. Benham
managed the stage, and the severe course of
rehearsal resulted in a flawless bunch of bells that
never jangled out of tune, or forgot their cues, or
came on at the wrong time, or did any of the bad,
sad things that even trained theatricals do on
professional first nights.
** * *
An Australian drama called “ The Passion
of the Hour,” with bombs and wrecks and
sudden murder in it, is to rise at the Royal
Standard this week. The Standard’s leading
man is the author.
m* * *
Strengthen our arm, ye gods, for now we fling ,
A brick at someone’s “ play without a plot.”
Accurst be they who staged the ghastly thing,
And charged five shillings for such tommyrot !
In dreams, last night, we drew our best stiletto,
And slew the author of the dam libretto.
The hireling youth who carries tales abroad
Predicting greatness for the coming show
Knew naught, perhaps, about the ghastly fraud
His tongue was puffing : therefore let him go.
And, as for Moulton—when the Heavens are riven,
And Gabriel trumps, his sins may be forgiven.
But he who wrote the lines and found the brass
That brought his brainless vanity to light:
Through whom this utter failure came to pass,
Shall die in anguish every blessed night.
We’ll sup on crayfish, cheese, and rum-and-water,
Then go to bed, and dream our dream of slaughter.
A while the crowd sat patiently and sighed,
A startled throng of sad, internal sobbers.
And then they boldly jeered, and swore, and
“guyed,”
Whilst here and there a victim shouted
“ Robbers ! ”
One thought supreme amidst their deep distresses —
’Twas hard to be so “ had ” at the Princess’s.
* » » *
The foregoing Pickwickianly refers to
“The American Girl,’’ or “A Play without a
Plot,” which happened at Melb. Princess’s on
Saturday night. It had the best wishes of this
deluded newspaper before the truth burst forth,
because it came along for notice in the disguise of
a work of Australian dramatic art. Row chat
“The American Girl” is found to be only a
masterpiece of drivelling foolishness thrust before
the public at the expense of the author, this
journal rises to apologise and wishes to state that
anyone having booked a seat at The Bulletin’s
instigation can apply to the editor for restitution
of the money. The applicant will not actually
receive his coin back, but he can depend upon
getting The Bulletin sympathy to the same
amount. “ The American Girl ”is beneath criti-
cism as regards the libretto. The music, by the
tuneful Alfred Moulton, is merely weak—but not
so weak as two or three of the performers.
Williamson and Musgrove are not the producers
of the show; they have leased the theatre for a
fortnight to the author and composer, and what
those misguided representatives of native talent
intend to do with the tail-end of their fortnight
the Lord only knows. People trickled out of the
Princess’s on Saturday night, wondering “what
the papers would say ” about the alleged enter-
tainment presented as a first-class show at Mel-
bourne’s —not to say Australia’s—smartest theatre.
This paper says “ Blanky, emphatically blanky.”
** * *
The “opera season ” at St. George’s Hall
(Melb.) is a pathetic struggle. Maritana, for in-
stance, will gaze disconsolately at the shaky card-
board confines of her apartment in the last act,
and, though there is no decoration save a cheap
kitchen paper, the Gitana, wanting to know why
she is a prisoner within those mirrored walls, pro-
ceeds to shake her head at the gilded luxury of
the surroundings. Yet Maritana, Don Caesar,
and the others sang their hardest last week in the
hope that business wou’d improve.
** * *
Phil Newbury, who first of all intended
to return to London, and was afterwards on the
point of closing with an offer from South Africa,
has finally decided to remain here a while longer.
On Saturday (16th) the chesty tenor will start
another series of Saturday shilling “Pops” at
Melb. Town Hall. Newbury has given more than
700 concerts altogether in Australia and Maori-
land, and is still a stranger to W.A. where he
ought to strike a rich patch presently.
# * *
At. Melb. Royal the re-appearance of
“The Middleman,” after a lapse of years, promises
to keep the capacious premises pretty well crowded
for 14 nights and 2 matinees. “ The Middleman ”
in several respects is only melodrama differing
from a lot of other melodramas in the superior
quality of its talk ; but in the matter of the leading
character it is a fine play. Also Charles Cart-
wright, as Cyrus Blenkarn aforesaid, is a fine
actor. At the end of the second act shabby Cyrus
stares hard at the floor instead of gazing upward
to the “flies,” and calls upon the Lord of Justice
to deliver a sltunky capitalist into his hands that
he may deal with the gilded fraud as with a lump
of potter’s clay, and the cry for vengeance strikes
all sections of the audience in the middle of their
various souls. Maybe an occasional capitalist, who
owes his silk bell-topper to the faithful genius of
an underpaid employe, takes exception to Cyrus’s
outbreak, on the ground that it makes him feel
qualmish. “The Middleman ” doesn’t appeal to
the Employers’Union for special patronage. It
breathes the sentiment of fair dinkum by reducing
the commercial oppressor of the first act to an in-
come of <£4o(l a year at the finish.
* * * *
Cartwright’s righteous indignation—very
suggestive of the hump-backed parent’s curse in
“ The Fool’s Revenge ” —is one among several
items in his performance. He acts the part of the
dreamy, petulant inventor as very few actors
could, without attempting to stretch his effects
beyond their natural limits. Arthur Styan is a
satisfactory commercial fraud, of the lean and
nasty rather than the fat, unpleasant type ; Miss
Darragh makes a sprightly younger daughter of
Cyrus ; and Dennis Bryan, as her young chap, is
a very natural comedian, in spots. Miss Lamb’s
unyouthful, commonplace figure doesn’t fit the
character of a too confiding Mary, whose easy con-
quest by a captain is the weakest link in the melo-
drainic interest, but she speaks her lines for all
they are worth. Miss Stewart, Story Gofton,
Charles Thursby, Miss ISloni Rickards, like a few
other people and some solid scenery, take part in
this deserving show.
** * *
Melbourne made the acquaintance of Ugo
Biondi at the Opera House on Saturday night,
and its intelligent opinion of that famous Italian
is likely to be all that Rickards’ advt. predicted.
If the opinion of the boys in the upper circle —the
“Indians,” as Whitburn calls them —is not en-
thusiastically favorable at first, the new turn will
grow on them, no doubt. And if Biondi shouldn’t
happen to grow on them, there is a non-Indian
public which seldom goes to the Opera House,
and may be cordially recommended to go there
now. Biondi, as the impersonator of three or four
distinct people (husband, wife, lover) in a small
domestic farce, is brighter than the ordinary
quick-change artist, inasmuch as he changes his
identity in the fastest time on Australian record.
The first half of his show is surprising by com-
parison. The second half is great. He takes his
place as a conductor in the orchestra, in a semi-
circular reserve, curtained in front, which screens
him from the waist downwards. With a limelight
streaming upon his face and body, Biondi imper-
sonates a dozen different musical composers, each
with a distinct manner of directing the orchestra.
The change from one character sketch to another
is worked in, say, three seconds. Rossini bobs
his head down behind the screen and pops up
again as Gounod. Some of them are largely
fancy sketches as regards the mannerisms—Doni-
zetti, for instance, died before Biondi was born—-
but every one of them is a striking picture, and
the whole series amounts to a marvellous enter-
tainment.
** * *
Miss Elsie Lander is to open the Bijou
on Saturday with the farcical comedy, “Miss
Chicago,” which has been running for many nights
in New York. The lady will be supported by a
co. mostly new and American.
** * *
The success of Phil Newbury’s recent
“ Pop ” Concerts, at the Town Hall, has tempted
him to try some more of them, and on Saturday
(16th) there will be a “ Pop ’’ revival on a large
scale. Organist Wiegand’s fine thundersome per-
formance of “ The Storm ” is mentioned as a par-
ticular feature of the next programme, and in
another week or two John Coleman will join
Newbury and introduce a little variety business
on Maccabe lines.
** * *
Harry Coghill’s minstrel co. seems to pro-
gress satisfactorily at the Gaiety, but Durward
Lely’s efforts at the Athenaeum Hall were wasted
upon a good deal of empty chair and bare bench ;
consequently he was announced to close his some-
what thin entertainment on Tuesday of this week.
Lely’s tenor voice is still a very good suggestion
of its former self, and his Scotch anecdotes have a
humorous charm for all who understand them,
also, the stout fraulein Elly Fusch, notwithstand-
ing her awful frock, is a clever violinist for her
age, whatever her age may be. Her frock is
pathetic. And another sad thing is Mrs. Lely’s
pretty smile every time her husband drops a mild
jocular remark concerning the ways of woman-
kind. The smile of any British matron at such
times is a painful study in social hypocrisy, but
when the lady happens to be seated on a music-
stool in front of a public audience, she is an object
of deep sympathy to married people of both sexes.
*# * *
Melbourne newspaper notices of “The
American Girl” fiasco are worth quoting as an
illustration of the elastic nature of Truth. All
newspapers speak the Truth about theatrical
shows. The Age “ critic ” said “ The audience
had begun to fed 'pleasantly interested when some-
thing in the nature of a catastrophe began to
develope. . . . The catastrophe happened towards
the end of the second act, and really originated in
a joke, &c., &c. . . . This was the turning point of
the evening. The gallery had tasted a new joy,
and, with malicious delight, set to work
baiting other performers, &c., &c. When the
occupants of the gallery saw that the play was
ending prematurely, and that they were being
balked of further sport, they vented their disap-
probation in groans.” There are only two acts to
“ The American Girl,” so the Age gives the show
credit for beginning to pleasantly interest the
audience about half-an-hour before the finish.
Now the Argus notice : “ The occupants of the
gallery have an unerring instinct for what is
amusing, and they expressed their disapproval
with noisy frankness before the production teas
half-way through. The praise which is associated
with ‘ faint damns’ was the only form of com-
mendation which could be detected in the vestibule
between the acts.” As for the Age’s allegations
of malice in the amphitheatre—the fact is that the
gods began to pour out of the house some time
before the end of the piece was expected. And
between the acts a voice from aloft proposed to
“telephone for Sleight,” the undertaker.


LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A pufe (Jaiolio Disinfectant.
FOR GENERAL USE.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(C/0 S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY'*
• —BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
SIR JOHN
Power’s Whiskey.
Tbc R€lL MAC KAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison. & Attwood, Sole Proprietors
E. A. DAWBARR & CO.,
MEBCHAUTS,
82 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CM EMI CALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shaving’s, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; Queen-st., Brisb
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The year’s revenue in Westralia to 30th June,
’9B, was £2,754,746, which is £88,005 less than the previous
year’s total. Also, it was £253,254 less than the Trea-
surer’s estimate. This is the first time since 1890 that the
Westralian revenue has taken a definite move downwards.
In that year—the one from which the boom practically'
dated—the takings'were £414,314, and by 1897, when the
great revenue inflation was at its largest—they were
£2,842,751. In seven years the Westralian revenue in-
creased just about seven-fold, and climbed up to 120
12s. 2d. per inhabitant for the year —nearly three times as
much as the receipts for Queensland and S.A., the two
next largest revenue-producers in proportion to popula-
tion. Such a stupendous rise must have a corresponding
fall, and about the best that can be expected for Westralia
is that the revenue per head won’t drop more than one-
half. Even up to last year, however, when the signs
were abundant that the giddy bubble was beginning to
totter on its base, the Forrest Government insisted on
regarding it not as a boom but as a perfectly normal state
of sandgropers’ prosperity. On top of the tremendous
receipts of last year, it built its new estimates on the
assumption that this year’s returns would be larger still,
and as a consequence it is badly left. Almost every
Government, however, insists that its boom is a new and
permanent kind of boom, and that however much other
booms may burst “ our ” superior kind of boom will boom
for ever.
* * * *
The upward or downward movements of the
revenue of the Seven Provinces :
Increase as compared
with last year.
Maoriland .. .. £279,288
Victoria ... .. 256,446
N. S. Wales ... .. 164,986
Queensland ... .. 155,002
Tasmania .. .. 47,123
Decrease as compared
with last year.
S.A. .. .. .. £58,529
Westralia * .. 88,005
In proportion to population, Maoriland has the largest
increase (about Bs. per head) ; Queensland comes next
with 6s. 6d. per head ; Tasmania has an increase of about
6s. per head ; Victoria has an improvement equal to
4s. 6d. per head ; and N.S.W. one of 2s. 6d. These, com-
bined with Westralia’s slump of 10s. per head, upset a
lot of the elaborate calculations on which the statisticians
built their estimates at the Federal Convention time.
These estimates were based on the widely-different re-
venues of the five provinces represented, and the large in-
crease in the receipts per head in Tasmania, and the great
fall in Westralia, bring the two most divergent provinces
so much nearer together that all these by'gone calcula-
tions are waste-paper now.
♦ • * *
Tasmanian Treasurer Fysh’s financial statement
was a whoop of great joy. This is how the long-bearded
gentleman figures things out :
Accumulated deficit Ist January, 1896 .. £442,103
Less surplus for 1896 ..' .. .. 47,733
£394,370
Less surplus for 1897 .. „ «. 59,993
£334,377
Less estimated surplus for 1898 .. 109,749
£224,628
Judging by the way the revenue is coming in, Fysh’s esti-
mated surplus for iB9B seems pretty sure. But Tasmania
has another deficit of £398,154 which was covered by the
issue of Treasury bills and inscribed stock, and Fysh, while
manfully plugging away at the visible cash shortage, says
nothing at all about that.
* * * *
After the great yell of joy published a year ago
about the alleged clear profit of £33,479 shown by the
N.S.W. railways for the year ended 30th June, 1897, it is
a trifle depressing to learn from the Auditor-General’s
report that there was no profit at all, but a loss of £38,545.
It is a very small loss, comparatively speaking, and the
N.S.W. lines are now the best-paying system in the Seven
Provinces, barring Westralia’s. Still, after all the roar of
glee about the so-called profit, it is rather sad and ridi-
culous to find that there wasn’t any.
» * * *
The Victorian railway deficit for the year ended
30th June, 1897, was £375,323 ; and for the year just
ended Commissioner Mathieson estimates a heartrending
shortage of about £400,000. The one redeeming feature
is that £70,000 has gone in increased wages, and but for
this item the 1898 deficit would have been only £330,000.
And that isn’t much for a Victorian railway deficit.
* • * *
Chamberlain now says that the omission of the
Queensland Government to consult the other Australias re
the Papuan land-grab does not invalidate it, adding that
Queensland was entitled to regard it as an act of ordinary
administration. Apparently Lowles and Vine—the latter,
ahem! did once stay at Govt. House, Brisbane—are
going to get away with this gigantic steal. By the way,
what has become of the “ United Empire Trade League”
that these wolves-in-wool were supposed to have come to
“ the colonies ” to represent ? Vine has protested too
much in London by declaring that quite a number of ex-
ploration co’s are represented in this filthy piece of
“ business,” and by giving the names of some of the pro-
moters.
• * * *
Once a year the S.M. Herald writes a dis-
jointed curse on the Maoriland State Life Insurance De-
partment. The way it notices that hated Socialistic en-
terprise is by misrepresenting its figures badly and then
printing them alongside those of the huge A.M.P. Society,
'.and asking why the expenses of the small and compara-
tively new State office are proportionately larger than those
of the large, long-established private one which was an enor-
mous concern before its rival started. Last week the organ
of private enterprise solemnly cursed the M.L. Govt.
Office because it only earned £4 16s. 7d. per cent, on its
funds (the same paper simply grovels to such institutions
as the Colonial Mutual, whose visible earnings are only
about £4 Is., and the Alliance, which makes £3 165., and
the Widows’ Fund, with less than £4 165., and the Tem-
perance and General with £4 10s., and the Citizens ordi-
nary branch with not much over £4, and it never says a
severe word about the low interest in any of these cases).
Also, it complained indignantly that the M.L. Govt.
Office spent 22) per cent, of its premiums in expenses (it
never once made a complaint about the Victoria Life’s 31
per cent., or the Mutual Life Association’s 27J, or the
National Mutual’s 24), or the 25.) spent in ex.’s by the
Widows’ Fund and Colonial Mutual, and it didn’t even
make unkind remarks when the Temperance and General
spent 34 j per cent., and the City Mutual 28). The Maori-
land Govt. Life Department is the only assurance office
ever criticised by the Hskald, and, instead of remarking
that its expense-rate is lower than that of any privately-
managed office in Australasia, the A. M.P. only excepted,
and its interest-rate higher than most of them, the Herald
always wants to know why the interest isn’t still higher
and the ex.’s are not still lower.
Last year, Tub Bulletin bad the pleasure
of pointing out that some of the Herald’s figures quoted
against the M. L. State Life Office were purely and wholly
bogus, and that some of the others were wrong to
an extent calculated to disgrace any pious paper. The
following is the set of figures for the year just ended as
quoted by the Herald :
M.L. State Office. A.M.P.
New premiums .. .. £19,318 £15,510
Renewal premiums .. .. 240,235 189,605
Interest on funds .. .. 128,423 122,265
Rate of interest per annum 4'83 5'22
Expenses 59,164 34,542
Ratio to premium income .. 22'68 16 8
Funds, December,’96 ..£2,591,342 £2,238,190
„ „ ’97 .. 2,725,105 2,444,791
Increase 133,763 208,601
Some things which the Herald carefully avoids mentioning
are these: The M.L. Department’s new premiums were not
£19,318, but £20,600. The annuity business is wholly
omitted —the M.L. Govt. Office dops a larger business in this
line than the A.M.P. Society, so the omission is
judicious. The A.M.P. Society’s new premiums, on
the Herald’s own figures, are £3500 less than in
1896 ; the State office shows a decline of only about
£lOOO. The State office shows an increase of £lO,OOO on
renewal premiums ; the A.M.P.’s increase is only £6OOO.
The A.M.P.’s local funds don’t necessarily increase out of
local earnings only ; in 1896, for instance, £46,000 of its
increase consisted of money sent over from Australia for
investment. The State Office, having no branches outside
the province, can’t swell its figures this way. Also, the
alleged fact that the A.M.P. earns £5 4s. per cent, on its
funds in Maoriland as compared with the State office’s
£4 16s. 7d. doesn’t do the M.L. policy-holders of the
A.M.P. any good. The all-round interest earnings of the
A.M.P. are not £5 4s. per cent., but only £4 175., and
the M.L. policy-holder has to take his share with the rest.
The A.M.P. used to be much further ahead, but its in-
terest earnings dropped 3s. sd. per cent, last year, while
those of the State office only declined 2s. sd. per cent.
And, apart from everything else, the facts that the State
Assurance Office (the one which charges the lowest pre-
miums and gives the best security in Australasia) is the
only one which the Herald ever criticises ; and that it
never compares it with the ten private institutions which
it vastly surpasses in every way, but only with the one
which, by reason of its extra size and age, is slightly
ahead of it in some respects ; and that any mistakes in its
figures are invariably to the detriment of the State insti-
tution, don’t look well for a respectable paper which goes
to church regularly and hopes to be Saved.
* * » *
The Australian Mutual Investment and Build-
ing Co. (Sydney) has paid no dividends since 1891, and
owes about £237,000 on deposits which now receive no
interest at all and don’t seem likely to get much principal
either—in fact, it is about the most despairful land and
building co. in Australasia. Under these circumstances,
it proposes to have a lottery of £12,000 worth of its more
or less unsaleable properties, and any depositor can have
a £1 chance in the sweep in exchange for £lO worth of
deposit-receipts. Which is about the most cheerful thing
that has happened to any depositor this century.
* * * *
Something like a beer speculation. Hannan’s
Brewery Co. (Kalgoorlie, W.A.) reckons that it has made
a net profit of £3946 for the half-year on a paid-up capital
of only £36oo—something considerably over 200 per cent,
per annum.
» * ♦ *
Also more beer. Swan Brewery Co. (Perth,
W.A.) for the half-year ended 31st March, 1898, estimates
its profits at £19,048 (after writing £5OOO off the value
of its leaseholds), which is equal to over 85 per cent, per
annum on its paid-up capital. This, with previous accu-
mulations, leaves £41,435 at credit of profit and loss, out
of which the Swan Co. pays the usual half-year’s div. at
the rate of 341 per cent, per annum (£7609). It is also pro-
posed to make a terrific splash by spending £31,703
on a bonus of about 72 per cent. The humor of the
situation is that the business has been growing so
fast, and the co. has been acquiring hotels and other
property at such a tremendous rate, and the paid-up
capital (£44,384) is so small, that despite the large profits
the co.’s money is all locked up. In fact it has a £3OOO
overdraft instead of having any loose cash, and if it blews
nearly £40,000 in divs. at one fell swoop it looks as if the
money would have to be borrowed. The Swan Co. has
only £20,000 reserve fund, and when it perpetrates the
great burst above mentioned there will only be about
£2lOO left at credit of profit and loss. The idea of
strengthening the reserve and paying off the overdraft
and the mortgages in the first place evidently never
occurred to anybody.
* * * *
Grainger, M.P., told S.A. Assembly the other
day that the solicitor in a recent local liquidation case
charged £BOO for sending out 800 circulars, and, what is
more, got the money.
* • * •
Quite a number of usually bigoted-Tory M’s.P.
have promised to support the Kingston’s Govt.’s State
Fire Insurance proposals. Recent heavy advances in
premiums bv the Adelaide co’s. supply the reason, and
these individualists have become ardent Socialists now
that the latter policy spells “ beesness,” as regards in-
surance, anyway.
* * * *
"Vic. Government Usury Prevention Bill (drawn
by Attorney-General Isaacs) is the million-and-oneth at-
tempt to tie up the tentacles of the octopus. It specifies :
—When no rate of interest is documented 6 per cent, is
to be the legal figure. Maximum rate recoverable when
security is hard land, 8 per cent. ; otherwise, 10 per
centum. All contracts for higher figures are outlawed
unless the court recognises that there were special risks
in the transaction which justified special consideration.
Loan must be in cash or cheque, never in land, lard, pic-
tures, glue, or any commodity. Com. for securing a loan,
5 per cent. No person can sign away his rights in a will
or deed without first taking the advice of a police-magis-
trate as to the true inwardness of the deal. Pawnbrokers’
interest to be limited to 25 per cent. All moneys realised
on unredeemed pledges, over and above what is justly
due to Moses, to be handed over to the State Treasury, to
be held in trust for the pawner. The Bill seems compre-
hensive, but Abraham Shentperschent has for centuries
manifested marvellous ability in dodging Acts, and you
never know when you’ve got him ; when you think you’ve
got him it usually turns out that he has got you.
* • * *
Conscience-money is always a decent item of
Vic. revenue, but hitherto none was conscientious enough
to give name and address with his “ restitution.” The
innovator turned up last week ; he sent in the sum of
which he had defrauded the revenue with interest to
date, giving name and residence. He is not to be pro-
secuted, as such a course might tend to discourage
others. Conscience-money always flows in freely when
there is an active evangelist on the job in the country.
Premier Turner ought to employ a few to keep the public
conscience in a harrowed condition. Small prophets and
quick returns!
* * * «
The Kingston Govt, a-while ago started out to
manufacture its own water and sewer pipes, despite the
bitter opposition of interested Tory merchants. So far
10,400 tons of pipes have been made under Govt, super-
vision, at Govt, works, employing over 100 men at good
wages. The contracts with private contractors had pre-
viously varied from £7 ss. and upwards per ton, but the
department turns out material equally good at £6 15s. per
ton, and has already saved over £20,000.
* * « *
N.S.W. gold for the half-year, 153,724 oz., an
increase of 26,475 oz. Returns for June, 37,377 oz., an in-
crease of 16,452 over the preceding month.
« * * *
A start is to be made on the Great Blayney cop-
per-mine in a much bigger way than hitherto attempted.
The old reverberatnries have been running for three
iponths as a practical test of the value and nature of the
ore-bodies left at 120 ft., and results being satisfactory they
are now shut down to be replaced by blast furnaces. The
main shaft, sunk by a former co. without cutting the lode,
is being baled and a winze is going down in the lode at
120 ft. to meet a crosscut to be run out from this shaft.
The deeper workings will also be unwatered to see what
was left below the 120. All reports, including those of
miners who worked in the mine years ago, say the ore is
better there ; and the fact of thousands of tons being left
in a much more convenient place for taking out, points
to that conclusion.
* * * *
Ad el on g, N.S.W. :—“A trial crushing of seven
tons from the bottom of the old Caledonia mine yielded
4oz. gold per ton.” Splendid—if there is any more left.
How came this to be left ?
* * * *
Lithgow, N.S.W. :—“ Stated that the old Cow
Flat copper-mine has been sold to a gentleman in Sydney
at a satisfactory figure.” This mine, many years back,
produced upwards of half-a-million in copper. It was
worked on the reverberatory system, and that the ore
was very high in copper is shown by the copper in the
old dressings, thousands of tons of which are still on the
surface. That the lode or deposit cut-out, or seemed to
cut-out, there can be no doubt. Lewis Lloyd, w'ho last
worked the mine, admits this, and says he spent some
money in trying to pick it up again. By the side of the
old workings there is a big ironstone hill, and it is the
idea of many mining-men that the worked-out deposit
was a slip-away from it.
• * * *
Eleanora, N.S.W. : Forty heads running, and
an additional 30 going up. But what are they going to
do with them? If this mine is in shape to keep 70 heads
running on payable rock, then the writer has been very
much misinformed.
* * * »
Whispered that the Overflow crowd has, at
last, solved the difficulty of treating the ores without
great loss ; shares have moved accordingly. Alas ! how
often have other great expectations been shattered ? A
great-looking mine that has suffered from too much jum-
buck management.
• * * *
Yass, N.S.W. : “ 1450 z. were cleaned up from
five tons of stone taken from the Record claim, Nanima,
and the tailings are estimated to be worth 12oz. per ton.”
Several of these wonderful returns got from working a
small, decomposed ironstone vein ; the only trouble is—
will it last ?
* * * *
Writer is asked by “ Victim ” why has the
Sabbath tipster ceased tipping North Nymageesand other
mines? Possibly' he is now engaged in making his own
fortune by tipping himself. That is only fair after the
great fortunes others have made. Remarkable that
clairvoyants, palmists, and tipsters generally prefer to
handle their clients’ nimble shillings than to make thou-
sands of pounds by the selfish exercise of their foresight.
What a sad commentary on the tipster’s business !
* » * •
“Ranji ” Bottomley’s Northern “ Terrors ” Co.
was floated with a capital of £300,000, of which only
£75,000 was available as working cap'tal ! This over-
capitalised co. has hardly done anyth'ng to its mines, and
Govt. Resident Dashwood points out that it has been
dodging the labor conditions by obtaining special per-
mits. S.A. Govt, encouraged the co. at the beginning by
allowing it to take up big pastoral leases with mineral
rights thrown in.
* * * *
N. Territory mining-returns are going down.
Four years ago the output of gold was returned at
£lOB,llO, whereas for ’97 it was only 1 81,024. These
figures, if published in London, will probably further
affect the Bottomley crowd.
* * • •
Proposed by Moonta and Wallaroo mining
and smelting co. to spend £lOO,OOO in the erection of new
works for custom smelting purposes. The money has
been raised by debentures in Adelaide. Good news for
S.A., but bad for the Sulphide Corporation and Illawarra
Smelting Co.
* * * *
Charters Towers to all intents dead to the
world. This legitimate field suffered for three years from
the W.A. glamor ; now copper takes away' the sinews of
war. Barring a couple of notable exceptions, everything
on the field is at its lowest. The monthly output is about
the average. Nathless, the spider spins his web unre-
strained on the local broker’s door.
* * * *
Things are so flat on the Towers that t" o pro-
minent brokers have shifted camp to Gympie ; others to
follow. Substance for shadow? Hardly blameable, though,
seeing that latterly the Gympie men have done more in a
day than the Towers’ in three months.
* * * *
Some Q. mining-returns : —Gympie: Columbia
Smithfield, 1141 tons, 12000 z., Is. dividend ; No. 1 South
Great Eastern, 254 tons, 8640 z., Is. dividend ; No. 2 S.G.
Eastern, 973 tons, 11960 z. ; Is. dividend. Ch. Towers :
Bonnie Dundee, 280 tons, 588 oz. ; Kelly’s Blocks, 242 tons,
6150 z like the old returns ; Brilliant and St.
George, 1184 tons, 16560 z. Croydon : Rogers’, 160 tons,
5930 z material improvement. Gympie dividends for
June, £12,000 ; and last six months, £78,212.
♦ * * •
Gympie, Q., is the field for gold-share gambling.
Stock in three or four mines that, last June, could have
been bought for a few pence is now pounds. Notably
South Glanmire and Monkland, 31s. 6d. ; Oriental and
Glanmire, 275. 6d. ; No. 1 N. Oriental, 245. (rose 20s. in
three weeks); and No. 2 South Great Eastern, 675. (sold
in June, ’S7, at lOd.
* * * *
Croydon items. No. 7 North Golden Gate,
320 tons, 32080 z. ; value, over £7OOO. Div., 2s. 6d. per
40,000 th and £6OO carried forward. Another similar
crushing expected in few weeks. Prospects of mine
brilliant. Latest local sensation, the No. 7 Gate, illus-
trates what grit (and luck) can do. Three shareholders,
Knust (Croydon), Capt. Robinson (Normanton), and Gun-
derston (Burketown), weathered an expensive law-suit,
paid numerous calls, disregarded geological opinions, and
now own one of the richest mines in N.Q. No. 5 and 6
Golden Gate opening up grand stone, and promises to
make some local millionaires shortly. Late crushings :
Sunset United, 180 tons from 4ft. reef, 170 oz. Sarnia
Gem, 2Joz. per ton from 48 tons. Waratah Co. will
shortly operate with 25 stampers on the low-grade pay ore
at Tabletop, Croydon. They say sdwt. will pay hand-
somely. Paddy Walsh, a Croydon publican, and an old
Northern miner, doesn’t place any faith in geologists.
“ They never yet found a goldfield,” said Pat at a meeting
lately. “ The miner digs and delves and sweats and gets
goldj and then the geologist fellows come along and tell
him how he got it. That’s all.”
* * * *
This year’s Mt. Morgan gold output to 31st
May 153,297 tons, 170,8600 z. ; average, loz. 2dwt. 7gr. ;
the quantity exceeding that treated last year by 42,846
tons, and the gold by 11,2290 z. Average continues to
fall as tonnage goes up. Same all the world over.
Q. gold-mining returns for the month of June
are to hand, and show a yield of 85,2460 z., or an increase
over June, ’97, of 23,3710 z. All the big fields give an in-
crease. Ch. Towers yielded 20,1400 z. gold from quartz
as against 18,7990 z. for June, ’97, and 17,3420 z. from con-
centrates, as against 86060 z. in June, ’97. Gympie totals
97460 z. from quartz—an increase of over 37000 z.
—and 7930 z. from concentrates and tailings. Mt.
Morgan produced 13,1480 z. from stone, with 13440 z. from
tailings and concentrates, an increase of over 15000 z.,
while Croydon beats its record for June, ’97, by over
3000 oz. The yield for the six months ending June 30, was
427,6610 z., as against 361,1080 z. for the corresponding
period of last year ; the increase for the six months of ’9B
being 66,5530 z. June, ’9B, at Clermont gave nearly double
the yield of June, ’97—the total having risen to 25160 z.,
against 14230 z. in ’97.
Editor Bulletin. — The correspondents who
have predicted in your paper that the public will, if it
doesn’t look out, badly burn its fingers over Chillagoe
have struck the mark. As to the favorable comparisons
made in various places between Chillagoe and Broken Hill
and Mt. Lj ell, there is an ocean of difference between
them, the two latter having progressed from their initial
and difficult stage to the period of profit-paying and
permanency, whereas Chillagoe, after a trial of over eight
years under favorable circumstances, may, I contend, be
regarded as an unqualified failure. Over £50,000 has been
spent in Chillagoe properties which have finished up
thousands to the bad. Chillagoe has been open
since ’BB—ten years. The claims were acquired at
a nominal cost (being found by Moffatt’s prospec-
tors). The cost of labor has been small (the wages
paid being smaller than on any other Northern fields).
Machinery obtained at waste-paper prices (being wreck-
age from previous unfortunate flotations). Fluxes were
obtainable for the mere cost of carting (abundant lime
and iron throughout the district), and the best ores were
available for smelting (viz., the oxidised ores at, or about,
the surface —in fact there had been virtually nothing but
surface-work done). Boiled down, the position of the old
co. may be summed-up as follows : Mines acquired at
nominal cost, cheap labor, machinery at giving-away auc-
tion prices, fluxes for nothing, ore cheaply raised, a fair
smelting ore, over nine years’ trial, and some £50,000
spent on the properties ; yet the wind-up was a big loss:
Per contra, the position of the new co. would be : Mines
acquired at a tremendous cost, labor, say unchanged,
fluxes ditto, expensive machinery, ore more costly to
mine. Ore more refractory “with depth.” Smelting
charges consequently heavier, an expensive directorate,
ditto clerical staff, ditto management, two or three years
to wait before returns are possible, with all the chances
of a fall in price of copper. On behalf of the old co. it
might truly be claimed that copper was at very low prices ;
ana the claim then, as now, was, that with a railway the
mine would pay. A railway might save £2 a ton on
carriage since tlie railway was first mooted. Copper has
risen in price not less than £lO per ton, an amount equal
to two or three times the total cost of carriage,
yet it is a moot point whether the mine
works have paid expenses since the rise. The
future of the new co. in its intended mammoth operations
may be best gauged by the method obtaining for a long
time past—viz., get enough ore together to have a smelt*,
ing, smelt same, then shut down smelter pending a suffi-
cient accumulation of ore to warrant another start at
smelting, and so on. Geologist Jack reported on the
mine some time ago, describing same as deposits rather
than true fissure lodes. Owners never liked this report,
an endorsement of which might be cited in the fact that,
after more than nine years’ of work, there is not one shaft
down of depth enough to prove the permanency of the
deposits.—IRVINEBANK.
* * * •
Now that Wittenoom, W.A. ex-Minister of
Mines, and supposed author of the 10ft. rule, has left, it
is suggested that it “ wasn’t him at all.” Anyhow, Wit-
tenoom’s under-secretary, Prinsep, has been transferred
to the new Department charged with the distribution of
the blackfellows’ blankets ; and Gill, a Bananalander who
does know something of mining, takes his place. Mr.
Lefroy, the new Mines Minister, owns up that he has
never been down a shaft; but as he has descended a well
he thinks he may get on all right. In which circs., it is
just as well that Gill does know something of the business.
* * * *
Cabled that Pall Mall Gazette accuses
Hooley of bribing a former commercial editor. Hooley is
evidently in for a bad time. Imagine the number of news-
paper men that may hate him for never attempting to
bribe them 1
» • • •
Brookman’s Boulder, Kalgoorlie, seems to have
been the plaything of the stock market lately. After
many rumors and denials of amazing richness, now an-
nounced that the main ore-body, at 400 ft., is 6ft. wide,
and that sft. of it averages l|oz. per ton.
* * * *
“ Camille ” to The Bulletin, from Kanowna,
W.A. :—This dying tin-town was born into a livelier
existence a few months since by the discovery of deep
alluvial, which was boomed Dy the local rags for their
own existence. The deep alluvial here is the bed of a
narrow prehistoric creek, wherein is found a wash con-
taining more or less gold. The thing is so narrow that
unless a prospector dumps right down on to it, he has
small chance of getting any by driving. A few have got
some lOoz. to the ton stuff, and that has brought thou-
sands to this place, who will shortly have to shift, for
bottoming duffers from 60 to 100 feet is no joke—some
poor devils have sunk 15 and 20 duffers for nix. Most
backers are growing shy.
* * * *
Bendigo closed the half-year with a gross pro-
duction of 101,7300 z. gold ; J 75,330 was called up and
£110,229 paid in dividends—an excess of divs. over calls
of £34,899 for the six months, as against £6805 for the
whole of ’97, £50,487 for ’96, £7624 for ’95, and £19,795 for
'94. The total of divs. for the six months is greater than
the average for a half of any* year since 1885, with the ex*
ception of ’92 and ’93. New Chum Railway, with 10,2540 z.
(won mostly from below the 2900 ft. level), paid £30,434 in
divs. ; the Great Southern, 83290 z. and £22,950, working
at and below the 1030 ft. level, came next; then the Vic-
toria Quartz, 63820 z. and 121,600, gained prin-
cipally at the 2700 ft. Other deep workings are : the
Eureka, 2900 ft. ; Shenandoah, 3129 ft. ; New Chum Com
solidated, 3517 ft. ; Lazarus, 3405 ft. ; New Chum and Vic-
toria, 3070 ft. ; Lansell’s 180, 3350 ft. At the last-named
mine, a shaft goes down perpendicularly to the depth
stated, so that this is the deepest shaft in Australasia
most of the other deep workings are centre-country
winzes. It is not often that Mr. hansel] gives details of
the operations in his private mines, but, for this half-year,
he says that the 180 has yielded llSOoz. from 4453 tons,
broken mostly from the 2500 ft. level.
* * * •
Mf. Lyell return from 2nd to 29th June—l 3,267
tons mined ; metal produced —33s tons copper, 42,3340 z.
silver, 20500 z. gold.
* » » »
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
assay ores, and treat samples up to 5 tons, by chlorina-
tion, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet or dry crushed.
Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp Batteries, Roast-
ing and Smelting Furnaces, and General Mining
Machinery.*
* * * *
Gilfilian and M‘Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*


y
d.
ORIENT
V.
CLOTNINC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
Fiist Quality Men s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR. SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
(°8?pfo“)
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
T'HE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY of
the U.S. is renowned for its liberality to its Agents,
and invites applications from gentlemen to repre-
sent the Society in Country Districts in Sew South,
Wales and Queensland; also in Sydney and
Brisbane.
Liberal terms to those possessing- experience in the
procuration of new business.
Credentials must be enclosed with applications.
Apply to M l AM O' EM,
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Tlie Famous Preach
Chocolate.
MußiniEE
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents :
Cameron & Co.,
949 Georye-st., Sydney.
Society
Andes tin
COONA[?]
After Big John Forrest, in common with a
few hundred others, had made an ass of himself at
Kalgoorlie and had been poked in the ribs by his
colleague's gamp, Maitland Brown, S.M., sympa-
thetically wired to him, “My God, I am proud of
you ! ” Now, Big John proposes to knock Esper-
ance out by giving Norseman a railway; where-
upon one W. J. Stow proposed to wire to the same
John, “ My God, Esperance is proud of you.” But
after taking the “bob,” the telegraph-people, the
horror of Stow’s satire dawning on them, returned
the money with an intimation that “ the message
cannot be accepted for transmission.” And now
this offensive Stow has written to the Premier to
find out why the department takes from an S.M.
one message but refuses from a common person
another message worded almost exactly the same.
Moreover, as he has enclosed message and the
telegraph-man’s memo., and so “ gets there all the
same, the poor, hard-up State loses tenpence by
the transaction—and the bloated West can’t afford
to sneeze at tenpences these times.
* * * *
“ M‘G.” . Like all other artists, Leist
draws a burglar as an elderly and extremely
frowsy-looking individual. This is strictly in
accordance with popular opinion, but popular
opinion in this case, as in many others, is all
wrong. As a reporter, it has fallen to my lot to
meet hundreds of burglars, and, with very few
exceptions, I have found them well-dressed, well-
spoken, tidy youths, the vast majority being
between 18 and 22, and presenting an appearance
exceedingly like that of the average bank-clerk.
Of course, it may be said that they must grow old
some day, but criminal statistics show that after
35 crime is of rare occurrence. “ What becomes
of the old criminals?” is a question that has
puzzled many an inquirer into prison systems
before to-day.
* * * *
A Melb. firm of spirit-merchants allows the
employes in its “ free stores ” one-
fifth of a bottle of best brandy
—overproof if they prefer it—
per man as a daily Rrog - ra-
tion. The firm h a°s an
Insh-not a Scotch
—name.
“ G. 8.” : The allotment to Mrs. Crotty of
<£looo a year out of the vast pile her late husband
left to the R.O. Church is a virtual confession on
the Church’s part that Crotty did a shabby thing
in cutting off his widow with a miserable 40s. per
week. Also, it suggests that Holy Church is
ready to compromise when its interests are con-
cerned, and it can earn kudos from the unthinking
for its benevolent and charitable temper. [The
fact that the R.C.—or any other—Church makes
a concession which it simply cannot morally afford
to refuse, commits it to no “ confession ” of any
sort, and for the same reason no kudos in the
Crotty case is likely to be either claimed or given.
The Church authorities would indeed be stupid if
they failed to see the advisableness of squaring so
strong a claim as that of Mrs. Crotty by giving
that lady a life-income amounting, after all, to,
Sfiy, only 3s. 4d. in the <£ out of the total revenue
of the estate. No Church could afford to pose as
the Enemy of Woman —though The Bulletin
does not suggest that the ecclesiastical compro-
mise in the Crotty' case was based on anything
but a desire to act as any self-respecting man-
of-the-world (this world or the next world) would
necessarily act.—Ed. B.]
m * * *
In his annual report on Little Bay
(Sydney) Hospital, Dr. Ashburton Thompson
recommended an increase in the medical staff,
which at present consists of three officers. He
also recommended that the position of medical
superintendent should be improved. About time,
too ! —considering that the M.S. is one of the afore-
said three, and that the hospital is such a big,
rambling, scattered concern, that it takes half a
day to make the round of it. When the smallest ir-
regularity occurs, the superintendent has to hold
an enquiry and make a report. He has also to
keep an accurate account of the number of hours
worked, and the number of miles travelled, by
each particular ambulance, horse and driver, that
the work may be equally divided. He also super-
intends the Lazarette, presides at all operations,
makes the round of the wards at meal-times to
inspect the food and listen to complaints, and
daily t ikes his share of prescribing for the patients !
Last year, the patients averaged 224 per day—74
and a fraction per doctor ! ! !
m * * »
The N.S.W. Royal Commission on metro-
politan charities has furnished a progress report
to Govt. Although it has only reported on one
or two institutions, the revelations in one case are
so shocking that the publication of the evidence
has been interdicted, and only the bare results are
to be made known.
* * * *
The trail of retrenchment. Sydney
G.P.O. Benefit Society issues a pamphlet
s iving that it has made .special arrange-
ments with a prominent Sydney undertaker to
bury members at half usual rates. A hearse
and one coach costs so much ; a hearse and two
coaches, so much—and so forth, thus enabling
any member to arrange the details of his little
half-rate procesh before starting for what book-
maker Jack Deery, the oilier day, when told he
was going to die, called “ the Great Stiff Stakes.”
* * « »
In Melbourne general cemetery there is a
tombstone “ sacred to the memory of ” a man,
his wife, and his mother-in-law. The present
writer yearned to add a verse :
’Twas feared from out his grave he’d get,
And walk like other sprites ;
So wife and ma-in-lavv are set
To keep him in of nights !
* * * *
Unique advt.—from M.L. paper :
W ANTED, Lady of good appearance and address,
well-educated and musical preferred, as Com-
panion to a gentleman in the country, whose wife’s
time is fully taken up with domestic duties. Horses,
vehicles, bicjcle, tennis court, croquet lawn, and
large house suitable for entertaining at command.
State age and salary required.
An Albury (N.S.W.) resident sends along
this wildly phonetic complaint:—
Dm- Bullitin -Referring- to your Remarks on the Albury
Juries thare isSoin Verry able Min in Albury and District
an(l thare is _ sonle afull Duffers I have knowing Min to Bi
2, n V. ie ,. ’ pu ' e r that Could Early Spell thare on name in
I Think wittne ®® e s ware say-
!&.,!£t/K;JIgTS,,
the chance of Justis he is sure of all the Law thare is
soni Farmers Good as Jurie men and Leave Men at thare
Q°ughs Better Fitted to attend than tha aree A Brit-
isher wither Rich or Poor should have a British jurie
An armless man who
lives on charity is a fea-
ture of one Melbourne
suburb. He appealed
to a local church-
man for assistance
recently, and
was offered 2d.
to split half
a ton of
firewood.
ONE OF THE FALLEN.
“ That's young Bullant, son of a member of our
Grocers’ Association, and he’s turned artist.?'
“ Dear, dear; such a respectable family, too!”
A mysterious burglar-boom for the month
has excited Broken Hill. Only once or twice did
the uninvited visitors attempt to penetrate
beyond the pantry or the kitchen ; hut every
other night or so they turned up somewhere in
the scattered town and left the inmates of the
house with empty cupboards. Over a score of
places were visited like this without a single
arrest. They were fond of their joke, too ; for
instance, encountering a plate of eggs they sucked
out the contents and carefully arranged the shells
with the perforations hidden. Also, when con-
fronted with more luxuries than they could
comfortably carry away (on one occasion they
“borrowed” their “host’s” horse and trap, and
when they had done turned them adrift), they
showed a nice discrimination in teas, jams and
preserves. This led to trouble, though, in one
household, where Mary Ann’s cake was taken and
the missus’s, after being sampled, was left. To
the acre, Broken Hill holds probably more people
who have served long terms of gaol than any
other place in Australia—partly because Broken
Hill (where everybody is more or less a stranger
to everybody else) is a good place to lie low in,
and partly through the benevolence of South
Australian prison-gate philanthropists, who send
the objects of their charity over the border.
* * * e
Saloon of big steamer. Solemn dinner-
time; all hands in evening-dress ; evening-very
still. Small voice, seeming to come from adjacent
caliii, “Mother!” No attention. Then again,
“ Mother ! ” and the doctor with feminine intona-
tion answers, “Well!” Small voice Percy’s
got his cold feet on my neck ! ”
* * * *
The latest W.C.T.U. fad is for a curfew-
bell at Hubart, the tolling of which is to prevent
much possible future Flossiedom by scaring all
the gay young birds home to roost. Woman has
a mediaeval soul. As far as she is concerned, the
world would still be flogging lunatics and burning
witches.
* * * *
Now and then—though not often—the
Undeserving Poor are appreciated at their right
value. At Wellington (M.L.) recently an aged
citizen wanted aid from the Benevolent Asylum,
and the usual cold, business-like investigation into
his character revealed the fact that in his more
affluent times he used to drink 32 beers in a day.
He got the relief. As one trustee remarked :“ A
man who has paid so much in beer-duty to the
Nate deserves assistance in his old age.”
* * *
Letter (writing almost illegible) received
from a Sydney registry-office with a fashionable
name by a girl who had applied for a housemaid’s
billet: —
Miss R. —My dere girl i just filed the vacance for house-
mad. But i have a good fue good generis and Nurs and
Nedle Woman i have a good generl With Laidie and gen-
tlemon one groun up Son 10 - shilling per week and I
Wont a hous Mad For a good Family in 3 Weeks or
Fornight. But you can come at once if you like you can
bord at my place if you nead to Wait a Day or 2 on What
you Want the Nurse and Nedel Woman For to Nice Little
Girls in a Dr. Famly 7/- shilling per week all others 10 -
12/- shilling per Week if .you com up to-morry Night. Rit
ond Let me no if you no Relly good Servents tell them to
Rit or com up must Be good send coppy of Refrences if
Not comming your to Morry night.—Yours Mrs. N .
♦ * * *
“Old Jack ” : Be statement that the gip-
sies landed at Largs Bay are the first to arrive in
Australia. Have met them in Maoriland, Queens-
land, and Tasmania. As a boy X remember a
gipsy crowd of Lees and Savilles'in Yan Diemen’s
Land. And they were a free importation. Any
amount of Romany people—men and women—■
were transported thither. Used to go shooting
with one scoundrel who had been sent out for
braining a gamekeeper. Taught me many Romany
songs, and much evil of a gamey sort. He was an
assigned servant of ours, and got into trouble
by breaking into the home store where he drank
so much liquor that he couldn’t find his way out.
Afterwards went over to Sydney, where he kept an
oyster shop and many attractive damsels. An
anointed rascal, but good company for people who
can take their amusement without the moralities.
And, apropos, Dick Lee, journalist and skeleton,
was, on his dad’s side, a gipsy.
H.F. : Met a
Mormon mission-
ary. Some points.
Mormonism is a
compound of “The
Word,” Joe Smith
and Freemasonry ;
Mormons claim to
have the lost se-
crets of the craft;
all missionaries are
masons of high de-
gree. The boss of
the sect can order
anyone off on a
mission at a mo-
ment’s notice, the
individual paying
his own expenses
or working his way.
Very handy for the
boss when he has
a factious opposi-
tion. To those
who accept “The
Word,” Mormon-
ism, like a thousand other
creeds, dovetails without a
flaw. It recognises the lost
tribes of Israel in the Mur-
kan Indians ; and, as the
same discovery has been
made re nearly every other
race, Ikey Mo’s long-lost
brother must be consider-
able. The greatest advo-
cates of polygamy are the
women. A new wife can-
not be married without consent of previous
wife or wives. Most of the converts are
females who rush even a share in a co-
operative husband. Worth noting,
that until the Gentiles came to
Utah there was no social evil,
no Flossie there. Is the alter-
native King - street-by-night or
plural marriage ?
The Queen’s shilling fund, started in Melb.
last year, on behalf of a « omen-doctors’ hospital
for women only, is being pushed along again with
some vigor. The committee, which has <£3400 in
hand at present, reports that the flow of “ out ”-
patients to the temporary premises is increasing
steadily. Last year the honorary staff of 11
petticoated doctors handled 5820 cases, each case
averaging three attendances at the “ hospital ”
17,538 attendances in all.
* * * *
G. : Why not a home for superannuated
doctors, and a fund for their widows and orphans?
No class is so benevolent, and in the medical pro-
fession bad debts are a long way ahead of the good
ones ; also, the bigger the man’s practice the more
time he finds to spend as honorary to some hospital.
* * ♦ *
Parramatta Council overseer has reported
that the local poster-pictures of alarming females
in lurid apparel and other gigantic color splashes
are causing horses to shy and endangering public
safety. If the local Council has no artistic taste
of its own, perhaps it w ill take its {esthetics from
the disgusted gee-gees.
* * * *
Notice posted on the door of a Golden
Square (Bendigo) cottage :
Karl Hanken, Golden Square corps, gone to Heaven.
He had belonged to the “ Army ’ and had died
the night before; and this was the intimation
that friends needn’t inquire any further.
J.F.D. : Didn’t know till t’other day why
so many of the Italian fruit-vendors wore corduroy
breeches—it is because such garments don’t wear
out through fruit being polished on them. Saw
one Dago on the pavement at the entrance to
Sydney Domain, trousers tightened and the apple
travelling up and down till it had a polish on it
like a Nubian stoker’s countenance.
HIS REASON
FOR THE BULLETIN
WMr was if made mt ]<= V e ljo u Aweet?
Donf bother ifour prerflj brown bead ,
' me no cjuestions and you'll hear
1 jJLt'icetera,- All is said .
What-! Aren' t Ljou Satisfied? Well TwctS n°t
The light in Ljour eijes of blue
ijour voice ( nor fbce, nor form,
Thai' made me so -fond of cpu .
"For fhouoh I admired cpur k>eauttjsvv«t
And married epa , tjef-
I think I wanted cjou most because -
Well - because ljou were bard fo getl
F Rorke
A SATANIC OFFER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thus spake the Father of Lies,
Reading- the papers of Earth :
“Friends, it were vain to disguise
What I think now of your worth !
See how these cables describe
Battles that never were fought;—
Shall a mere newspaper scribe
Shame all the wits of our court ?
Which of you guided this p n ?
Which of you prompted this ‘ par’?
None! Ye are beaten by men,
Impotent imps that ye are !
Lo ! where they tell of a fleet
in three places at once !
Genius like this, we repeat,
Labels our smartest a dunce !
Lies ye were wont to invent,
Suited your monarch to please ;
Perjury, lies ‘ with intent ’ •
What were your efforts to these ?
Much, we acknowledge, of course,
Came of the lies 3’e inspired,
Grief, anger, hatred, divorce,
Murder—results we desired.
But in society 1 crams’;
Yarns about fishing and snakes ;
Sailors’ and travellers’ ‘flams’ ;
Limited-company fakes ;
Frauds of Religion or Trade ;
Politics (ample scope there) ;
Say, have ye ever displayed,
Powers of invention so rare ?
No! But ye shall ! Hear our scheme !
Study the cablegram lore ;
Special reporting—first theme,
‘ Spanish-American War.’
Then competition to cheer,
He shall be vizier who can
(Say, in the course of a year)
Lie like a newspaper man.
Melbourne.
A. V. GREENWOOD.


Q
-vHave you
Forgotten
TrtE.Mi,?, i
■p OSE’S CELEBRATED
JU ' J3YJS LOTION -
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, ‘2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. J2£T Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by pout throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Gland.
ROSIN', Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-st., Melbourne
11 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
68 Currie-sfc., Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane.
At an old homestead in northern N.S.\ r .
there is a fine marble bath with a history. Tn
the convict days the then owner of the station
became infatuated with a certain beautiful young
convict woman and took her as his mistress. He
kept her in great style and had the aforesaid bath
made and sent out from Italy for her. After its
arrival the servants about the station were
made milk an extraordinary number of cows,
and, the story goes, it was afterwards dis-
covered that the lady aforesaid used
to bathe in pure milk every morn-
ing. The most interesting
part of the legend is that
which states that the milk was
then run off and served out to
the convict servants.
* * *
“ Ezrom ” : Be pre-natal
influence. I once knew’ a pub-
lican’s wife who, while at about
the fourth month of an interest-
ing condition, had occasion one day
to refuse more liquor to a poor
wretch, maddened by having knocked
down his cheque. Finding Mrs. Bung
had no mercy, the man suddenly laid
his left-hand on counter and set to work
to hack it off. He was, of course, prevent-
ed, but the woman fainted at the sight,
and when, in due course, her child was
born, it was minus the left hand.
* • * *
In Vic., local health-officers—as
locally-practising medical men, and as ap-
pointed by the local council (usual mixture
of tradesmen, landlords, and agents)—can-
not exercise a free hand. Should one of
them condemn a councillor’s property, a
move to get rid of him, either directly or
by reducing salaries, can be readily started,
or his practice can be cut into. Everybody
knows what can be done by judicious em-
ployment of woman’s confidential hints to
friends.
From a Vic. country newspaper’s obituary-
notice “The black tug, death, with its skeleton
arms, rapidly steaming out of the mists to take
deceased in tow.” Which beats Sir Boyle Roche’s
“ I smell a rat!—l see it floating in the air !
I’ll nip it in the bud ! ”
* * * *
Butchers offering sheep-flesh for sale as
“lamb” are liable in N.S.W. to prosecution.
But what about the “ old ewe dressed lamb-
fashion ” that is so abundant on Sydney “Block”?
* * ♦ *
Habit is indeed second nature. In wit-
ness whereof listen to the Cosme Monthly.
“ Owing to a shortage of vegetables, beef and
pork recently found their way on our table. But
the old relish for flesh had gone, and the stomach
craved for the food before despised—maize-bread
and potatoes.” Interesting from a scientific
standpoint; also as disproving the one-time
popular “ monkey-eating ” libel on the Pilgrims.
m 9 * *
Dear Bulletin. — Be recent par about the
Sand groping reporter. A member of the staff of
a Perth daily lately published the statement that
Premier Forrest was a party to Wittenoom’s
10ft. alluvial-Kalgoorlie-brawl - seoretary’s-gamp-
mining regulations. The burly Premier indig-
nantly denied the statement, and the scribe was
called upon to give his authority or take the sack.
The reporter admitted only that the information
came from a prominent Govt, official, but would
not endanger the man’s position by divulging his
name. Now, what are the privileges of a reporter
in such a case ? If he is clever enough to ferret
out Ministerial secrets which greatly concern the
public, is he committing a breach of trust either
towards his employer, if he refuses to give up
his authority, or would proprietor and readers
prefer him to suppress such matters entirely at
the will of the Ministerial heads ?—K.C.M.G.
* m * *
Editor Bulletin. —You want to know the
name of the Vic. Judge who sentences women to
solitary confinement. Well, the late Judge Webb
used to have a weakness that way, though the
writer does not know that he ordered the month’s
solitary referred to by Justice Williams. But it
isn’t necessary for a Judge to come into the case
at all. The visiting justices have power to order
“solitary” to male and female prisoners up to
one month, though—excess of mercy !—not more
than six months out of twelve may be spent thus.
For some reason -probably medicos or physio-
logists can explain—women stand solitary worse
than men. They scream or shout or sing—any-
thing to break the monotony and silence. Then
the gaol governor can, and sometimes does, con-
sign them for a time to the underground cells—
dark, silent graves. And when the visiting J. P.
or P.M. arrives, he can order the prisoner a further
dose of solitary, and so on ad inf. Any out-
break or disorderly conduct at Pentridge is duly
reported in the city papers, but who knows what
goes on in the country gaols, in some of which
women as well as men are immured ?—O.
* * * *
“F.C.”: In Victoria cases of infectious
disease are supposed to be reported, and when this
happens the health authorities presumably guard
against infection. But are the houses themselves
ever disinfected ? A family near me lost two
children from diphtheria ; they soon after went
up-country. Incoming tenants had scarcely set-
tled down before diphtheria attacked one after
another. None succumbed, but as long as they
remained the disease was always more or less pre-
sent. Finally, they removed to the next street,
and have since enjoyed good health. They reckon
that the infection was in the walls or the wall-
paper.
SMELLING IS BELIEVING.
BEAUTY : " My face feels on fire—is it very red? ’
BEAST: “I can't see it; hut I fancy I smell paint
burning!"
N.S. Wales Gr.P.O. authorities have at
decided to prohibit postal facilities to a few of the
medical pamphlets issued by some of “ the tired-
feeling” brigade. The stoppage of one or two
owing to the illustrations quickly caused howls
to the effect that “So-and-so’s books are just
the same and yet they are allowed through.”
So there is now a perfect buzz of brotherly love
among the vitality-restoring ghouls.
* » * *
South Australia has had bounteous rains,
and the prospects of the coming season are excel-
lent. This is how that earnest, amusing person-
age, the editor of the Public Service Review,
lets himself go on the subject:—
Elated by encouraging evidences of returning pro-
sperity, our whole being instinct with hope of good things,
our feelings bathed in the dewy dawn of anticipated
abundance, how we long to give utterance to our gratu-
lations in glittering letters of gold. How lamentably
inadequate is cold type to express the cordial sentiments
of joy that animate every breast. We feel how chilled
are our congratulations, coming warm from the brain,
when subject to the rigid sameness of long primer.
Nevertheless, it must perforce content us to set down our
record of appreciation for future historians to profit by.
For ourselves we are blessed by an ocular vision of radiant
faces whose incense of silent gladness will, we may be
sure, ascend in unuttered praise toward the Giver of
every good and perfect gift.
May our new-born hope that now stands tiptoe on the
crescent wave of expectancy blossom in due time into
full-bloom realisation.
* * • *
Little doubt that the progressive diminu-
tion in N.S.W. consumption-mortality is mainly
due to the commensurate precautions taken re
that active tuberculosis-sower, milk. In ’B5, with
a population of 950,000, the phthisis-deaths num-
bered 1095—about one-ninth per cent. ; whereas,
in ’97, with a population of 1,300,000, the deaths
numbered 964 only about one-thirteenth per
cent. Additional proof of the milk-connection
with phthisis lies in the fact that the diminution of
consumption-mortality has been proportionately
greater amongst children, of whom, in ’97, only
126 died of the disease, as against 271 in ’B5.
♦ * ♦ *
In a recent Melb. manslaughter case it was
elicited that the victim, a slaughterman, after
receiving a cut on the forehead with a stick, had
returned to work and had torn open the wound
by coming into contact with a hook at the corpora-
tion abattoirs. A few days later the man died
from erysipelas, consequent possibly upon the
hook-injury, though there was nothing to show
that the disease had not been previously developed
and that the hook upon which food-carcases were
subsequently suspended had not been previously
charged with erysipelas-germs for general distri-
bution. This emphasises the necessity that abbat-
toir employes should be not only free from disease
when engaged, but should be also under constant
medical supervision.
* * * *
A few facts gathered from a slaughter-
yard in a Northern town: —
Tuesday.—One pig which died over-night—sick three
we eks—dressed and sent in to shop for small goods pur-
poses.
Wednesday.—Two bullocks suffering badly from pleuro
killed. Hind-quarters sent in, fore-quarters thrown out
to pigs.
Friday.—Three sheep smothered coming by train on
Thursday. All skinned, dressed, and sent in to shop.
Sunday.—Old sow, suffering six weeks from loathsome
disease, killed, and parts cut off and sent in to pork-
butcher.
• • ■ *
Melb. Presbyterian Church offers three
prizes— £5, £3, and Tl—for best three essays on
advantages of Sabbath observance. Not to exceed
24,000 words —which means that they will have to
come pretty near that figure to have a show, and
also means that the Scotchbyterian conscience ex-
pects about 18 columns of daily-paper stuff for
7s. Gd. a column—to the “ successful ’’ competitor.
Yet editor Reav, a large potentate in the Vic.
Anti-Sweating League, chronicles this offer in his
Herald without a line of comment upon such a
gross case of sweating in his own particular line
of business.
“ I have only met with one case ox ]ury-
squaring,” says Purves, Q.C., “and that was
accomplished in open court by a. remarkably hand-
gome female defendant.” Justice should be blind
«nd isn’t.
* * * *
Melb. trams are at times crowded to
danger-point, yet no'prosecution follows, while
if cabby overloads to the extent of an extra
3d. he is promptly “ beaked” and fined.
It is with Melb. very much as with
Scotland at the time when it was,
“Tell me the man, and Pll tell ye
the law.” A co. whose shareholders
sit in high places and wear purple
and fine linen is apparently not amenable
to the ordinary bye-laws.
* * * *
Some contemptuous litigant wrote
“For Fools Only” on the bottom of a
candle-box, and surreptitiously hung the
sign on Melbourne Law Courts. Only a
half-truth. The sign should have read :
“ For Fools—and Lawyers ! ”
* * * *
Answer a fool according to his money.
Revised version.
* * * *
Men love small women, and admire big
ones.
* * * *
They were an ancient pair occupying a>
cottage on an Australian charitable foundation,
and when the wife died the husband was told that
he would have to turn out, as the cottages were
for “ aged couples ” only. Whereupon the old man
promptly got hitched to a very aged female, and
asked to be allowed, as once more half-a-couple,
to remain in the cottage. He wasn’t!
“ Maria”: My widowed landlady has been
relieving herself and incidentally loading me up
with her troubles. She has just taken her daughter
up to the doctor —who gave her some lotion or
other and a quantity of good advice. The young
lady —about 21 —is “a fine, upstanding girl’ of
sftJBin., and massively built. Her natural \yaist
is, say, 24in., but she has been in the habit of
wearing 19in. corsets. Consequently, there are now
two large raw sores, one on each side of the waist,
as big as your hand. The girl still persisted until
they began to fester—wherefore the doctor. This
same damsel lately went into town by herself and
had nine sound teeth drawn in one lot, so as to
THAT COOK.
NEW AND INEXPERIENCED HOUSEMAID:
“ It’s fifteen miles to the station,
and I was told that if I took this
train I could drive out with the new
cook."
STATION ROUSEABOUT (who has finished stowing the luggage at the back of
the buggy): “ That’s ’im in the buggy. You get up this side and sit
in the middle.”
get a complete set of snow-white ivories. She has
a “ boy,” who works on the railways. I saw him
once and promptly chaffed her about his lovely
figure, when she candidly admitted that he wore
stays and also curled his'hair. They should rear
some fine artificial children. This is frozen fact.
„ , „
, • • , , ii •
A commercial-traveller gives this as a new
yarn, and he ought to know. Jones, rushing
down Lonsdale-st., Melb., and shouting “ P’lice!”
ran into the arms of friend Brown, to whom he
explained the cause of his excitement, file had
accompanied a golden-haired Ivdy to the house
where she boarded, and there he had been knocked
down and robbed of all his portable property >y
two gentlemen friends of the lydy. No occasion
to fetch the police said Brown, who is a small
and valiant man, we 11 get it all back. Don t
eaten this child in the house again ; Ive had
enough,” protested Jones. “ You’re not asked to
do any fighting ; leave that to me,” snorted the
little fire-eater. “ I’ll go in, and all you've got to
do is to stand outside and count the dead as I
fling ’em into the street.” This seemed good
enough for Jones. He led his intrepid pal to the
house. Brown knocked at the door, and was ad-
mitted. After about three minutes of anxious
waiting, Jones heard an awful din of angry voices,
falling furniture, and smashing of glass. Then
the door was pulled violently open, and a human
form came flying through the night air and fell
with a sickening thud at the feet of the man who
was keeping count. “ Number one ! ” said Jones.
“Shut up, you blanky fool,” moaned the voice
from the gutter, “ It's me / ”
• * * *
Here and there the churches make des-
perate efforts to catch up to the dying century.
Urged on by a new importation, one leading
Adelaide Methodist tabernacle has added reading
and recreation rooms.
m * * •
The “ honorary ” racket is being worked
to death nowadays. Ladies’ benevolent societies,
hospitals, children and animals’ protection soci-
eties, and so on, have honorary doctors, dentists,
secretaries, auditors, with all the lack of responsi-
bility attendant on gratis work. Cheap adver-
tising of this kind may pay the doctors and
dentists, but the same cannot be said of the rest.
Lack of responsibility leads to too much of the
“ happy family ” style of managing things, and is
\at the bottom of many a sweet little official hush-
\ip of abuses.
\ . j
\ SECOND THOUGHTS. f
Instinct —Reason ready-made.
The big man is seldom aggressive ; the small
man is all aggressiveness, for he has nothing else
to represent him to the multitude.
The stout man grows his stomach at the expense
of his scruples.
Woman is honest because she fears to imprison
her sympathy.
The female is a clumsy invention.
Man is mostly dumb concerning what he knoivs,
loud-mouthed on other things, and weary of his
reflection in the glass.
O.P.
* * * *
Writer was recently in a Brisbane fruit-
shop when a stylishly-dressed woman came in and
bought two dozenbadly-“specked” bananas—said
she wanted them for the canaries. Next evening
was invited to dinner at a swell boardinghouse,
and found the banquet presided over by aforesaid
purchaser. When banana-fritters appeared, we
both kept never-minding each other—but I passed
that item !
» * * *
A Northern Chow, who had already paid
£l5O in fines for selling opium and opium charcoal,
was again arrested, the other day, on the same
charge and found guilty. Refused to pay fine,
adding indignantly : “ First time you takee my
money ; now by hellee I payee you out—l make
you keepee me ! ” Went to quod like a hero.
* * * *
“T.D.”: What disgusts me more than
anything about the Chinese gambling-shops is the
regular indulgence by whites in tea from pots or
cups previously mouthed by Chows, kanakas,
negroes and the whole motley crew who patronise
the faro-bank and fan-tan hell. Ugh !
“Do women marry
to get divorced, or di-
vorce to get married ? ”
— Amer.
* •
Dear Bulletin.—
In a recent number, J.
A. Philp battles for the
half-breed Chow, and
illustrates him freely;
but when he comes to
the quarter-caste lie is
out of it. Nobody con-
tends that the first
cross is notan improve-
ment upon the pair who
produce it. Indeed,
somebody up our way
once advocated the
breed in the papers as
being suitable for sugar
plantations ! Almost
any two pure breeds of
cattle or sheep produce
vigorous offspring, but
experimenting further
with these the result is
nearly always—degene-
ration. [Not so with
dogs, at' all events.—
Ed. B.] Same with the
half-caste Chow, and
the fact that methods
adopted with stock can-
not be practised on hu-
mans makes the hybrid
undesirable. Queens-
land men who are much
up and down the coast
will bear me out in the
statement that the pro-
geny of half-castes are
almost invariably weak-
er than their parents.
My experience is solely
in cases where the cross
is back among the
whites. None of ’em
up our way seem fond enough of the old
man to want to marry among his countrymen,
Mr. Philp's contention that Chinese educate their
children better than whites is all moonshine. A
Chinaman, to get a wife all to himself, has to be
pretty well off, and educates his children accord-
ingly. The poorer Chows who want a wife form
a syndicate and then there are no children. —
R R
* * * *
At a Sydney branch post-office a few weeks
back an evil-smelling colored gentleman called for
] eßers addressed to “Bachelor.” One of the
attendants, being inquisitive, looked no S.M.
Herald, and found therein acertain matrimonial
a dvt. A week afterwards the dark gentleman and
a gmar tly-dressed white woman called at the p.o.
and posted a a number G f wedding-cake boxes,
And the bride wasn >t half bad-looking, either,
Needs must when the devil drives.
EIGHTEEN CARAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tlie girl was eighteen, like Minerva
In queenliness to scan ;
But to the man who sighed to serve her,
She talked like Mary Ann.
Her hair was as the flaming tresses
That stream athwart the skies,
When in the western wildernesses
The ruddy sun-god dies.
He thought her wise, nor deemed her cruel,
And wrote a poem neat,
In which as some rare, radiant jewel
He typified his sweet.
He had the precious sonnet printed,
Aud now their friendship’s o'er ;
To her the jewel s3'mbol hinted
Just carrots—nothing more !
S.S.


Appearance.
The many people who are dissatisfied with the
appearance of their Boots or Shoes should come
to us for the next pair. We have made a
special study of the subject all the time we
have been in business, with the result that all
our customers acknowledge that our judgment
in the matter of Appearance is commensurate
with our reputation for Fit and Wear.
A Callaghan Boot or Shoe
is what everj r one would have.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George Street, Sydney.
A Notable Discovery
•0 Deotistry.
|l|r. Charles |. Harris,
dentist,
JTT AS conferred a boon on suffering humanity
K^y b FNT°mr' n p atm V - 6ry i latest invention for
IAIN “ U Work on-
By means of this new process the nerves of teeth
can be temporarily deadened in such a way as to
permit of teeth being prepared and filled without
causing the slightest inconvenience whatever
.ppZt f S r » h ,r «“■ >» obtained upon
Mr. Charles I. Harris (Dentist),
ST. JAMES’S CHAMBERS
KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite the Queen’s Statue).
Telephone 1482.
GLOBE TEAS ave Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My Dear Myee- Sydney ’ July *2, 1898.
te^cL C d 0 o CheS fMoS orne ; ille ” shows whatama-
show < wbat°amiteuta S't'dT Y,* ""li'” ?> rt
h.“XTK,‘C*" Ilhi "« to *» ft
r? rStenoe’ the
ad.es of the caste neglected to do up th e ?r U pner
lips and sported heavy black moustaches Mr
Lamberts art knowiedge gave him the puil over
S&traSSirr- Hi . s aX"
pmz was mightily clever and masky. But the
ohorus suffered from an ignorance olnrinoinles
Sif t. *? ‘ ,le O'?!*' M ThomSS
adage about beauty unadorned. As for the
gsX'SSr a " dmt •» to
With the exception of Miss Josephine Deakin
a bright and reliable Serpolette. the unknown
quantities of the caste proved the strongest factors
b Mrs G F 10 W “ a , ve , ry dever bit of side-
splitting Mrs Flemming’s Germain revealed a
sweet, unflurried voice, and the most pleasingly
made-up countenance on the stage • and Mr
Beattie fed his lean old Gaspard on the fattest
bits of acting the whole performance yielded. On
the other hand, Messrs. Burns-Walker and Wood-
house suffered considerably from stiffness of the
funny-bones As for the Bailie, I thought his
humor round, more than pointed-possibly he was
handicapped a little by his excellent make-up d la
George Reid, and the political gags and eye-glass
A very gay circle smiled on the three perform-
ances. First night, Govt. House came, and “ our
higher life was widely represented. Lady Hamp-
den was black-gowned, in compliment to the three
black coats that accompanied her —the Misses
brand are away in Melbourne now, and the vice-
regal party was principally masculine. Mrs. Mat
Mayoress m a yellow chiffon blouse sat beside her
daughter m deep pink. Mrs. Maguire carried the
secretarial cares of the venture on pink brocade
shoulders, and a very tiny maiden in a fancy
frock handed Lady Hampden the correct conf-
m.ttee bouquet. I noticed one very chirpy opera
cloak of fleecy-look.ng feathers, tinted with the
grey that only grows under a sea-gull's wing and
another pretty wrap of silvery-grey brocade
flounced jauntily with fine, white lace. ’
Les Cloches themselves have very little gowning
to do. Miss Deakin dressed her Marquise in
trailing rose-pink silk, lightened with sequined
lace, and crowned with a white plumed hat. Her
fSerpolette frock m the first acts had a smartly-cut
bttle ma-mie-rosette skirt trimmed round and
round with narrow, black ribbon. Mrs. Flem-
ings big, black, velvet hat was another prominent
sartorial feature. After all, despite toques and
toreadors, the force of millinery can go no further
than a big black velvet hat. A more effective
setting for a piquant face has yet to be invented
r or some reason or another the performances were
fixed for Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday, skip-
ping Thursday. But the break had no effect on
the pubhc memory, and it was delightful to see
such hearty houses every night.
vft 6 Keller man n’s Chopin Recital filled the
Y.M.C.A. Hall on the Thursday when “Les
Cloches were not ringing. The popular pianiste
gowned herself in black brocade with wreathings
of pink roses round her head, and a pretty side-
show was made up of the many picturesque little
Kellermanns including the baby who used to get
lost in the piles of his mother’s music. Fourteen
popular Chopin pieces were expounded with much
sparkle and dexterity. I see that Madame’s
scheme of six concerts includes a recital of her
own compositions.
The idyllic “Little Minister” has arrived at
last, and the same old Pattie, or just a little more
of her. The beginning of the play is shrouded in
a baffling mist of thickest Scotch, but light breaks
m sharply with Babbie’s entrance, and burns away
until the last delightful scene, when all Thrums
pops up from behind a fence to see the minister
kiss his wife Everybody knows Stevenson’s com-
ment on the Little Minister’s marriage—that the
sequel would be found later on, in Dishart v.
Jishart. But the play foreshadows that con-
tingency less heavily than the book. And, any-
way, there would always be the Thrummy folk to
keep the minister’s household in order.
Babbie’s first entrance is chiefly marked by the
scarlet berries in her hair. The rest of the cos-
tume goes for nothing. A ragged green skirt half
way to her knees, a dull bodice, and a strawberry-
tinted shawl have no picturesqueness of their
own. But the red berries save the costume from
ugliness, light up the wearer’s face and hair, and
cast an attractiveness over everyone who gets into
their orbit.
Perhaps, there is just a little too much Pattie
tor such a skimpy skirt, and I thought the prin-
cess robe might have been cut on larger lines,
i his was a slim little flowery silk, with Watteau
back and sachet, and a strong likeness to Florence
ochmidt shone out when Pattie appeared in it
wdh her rosy hair braided in a turquoise fillet’,
cut 1 liked her best in the long green mantle with
ermine trimmings. As for her pink coal-scuttle,
ne end of the nineteenth century sickens with a
sense of all it has lost in losing coalscuttles.
The rest of the frocking was entirely Scotch.
Nannie Webster, delightfully played by Eloise
f,'?;’ touches the high-water-mark of Thrums
rashion with the sacred word Merino. The
women-folk put on a great deal of elastic-side over
S V ™ k fl n?3 ’ and ?rank McVicars shedscon-
’ a leir i tkri f t mess by showing a big hole
,} IS . S lll )day coat sleeve. And the women
wear their shawls over their shoulders, and
the men carry theirs in their pockets. I fancy
s handk , ei 'chiefs must be entirely Sunday
superstitions, otherwise the life of the Thrums
traveloW^t" W ° uld be to ° seam y for any pen to
t l hoßc ?y al « “ White Heather ”is blooming away
moreliuiimntly than ever. A fresh lot of snappy
a£ ° n my second Vlsit > and 1 im-
agine it will take some time to grasp all the
effective costumes that trail along the play. The
shooting frocks in the first act are carefully-
b ] " lcec L affa,rs > whose tints never overtop each
other Frances Ross wears a brown Norfolk
bound wi th leather, a jaunty knife at her side and
11if-Timn ° 1 h T am i °’ Shanter - Mrs. Bland brings
Nor Folk P snif nd It to the luncheon in a speckled
I > ’ n )Wn , ed Wlth a deerstalker! Miss
Watsons woodland frock is a flowing white
sauced up with golden brown belt and gloves, and
a brown feather in a white felt hat. The pretty
hSwit r h n ! So ™% g '' rl , he] P s ol, t the sunset in her
hair with a smart Scotch tweed.
R ° SS ™ a S ines she dons fancy
but thF IT ,S Ueen , 0f tl,e confection,
tut the crowded audiences know better This
blue 8 the f.ff la , Phai '° n ,' dr - anl of b,aok tulle over
a fc ll i’ir indescribable grey. But, after
an the frisky Blan*! is the most fetching feature
of this splendidly staged ball scene. His make-up
elliptical - ° f m IarCUS Su P erior > with an
maiden lJ ?g dr u pm ? hlm at intervals, is what
maiden ladies with paint-boxes call “ a pretty bit.”
Do you know that Bert Gilbert and bright little
Ada Reeve have dissolved their till-death-us-do-
r,ttri' p! 77*<*,""*»« lastweek
T. y r , W one of her charges against the gallant
Bert (which no one will believe until it is proved)
f he USed to twist her ankle while all
the agonies of a sprain were racking it. Another
unheralded divorce is that of Mrs. Francis
lodgson Burnett, little Fatintleroy’s mamma In
his case, the worthy old prejudices agaX Inlty
ladies appear to be justified. Mr. Hodgson Bur-
nett s chief objection to his wife was that she was
and b rh7f r th her , b ? oks t° take any notice of him,
rhl .Vo he T? t 0 the untender mercies of
the n Vey ’ o V I,le sb ? took long journeys across
the ocean “to see her publishers.” Seeing a
publisher may soon be the female synonym of that
old masculine trouble, “ seeing a man.”
linS/R in i and thereabouts lives at the Dar-
hnghuist Rink nowadays. The Hamoden Pint.
"»f "*»«• Very NiJv
and no one is allowed in. Other days any
t f ah T fc ° n the P a yment of a shilling
Sofar, the fancy has not caught on to the out-
skirts, but I believe it will fasten presently, as
cycling is now acknowledged to be death to any
complexion that does not come out of a bottle. *
An American lady discoursed to me the other
day on a strange trait of Australian society. It
Al ? stralian hoi polloi is prone to
give itself little airs in the presence of Yankee
dittoes. The ladies of Potts Point admire the dis-
tinctive smartness of American women’s gowns
an , d Personalities, yet they always manoeuvre a
• bUt •J nt i .u their admira tion. After vainly fight-
Zr W i th n the P roblelri > I come to the conclusion
that bydney society likes nationalities with a
Si An ' ythh,B it
A very bright Yankee girl got home beautifully
on a certain Sydney upper-class female the other
day. Ihe latter gave a dinner-party, and dis-
coursed all through coffee-time on the genealogies
of her guests. Said she to Miss Yank, “That
lady X h ° s , at opposite to you belongs to one of
the oldest families in Australia. Her people go
back three generations.” “Oh ! ” says Miss Yank
Ihen I guess they can nearly touch a chain.”
It is said that the glory is slowly but surely de-
parting from Sydney charity balls, and that the
reason thereof lies m the fact of the price of
tickets decreasing and the number of undesirahle
buyers proportionately increasing.
lI k i nU * St ba 7 e been very disappointing to the
lady-doctor who successfully overcame all objec-
tions and difficulties made by the Children’s Hos-
pital staff to be obliged to succumb to measles the
very day after her appointment had been ratified.
A certain N.S.W. way-back township has lately
been put all m a flutter by the arrival of a man
milliner, who announces himself as a pupil of the
only Worth So beautiful is the millinery, and so
fascinating the young man, that Squatter Hayseed
and Farmer Hodge are alike left lamenting in
their desolate homes, while their wives and
daughters alternately flatten their noses against
the dazzling windows, or make costly purchases
inside The travelling up-to-date milliner; it is a
perfeetly-lovely idea.
One day last week I had a chat with Mr. Petrus
Van de Velden, and saw many interesting things
m his studio. Ihe artist is a grey-bearded Dutch-
man, who has lived in Maoriland the last eight
years. His enormous canvases strike awe into
any one accustomed to our painters’ modest little
three by twos. I felt like Anstey’s maiden aunt
from the country whom he led up to a famous
salon picture and asked triumphantly “ There
aunt, what do you think of that ? ” “ j think it’s
very ighly varnished, ” eyeing the frame.
Within the frames the studies are chiefly Dutch
Windmills such as Daudet loved wave melancholy
poetic arms over sombre Dutch landscapes Dutch
matrons nurse very Dutch babie ; in clean Dutc
kitchens. The national atmosphere of his coun-
ly creeps into all the artist’s conceptions. I saw
photographs of several Van de Velden pictures.
now hanging in the national galleries at Amster-
dam, and inferred that the artist is not without
honor in the country of dams and dykes.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
‘!,Th e last annual report of the Ministering
Childrens’ League and the ‘ Cottage by the Sea,’
is another reminder that a real live Countess (of
Meath) came over the bounding main, about eight
years ago, to start this pretty little work. A
sassiety meeting of the very "finest quality was
held at Bishops-court, and enthusiastic promises
of support were showered upon the peeress, but
when she went away sassiety for the most part
forgot its vows and left all the trouble to fall upon
a few cheerful grafters, headed by Mrs. Robert
Harper. 1 hanks to them, the Cottage at Queens-
chtfe is a live and growing concern for the benefit
of poor and weak children from any part of Vio-
toiin, but especially for those from the cities, and
the hot parts of the country.’ 150 children, in-
valid as a rule, spent a briny holiday at the Cot-
tage last year, some of them staying much longer
than the regulation fortnight. ' The Queenscliffe
sanatorium is a quite luxurious home managed by
a skilful nurse (Mrs. Sergeant) who mostly con-
trives to put the sickest cases on their legs again
before they leave.
I he Cottage by the Sea has first call upon the
funds raised by the Ministering Children’s League,
a juvenile help society that seems to be spreading
small branches in all directions. Mrs. Harper and
her colleagues claim for the League a special vir-
tue. It introduces the ingredient of practical
benevolence into young Victoria’s character, by
encouraging those small boys and girls who were
born with silver spoons in their mouths to spare a
few threepennies ’ per annum towards making
things more oomfor’ble for the lean and hungry
ones. Ihe excellent institution progresses
favorably, and hopes to enroll a lot more minis-
tering kiddies within the next twelve months.
“‘Christian Science,’ or Mental Healing, or
Metaphysical Science, or whatever you call it is
visibly making its way into English and Victorian
sassiety. Afternoon symposia of the soulful are
as much the go in Melbourne now as they were in
Chicago a decade ago, and the business will boom
until some twin souls tremble on the door-mat of
the Divorce Court, and frighten fellow-hystericals
with some new craze.
The Japs are smart, but they don’t know that
Me bourne women are the higher quantity in the
problem. Ihe other day, they issued blank cards
by invitation to an at home.’ When the ladies
came along they were told that it wasn’t a ladies’
day. And so a crowd of indignation had tore-
turn to Melbourne, when in the tea and bun shops
there arose such a cackle of protest as smothered
the roar of traffic in the streets. And the little
brown men who had been pronounced sweet and
lovely in the morning, were in the afternoon voted
the meanest, ugliest, absurdest creatures God ever
made. And the tea-shops thrived.
, r . J° se Ph Woolf—who lately got
Vic. lull Court committed for contempt of the
Envy Council, or something—seems to have fol-
lowed up his legal victory with a different sort of
engagement. There’s a lady in this case-viz
Miss North, daughter of Mr. Henry Y. North a
leading light of the Bendigo mining world It
goes without saying that the bride-elect is a nice
girl, for the happy man has a Divorce court prac-
tice, and his brother, the barrister Woolf is
always applying for a decree nisi with costs’ so
the family experience of the sort of lovely woman
who doesnt trot kindly in double harness would
naturally put the wooer on the right track. Mr
Joe Woolf was so awfully lacking in simple faith
that his Melbourne girl acquaintances felt certain
he would never marry. They thought of him as a
sad-eyed undertaker on whom they might one day
i'f ™ :u .' n age were a failure) call to order a coffin
for their dead love.
The st will and testament of a deceased
Vic. squatter doesn t give unmingled satisfaction
to everybody, it is said. The old gentleman in
his time was fond of dropping remarks which
promised well for his womankind when he should
go the way of all flesh, b it the hopes built on his
precepts have come down heavily. Widow and
daughters get ,£3OO a year each, which puts them
on the same level with an invalid son, whilst four
JUninn 0118 - of sfc £, f W growth get their little
rf 40 ’ 00 apiece- Therefore, the female portion of
the clan talks m shrill tones and weeps inwardly
likewise the local church, which doesn’t receive
“»p«KL aU from ‘ he ,at ««*
“ Talking of estates, one hears a lot of specula-
tion as to how the late ‘financier ’ will ‘cut up.’
.People don t seem to know whether he was reallv
a large capitalist looking after his own interests, or
onJy the myrmidon of somebodv in the back-
ground The question is warmly debated among
cuff-and-collar young men, who knew the dear
departed to their sorrow. And there are other
questions depending on it.
“At the Princess’s, the other Saturday night,
after Cecil Ward-m ‘A Bit of Old Chelsea’-
had been musing aloud re the difference between
a passion-flower and the white flower of a blame-
less life, it was noticed that Lady M. gathered up
her three daughters and left the house hastily
Ihe clock had gone 11 by that time, so perhaps
she was thinking of the time without wishing to
suggest that ‘A Bit of Old Chester’ was rather
too cerulean.
“ Pattie Browne was, not unnaturally, eloquent
on the subject of Melbourne’s ‘awful degenera-
tmn. Ihe city, she said, is now deadly dull • its
principal drapery emporiums are full of what’she
quaintly calls back numbers ’; there is no life, no
bustle, as in the days of six years ago. The place
seems to her to be far-O, far-behind a fourth-
rate English provincial town, whereas it formerly
sparkled with life, &e. Which doesn’t suggest
that the Little Minister ’ boom was quite equal
to Pattie s expectations.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
N.S.W. electors should make a vigorous
effort on the 27th to erase the names of all hybrid
politicians who make Sunday-preaehing a stepping-
stone to Parliament. Scarcely one of the class has
benefited legislation m Australia, while most
of them have been a standing incitement to bias-
phetny on the part of ordinary members.
N.S.W. Labor-member Sleath was, when
Levien started out to revive the fading memo-
nes of his ‘ martyrdom,” booked for a hard fight
Ia " L the new mining vote at
White Cliffs opal-field could possibly have pre-
vented his defeat by Edmond O’Donnell, for 30
years past well known in the river backblocks
Two Frankston (Vic.) belles are “going
off’ jiext month. Miss Mabel Watt 3 and Miss
Sylvia Madden. Chief-Justice Madden gave a
dinner pai ,y in honor of the marriage of the first-
named, which is to take place on Aug. 10th, and
all Melbourne will probably be en fete when the
fair and wise ’ Sylvia enters into the bonds one
week later.
“An Elector : Do you honestly believe
that Mr. Want is in favor of Federation?—Mr.
Reid: I know this : That Mr. Want has stated,
in a most explicit and definite manner, that he
pledges himself most absolutely to do his best to
bring about Federation if this Bill is fairly
amended, and T consider his word just as reliable
as those who are opposed to him. (Cheers).”
Now, doesn’t Mr. Reid say that the word of those
who are opposed to Jack Want *s utterly un-
reliable ?
Premier Byrnes re New Guinea syndicate
proposals : —“ I certainly knew of the proposals
when they were first brought under the notice of
bir Hugh Nelson in London last year, but my
attitude towards the scheme then was, and has
been ever since, one of uncompromising hostility.”
Well, all The Bulletin can say is that it was the
most quiet, harmless, unobtrusive sort of hostility
on record. In fact, never a protest did the hostile
Byrnes raise at all (in spite of his knowing all
about it) until universal denunciation of the
scheme made it safe to do so.
Premier Reid : '
The inevitable turn of the tide when popularity leaves
you, and you are stranded high and dry, must'come, I
suppose, to me as to everybody, some time in my life, but
it has not come yet. I have waited for four years, and a
good many tides have come and gone, but I tell you I
never felt stronger in my life than I do to-night. ' (Ap-
plause.) ° v K
How melancholy the hollow boast ! Before the
retaining-wall was built at Rushcutter’s Bay this
scribe has stood at the edge of the horrid ooze and
cast a mournfully-contemplative eye over the
endless collection of dead, swollen dogs
(ancient, toothless, mangy dogs, murdered
at midnight by citizens who had at long
last grown tired of their scratchings and wheez-
mgs) and likened the fate of those stranded
tykes to that of the typical worn-out politician.
Has Fremier Reid also stood on the mud at Rush-
cutters Bay and, with hideous prevision of his
fate, watched the bloated pup helplessly bobabout
in the tide-wash ?
From S.M. Herald review of Daley’s
book— J
This book of poems will receive a cordial welcome from
those who remembei the first appearance of many of the
verses in the journals, including the Sydney Mail, from
which the author acknowledges them.
The Sidney Mail is the weekly hash of the
Herald ; and it tells poets that it will be pleased
to print, but doesn’t pay for verse. If The
Bulletin mistakes not, ONE whole poem—out
of nearly seventy in Daley’s book—appeared in
the Mail ; and this paper has an idea that even
that had been previously printed in the Victorian
Review. More than four-fifths of the remainder
were originally printed and paid for by The Bul-
letin. Yet the Herald is proud to acknowledge
the httle Mails encouragement of Australian
literature—and suppresses all mention of the
horrid Bulletin. And the incident is stressed—
not because this paper cares a rap what the
Herald prints or omits—but to show once more
what narrowness, what prejudice, guides the
critical columns of the (self-styled) “leading Aus-
tralian daily. Ihe Bulletin is indeed proud
and pleased that so many of Daley’s beautiful
fancies (and many more not in his book reprinted)
first found readers m its columns. But it takes
no credit for admiring and publishing such good
ings, and wants no praise for enterprise or dis-
cernmerit. The object of this paragraph is to set
ei 6 10 t * le matt er of the Herald and
the Mail If the Mail is to pose as patron
of Australian letters, let it at least not
wear borrowed plumage. Let it seek out
some^ of the many brilliant, struggling writers
who have not achieved Daley’s measure of suc-
cess, invite them to contribute to its columns,
and pay them liberally for doing so. The wealthy
Herald proprietary would hardly feel the ex-
pense, and—providing a little editorial discrimina-
tion were used-the Mail would shine as it has
never shone yet. The Bulletin wishes for no-
thing better. Its own columns are only big enough
*> best of the matter sent to it
and there is matter enough sent to it to fill half-a-
dozen Bulletins every week. This paper desires
above aH things to see those half-dozen Bulletins
in full blast blast ”is the appropriate word
-and aH paying for the work of Daley and
men like, Daley—and the Mail, if it chooses,
can lead the way. Then—always given the little
discrimination a Golden Age of Australian
Literature might begin. There are a good score
of Daleys growing up m Australia now, waiting
to be discovered. Let the Mail dare to be a
Go!umbus, and discover them, and cherish them.
But not to cherish, not to print, not to pay ; and
then to come in at the tail of the Book with a
SeoSsl 6_ °’ “ Sir ' vhat *■


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
fcßWgsQjaretg
■mss
>! n,i rrrxl
CIGARETTES.
Kuppers EUberfeld Lager.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Reid and Braddon are the only Australian
Premiers born in the provinces over which they
rule.
An almost-unknown historical fact is that
the original name of Broken Hill was Mullins-
ville.
George H. Wood, the “ somewhat dif-
ferent ” comedian. George H. Reid, the “ some-
what different ” no-yes politician.
Stipendiary-Magistrate Addison, whose re-
tirement from the Sydney bench is notified, traces
his family to Joseph Addison, the smoothest of
English essayists.
The prizes to the laymen who will help
Cardinal Moran to make his Congress of 1900 a
success, will be a liberal distribution of K.S.G.
titles or Papal knighthoods.
Ned Trickett, ex-champion sculler and
present Salvationist, is now Custom-House officer
on the Murray bridge at Echuca, and when you
hand him your invoices you also mostly buy a
War Cry.
Ben Tillett says he weighed lOst. 51b. when
he entered public life. At the height of the dock
strike he weighed 7st. 121 b. ; when he reached
Australia he was Bst. 21b. ; now he raises the beam
at 9st. 71b.
Colonel Hutton, now sent to command the
Canadian milicia, carried from N.S.W. an official
eulogy testifying that he had infused into his
N.S.W. troops a spirit of profound loyalty to the
Throne. The testimonial has, no doubt, had an
effect.
W.A. “Govt. Astronomer,” when recently
advised by the Californian Lick Observatory of
the probable appearance of a new comet, an-
nounced that he was duly on look-out for same—
with a field-glass I—the only instrument at his
disposal.
Gov. Macgregor, of Papua, who has
knocked the crown off his administration of New
Guinea affairs by yielding to the pressure of land-
grabbing Lowles, Vine and co., held medical
appointments in two lunatic asylums in Scotland
before adventuring in foreign parts.
Sydney Stipendaries Johnston and Addi-
son retire on pension at the end of this month,
“and” says the report, “ probably a third,” the
latter, no doubt, being Mr. Edwards. By these
retirements, Mr. Delohery will become senior
stipendiary, with Messrs. Smithers and Isaacs as
runners-up.
The latest London craze seems to be for
anything Australian. Acting upon this theory,
and perhaps also relying upon the glory reflected
to him from his cricketing reputation, a Melbourne
doctor has recently established himself at the
Hotel Cecil, and is reported to be just coining
money. Verb. sap.
By the irony of coincidence, or a freak of
editorial humor, Gov. Brassey’s awfully dull and
wearisome article, in the Nineteenth Century,
upon “ Co-operation ” is placed next before
Frederic Harrison’s brilliant paper on “ Style in
English Prose.” Bane and antidote—but, oh !
such dreamy bane!
“Scribe” : At the meeting ofMelb. Bene-
volent Asylum, last week, the Argus reporter
took part, and reported himself. S.M. Herald
editor Gullett, when on the Argus, went to report
a cabmen’s meeting. To help the cabbies, he
took the chair, drafted the resolutions, and carried
the whole through.
It is just 20 years since B. R. Wise won
the Cobden Essay Prize at Oxford University.
Not till two years ago was it won again by an
Australian—Percy F. Rowland, tutor to one of
the S.M. Herald Fairfaxes. The prize carries
£6O a year for three years, but is supposed to
bear besides hatfuls of glory.
When Dean Cowper, whose birthday was
celebrated a week ago, was born in Sydney, the
chief sports of N.S.W. were bull-baiting and
cock-fighting. Every year a whole week was
given up in Sydney and Parramatta to these
forms of amusement. “What a change,” says the
Dean, “ within the span of one life ! ”
Emily Soldene : “ Babies crawling about
under one’s feet, babies in the doorways, babies
sitting on the grass beating time to the music ! . .
One gets tired of this. It gives one the idea that
one is now, and one has ever been, and one always
shall be in one eternal, boundless baby-farm.”
Emily’s a “one-er,” and no mistake!
Mrs. Houlding, of Narandera, the only
lady in Australia to achieve any degree of success
in the chess world, left for England last week.
Mrs. Houlding always played in the front rank
locally, and, playing last Christmas for the coun-
try against Sydney, she held her own against some
of the stronger metropolitan male players.
Dear Bulletin.—“ Queenslander ” (Bul-
letin, July 2) is wrong in attributing an article
on “Tree Blazing,” in Wide World magazine,
to a brother of David Lindsay (who, by the way,
hasn’t a brother). The author of that “ amusingly
ingenuous ” article (M. L. is a young
lady resident in Ireland, who has never seen Aus-
tralia. Simply a coincidence of names.—G. Stuart.
When the new iron bridge was building at
Yass, the late N.S.W. roads-commissioner Bennett
was very anxious as to the successful fixing of the
firstgirders, and waspleased one morning on receipt
of this wire from the officer in charge : “ First
girder successfully launched,” but fumed much
when five minutes later he got another : “ Into
the river.” A joke that nearly created a vacancy.
John Codrington, whose death is chroni-
cled at Ollera, near Glen Innes, N.S.W., carried
both a horsey and churchy reputation all over
New England. Before coming to Australia he
was famous as a “ sport ” in several English
counties. He owned two stations in the north
and bred many splendid horses. A fine, upstand-
ing horse and a vigorous, straight-viewed, self-
denying parson seemed to him the noblest of
creations.
The late Ernest Giles’s first
attempt to cross from S.A. to
Westralia, in ’72, was a private
spec. ; he and his partner, Car-
michael, finding their own equip-
ment. Before leaving the tele-
graph - line, north of Charlotte
Waters, they engaged Alick Rob-
inson, widely noted in the N.W.
for his readiness to talk “ stoush ”
on the slightest provocation.
When the party had got about
200 miles west of the line, during
one of Giles’s excursions in search
of water, Robinson, who had
started a journal on his “own,”
fossicked out Giles’s, and copied
whole pages. After Giles had de-
cided to return, Robinson was one
day away from camp, and Giles,
getting hold of his journal, recog-
nised his own matter. When R.
returned, G. charged him with the
copying, and told him that, aa
head of the party, he was the only
person entitled to keep a record
of the trip, whereupon R., pulling
off his shirt, invited G. to stand
out, and have the “ stuffing”
knocked out of him. Giles sensi-
bly pointed out the folly of trying
to disable each other, when they
had still to get over some very
awkward stages, and things quiet-
ened down for the time. Later
on, they met some parties over-
landing to Darwin, and Robinsop,
wishing to join them, offered to
take horses and pack-saddles for
his wages from Giles, which was
agreed to. But when horses and
gear had duly changed hands, Giles calmly took
off his coat, rolled up his sleeves, and, remind-
ing Robinson of the “ stuffing ” incident, quietly
invited him to proceed to business. But it all
ended without fight.
“ The black-and-white room is interesting,
too, by reason of the fact that Phil May exhibits
there for the first time. Rumor has it that he is
about to settle down. He will, it is said, be the
next Associate and after that he will live on soda-
and-milk and sign his drawings ‘ Philip May.’ ”
—London Sketch in its Academy remarks.
In strong contrast to the miserable, selfish
Crotty will business are the testamentary disposi-
tions of recently-dead Thomas Martin, formerly of
Adelaide. His widow gets =£4ooo a year, and at
her death £130,000 goes to Adelaide Hospital,
and £OB.OOO each to the Children’s Hospital, to
deceased’s brother, and to his man-of-business.
Two of the S.A. Parliamentary Labor-
party are constantly getting drunk. One of them
usually goes away quietly and has his spree where
no eye can see (though he did make a mistake and
get fined 10s. at a police court recently); the other
takes his liquor noisily, and shouts rude inter-
jections in the House when he has been enjoying
himself.
Despite the rumor that editor Curnow had
permanently forsaken theS.M. Herald, it is now
understood that he will come back in August or
September. Mr. Gullett’s acting-editorship and
earnest advocacy of Federation, trammelled as it
was by Herald traditions, was still a brilliant
interlude in the leaden placidity of the morning
grandam.
S’langdon Bonython, the be-knighted S. A.
“ democratic ” journalist, meditates a trip ’Ome
shortly. Bonython is anxious to make a flutter in
English society, but it is also no doubt his ambition
to rub up against his old rival, editor Finlayson,
of S.A. Register, now in London, who is believed
to have been savagely kicking himself ever since
the Advertiser man was degraded.
A PRECAUTIONARY MEASURE.
“ You should get him to sign the pledge now."
“ Why! he doesn't drink."
"No; hut he may, after YOU marry him”
H. F. Cary, of Boolcarrol and other
N.S.W. stations, who fell into a considerable for-
tune the other day, goes back through District
Court Judge Cary to the great Cary, translator of
Dante. Some of that translation was written in
the old house afterwards occupied by the late
Canon Kemmis at Darling Point, Sydney. An
association of ideas and fancies connected with
this fact made Dailey and Canon Kemmis close
friends, and started the former to study Italian.
Canon Potter, of Melbourne, an unutterably
dreary Irishman, states that the Bobbie Burns
dialect is old English, “more nearly allied to
German, or even to French, than to the semi-
barbarous Celtic dialect of the real Scots.’’ Here’s
a chance for the various Caledonian and Burns
Societies to arise and say something.
The auld sangs Bobbie sang sae fecht*
The words he made to rhyme
Were nae guid Celtic dialecht,
But English all the time.
* What is fecht ?
TWEEDLEDUM AND TWEEDLEDEE.
THE COOPER'S CREEKER : “ Victoria pudding, eh! What game’s
this? You beat me at dinner with this; called it New-
market then. Briny me boiled rice; I know that as well
as Tyson’s cattle.”
Diver May, whose Catterthun exploits
earned him the record in Australasian waters, has
left for England in search of regular work. His
mate, Briggs, went there before him. Their div-
ing record stands at 27£ fathoms, with the re-
covery of £7942 in specie.
Demise, Mrs. Herbert Henty, daughter
of Victoria’s first Speaker. Mrs. Henty met with
much sympathy in grievous trouble. Henty
brothers had a splendid mercantile business. One
of them went on a pleasure-trip to Europe. The
other was led on by the unspeakably-sanguine
Mortimer Franklyn to such undertakings as the
Would, Victorian Review, and Federal Aus-
tralian. It has been stated in print that the
losses to the estate were .£90,000.
This month Herr Borchgrevink sails from
the Thames, and hopes to arrive back in London
in the year 1900 with the secret of the South Pole
solved. His company will consist of over 30 mem-
bers, six or eight of whom will be scientists. He
takes with him 65 Siberian sledge-dogs, and a full
equipment of sledges and other requisites. He also
takes three years’ provisions, and will be particu-
larly strong in scientific instruments. He hopes
to reach Hobart about Dec. next. One of Borch-
grevink’s expectations is that he will find in the
regions of the South Pole a new race of men, cor-
responding in some respects with the Esquimaux
of Greenland.
Chief Juxcellency Madden was a sublime
spectacle at opening of Vic. Parliament. Espe-
cially ineffable. were his velvet breeches and his
cocked hat. Whether he thought that his bald
head wasn’t wanted in the show, or that as repre-
sentative of Her Gracious he ought to keep his
cocked hat on as a quasi -crown, who shall say?
but he never doffed during the ceremony. Neither
did he stand up to read his speech after the
manner of the inferiah persons who have preceded
him in like capacity, but spoke his piece from his
chair in a fat and unctuous voice, and was alto-
gether a shining example of gilded self-com-
placency with the cork o' I*-. 1 * - .
Purves is retained
both for Argus and
Age.
Yon Kotze: Apro-
pos of The Buleetin’s
“ Answers to Corres-
pondents.” Long ago,
when I was young and
foolish, I once sent an
elaborate poem of the
romantic and mystic
brand to a big Euro-
pean magazine, and re-
ceived the following
polite and flattering
answer : “ Dear Sir, —
Your contribution was
received by me with
very much pleasure in-
deed, and I have read
and re-read it with great
interest and admira -
tion. But, unhappily,
the exigencies of space
will not permit me to
follow my own inclina-
tion, and regretfully I
have to return a manu-
script that I would
have been only too
proud to publish under
more favorable condi-
tions. I am,” &c. Yes,
it was very nice and
elating, but —but—the
answer was litho -
graphed!
Fred. Turner, F.L.S., is worthily more
proud of the success of his Algerian dates on the
inlands of N.S.W. than if he had been two dozen
roads-and-bridges politicians rolled into one. At
his instigation N.S.W. Govt, obtained from the
French Govt. 10,000 seeds of this class of dates
and distributed them around the country. Now
they are in rich abundance about Pera bore and
elsewhere.
Lord Ranfurly recently opened a new fac-
tory in M.L. He is one of those degenerate Irish-
men—like baronet Esmond —who have not “ the
least taste of a brogue ” ; he talks like an English
johnny, and calls himself “ Ranf’ly ” —accent on
the “Ran.” The local Mayor got up a minute
after his Ex. had alluded to the absence of “ Laday
Ranf’ly,” and proposed : “Tree cheers fur Lard
Ranfoorley an’ wan cheer fur Leddy Ranfoorley.”
His lordship, in replying to an address from. his
countrymen, began : “ An Iwishman myself, it is
a mattah of pwide to see how, in ahl pahts of the
.Bwitish Empiah ” —etc.
Harry Dawson, who is standing for Eden-
Bombala, distinguished himself in politics by
becoming the cham pion draughts-pla yer of N. S. W.
Assembly. He rarely listened much to a debate,
but when the division-bell rang always left his
draugh ts-board and went in to vote —on the losing
side. He will have to play a good game to beat
present member Wood.
Victorian Responsible Ministers seem
more long-lived than those of N.S.W. Of the first
Ministry (1855), Andrew Clarke is still in the
flesh ; of the second, C. G. Duffy and J. D.
Wood ; of the third, Archibald Michie; of the
fifth, James Service ; of the sixth (Heales’), J. H.
Brooke and Thos. Loader ; of the eighth (the big
M'Culloch - Higinbotham combination), only
Michie remains. Of the 14 Ministries under Re-
sponsible Government in N.S.W. from 1856 to
1875, only six members remain on earth —L. H.
Bayley (4th), Saul Samuel (sth, 9th, 11th, 12th,
and 14th), C. Cowper (7th), Tighe(lOth), Salomons
12th), R. P. Abbott (14th).
Miss Badham, whose lecture on “ Hymns M
has interested several Sydney audiences, unearths
some quaint notions of early hymn-writers. For
instance: —
Be thou, O Lord, the Rider,
And we the little ass,
That to the Holy City
In triumph we may pass.
The balance of that hymn is regularly sung in the
churches. Who cut out this particular verse is
not known ; nor, until Miss Badham discovered
the fact, did any prominent divine in Sydney
know his Hymnal was so bowdlerised.
Snobbish Melb. “ sassiety ” gets cruelly
out every few months, when the probate returns
show that it has for years been entertaining a big
capitalist unawares and has been calmly snubbing
the same capitalist under the impression that he
was a common ordinary person. The last un-
known Midas to be revealed to this world was
lawyer John Matthew Smith, of the firm of Smith
and Emmerton. No one ever regarded Smith as
being more than “ comfortably off,” but probate m
Vic. alone is paid on .£238,000. The real estate is
valued at £131,000 and not over-valued either,
seeing that £132,000 is all that is put down for the
big block at the corner of Collins and Swanston-
streets.
The circumstances that the fir A two R.C.
Bishops of Westralia were Spar yards and that
Spanish priests were sent out to work among the
aborigines of the province, set some people won-
dering whether there was not a vague hope that
England would throw up the uncertain Swan
River settlement, in which case Spain would have
had a leg in. Dr. Serra and Dr. Griver_ were suc-
ceeded by an Irishman when hope, if it ever
existed, was abandoned ; and the only trace of the
Spanish ecclesiastical influence is at the New
Norcia settlement, where Dr. Salvado, Australia’s
only mitred abbott, and one of the original
Spanish missionaries of half-a-century ago, still
beneficently rules.
At South Melbourne the other day died
Jacob Cleal, aged 85 —an old-time Melb. boniface
and restaurateur — what a giddy place his Swan-
ston-st. hostelry was 25 years ago ! In the fifties
he kept a lodging-house where most of the Ameri-
cans (then plentiful in Melb.) hung up their hats.
Jacob, a man over forty, one day married a
beauteous housemaid, aged sixteen. Announced
the fact at dinner, and introduced the bride.
“ Nah,” cried George Francis Train—“ I’m a tee-
totaller, I reckon, but I’ll join in to drink the
health of this re-markable experiment. And I de-
sire to say, Mr. Cleal, thet I don’t know' which to
ad-mire most —your courage, sir, and confidence in
yourself, or your lady’s beauty.’’ “That’s all
right,” said Jacob ; “ and, you bet, colonel, my
courage will outlast her beauty.” But it didn’t.
The Westralian Ministerial ultimatum that
Esperance-Norseinan railway will not come before
the House this year will send the Bay folk into
open rebellion, and effectually kill the glorious
banquet and vermilion drunk which would have
inevitably resulted had the verdict been t’other
way. One fiery advocate of the line will probably
need to be restrained in a strait-waistcoat. This
warrior made his reputation by a banquet oration,
in which he luminously illustrated his power of
surmounting difficult obstacles. When well on
the way with an eloquent peroration, a rebellious
stomach put in undeniable claims for attention,
whereupon the speaker “looked overboard,” per
medium of the nearest window. The paroxysm
passed, he returned, white and unsteady, to
the table, and, seizing a serviette to wipe his
clammy brow', continued with heroic effort, “As
I was saying, gentlemen, when I was so rudely
interrupted ”.
Canon Perks, to whose memory and the
“glory of God” a brass-plate was recently fixed
in the Cathedral of St. Paul, Melbourne, was the
parson who went ’Ome some 40 years ago as chap-
lain to John Thomas Smith, Melbourne’s seven-
times Mayor. This Australian Whittington ex-
pected knighthood, but some little trouble (oscil-
latory) with a young woman at Birmingham, who
claimed acquaintance, destroyed the chance, the
chaplain notwithstanding. All that John Thomas
brought back was a donkey, the first imported,
which afterwards became the property of Jimmy
Hatton, a Fitzroy chimney-sweep. And, apropos
Jimmy Hatton, that w'orthy and his spouse,
whom he facetiously christened “ Desdemona,”
were outside Scott’s Hotel, Coll ins-street, one
day, when some “ bloods ” began to chaff him on
the color and size of his nose. Jimmy, who stut-
tered badly, stood the chaff for some time, but
eventually stammered out: “D-d-d-don’t mi-
mind my no-no-nose, gentlemen. It’s cost m-m-
-more money to color than ever you-you-you
owned.”
Demise : Everard Manhattan, editor Cool-
gardie Miner, aged 44, whose signature has ap-
peared at the foot of more than one good Bulletin
tale. A man of varied journalistic experience
gathered in most out-of-the-way world corners.
Was Tipperary born, but educated in Maoriland
and afterwards in England, whence he wandered
in aimless, desultory fashion round the globe.
Anchored on the Towers awhile, where he ran the
Herald in conjunction with J. G. O’Kane, son of
vigorous “Thady,”and afterwards started Figaro,
a smart weekly which was never taken very seri-
ously—characteristic of “ Man.” He was never
quite serious himself till he struck W.A., where
he did good work on Broad Arrow Standard
before joining the Miner staff Had a store
of curious tit-bits of knowledge and would
punctuate a lecturette on the beneficial results to
be derived from using splints of M.L. redwood
for fractured limbs with fragments of a Chinese
fairy-tale, or reminiscences of gold-hunting on the
northern shore of Tierra del Fuego. Was a de-
voted admirer of George Meredith, and for a long
time imitated his master’s style in ordinary news-
paper work. Was a champion long-distance
walker and always framed any special articles
while doing a five-mile constitutional. Leaves a
young widow who, as Miss Joyce Carnaby, was a
pianiste of first rank and brilliant execution.


three good
Madb in England.
TECIKTGS ”
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
Worcestershire
Pure English
Pure Malt
68 PRIZE MEDALS.’
Sauce
Pickles
V iuegar
Holbrook’s Sauce has been
AWARDED MORE
Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
13 BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN,
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “PURE MALT.'
AND
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE
MOST INJURIOUS.
FR9 s [HALTED COCO
Guaranteed Pure Cocoa and Extract of Malt.
Aboriginalities.
“ F.” : My neighbors, in one of the
longest-settled districts in Australia, are of the
first, second and third generation of natives. The
type-development is marked. Physically, the
first crop are taller and better-built than their
immigrant parents; the second retrograde to the
proportions of the grandparents; the third are
weedy and irregular. The girls bloom into
womanhood at 15 or 16 with startling suddenness ;
often fade at 20 ; at 30, with hardly an exception,
look worn and old. The agricultural slowness of
thought and speech appears in all those who have
not left the farm. Of the first generation, some
cannot read or write ; the second and third have
been to school. A few girls take to reading, but
of a hundred males well known to me I doubt if
one has read a volume right through. A Sydney
newspaper is purchased on the report of a sensa-
tional murder, or some other brutality, and the
family gather round, open-mouthed, to hear how
Butler laid out his victims; but at other times
literary, interest is confined to the personal para-
graphs in the local journal.
According to tradition, “ the old hands ” were
great spirit-drinkers, a jar of rum being as common
in the house as a bag of flour. Now, I doubt
there being a quart of spirit in the homesteads of
the whole district. The first generation have
occasional sprees in the township; the second
rarely ; the third never, seeming to get their
supply of carbohydrates from the large quantities
of sweets and sugar-food they consume; but
smoking is universal with the youngest born.
Meat is eaten three times a day, always over-
cooked—according to English standard—and no
native cares for fat. Tea is the one drink, taken
four or five times a day. Of every three men two
are indolent, working by fits and starts ; the third
is a demon, slaving night and day as though for a
wager—getting up at three in the morning is
common. There seems a fever in these men ;
their horses almost trot in the plough—the axe
flies in their hand as though life depended on the
stroke. Many of the lads are prematurely aged or
crippled from over-work; and the grown men,
being so fine-trained, collapse with great sudden-
ness from cold, chill, or damp.
The comfort of the family is not proportioned
to the industry of the man ; but to the thrift of
his wife, who holds the purse. And it happens
here, as elsewhere, that often the worst men
get hold of the best women. The Roman
Catholics are fairly constant church - goers ;
but many so - called Protestants (writer is
himself a Protestant) have never entered a
church, and take no interest in the matter.
Horse-racing, cricket, dancing, with prices of pro-
duce, are the. topics of interest. Instances are
common of invincible homesickness bringing
wanderers back again ; they have none of the
nomad instinct; a pound earned at home is
counted of more worth than 40s. elsewhere. The
crimes, petty thieving and killing the neighbor’s
bullock, are diminishing year by year. Ambi-
A DOG’S LIFE.
tion, on its rare appearance, takes shape in the
desire of a child to be a school-teacher. So small
is the desire for travel that while we are only 40
miles from Sydney, there are grand-parents who
have never seen the city. The local paper re-
ported, the other day, the surprise of two men
seeing the radvyay for the first time ; yet they had
lived all their lives within 20 miles of it. Close
]n iofw rr ! a u e JTe- 1 UCeS a lf “'ge P erc entage of weak
intellects; but this general relationship has not
hindered a general feud between families. With
flnKa b nm 1 k g ’ S i° n ? afc hand eve ry house is of
slabs. Old hands sit on a stool in preference to a
chair. Glazed windows are rare; bnt every
family has a fine sulky or buggy, and all are well-
dressed on Show-days or holidays.
* • * *
“Snell ” : Re the lyre-bird and its mimi-
cry, I was prospecting for some time in the Hodel
Ranges, Gippsland, where the birds were
numerous, and found several of their nests, like
young hayricks, but the only noises the wretched
things uttered at night were horribly suggestive
of murder. Our tent was pitched above a steep,
wooded gorge, and in the undergrowth of that
declivity the unearthly birds enacted gruesome
murders that lasted the night, and filled the bush
with the gurgling, spasmodic cries of throttled
women and the long, agonised screams of
mangled babes. If those were the natural twit-
terings of the lyre-bird, I would prefer its most
realistic imitations of a cat-fight. The monkey-
bear and the opossum can be-devil a fine night
when m an eloquent mood, bub the lyre-bird—
whew ! I d rather camp on the roof of a crowded
madhouse than near a pair of the uncanny things.
The lyre-bird subject recalls an old joke on the
Age. Years ago, when D. Syme ran an illustrated
monthly in conjunction with his other prints, he
published as a supplement a large engraving en-
titled The Haunt of the Lyre Bird.’ 1 To adver
tise the journal this title was printed in big type,
and hung on the outward wall, so that passers in
Collins-street read across the Age office in staring
black letters, “THE HAUNT OF THE LYRE
BIRD.” This was at the time when the name of
Sapphira’s husband was generally applied to “ the
great daily,” and the joke soon got about. People
knocked off work to go out and laugh, and it was
long after Dawvid—who is Scottish, ye ken—
noticed the procession and the admiring crowd
that the true inwardness of the awfu’ thing dawned
upon him. Then he fled wildly down-stairs to
demolish the terrible error with his own hands,
but was forestalled by an intelligent lieutenant.
* * * *
The story of “ Can you eat a bun, my little
man ? ” has its parallel in real life. A Maoriland
West Coast doctor used to carry with him a panni-
kin slung on his belt, so as to get his “ pound of
flesh ” out of the local publicans who discounten-
anced “ long-sleevers ” as not sufficiently profit-
able. He was once asked by a bagman, “ Can
you do a beer, doctor ? ” “ Can Ido a beer ! Sir,
permit me to inform you that I’m a perfect
thoroughfare for beer.” Then they had a pair of
beers.
• * * *
Take off your boots to warm your feet.
When tailing cattle on a cold day, writer has
often warmed his frozen feet by simply taking off
his boots and socks, and putting them straight on
again. The value of the remedy lies in its sim-
plicity and effectiveness.
* * 9 »
Showing how “ the trail of the bullock is
over them all,” up North, a recent Townsville
(N.Q.) birth-notice ends : “ Both doing well; Mrs.
Brown in charge.” Modelled on the “ travelling
stock ” telegram—“ Bill Smith in charge.”
“Bedevil” : Travelling
with an old bushman in a
drought - stricken part of
Queensland, was nearly dead
with thirst, when we came
across a patch of saplings.
“ Plenty of water here,” re-
marked the 0.8., and he cub
a ten-foot sapling down, cut
it oif close to the root, then
about ten-feet up, cleared it
of branches, and stood it in
the billy, which, in half-an-
hour, was three-parts full of
good water. 0.8. said that
drinkable water could be ob-
tained from almost any sap-
ling and also from vines. If
so, how is it so many bush-
men die of thirst in timbered
country ? [Mallee roots cut
out and put to drain furnish
a small amount of water.
The blacks of the Great
Australian Bight live and
hunt in dry country by this
method, but blacks can exist
on very little water. A good-
sized bottle-tree will also
sometimes contain water
which will drain out. The
vine referred to is probably
Yon Mueller’s Vitis Opaca,
the “Burdekin vine” of
0.Q., with a tuberous root.
Leichhardt (quoted by
Maiden) says in his “Over-
land Expedition to Port Es-
sington ”: “ Both tubers and
berries had the same pun-
gent taste, but the former
contained a watery juice
which was most welcome to
our parched mouths.”]
* * • .
A romance of the “ Rats’ ” push came to
light m Melbourne the other day, when a 17-vear-
old member of that respected organisation was
charged at the Carlton Police-court with larceny
and had associated with him in the dock a damsel
of a year older, understood to be his life-partner
without benefit of clergy. Evidence showed that
the chivalrous Rat lived a life of luxury in an
empty house, sending out his lady-love to maraud
when the larder was running low, and allowing her
to take the risks while he took the profits A
THAT DUCK OF A DOCTOR .
SHE (to husband) : “ You know I think a great deal of Dr. Smith, he is such a nice young
fellow, and so fond of children."
THE BEUTE: “And also of their mothers, I’m told!"
youth with these principles would doubtless have
developed in time into a prosperous plutocrat, if
his career had not been interrupted by 12 months’
hard. Then his ownest, declaring that it was all
her fault, and that her “ boy ” was as innocent as
a lamb, implored the Bench to allow her to do the
‘‘stretch” instead. This temporarily-caged
“Rat’’will probably be heard of later on as an
earnest advocate of “ thrift.”
* * * «
Dear Bulletin.— Your correspondent,
“ S.K., ’ is hopelessly astray about barrainundi
ever reaching 201 b. or 301b.'weight. Eurumbah
(not Eurombah) was once an out-station of my
father’s—the late Andrew Scott, of Hornet Bank,
and our people have owned most of the country
around there for past 50 years, during which time
the largest barramundi I ever heard of being
caught in the Dawson River or any of its tribu-
taries weighed 9|lb. There is a fish found in the
Eitzroy River which is sold in Rockhampton as
barramundi and weighs up to 601 b., but it is not
in the least like the true barramundi of the Daw-
son. By the way, Hornet Bank Station above-
mentioned was the scene of the Fraser tragedy of
’57, when the whole Fraser family bub two were
murdered by the blacks.— Bbigalow.
* * • *
“L.G.W.” : It was in a long spell of dry
weather, and I had been after cattle for weeks, so
I was glad to strike a hut to vary the monotony.
I was hospitably received. The hut was one-
roomed, and the family was Mick Doolan, wife,
daughter of 18, two nephews somewhere between
20 and 30 ; also, two goats and many mangy dogs.
It was cruelly hot, and the garments were so
scanty that I felt overdressed in moles and a blue
cotton shirt. We had goats’ milk and damper for
tea ; and, after tea, we sat outside and told yarns,
and smoked under a blood-red moon, with a haze
of smoke drifting in from the scrub. Then we
went to bed; that is, mine host, the boys, and
myself camped under one tree, and the women
under another, about 3yds. off. The goats shared
either chamber indiscriminately, and the dogs got
up occasionally and howled. ' Yes, it was hos-
pitable !—but primitive !
* * » »
“ A.D. ”:Oneday, ontheDiamg,ntina, writer
and survey-party pulled up at a tin-and-bark hut
and knocked. No answer. Chainman entered. A
big kangaroo-dog leaped out and made for the
scrub, howling as if he had seen 20 moons. A
tow-haired youngster, of four or so, lay asleep in
the far corner; on the bed was a man— dead ; the
body still warm. Chainman shook up youngster,
gave him a peppermint, and asked questions.
Kid explained that he had been playing with a
kerosene-tin in front of the door when the dog
came out suddenly, gripped him by the pinney,
and carried him to the bedside. That was all
chainman could get out of the child. Everybody
was impressed by the dog’s sagacity. Harris
dilated on the brute’s foresight. “ What man or
woman,” he said, “could have done more than
bring the child to the side of its dying parent ? ’
It seemed very nice, and Harris made notes in
his pocket-book, and promised to send them
to a friendly editor. My objections to Dog
and Poetry are insuperable, therefore I examined
the case without enthusiasm. Here are my con-
clusions : Man began to die at sundown with
nobody about him save dog and child ; dog crouch-
ing Beside bed; child outside belting a kerosene-
tin. Now, some sick and dying men are pecu-
liarly susceptible to sounds, and one can imagine
that poor bushy lying half-conscious with the
infernal din cutting him through and through.
The kid haying no other amusement bangs and
scrapes his tin on the pebbles by way of relieving
the monotony. Man suffers Gehenna, and when
the hundredth s-r-r-r-r-p gets him by the nerves,
he struggles upright and signals to the dog. Dog
yelps joyously : man makes a sign. “ Fetch that
brat in here, Jacko —fetch him in here! Oh,
~—! ” Jacko bounces out, and before kid can
sing “hey” he has him by the pinney and drops
him at bedside. Then kid falls asleep and dog
keeps guard, waiting for the man to make another
sign—which he never did.
* * * *
“Malua ” : “A Vic. country-town barber
took his girl to a dance at a pub. 12 miles off, close
to which was a training-course. The track from
the pub. to the course was nearly in the same
direction as the barber’s homeward road, and
about 2 a.m. barber and girl drove off for home.
At 5 they saw a light, and when they drove up to
it found they were back at the pub. When their
tracks were examined they numbered 27 times
round the course—each time a mile and five chains.
It was a moonlight night, but no heavenly body is
of service to a bad bush man.
THE BELOVED MOTHER COUNTRY.
"Ah! Sandy, mon, I had an awfu' dream las!
nicht.”
“ What was yon? ”
“ Mon, I dreamt I was hack in Scotland!”


Chef de Cuisine, Hotel Metropole,
Sydney.
Mr. G. Tessier, chef de cuisine, recognising that
even the greatest care in preparing and choosing
a diet does not guarantee against indigestion or
dyspepsia, gives a word of good advice. “I have,”
he says, “ much pleasure in stating that when
suffering from dyspepsia and nervous weakness I
rigained health and energy by the use of a few
bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and a few phials of
Safe Pills.” *
SUN HATS & HELMETS
free by post.
Q TJAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS— White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
K
SoftCao'fa&Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO,'- per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 6/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable, Specially
suitable formation and Bush wear. _ State height, chest,
measure ii size of collar worn. f’/fO? IiItOTH lillS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for tip-
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
“ Malle”: When
the efficacy of cats
as rabbit-destroyers
was bush gospel, a
jackeroo was sent
from Mossgiel to
Hay to secure a lot.
He had a hundred
cooped up in gin
and other cases
(there’s no lack of
these in Hay), and
was ready to start,
when a local joker
persuaded him that
a travelling-permit
was necessary. By
the help of aforesaid
joker he filled in
the form ready for
the stock-inspector,
and, when that
functionary appear-
ed in his office, pre-
sented it for his
signature. Inspec-
tor thought permit
was wanted for tra-
velling sheep, and,
seeing one hundred
down, this dialogue
ensued : “ Small
mob?” “Oh,ldon’t
know—l reckon I’ve
done well.” “Hay
to Mossgiel ? Where
from, though?”
(meaning what sta-
tion). “Oh, just
Hay.” “ Just Hav,
you idiot ; you did-
n’t buy them in the
sale-yards ! Where
did you buy ’em ? ”
‘' I gave boys about
the town 18d. eaoh
to catch ’em for
me.” “Gave boys
lSd. each? Jump-
ing Moses! you’ll get five years, and, by
Heaven, you deserve it.” “I reckon its a tair
price for a cat.” “Oat?” The jackaroo can
never think of the conclusion of that interview
without a shiver.
* * * *
“ A.E.” : How’s this for the casual Aus-
tralian ? Accompanied a young station-hand in
N.S.W. Western district once to take rations to
his father, who was a dummy, living by himself on
the back-station ; but when we got there we found
the hut burnt down. “Wonder where the ole
mania?” said my companion. “S’pose the old
man is burnt too.” And sure enough we
found his father’s bones all charred. When
we had* gathered them together I asked
the youth what he was going to do with them.
“ Do with ’em ? ” he said, as he coolly lit his pipe,
u why, dig a hole and shovel ’em in ! ” And we
did, putting a piece of iron over the spot to keep
the native dogs off.
» » * •
“Alone”: Apropos that cunning snake
t hat stretched his frogs out thin before tak-
ing ’em. I was out one morning on the
border of the Koo-wee-rup swamp, in Gipps-
land, when I came suddenly on the most
extraordinary-looking snake I had ever seen. It
was about sft. long, and had a big, swelled-up-
looking green head, which it carried about a foot
off the ground, as it moved along through the long
grass in graceful, sweeping curves. I emptied
two charges of duckshot into his snakeship amid-
ships, when lo l his big, green head fell off. When
I ran up to inspect it at short range, it proved to
be a big frog; he was engaged letting wind out of
himself in spasmodic gulps, and when he had de-
flated to his normal size he leisurely hopped off.
Is it yet recorded in natural history, that
certain Australian frogs have power to inflate
themselves, in the presence of their enemy, the
snake, so as to make being swallowed an impossi-
bility ? Apropos frog-inflation :if you sink a shaft
(any depth, 100 ft., or more) in dry ground, when
you go below of a morning it is a common occur-
ence to find a few frogs at the bottom. I reckon
they come to the edge when the braceman knocks
off, peer down the shaft, croak to one another,
“ Don’t —see—any —water— down there—but—
s’pose —we’d —better—chance —it,” then fill them-
selves up with wind, and take the big leap. They
don’t get smashed up either. Next morning
you’ll find them all hustling round in good order
and condition and praying for rain.
• * * •
“ Y’ see, it <s this way,” said that t’other-
sider. “ Ever since Sheehan died, old Judy keeps
cornin’ round ter my camp ter frighten my kids
when they’re half asleep. She puts flour .in her
hair ’n’ hops here ’n’ thear like a blessed inseck.
She’s got a set on my kids. Dunno as I ever did
her any harm. Ketch her ? Wish I could ! ( Sool
th’ priest on to her,’ says Cassidy to me. * Rot,
I says ; ‘ I’ll fix her up.’ Lars night I goes over
ter Mommet Khan’s place. 4 Khan,’ I says,^
‘ thear’s a poor old Irish woman what’s frightenm
my kids. Lend’s a camel.’ ‘ Yes,’ he says,
holdin’ out his hand. I gave him ten bob. Judy
was at home. Me ’n’ Khan sloped round ter th
back door with th’ oont. Yer could have heard
a pin drop. Old Judy was kneelin’ on the floor
sayin’ Haley Marys afore a couple of
Mommet Khan fetches the oont a dig 1 on th
shoulder, ’n’, strike me pink, in goes the oont s
head through th’ winder. I got a holt of his tail
’n’ gave it a twist or two. Judy must have heerd
th’ camel’s breath ; she leapt up ’n’ sees the oont s
face lookin’ at her quite sorrerful with his flabby
lip a-movin’ up ’n’ down. ‘ Glory be ter Gawd !
she says ; ‘ ’tis owld Sheehan come back ter me !.
Th’ oont shook bis head jest sif he knowed, ’n’
backed out when she came at him with a hug.
4 She is mad ! ’ says Khan ; ‘ it is not good to play
with the mad.’ When yer come ter think of it,
Khan’s oont ain’t onlike old Sheehan—sorter re-
semblance ’bout th’ upper lip. Anyhow, 111
stop her scarin’ my kids if I have ter borrer a
banshee. Say, Mick, is thear any banshees over
Bogan way?”
* * * *
Recently, at Temora, a German pedlar
stepped casually round the corner, and—fell down
a shaft 40ft. deep. Killed ? No. Tore the elbows
of his trousers, barked his shins, and howled for
help. Pretty soon townsmen came round the
THE CHARGE.
ARRESTING CONSTABLE: " He was loud in his dimaynor, your Worship.
Massacrayin' another man wid his fishts, and obstructin' the
atmosphayre wid his vice. But he come quite paceful."
corner and hauled him up, and lent him some pins.
He skewered the loose bits on, and, having caused
every man in the crowd to rejoice that he had a
mouth on him, started out on the road.
* * * *
“Leg”: Lately visited a N.S. Wales
station, owner of which some time back procured
(from Govt.) and distributed blankets to the
aboriginals, and, on retiring to rest, I found that
the blankets on the bed had a name printed across
them in large, red letters, and that name wasn t
the name of the station. I subsequently ascer-
tained that most of the beds were provided with
similar coverings.
* * * *
“ Eko ” : The remnant of the local “ na-
tives ” may be seen at Antwerp Mission Station
near Dimboola, Vic. They are a decent lot of
fellows, drinking as much and swearing as
fluently as the averageJEnglisher. They have a
strong cricket-team, one of whom, ‘ Fisher
Marks, is perhaps the fastest bowler in Victoria.
His delivery, though questioned, is quite fair,
save when he is unable to get wickets then he
often sends down a leg-smashing throw. He is
extra careful of his own brains (a darkey s brains
are in his legs), and wears two pads on each leg
when batting. They take to football like an Aus-
tralian to beer. They all play barefooted and
kick with the ball of the foot—never with the toe.
At a concert given at the local hall four of these
aboriginals sang “The Fisherman and His Child ”
arranged as a quartet. The singing was correct
and sweet—but oh, the awful lack of expression 1
The juveniles, mostly “ half-and-half,” are intelli-
gent, and compare favorably at school with the
“ whiteskms.” Many of them are pretty, and
would pass for natives of Southern Europe.
* * * *
The last report of N.S.W. Aborigines
Board gives : full-blooded blacks 3422, and half-
castes 3663, and shows a decrease for the year of
81 full-bloods and an increase of 182 half-castes
(“go down blackfellow jump up whitefellow”).
The report ingenuously observes that these facts
indicate “ a decided improvement” on the condi-
tion of affairs last year.
• » * *
In the tobacco-growing Bang River dis-
trict (Vic.) peopled mostly by exiles from swell
Toorakian families and Chinamen, the now sadly
common Bananaland spectacle of white men
working for Chows is repeated. The other day, a
couple of whites who had retired in disgust from
Mongolian service, called at a Caucasian home-
stead in search of graft. “ I haven’t any work
for you,” said the boss, “but I think you can
get a job over at Chomley’s ” (pronounced
Chumley’s). “ Chum Lee’s ! ” was the hasty
reply. “Nod d fear 1 Had enough of the
Chows to last us our lifetime 1 ”
• * * *
Use is second nature. A sight in a pad-
dock outside Ballarat, a few years ago, was an old
whim-horse, pensioned by some lucky deep-leader
to graze out the rest of his life in peaoe. But the
habits of a lifetime were not to be denied. The
children who passed that way used often to “have
a circus ” with the old prad and put him through
his paces. Although he had gone stone-blind the
call of “ stand up ” would arouse him. At “ gee ! ”
he would haul, and “ whoa ! ” would make him
pause while the imaginary braceman emptied the
bucket. Then atCome-e ! ” he would turn and
slowly lower away feeling the weight as if it was
all real.
• • * *
‘‘ o Possum ” : In the bush districts
around Omeo half the male population is going
about with a kink in its neck, acquired through
gazing up into the timber for ’possums. A way
out on the Babbaras, Cobungara, and Wild Boar,
you meet wild-eyed men who are bald-headed
from cow-butting, eagerly scanning the trees for
scratches, or hustling amongst the hop scrub for
chewed leaves. If they speak at all, it’s only to
inquire if you think there’s any truth in the yarn
that Bill Smith missed a ’possum in Hatter’s
Gully two years ago ? Meanwhile, it’s as hard to
secure a ploughman as it is to find a straight-going
politician.
* * * *
Buckley, the “ wild white man ” of Vic-
toria, once told the writer that he owed his popu-
larity with the blacks to his abstinence from all
interference with their women. At first they
couldn’t make this out; then it seemed to occur
to them that this indifference to the charms of the
sex was more than human. And altogether, what
with his great stature, natural stupidity, and orthm
dox morality, it was no wonder that the simpie
niggers came to regard the runaway convict as a
sod “But I think,” said Buckley, “that the
way I used to scoff kangaroo-rat and possum
rather shook their faith sometimes. Not very
godlike to be mouchin’ around after wood-grubs,
was it? But there’s no doubt it fetched em when
they saw I didn’t care for the ladies.
• * * *
“ Mallee ’’ : Was going for a ride with the
owner of a station in Wagga district, and his
seven-year-old son was to accompany us. Johnny
had caught his pony, and with boyish show-off
spirit wanted to jump him out of the pad-
dock barebacked. Pony gave a half-rise at the
fence and dropped again ; so did Johnny,
father, seeing he was not hurt, said : What did
you do that for, you young fool ? Youngster
rubbed his eyes with his knuckles and blurted
out: “I’ve seen you do it too, you old
fool! ” Australian filial reverence is a touching
thing. „ .
Dear Bulletin. — Flabby Paul’s story of
the nigger repeating his questions has its proto-
type in the Indian soldier of John Company s
time. ‘ ‘ Hern Hern,” says I; “ Hern Hern, says
he. “Roz Roz,” says I; “ Roz Roz, says he.
“ Pani Peet ” says I; “ Pani Peet, says he. bo I
knew there was Shikar in them pairts. Bern
means deer; Roz Roz, day by day. and Pam Peet,
water drink. Once I asked the direction of
Mohamedpur, and was answered with a wave ot
the hand forward and the repetition of the wor
Mohamedpur. So on I trudged and got some
grand shooting. Next I asked the same coolie,
“Mohamedpur?” “Gee ha,” and off ngsin a
mile or two. I noticed my friend, the Major,
laughing; and, as it was getting towards sun-
down, he asked, “ Where’s the camp ? We were
at it!— Scotty the Wkinkler.
* * * *
“ Swordfish ” : Started a controversy, the
other day, as to how far a bullock or horse bell could
be heard in the bush on a still, clear morning, and
the general opinion was that greatest distance is
seven miles. Never myself heard a bell at a
further distance than three. Apropos ;on a very
calm, clear night, the midnight chime of Adelaide
Post Office clock can be heard at Glenelg, b£ miles
away. Any more bell-birds about ?
* * * *
“ A.R.M.” : Re the story of the two half-
caste girls found on Fraser’s Island some years
ago (Bulletin, 5/3/’9B), there is a statement made
in the “ Picturesque Atlas of Australasia, which,
if true, may solve the mystery. It is affirmed
that Mrs. Fraser (wife of Capt. Fraser) was de
THE WHOLE DUTY OF DOG.
REGINALD (owner of collie , to common person, whose dog is maltreating collie).
“ Confound you! call your dog off. Mine is a valuable animal."
COMMON PERSON : “ Well, mine ain’t; but I'll bet yer drinks he licks your dog.”
tained on the island in question by the natives for
several years. During this time she was cruelly
treated by the islanders, and was degraded, if
possible, below the level of their own womem It
is alleged that, from “ information received of
the condition of the unfortunate captive, the
Q. Govt, moved in the matter, and, after much
difficulty, her rescue was effected. Mr. Grant
Allen has written a tale for one of the London
annuals, entitled “ The Triumph of Civilisation,
in which the plot is drawn from Mrs. F. s tragic
story. Perhaps some Bulletin reader may be
able to throw some light on the subject. There
are, of course, many stories extant of captive white
women who have, in the early days of Australia,
dragged out their wretched lives amongst the
aborigines—notably the case of the “ lost white
woman 19 who, in the “ fifties,” was heard of roam-
ing with the natives in the wilds of Gippsland. It
is scarcely possible that all these tales are pure
fiotion.
The Co-Operative Wool and Produce Co.,
Ltd. —During the coming wool season the magnificent
stores of this successful company, at Central Wharf, will
be taxed to their uttermost. The sampling floor (300 ft.
by 100 ft.) is the finest in the colony as regards equal
diffusion of light and absence of all obstructions. Receiv-
ing and delivering of wool can be carried on with the
greatest possible speed and efficiency, and clients of the
company, growers and buyers alike, may rely on their
interests being in every way well looked after.
The retirement through ill-health from
N.S.W. Parliament of Dr. Hollis, removes from
political life the most disturbing of the influ-
ences at work during the discussion of the N-S. •
Land-tax Ao* in the early days of the Reid Ad-
ministration Dr. Hollis, a devout Ge &• ’
had the unearned-increment theory in his brain,
and in advocating a land-tax always illustrated
his position by assuming a tax of 4d. in tne*.
This gave the enemies of the tax a. powerful
for working up opposition. In vain
of a practicable Land-tax Bill protested that they
didn’t ask 4d. ; in vain also Dr. Hollis explained
that 4d. was only an illustrative figure; but 4a.
was there, and in speech after speech and lecture
after lecture the doctor introduced the same
obnoxious 4d. It became to him a sort of A-thg
Charles’ head. He never meant it to be a reality,
he kept affirming, but on his very last appearance
in Parliament he managed to illustrate his
economic opinion on the basis of a 4d. in the
land-tax.
Pills from tne Saturday Review (make
a face and gulp ’em down !): —
The importation of Australian meat and wine hasiits
excuse, for those things, though not the best <« t h ®* r
kind, are cheap and not unwholesome ; but for tne im-
portation of the existing brands of Australian painting
and sculpture there can be no excuse whatever, mere
is no Australian art. There are a number of young men
who would like to be artists, and who do their best to
create art on the basis of the illustrated paper and such
popular pictures as find their way to Australian public
galleries, but there is no evidence of their ever having
seen a good picture. They are in the position of the
people of Ephesus visited by the Apostle Paul, who had
not so much as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost.
They have the instinct of art, vague information about its
nature, the most misleading examples, and they struggle
heroically to produce they know not what. The present
exhibition is the act of a benevolent lady who thought she
was doing a good turn to these men m putting their
works on the London market. She could hardly
have spent her money worse. These dowdy, shallow,
glaring pictures merely prove the poverty of tne
land. How much better to have provided one or
two of the most promising students with travelling
bursaries, so that they might come over and study in
countries where there are pictures. Or, better still, to
have arranged an exhibition of real painting in the Aus-
tralian capitals, or, best of all, bought one or two
masterpieces for the extraordinary “ national galleries
from which a number of these works are drawn. The
difference between manufacturing art in so newly manu-
factured a country and growing it in the richer deposits
of the Old World is proved very neatly by the presence
in this collection of two works by Mr. Charles Conder,
who was in Australia for a few years in extreme youth,
but who was lucky enough to escape. We know what he
has done since ; it would be hard to find the faintest
trace of his remarkable gift in the two pictures here ,
and it is conceivable that it might never have developed
at the Antipodes, certain that it would have been ham-
pered, misled, blighted. Take another case, that of Mr.
Arthur Streeton. It is quite possible, from what is re-
ported of him, that he has the makings of another Con-
der in him ; his pictures here, when the enormous handi-
cap against them is mentally removed, show no little
talent, but a talent how badly served by models «f the
poorest modern French drawing.
N.S.W. ex-Judge Forbes was as chin-
skinned re public criticism as one or two
of his brothers on the District Court
Bench are thick-skinned. He labored
to avoid public comment. Once
he was “ carpeted ” for having
committed a witness who, he
considered, had been guilty
of perjury in a case before
him, and the result was
that he never committed
another for a like offence.
Five years ago, in a
flaring case at
Narandera, the
Crown Prosecu -
tor desired a
Chinaman to be
so committed,
but Forbes stuck
to his determina-
tion, and let the
Chow go free.
“ I once commit-
ted in such a
case,” he mum-
bled, “ and my
ears are hot still.
I’ll never do it
again ”
The Me-ib.
jeweller who re-
cently had two
men run in for
supposed shadow-
ing of him pro-
bably had in his
memory the plot
of a well-known
gang to kidnap
Stewart Dawson’s
manager on his
way home and
(having the keys)
to loot the stock.
One of the gang
got “lumbered”
before the scheme matured, so in case he should
have “ peached,” it was dropped.
Mark Twain used a barbed-wire fence for
defensive purpose in fiction, and the Spaniards
use it in fact. There are beautiful possibilities
connected with that fence which will want a lot
of negotiating under fire. If cut at every panel,
horses and men will be thrown into confusion,
and short of blinding with fascines, or complete
and careful removal, there seems strong likelihood
of its causing tremendous casualties. The battle
of wire-fences !
More pluck for the West, this time at the
Australia United mine, Mt. Malcolm way.
The old story ; a man left in to fire shots, dis-
ablement after the fuses had been lit, and a dash-
in and a tug out on the part of a mate. This
time the disabled man was John Kean ; the res-
cuer James Walsh.


THE MAKINS OF FEDERATION. No. 2
Scene in their back premixes, just before their trip to the country .


Mr. MURRAY proposed to omit tne. word
'‘four,” with a yU./ to lusortlutf the
word "ten,” bo that the sittings of
the House *ehou!ii begin each day
Ht 10.30 £.’.a. .It was unfair thu.t
country members should be kept "lcating”
about town ail dry; it was unfair also to
those members . who desired to give theic
best ser ices to the country and did not
make public bur'r '.3 eui: nidi ary to pri-
vate affair^
> He himself had
no business to attend to except
the business of the country,
and of his constituents, and he was there-
fore uot consulting his own Interests in
pressing the amendment.
-'Y
<
/
S^Jkp
of four.
Mr. U. M. Smith has given notice of A
mdtlon In the Legislative Assembly, "that
any alteration of the franchise should con-
tain a provision for a system of proportions'
representation."
"4rix<”> : — "tty.
V j
v Xt
V
\ & Wl^s
cnje i
\4
'The surprise of tb * eT ™.
log utmost'couuoo
sss.’sSj.wsr^]
u Champion of ecouwn could not
turn, and for tin* »
;a aord an expensive * ng ot a narrow
VQuld BWP° Atatrlct* ■
gw* lo the Gembrook Strict.
Wef^ jZpwTMzfe
&T?d— (fcfftjx\
It has been decided by the Chief Secre-
tary fcfcat nominations of candidates for a
seat on the board to be elected to fix the-
rate of pay fey making women’s and girls'
underclothing must reach Mr. Ord, the chief
inspector of factories, by 4 p.m. on the 15th
lost. If there are more candidates than
seats on the board, an election will take
place on the 26th inst.
* Vk, r ' U e* of Wgy. >
„ • to ''« '
4, . t
„ Pan of . ‘‘e / oaa rc eat. '**«
— T)o 1
/^isb Vy, youVc,.* sS^
no 4er Cr^ c !? oe°]>‘ e 5 1 4°t?£
IjeljeVe your VOS
-—
_ • " fT>eves ce I°^
zfsr
re ow'»«“ s ’®- „
, K co^o"® WrrßT
PROBABLE C VvtDOS v. d edißU r
t£As-v-orrs»«- iJ "
the.
: —^4us'e
^ 1
J)iy<Ae : -j/es, In? cz&di d^teT-|br
cS. S«^ o °t? ''Hfe
l)oa<r4.
MELBOURNIANA.


Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
A NEW CRICKET RULE.
While in training cricketers must not smoke
anything stronger than Ogden’s Guinea Gold
Cigarettes. Pure and mild.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufjloientty
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Rosevale : Fear you’d be better employed darn-
ing socks or feeding the hens Foxley :No “ go” in it.
Chaput: “ Nick” just on wrong side of fence
S.S. : Some lyrical faculty, but lack of education smothers
you. In “ stary fish go glancing by,” however, your
misspelling hits the mark in spite of you. Fish are indeed
“stary.” T.E.M. : Sorry can’t use. Should be very
publishable elsewhere, though F. Dumas: Striking
incident, but needs a stronger hand V.D. :No use for
weepful yarns about good little boys who die. Best thing
that can happen ’em, anyhow! Raymore: Regulation
ne’er-do-weel-cum-nugget yarn. Also when that young
man delightedly held up his find he was gaily waving in
the air 119 lbs. I Victoria M. : Style rather tame ; good
story otherwise Alone : About as jerky as a galloping
cowl Fair-qualitj'-verse, but idea rather thin
H.J. (Richmond Downs, Q.) asks for a copy of Lawson’s
verses “ The Captain of the Push,” which appeared in
The Bulletin years ago L.B. : All the same, Premier
Reid is, by family, connected with three of the strongest
financial institutions in Australia Mendo :No use your
trying to belittle Trenwith’s brains. The man who could
stand up to Henry George in public debate as Trenwith did
cannot be despised F.J.M. : Droving story too crude. ..
Eblo : Why, every man is a “ native of the soil." It is
PRESENCE OF MIND.
(Heard after an alarm of fire at a metropolitan
theatre.)
ALLISTER : “ Run, Sandy, run, the crush is
coming!”
M'ALLISTER: “ Nay, nay; I wunna move anither
step till they gi’ me back ma saxpence.”
no more creditable to be a native of one soil than of
another. Even if it was, Byrnes isn’t responsible for
being a native of the soil. And the fact that a man is in
a high position doesn’t prove that he “ climbed ” there ;
he may climb, or he may crawl, or he may be shoved.
Byrnes shouldn’t leave his head out among the mosqui-
toes at night; then it wouldn’t swell so painfully
H.G. : None of those illustration subjects available
Septo : On the other hand, consider the Mahometan
hawker who went to draw his £l2O out of Melb. Savings
Bank. They added £6 for interest, but, in accordance
with the teachings of his creed, he refused to take it
C.B. : Your cowboy was ever a warrior when scratched.
The Border feuds are in point; and the most famous of
the Irish epic romances was “ The Cattle-Spoil of
Quelgnfe” or “ The Cowboys of Ancient Erin,” Letters
at Bulletin office for John Leahy and Phil Keane (of
Greenock) D.B. : Possibly J.M.M. : Don’t care for
that style unless much better done Dar. : Returned.
.W.A.C. : Returned Mulyan : Worthless as poetry.
Picmaroo : Rhyme not up to idea Ninety-eight :
Sorry unusable A.P. : Declined... W.H.D. : Your
humor goes down George-st. via Manly Uloola : Think
it goes H.B.J. : Old-fashioned—and stale D. Bouv :
Ballad-writer sent for illustration Phil. F. : Morals
spoil poetry Fair Play : What was said re Suffield
was that no alleged ravisher should be convicted on the
woman’s uncorroborated evidence. In almost every
real case of the kind there is at least corroborative
medical evidence available D. (Sydney): No.
W.B.T. : Then if “a ton of pure gold is worth
£120,000,000 ” gold must be worth about £4400 an ounce.
C.W. : You are a dangerous woman. Your countless
libels are so savagely malicious that it is absolutely
unsafe to allow your MS. in the same street as this office.
N. Grace : Please send address W.: Too nebu-
lous—might mean anything Paraite : “Seventies,”
may use. Others received and noted Reefed C. :
Nothing in either E. Mac: There’s no civilisation
where a man able and willing to work is obliged to go
hungry Tass.v : Told by Noah in the Ark Veritas :
Too long for interest, but some of your other reminis-
cences may have more snap T. Mooney : Nothing in
’em C.E.R. : Thanks; may come in some day
7x7: Songs doggerel merely . .. Banool : Very sorry
Schenk found unsuitable for Bulletin print De Capo :
Offer you 9d. to stop Saltbush : Not good enough
Sunset: It was G.G.: Their “ cash value” is inexpres-
sible John L. : You didn’t send the translation
J.F.D. : Next week W.J. : An account of a small
gathering at the house of somebody who wants a puff
E. : The worst of those amateur shows is that somebody
else always wants his name mentioned C.W.: “ Alces-
tis” couldn’t be staged at a theatre as imposingly as it
was set up at the Town Hall .... G.B.C. : Have you col-
lected evidence from “hundreds of women” who give
receipts for more wages than they receive? Wildly
exaggerated, if not entirely false. If the sweater can vet
out-door labor for 75 per cent, of the minimum wage,
how comes it that the out-door workers can’t get as much
employment as of yore? Holden : Tell us—ls a tall
policeman a great and glorious institution? E.A. :
Nom de plume isn’t French. Why not pen-name?
Shorter Pertinax : Good, but unprintable. Gateo :
The undertaker’s horse is as learned as the circus-moke.
He has three paces—the pauper’s trot, the cheap corpse’s
amble, and the true funereal for the good mark
Kat. : “ The Husband ” begins well and ends anyhow.
L. Schmidt: Thanks ... Via : If the Papuan land-steal
goes through, Vic. Premier Turner has already threatened
to stop the annual contribution, and both Vie. and N.S. W.
should certainly do so. The contribution and the agree-
ment that Vic. and N.S.W. should be consulted on
matters of administration were prrt of the same bargain.
If Britain won’t keep her end of the bargain, why should
Australia be bound by the other fragment of the broken
treaty ?... .Spuds : “ The Waitress” nearly gets there,
but not quite. Long metre and short, easy rhymes grow
wearisome, and the ideas are none too fresh Trotter
Bethune: (1) Beauregard's name, curiously enough,
wasn’t Beauregard. He was only plain Pierre Gustave
Toutant, and his high-sounding designation was mere
frill. (2) Was Beauregard as good a general as Joseph
Johnston? Doubtful. (3) Object to Eastralia as a name
for N.S.W. on general principles. Let’s get away from
the weary ringing of the changes on the one name Aus-
ralia ... . Lib. : Plain ordinary elopement, apparently
A. E. Blair : Interest not enough to carry off hum-drum
style W. Lyell : Metre staggering around after rhjune,
and both looking for ideas D.B.G. : Too flimsy .... A.
Fauron : It’s not a question of grammar, but of ear for
rhythm—very defective in your case A. R. Nott :
Touch not firm enough. Praotice should do much for
you Five-Eight: Too clumsy Paraite: “Song”un-
singable, “ Wife ” plain prose chopped up. “ Teresa,”
treatment emphatic, but emphasis is not foroe. Bullk-
tin never held opinion you ascribe to it. It is one of the
cruellest facts of existence that many women have such a
fate thrust upon them by iron-handed circumstance
Pegasus : Somewhat amateurish, but very nearly “ gets
there.” Ecks: Far from Ecksellent W.J.G. : Joke
too “steep” for print A.D.B. : “Hamlet” not up
L.W.S. : He hauled hfs mother-in-law to safety through
three miles of burning bush. You don’t 5ay!.......
Long-’un: Items to hand. Others, don’t remem-
ber. Possibly some held for use T.F.O’D. :
Gratis advt. for nostrum named Tom : Don’t wonder
you “feel better” after getting such things off your
chest. But how do we feel! Prospect: Too like a
catalogue W.B. : “Granny” returned ... G.P.B. :
Neither good enough Medicus : Never asked for a new
name for Australia —which should be mighty thankful for
the name it’s got E.F.G. : Last home ... Milkywhite :
Long—and dull Dingo : A dingo’s sermon C. J.T. :
Returned ; letter posted ... G.P.Q.O. : That style grows
wearisome Widgee : Name and address, please ?
Tang An. : Fairly well-invented, but this time unskilfully
handled Julian : Gracefully enough versed, but too
misty of meaning E. O’H. : Threadbare material
worked-up into old pattern Theo. S. : “Lowlands”
promising, but rather labored. Other, will consider S.
Kite ; Pale-green kind of humor V. R. Ratten : Griev-
ous lack of ginger for subject Rue Sage : Some good
idea floundering in boundless swamp of verbiage. Good
example of the best way not to write .. Yackey : Some
of prose items good. Verse ingenious but labored and
unequal Benvolio : Light and bright—but too slight.
......Bullaman : Once more, no time for hieroglyphics.
Write to be perused,not deciphered . R.Griffiths: Good
pruning would much improve .. . E.S.E. : Might do, if
beheaded of all but a few lines of preliminary description.
A.E.H. : Humorous, but diffuse and aimless.
A Lost Railway.
“ Alone ” relates to The Bulletin a scrap of
Victorian railway history :
Once upon a time there was in Vio. Leg. Assembly a man
named Duncan Gillies. Heaven only knows why people
put him there ; but they did, and he became Premier.
He introduced Victoria’s immortal octopus railway
scheme. Why it was called an “ octopus ”is beyond ex-
planation—an octopus being a creature that uses its many
arms to grab things for a living; whereas most of the
arms of Gillies’ octopus railway-scheme were laid down
in such circumstances as made it impossible for them to
grab anything. Most of them were hopelessly unneces-
sary lines that started out at the rate of £3OOO a mile
from townships that nohody in the province seemed to
know anything about—but which on enquiry were found
to mostly consist of a few partially-decayed primitive
inhabitants, who made their living mostly by waiting
patiently for the squatter to ride in 25 miles across the
run and “ shout ” —to some other alleged township
supposed to exist on the other side of some sheep-station.
There was one that started from a place called Penshurst
to another place called Dunkeld ; this line was a particu-
lar pet of Duncan’s. The mild investigation that followed
the introduction of the Bill disclosed that the line had a
population to serve. Besides the primitive township in-
habitants, it crossed the runs of three squatters and
passed within “ carting distance ” of five or six gentle-
men who made a precarious living in the wilderness by
growing potatoes. Moreover, the compensation that
would have to be paid for the land to build it on only
came to £6OOO. As soon as it became known in the
Assembly that this line had a population to serve, several
members took an interest in it; otherwise it probably
would have passed without comment. One member
moved that the Railway Commissioners report on this
and several other lines, particularly their “ probable
revenue - earning capacities.” The Commissioners re-
ported that they were unable to estimate the revenue
these lines “ might ” earn. Duncan informed an inquir-
ing Legislature that “ the extension of railways to a dis-
trict marvellously increased the production of that dis-
trict.” Then some beastly obstructionists began to make
uncomplimentary suggestions, but these were treated
with the contempt they deserved. Amongst others,
David Gaunson expressed much disgust at the idea of
building a line into such a “beggarly, miserable, Presby-
terian, comfortless country, which only carried one sheep
to five acres,” but nobody took much notice of this. Gaun-
son was always noted for the vigor and violence of his ad-
jectives. So the Bill was passed and sent to the Council.
Now the House of 48 Rich Landlords desired that the line
should be in a different locality—that it should join
together two other townships; so it showed its contempt
for Duncan’s townships by striking their names out of
the Bill, and inserting instead the names of the two it
wished to serve. When the Bill thus radically amended
came back to the Assembly, Duncan Gillies determined
to best the Council by building both lines. The £6OOO
compensation was paid on Duncan’s line, and it was
formally opened “ for traffic ”in Aug., ’9O. It stretched
away beautifully and peacefully' across the three sheep
stations, and remained quietly open “ for traffic ” if there
had been any, but there wasn’t—a few trucks somehow
got on to it on their way to somewhere else, and that
was all it was ever called upon to do. It never earned
any revenue, but remained to the end the most calmly
peaceful railway in the world. And so, seven months
after it was formally opened, it was formally closed again.
But, as it only cost between £50,000 and £60,000, the
country wasn't put to much expense—it only amounted
in this case to less than £9OOO a month while it remained
open, nothing to make a beastly row about. Now, a
heartlessly economical Government has pulled it up by
the roots and oarted it away. And all that remains is
for Victoria to pay £2OOO a year interest for ever on the
money Duncan borrowed to build it with.
An instructive article in London Times, on
the working of prohibition in Norway. Eighteen
towns, weary of the drink-curse, abolished the
beershops. Immediate result —a vast increase in
drunkenness. Strong wine was drunk surrep-
titiously in large quantities, and illicit stills were
actually set up by individuals in their own back
kitchens, and folks boozed up on the raw spirits.
The very children were found drunk, and arrests
for inebriety nearly doubled in number. . . .
Attention of prohibition - cranks respectfully
directed to this little item.
Thusfar Yic. Crown Law Department has
done nothing in the Snell will-case. The two
“vvitnesses” of the will, which Judge Holroyd,
acting as an expert “on his own,” declared to be
a palpable forgery, have challenged the Crown to
prosecute them. “Try to prove us guilty of con-
spiracy and perjury, in accordance with the Hol-
royd judgment,” they said, but the Crown doesn’t
seem disposed to make the attempt. The Snell
estate has been devoured, every shilling of it, by
the lawyers in the Probate Court, and the Law is
satisfied with the result.
“Scribe”: The Pigeon-holery of Glad-
stone, in the English newspapers, pans out in-
differently. The good obituary is that written by
a man fully primed, by his knowledge of years
down he sits, and slashes it-sout. The same old
grind of “ Facts, Mr. Gradgrind, Facts ” about
Gladstone, and the same weary facts, wherever
one turns. Everywhere the dead-man’s hand of
the pigeon-hole, the old brown copy of a quarter
of a century.
N.S.W. Works-Minister Young gently oil-
ina- the back of NSW Minister Brunker at
Mnr tb ._ 1 JN,G,VV ’ ivlin,b,ier
iviorpetn :
He thanked the people for the reception, and a sited
them not to forget they were indebted to his good friend
Mr. Brunker for the bridges. Mr. Brunker not only re-
presented them for a long time, but his character and
capabilities were well-known and appreciated throughout
the country, and no man could do more for the electors
than he. [A Voice: What about Mr. Brown?] Mr.
Young said he was not speaking about Mr. Brown or his
electorate, who was a very worthy and a good friend of
his, but if the bridges had not been left to Mr. Brunker
they would not have been procured, in all pro a i lt v.
He then declared the bridge open for traffic.
And that’s about all that even his own colleagues
can say for dull old Sunday Brunker—he is a
good man to get bridges built in his own constitu-
ency. After his unspeakably silly statement that
a 27 per cent, tariff on imports meant taking
=827 out of every .8100 of everybody’s salary, even
Young couldn’t cordially recommend Brunker as a
statesman and a financier.
T ,_ , . .
John Downer had his motion of censure
on Kingston carefully written out, but when he
groped for the document after a weary intro-
ductory oration it had dropped orblownaway
and couldn t be found for some time. All his
indictment against Kingston went to pieces in
those few anxious minutes when he was hunting
on the floor for the definite, carefully-formulated
charge which he wanted to fling at the head of the
enemy
mi -at- ™ , tt t-,-11
Hie Vic. Govt, s new Usury Bill proposes
to make absolutely illegal and irrecoverable any
mterest over 8 per cent, on landed security or over
10 per cent, on other security, or any bonus or
other dodge which might nullify this proviso,
unless it can be proved to the satisfaction of the
Court that there are special risks which make a
higher rate fair and reasonable. This latter clause
will probably go a long way to make the whole
law null and blank. Still, the Bill has one dis-
tinct merit: it gives the courts specific power to
overhaul the transactions of Cohenstein and
Aaronhofenberger, and to decide that 20 per shent
is sufficient to cover the special risk, instead of
150.
HIS FATHER'S SON.
MR. ISAACS: “ How many does two and two
make, Aby?”
LITTLE ABY: “Six, fader.”
MR. ISAACS: “No, my poy; four.”
LITTLE ABY: “ Veil, I thought you vould bead me
down—so I said six.”
President Zeal, on being asked for his
opinion re Leg. Council reform, said : “ What
is wanted above all else is political quiet.”
The continuous banging of Liberal senti-
ment on the door of Victoria’s House of 48 Rich
Landlords has begun to produce an impression
even on that hidebound institution. It used to
glory in its Toryism. Now it actually wants to
repudiate the charge, and various members have
risen to say that the 48 Rich Landlords, if they
see the Assembly seeking earnestly after reform,
will be found whooping in the van of progress.
Instance this from a recent oration by Melville,
M.L.C.: —
If that House had failed to pass what were regarded as
Liberal measures, that was due, not to anti-Liberal sen-
timent, but to the weakness of the Government in putting
certain measures forward. He had seen measures sent to
that House accompanied by the fervent hope that they
would be thrown out. (Hear, hear.) When was the
question of one-man-one-vote ever promoted seriously
and earnestly by a Minister ? (Hear, hear.) That Cham-
ber had not been treated fairly, and had a right to expect
that measures would be brought forward seriously—in
the expectation that they would be passed. However,
they had a Government now which was prepared to deal
with these matters in a serious manner, and he was quite
certain it would find no obstruction in the Upper House.
(Hear, hear.)
And when Cornelius Job Ham smiled scornfully,
Melville actually accused Cornelius Job of being a
retrograde old party, and heaved the objurgation
“ immoveable Conservative ” at him.
As the result of much whipping-up' before
a recent Legislative Council election, the two
principal Murchison gold-centres polled respec-
tively—Cue, 12; Mt. Magnet, 10.
Saturday Review on America and Spain :
America’s action, unfortunately, we do not say justly,
suggests the attitude of a huge and boastful bully attack-
ing an effete and gentlemanly old rou6, with whom one
cannot help sympathising in spite of his sins, especially
when the bully, not content with thrashing his feeble old
opponent and stripping him of his valuables, bellows out
with tears and protestations that he does it unw'llingly
and with the highest moral purpose.
Of 624,560,640 acres in Westralia, only
8,847,044 acres have been either alienated from the
Crown or are in process of alienation. But in
’97, 491,813 acres were taken up with a view to
purchase, as against 211,240 acres during ’96.
Sydney Telegraph figures out that, if the
railways and debts are federated, and Queensland
is taken in, and Westralia is heaved out, as Pre-
mier Reid proposes, a tariff of -£0,580,000, or
£1 17s. per inhabitant per annum, would make
ends meet. This, it says, is “quite a manageable
amount.” And just before the Federal Referen-
dum the same paper used to keep this yell standing
in big type : “ A £7,000,000 tariff will inflict an
injury upon Australia, a great and lasting injury
upon N.S.W.” Does the ,£420,000 make all that
difference ?
“Cosmos”: Four failures uo form a
Cabinet in France! Possibly oving to the Zola
case and a knowledge that the *>nly alternative to
gross injustice is facing the bitter and aggressive
enmity of the mob and its military idols. Also
the repugnance to assume responsibility may be
aided by the lowering of the big war-cloud ; for
France may be as rotten at headquarters as Spain
—and the local statesmen may know it. Assum-
ing the former to be the immediate cause of this
uncommon modesty on the part of political leaders,
it is another argument against having the seat of
government in a big commercial city. During the
’9l strike local members demurred at having to
deliberate within cooee of possible mob coercion,
and yet N.S.W. wants Sydney to be the Federal
city—handy for an enemy’s shell to “ put the ky-
bosh ” on any Assembly hastily called in a time
of international crisis. Anyhow, there’s like-
lihood of a short spell under foreign military dic-
tatorship before the parochial-souled “little Aus-
tralians” gain enough sense to employ their small
Scotch tin-gods at sandshifting, while the true
Australanders amalgamate their defence-forces,
and use some intelligence with regard to the rail-
way-gauges.
One of the members of a certain Com-
mission is a spiritualist and regularly consults
a Sydney medium. This medium informs
the writer that his “guides ” have told him
“ inoculation of cattle for tick is worse
than useless, and renders the beast ope-
rated on unfit for human food. That
the so-called tick-fever is really caused
by a weed which renders the blood of
the animal particularly attractive to the
tick and sensitive to its poison. That
the red-water disease of Texas is analo-
gous to tick-fever and attributable to
same cause, and that the seeds of this
weed have been carried from Texas
to Queensland by winds.” It should
be good biz to get a spook or two on
this and other Commissions, but as
they presumably work without fee it
would slump the market in special
Commissions.
As more than nine - tenths of
Victor Daley’s book of poems, “At
Dawn and Dusk,” were originally pub-
lished in The Bulletin, Daley needs
no introduction to Bulletin readers. The
collection makes a charming volume, which
will be supplied from Bulletin office post-free
for ss. sd.
Hunk of cast-iron assurance from Premier
Reid’s late Sydney oration :
There is a reform which I will never hesitate to fight
for, and that is the reform of the Upper House.
A Voice : You promised that four years ago.
Mr. Reid : You are quite right, and your friends pro-
mised it 20 years ago. We did more than that. We
made a determined effort to pass it, but having sent my
friends and supporters to the country after 12 months of
Parliament, I did not want to send them out again after
another 12 months. . . . The programme of this Govt,
is not a revolutionary one. I do not believe in destroying
that House, nor do i believe in an elective Upper House.
As regards Reid’s “determined effort” to pass a
measure of Council reform the brief answer is
“ Rats !” or something to that effect. There was
no effort at all. The Bill providing for Council
reform was never introduced ; so far as the public
knows it was never even drafted ; there wasn’t
the shadow or semblance of an attempt at reform,
and whoever says there was is a weather-prophet,
and the truth is not in him. But think of the
magnificent faith Gr. Reid must have in the short-
ness of the publio memory when he tells the people
of N.S.W. that he really attempted to reform
their House of Fossils !
A FOGGY EFFECT.
“ A dense fog prevailed in Melbourne last night.”
News item (same date): “The Mayor of Melbourne
entertained members of the police force and fire
brigades at a smoke concert at the Town Hall.”
Negotiations for appointment as N.S. W.
Commissioner to Paris Exhibition of 1900 stand
suspended over the general elections. It will be
well, however, for politicians who yearn to secure
the pleasant trip to remember that the Elections
and Qualifications Committee removed Edward
Combes, M.L.A., from his seat in N.S.W.
Assembly for having accepted the billet of Com-
missioner at Paris Exhibition of 20 years ago.
BYRON.
Romantic figure ! Last of avatars
Of all who shook Revolt’s Promethean fist
And pierced defiantly the murk and mist
That hide, from eyes that challenge, God’s stem stars,
And seek to seize His fire with force of Mars ;
O child of Faust and Helen’s Goethean tryst,
O spawn of serpent whom a god hath kisst,
Say, beats thy spirit still ’gainst destined bars?
Byron, thy sufferings may not end with death,
The vulture critic now thy fame assails
And drowns thy singing with his carrion screams
And sheds o’er thy renown his fetid breath ;
Yet, Byron, thy lone ghost nor shrinks nor pales,
But on Caucasian heights triumphant gleams.
Sydney.
FRED J. BROOMFIELD.
THE PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS.
Let us rest, the same as ever :
Give our aged spirit balm.
Wrixon, whom we reckoned clever,
Hath disturbed our perfect calm.
Rough reformers, half demented,
Foolish things protest;
Idle dreamers, flippant schemers
Easily are circumvented,
Prosing, dozing on contented,
Let the Council rest.
Let us rest, ignoring ructions—
This our motto : “ Peace, be still I ”
Fain would we remain obstructions
To the vulgar people’s will.
Zeal by name, but slow in thinking,
Ne’er by Party cares opprest;
Dull and hazy, wealthy, lazy ;
Conscious that our sun is sinking,
I repeat—whilst gently winking—
Let the Council rest.


The train from Parkea to Condobolin is
said to be the slowest in N.S.W. ; intending pas-
sengers who arrive after it starts generally hire a
conveyance and catch it up. It is also stated that
one squatter along the line keeps a man to see
the train through and put out the fires started by
the sparks from the engine. He keeps up with it
comfortably, and his record so far has been to put
out 13 fires and then beat the train to the boundary.
Things to adore: Locks, Hinges, Door-
knobs, and Knockers. Pointed facts: Tacks,
Nails, Screws, &c. A short cut: Lawn Mowers,
Scythes, Sickles, and Reaping Hooks. Around
the Globe: Chimneys, Wicks, Burners, and Lamp-
ware. The only Federated Hardware Firm, we
can suddlv any of the above lines at rock-bottom
prices. M‘LEAN BROS AND RIGG LTD.,
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, and George-street,
Sydney, and Perth, W.A.*
Six aldermen of Sydney City Council are
now trying for Parliament—T. Jessep, Mayor
Harris and John Norton (members of the
defunct Assembly), G. Smail, J. 0. Waine and
Henry Chapman. The last-mentioned is endeavor-
ing to oust Norton, the municipal hornet.
The capture of the Ladrone Islands by an
American cruiser is a droll illustration of Spanish
Government. When the cruiser opened fire, the
Governor of the islands signalled his regret that
he couldn’t return the salute as he was short of
powder. He hadn’t heard any rumor of war
between America' and Spain.
Some of the contributors to the £5OO col-
lected for testing the legality of the Melb. Orange
procession of last July would like to see some-
thing in the way of a balance-sheet.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
LATEST LONDON NOVELTIES,
Gold Bangle set with 9 Beautiful Opals and
16 White Pearls. 60s. each.
Our New
Twin
Bird
Brooches
Plain Gold,
7s 6d pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
ISs 6d pais.
nnniiii
Gold, set with one finest quality, Amethyst, Topaz, or
Garnet, and 10 White Pearls, 40s.
Gold Twin Swallow Brooolies.
Full Size, London-made, 9c., 12s fid; 150., 17s fid pair.
Our Now Gold Bamboo Bangles,
2s 6d ; Broader, 32s fid; Children’s Size, 14s.
Our 1898 Registered
Novelty
Bird Brooob,
Extra Strong.
REGS
90. Gold,
15s
pair.
160. Gold,
20a
padr.
0 o c
Gold Pin and Chain Pendants.
Gold Pin and Chain Pendants.
With Lucky Bean, 7/6L Smaller size, 6/0.
„ Lucky Bell 7/6. „ „ 4/6.
„ Heart 7/6. „ „ 6/6.
„ Cross 8/-. Larger size, 10/6.
Lucky Bells with Chain, 3s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s
Real Amethyst
Heart Pendant, 2/6
PLEASE SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED
SUPS OF NOVELTIES.
Swallow and
Amethyst
Heart Pendant
Brooch.
Real Amethyst
Button Hook, 2/8
9c., 10s 6d ; smaller.
6s 6d.
160., 12s 6d each.
POST FREE.
Lucky Shamrock
> Pendants.
Genuine 4-leaf between
2 Crystals, Solid Gold
Mount, 10a each.
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address— 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
The Shortest Shorthand.
About 90 per cent of the millions of people ar3
“learning to write shorthand” are simply wasting time,
because experience shows that not more than 1 m 10
perseveres to the end, and is stenograph ically saved. All
the rest perish by the wayside long ere the goal of verba-
tim-reporting is within sight. The reason is, that learning
to write shorthand is one thing, and learning to read it
after it has been written with sufficient speed to be of any
use quite another. The latter ia the barrier which the 9
put'of every 10 fail to pass.
When the Pitraanic phonographer (system the most
favoured) writes in a neat, copper-plate hand, the three
•ignsfor “ t,” “au,” and “ k,” he has no more trouble in
making “ talk ” out of it than if it were written in the
ordinary longhand characters. Also, when he gets
“ a,” and “ k," down, he can make tolerably sure of “ take.
But to write the sign which gives the distinctive vowe
sound to the consonantal outline t k (same in bot
cases), he has had to lift the pen and form a detached
character, and he has also had to be careful about the
position in which he placed it, and the heaviness of the dot
or stroke lest the outline should “ vocalize as took or
“ tick ” or “ tack ” or “ tuck.” All this is nearly equal U
the trouble of writing another word, consequently in prac-
tice the vowel has to be dropped. All the reporter could
get down for word as “ talk ” if he wanted to keep
with a moderately fast speaker would be “tk. And if he
made a slovenly joining of the consonants, the outline
might be easily be mistaken for something else. He would
then have to depend on his memory, and the context in de-
termining whether the sign was meant for “ talk, “ took,
“take,” “tick,” “tack,” “tuck,” “ father,” “fatter,
“fitter," “feather,” furthei or “tighten” But as the con-
text requires as much assistance from the word as the word
from the context, the deciphering of a verbatim reporter’s
notes resolves itself into the exercise of a well-trained
memory, assisted by stenographic clues, which, when written
under great pressure, are little better than arbitrary signs.
If you have enough patience to memorize some hundreds
of these signs, great manual dexterity and an instinctive
knack of remembering what a speaker said, or meant to
say, or should have said, you can become a verbatim re-
porter ; if you have not this faculty it is easier for a. camel
to go through the eye of a needle.
Innumerable systems of shorthand have been invented
for the purpose of securing more legibility without sacri-
ficing brevity, but, so far, Pitman's method, with all its
faults, has yielded the best results. The main thing sought
after by his late rivals has been the “connectible vowel.”
When this is included in the word, however, the effect
usually is a chimsineaa fatal to speed, and when it is
omitted there is a distortion of consonantal outline, equally
unfavorable to legibility.
A system called linography, invented by Mr. lorn
Courtney, Sydney pressman, seems to solve the vowel diffi-
culty completely. It is based on the new and revolutionary
principle of making the vowel instead of the consonant
the predominant character. By an ingenious yet per-
fectly safe and simple use of “position,” a brevity is
attained which enables almost any word in any language to
be written as fully as in long-hand with less manual effort
than is required to trace bare outlines under other systems.
The ingenuity with which vowels and consonants are
blended enables this to be done in many cases even without
resort to position.
Take, for example, a word like'“idea.” In this, only
the two vowel signs i, and a, would be written. Yet, by
the simple processes of shortening and thickenihg, the other
two letters, d and e, would be combined with them in their
proper sequence. The linographic vowels are a, e, i, o, and
u written. The sign for lis a Btrai S ht down
stroke, identical' with the Pitmanic t | , and the
sign for ais the Pitmanic “ Chay ” / To quarter the
■length of a letter adds d, and to thicken it adds e. There-
fore, ) " idea.!J Here, without resort to position, a word
of three syllables is fully spelled out by two simple and
connected movements of the pen.
Take another class of word such as “ lit© ” (“ light
spelled phonetically with the common alphabet upon which
linography is exclusively based.) An initial hook on the
left of i prefixes 1, and to letter adds i. Hence f
“lite”l W, without "thickening T “lit.” Similarly, f*
“late” ;or “lute.” The hook placed on the right side
prefixes r. Therefore, H rit; V rite; 7 rafc 1 7 rate >
\ rute ; rote ;'l rited ; Z rated. To double
the length of a letteradds R ; consequently, J rare ;
j ure editor erased, etc. Vowels also take final
hooks. For instance, Jak ; or, by doubling the size of the
hook, (J aking ; J iv , J iving ; {, in ; b ing ; / an ;
£ ang. Hence, J rak ; ; J living ; rang .
ling ; f liver ; Jriver, and so on.
In all such words, by the use of position the initial
hook could be dispensed with. Thus, 1 lit® > / late ; \
lute; lot; / let; (up stroke) j raking ; J making ;
J living j J giving ;—> role ;—3 roling ;—3 bowling ;
or any sueh word.
To get the advantage of position-writing, which is
the great feature of the system, it is necessary to have a
specially-ruled note-book, which is copyrighted and published
with the manual. With the aid of this, the vast majority
of monosyllabic words require but one stroke to write in
full, and numerous polysyllables can be written with equal
brevity. Here are some examples : 1 in its prqper position
gives xjite ; xl; \ xude ;in long words, the most ex-
traordinary results in letter concentration are attained. It
seems incredible that every letter of such a word as “ un-
provided 11 should be contained in the three simple marks
; but they are all there as plain as if printed in job-
type. This very concentration assists legibility; as, the
fewer the marks, the smaller the risk of confusing outline,
£ contain the twelve letters “ unaocompaned,” and it
would be impossible to miss one of them from the outline,
if traced according to the principles of the system.
So much for isolated word-writing. In the construc-
tion of phraseograms equally unprecedented instances of
combined brevity and clearness appear.
Position is a perfect bar to any clashing between
phraseograms and word outlines, so that by the use of a
simple list of graramalogues, called a “ word alphabet,” the
joining of words to make phrase®, is as safe and easy as the
joining of letters to make words. is a phraseogram for
“in every other; ” not an arbitary one, but a combination
of the three letters of the word-alphabet representing the
three words, each of which is perfectly legible without the
aid of its context. Sirailiarly,^/” - “no other opportunity ; ”
N “ which would ; “ but whether there are ; "'Zv “ I
would rather not undertake ;” Lea “.instead of which;”
|) “in which would “I understood yo.u to say ;”
these are phraseograms taken promiscuously from the
manual, and a rudimentary acquaintance with the system
as therein set forth is sufficient to show that they may be
multiplied indefinitely.
Linography may be employed cOfiftection with any
shorthand system and wifi give jnCreaaod speed and
legibility.
The book contains a chapter illustrating its use in Pit-
manic writing, which it materially simplifies and abbreviates.
Not being an arbitary system, linography calls for
very little memorizing effort, and, as .soon- as its first prin
ciples are thoroughly mastered, the learner can easily find
his own way to the highest developments of the art. Only
the one book is required and the .cost of this, a small
manual of forty-two pages, is three shillings, post free,
from The Bulletin office. It does not look much fo£ the
money, but, if the book could be made smaller its value
would become larger in •’proportion. The value of a short-
hand system is measured bj[ the amount of space that it
does not take up.
Jonathan on Bull.
A New York paper makes some remarks on
Bull as viewed by his alleged brother
Jonathan :
Lord Salisbury is an admirable type of modern Eng-
land. He is a product of the period of England s later
decadence, moral and material. Still inflated with the
recollections of its old renown, a certain portion of the
English people continue to regard and talk of their
country as equal to the rest of the world in* everything
and superior to it in most. They point to. its great
wealth, and boast about their ability to purchase defen-
ders for the hour of need, forgetful of every lesson of
history that the country was already lost, the bulk of
whose citizens had nothing to defend, and that had to
rely on mercenaries for safety. .
There is no question that whatever the English may
have been in the feudal days, they have ceased to be a
fighting people. The records of the nationalities ot the
troops composing the armies that fought under Welling-
ton in Spain in the early years of the century disclose the
fact that 75 per cent, of the soldiery whose valor shed
lustre on the British flag were Irish and Scotch peasants.
Whole districts of Scotland now tenanted only
by deer, and where the smoke from a hearth is
unknown, were in those days still covered with shielings
from which thousands of sturdy peasant lads were drafted
to fight in the interest of the very classes who have since
turned their fields and homes into a wilderness for sport.
The hillsides of the west and north of Ireland gave thou-
sands of impetuous Celts, whose deeds made famous the
names and numbers of more than one of the most re-
nowned regiments of the British army. Under the double
bane of English landlord law and foreign competition
those hillsides are depopulated, and of the once proud
regiments only the shadowy name survives. The British
army statistics for 1895 gave 12 per cent. Irish, 8 per cent.
Scotch, the rest English. The golden period of the Brit-
ish army was undoubtedly the time of the war in Spam
against Napoleon and his Generals, and England and her
army have been living ever since on the reputation then
gained. In the Sikh wars in India during the 40's, in the
Punjaub, the fanatical valor of the Khalsas pushed the
better armed and handled English regiments hard. More
than one battle was a drawn fight, and more than one
English regiment earned a reputation for discretion that
was not effaced for long years after. The deterioration con-
tinued, and though the first army sent out to the Crimea in
1854 sustained the reputation and exhibited the traditional
qualities of the British soldier, the subsequent levies that
were made to fill the gaps caused by battle and disease,
the latter mostly due to incompetence and pedantry in
the command and administration, fell far behind the old
standard. Notwithstanding the appeals to their patriotism
and large bounties, the population did not respond, and
the Government of the day, with Benjamin Disraeli as
Chancellor of the Exchequer, was reduced to the humilia-
tion of coming before Parliament with a Bill to provide
for the enlistment of foreigners to send against the
Russians. .
The history of the German, Swiss and Italian legions
raised under that Act has never been written, for the
good reason that they did nothing worth recording.
From the time of their organisation to the day of their
disbandment they were a source of continual trouble.
Whether it was the Swiss at Shorncliffe, the Italians at
Malta, or the Germans at Scutari, on the Bosphorus, the
nearest point to the enemy any of them ever reached,
there were intermittent scenes of insubordination, verging
frequently on downright mutiny; and at Malta and
Scutari, on more than one occasion, line of battle ships
were moored close in to their camps, with guns shotted
and run out ready to open fire on England’s foreign levies.
Composed for the most part of the riffraff of Europe, more
likely to run from the enemy than to faoe it, and having
contributed neither morally nor materially to England’s
prestige, these legions, whose formation had been advo-
cated with all the florid pomposity of language
in which Disraeli was wont to indulge, disap-
peared from history. The Emperor Napoleon 111.
having attained his immediate object in joining in
the war against Russia, made peace over the head of his
ally, and England, unable single-handed to carry the war
into the Caucasus, as was meditated, acquiesced, and
peace was made. The allied army evacuated Russian
territory, the last English soldier being brought off by a
Russian patrol that had found him drunk in one of the
numerous traktirs, or drink-shops, that sprang up in
every direction immediately after the declaration of
peace.
It was fortunate for England that the troops in India at
the outbreak of the mutiny in 1857 were of better metal
than those that failed to follow the lead of their officers
at the final attack on the Redan before Sebastopol in
1855. They were the last of the old army of trained and
disciplined men who made up by their valor for the
defects of their leaders, Subsequent wars have only de-
monstrated the steady decline in the quality of the mate-
rial of which the English army is composed. The tragedy
of Isandulain Zululandand on the Helmund in Afghanistan,
where two entire regiments were slaughtered like sheep ;
the affairs of the Ingogo and Majuba with the Boers of the
Transvaal, and the unsteadiness of more than one of the
regiments in the Egyptian campaign in 1882, prove that
the English army has seen its best days. The causes lie
deep in the English social system, and in the displace-
ment of the population, the emptying of the country, and
the filling of the cities and towns in England, the evic-
tions in Ireland, and the clearances of the Highlands of
Scotland.
The slum-born and gutter-raised youths who now form
the bulk of the recruits for the British army have neither
the moral nor the physical qualities that go to make a
hardy, patient, and trustworthy soldier. Newspaper-
writers of a certain type may extol the English army as
they like, but the men who would have to lead the men
in battle have not the confidence in the soldiers to-day
that those who led at Albuera, Barossa, and other historic
fields had in the rank and file of those days. In the vain
confidence that mere wealth is strength, the aristooraoy
of England and the commercial bourgeoisie have de-
stroyed the fundamental basis of a nation’s power, a
prosperous, contented, self-respecting, and independent
land owning yeomanry.
The English Parliament may vote money by the tens of
millions, but the money cannot make men. England will
not fight unless driven to the wall. As Prince Bismarck
said, she is too fat. The very thought that her wealth
is in danger paralyses the whole body politio. Rather
than risk it and their sense of ease, the classes who have
brought England to her'present position will make any
compromise to save their wealth. There are plenty of
scribes quite ready to describe it as another case of
" peace with honor.”
Meantime, to show their confidence, London is to be
fortified. In case of the successful landing of an enemy
on the shores of England, five millions of people are to be
hemmed in by a circle of redoubts, where, if the invest-
ment could only be maintained for two months, hunger
and rioting would bring 1 matters to an end. But where
would India, South Africa, Australia, and Canada be by
that time? The idea that such a catastrophe as that
indicated could ever happen to England may seem
preposterous ; but the very fact that the English Govern-
ment feels it necessary to prepare for suoh an even-
tuality as the siege of London is dramatic to an intense
degree. Sir Charles Dilke, who is held to be an
authority in politico-military matters, urges in strenuous
language the necessity of preparing the defence of the
empire at its heart; for it is not in India or in the dis-
tant colonies that danger is to be feared, but in the
English Channel and on the banks of the Thames that
the struggle for England’s power will be fought out.
The Christ of the “Never.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With eyes that seem shrunken to pierce
To the awful horizons of land,
Through the haze of hot days, and the fierce
White heat-waves that flow on the sand ;
Through the Never Land westward and nor’ward,
Bronzed, bearded and gaunt on the track,
Quiet-voiced and hard-knuckled, ride 3 forward
The Christ of the Outer Out-Back.
For the cause that will ne’er be relinquished
Spite of all the great cynics on earth—
In the ranks of the bush undistinguished
By manner or dress —if by birth
God’s preacher, of churches unheeded
(God’s vineyard, though barren the sod)
Plain spokesman where spokesman is needed
Rough link ’twixt the bushman and God.
He works where the hearts of all nations
Are withered in flame from the sky,
Where the sinners work out their salvations
In a hell-upon-earth ere they die.
In the camp or the lonely hut lying,
In a waste that seems out of God s sight,
He's the doctor —the mate of the dying
Through the smothering heat of the night.
By his work in the hells of the shearers,
Where the drinking is ghastly and grim,
Where the roughest and worst of his hearers
Have listened bareheaded to him.
By his paths through the parched desolation
Hot rides and the terrible tramps ;
By the hunger, the thirst, the privation
Of his work in the furthermost camps ;
By his worth in the light that shall search men
And prove—Aye ! and justify each—
I place him in front of all ohurohmen
Who feel not, who know not— butpreaoh !
HENRY LAWSON.
These do not refer to Newgate a century
ago, but to Wandsworth Gaol, in civilised Eng-
land, and are taken from an article, by a ticket-of-
leave man, in an English weekly: —
The morning after the medical examination a surly-
looking warder entered my cell. In my innocence, I
ventured to say “Good morning.” He turned upon me
savagely, and, in a tone in which one would not speak to
a dog, shouted : . ,
“ No remarks. If yer do speak to me, call me sir.
Mind that, 26.”
I bit my lips to repress my anger. I was not broken-in
y Words cannot express my unutterable loathing of the
hateful monotony. I have already said that only at
chapel and at exercise are you allowed out. On no
ground whatever otherwise is one permitted to leave the
cell. I cannot go into further particulars. The horrible
discomfort and the depressing eSeots can be readily
imagined. ...
But, supposing you get your full allowance of skilly ana
bread, according to dietary scale No. 3, your vapid tinned
meat twice a week, your ghastly suet-pudding also twice
a week, and soup on the other days, with an occasional
variation of two square inches of bacon fat and haricot
beans, what is the result? Oontinual indisposition, and
a gradual wasting. I tried to force down the skilly, but
only a small quantity of the bread could I eat. The
tinned meat was not unpalatable, hut the suet-pudding
was simply revolting ! The flour was bad, and the color
of the pudding was that of pale mud. The suet ranged "*
size from lumps about the size of a pea to as big as *'
nut. No attempt was made to separate the skin, and !'
was not infrequently rancid. I suppose this was accord-
being U able to eat my bread, I used to give it to
other prisoners more hungry than I was, or with strongei
stomachs. But this was contrary to regulations, and
being found out one day, I was sentenced to two days
confinement to my cell, with the stuff I could not eat
without the penalty of indigestion as my only food.
When I turned out of my cell on the third day to go to
ohapel, I was trembling with exhaustion, and crushed in
mind and spirit. I did not seem to care what became of
me. I suppose I was now, in the opinion of the authori-
ties, quite a “ reformed character,” and a shining example
of the efficacy of the prison system.
One day while sitting in my cell doing my work two
warders, whom I had never seen before rushed in ex-
“Take off your clothes !” theyshouted. “Whatdidyou
say?” I was beginning, quite astounded, when one of
them caught me up. “ I’m not going to speak twice.
You can understand plain English, can’t you? 1 said
no more, but obeyed. They turned my clothes over,
searched them thoroughly, tumbled my bedclothes on to
the floor, and rushed away without a word of explanation.
I sat for two hours shivering, and not daring to dress
mvself without orders, and at the end of that time my
own warder, not seeing me with the others at exercise,
came to see what was amiss. I told him.
“ But,” said he, “ why didn’t you put on your clothes
ae “ Because it has been impressed upon me many times
that the rule here is: ‘Do as you’re told, and wait till
you’re told.”
He said nothing, but ordered me to dress.
It turned out afterwards that the two warders were
searching for a wooden spoon which was missing, and
that they visited every cell in the prison. Whether they
found it I am unable to say. ... .
The torturers of the inquisition never devised anything
more brutal than the silent system. For one prisoner to
be caught speaking to another the punishment is very
severe. Despite the risk of punishment prisoners do con-
trive to exchange words, especially in chapel. It can
be done without detection if the lips are moved but
slightly, and if you keep your eyes straight in front of
you, and never look towards the person you are addressing.
Quote: “In sending a man to prison you con-
demn him to want of liberty, to silence, to insomnia,
to illness ; you deprive him of access to women, of
tobacco; you cut him off from the society of his
friends ; you set him to do degrading and useless
tasks, half-starve him, and, to complete the pic-
ture, deprive him even of sufficient light by which
to read the Book of Jeremiah, the prophet who is
pre-eminently the prisoner’s friend. When that
is done the Judge goes home and lunches, and
letting out the bottom button of his waistcoat,
pats his stomaoh, and thanks his God that England
is the home of liberty.—Yours, in some doubt,
R. B. Cunninghams: Gkaham.”
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S.W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
The best test of a man’s value as a friend
is to notice how he speaks about you after a quarrel
so serious that he won’t speak to you.


RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CUBE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
GENERAL ELECTION!
. . The C’rect Political Tip . .
XJKrAIWIMIOTJS VOTE!
TOPS THE POLL
Bitty TED.
Good Second : GOLDENIA. All others nowhere.
EMORMOUS MAJORITY!
G-ranuma Afc Fodab..
Dead Heat.
In every Constituency, both Before and After
the Poll.
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
In much request.
Sole Proprietors and Agents : JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
Dean’s Place, SYDNEY. Wholesale Only.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
£5?“ Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
Smoke
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA,
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
POLITICAL
POINTS
The blacklegislative Assembly—-N.S.W.
Lower House.
And now the Yankees will want to be in
the China pie and all over the globe. Good-bye
to the America of Washington, Jefferson, Mon-
roe, Lincoln. Ave Caesar!
Westralian papers now teem with letters
demanding that the Government shall start relief-
works for unemployed, and give them a chance to
earn even 2s. a day. The Boom is dead.
The Adelaide Labor paper is now run by
Roberts, M.P. Under the new regime it is bit-
terly hostile to the Premier, whom it recently
deseribed as “that mass of bounce, Kingston.”
POLITICS!
FIRST DOMAIN ORATOR : “ Call yerself a Free
trader, do yer? Oh, well, what ’uld yer do
if I was to stoush yer on the snout?”
SECOND DITTO : “ Knock yer bloomin’ ’ead off.”
F. D.O.: “ Yah—wot did I tell yer; yer a Per-
tectionist all the time.”
“As a Federationist Mr. Reid is like the
blank leaf between the Old and New Testaments,
belonging to neither dispensation. —King O’Mal-
LET, M.P., of South Australia, Sometime after
Sheridan.
G.H.R.
Once “ fat and jolly ” was his creed—
He’d lead the people into clover—
4,nd now to satisfy his need
To grievous Want he’d give them over.
Says Melb. Age : “ When Henry
Wrixon was a member of the Leg. Assembly he
was considered a Conservative in precept, but a
Liberal in example.” Not too much’ Liberal,
anyhow. Wrixon’s one notable achievement was
the Bill to prevent the publication of Sunday
newspapers in Victoria.
Surprising how “ backbony ” politicians
can unstiffen with circumstances ! Dibbs, rising
hope of the Unificatioriists, has consented to Fede-
ration ! Lyne, who swore at Yass to fight the
N.S.W. general election on Protection, and no-
thing but Protection, and who has lived on his
backbone for years, now mildly proposes to sink
both backbone and and march behind
Barton. Better late than never.
Complaints are heard in various parts of
N.S.W. about the present hurried drafting of
Sydney unemployed out back, where they cut
wages against the local workmen. Two out of
every three put on the Wombeyan Caves road
last week were fresh arrivals from Sydney, though
there were 500 men already on hand waiting for
the job to open. The object of the Govt, is
apparently to clear Sydney of men who might
embarrass “ jolly-and-fat ” candidates at the
coming city elections.
Premier Kingston, confronted by three
no-confidence motions—one tabled by his un-.
grateful Labor allies—is credited with hoping that
one of them will be carried. His Govt, has
reigned for five years, and in that time made
many enemies. Moreover, any Govt., con-
structed from the present second-rate Opposition
crowd, would be wrecked at next year’s elections,
and then would step in a new Govt., under
Kingston and Playford, stronger than ever. And
there are private reasons.
“Hermes”; The big 18th century wars
were all commercial, and it would be well if Aus-
tralia woke up to the fact that the tallest fight of
modern times is hatching in the Pacific. Britain,
Japan, Russia, France, and Germany are all there
—all in possession of good operating bases, and all
prepared to fight to the death for the bawbees. If
Britain wades in, Australia won’t be able to keep
out, which emphasises the foolishness of not im-
mediately establishing factories for the production
of our own war material.
B. R. Wise’s cutting jibe, in his Balmain
speech, at the “ N.S.W. Citizens’Anti-Bill Party”
for changing its name to the “Liberal Federal
Party,” was inserted in S.M. Herald report and
carefully expunged from the Telegraph. Wise
said, apropos of the change of name : “It was a
trick not unknown to the promoters of fraudulent
companies that when a mine had failed under one
name, it was foisted on the public under another.”
There are signs that the more enterprising
spirits of S.A. Opposition are anxious to depose
Downer, Q.C., because he accepts Govt, briefs,
and for other reasons; but the choice of a suc-
cessor is difficult even although Copley, Solomon,
Homburg and Darling are available. What they
want is some adroit person like G. H. Reid, who
would bring the dissatisfied Labor-party and the
bitter Tories into happy union against Premier
Kingston,
Victorian voters are so queer financially
that the plain-clothes electoral-roll inspectors are
frequently mistaken for the house-agent, paper-
man, gas-man, or what not, and informed that the
voter has left the neighborhood, with the result
that when the tricky one turns up at the polling-
booth he finds that he has been struck off the
roll. A cap with a badge would distinguish the
inspector, and prevent the disfranchisement of
impecunious electors.
Lyne has been ponderously following his
party back to the Federal leadership of Barton.
Which recalls a story of the’4B Revolution. One wet
day a procession was passing through Paris,
rounded up by a dejected-looking man carrying a
dilapidated flag. An acquaintance said to him|:
“ Hullo ! whatever are you doing here marching
behind all these people ? What are you following
them for?” “I must,” said the dejected one;
“ why, I’m their leader ! ”
Thirteen Victorian M.L.C.'s, including
Wrixon, the gentleman who wants to violently
reform the House of 48 Rich Landlords, go up for
re-election next month. If Victoria wants to
reform its 48 Landlords it had better make dead
sure of Wrixon’s re-election, anyhow. That
lawyer looked like a very ordinary Tory in the
Assembly ; in the Council, by sheer force of com-
parison, he looks like a vigorous Democrat and
quite a brilliant variety of patriot.
By a Downing-street combination of
colonial interests, Fiji was originally included in
the group of dependencies which guaranteed to
subsidise the Govt, of Papua. When, however,
the resources of the blacky-browny territory were
panned out, it was found that, on a proportional
white population basis, Fiji would yield only £ 100
a year, so Fiji was al 1 owed to stand out. Other-
wise, Fiji would have had now a voice with the
Australias as to the disposal of Papuan territory.
The promised referendum on the N.S.W.
fiscal question has gone the way of Premier Reid’s
other promises. The necessary Bill was intro-
duced ; then the Legislature was shut up with a
loud bang nearly a. month before its time, and the
unfinished Fiscal Referendum Bill was dropped.
Reid should be remembered as the Premier who
promised two Referendums. In the first one the
majority was disfranchised wholesale by the
80,000 minimum, and the second was shunted
altogether.
A FACT.
1ST MAN: “ What’s Q.O, after Bartons name mean, Bill?”
2ND DITTO : “ Why, Quillonial Cekertery, of course!”
Extract from Premier Reid’s address to
the electors, 15th July, ’95 :
Public life has been too full of those mysterious in-
dividuals who seem to twist so much just at a time when
all their life-long professions call upon them to go
straight.
By one of the curious contradictions that
make life interesting it has now eventuated that
the most ardent supporters of Land-Grab Rail-
ways in Q. are certain Northern Labor M.L. A.’s,
viz.: Jackson, Hoolan and Sim. Now that the
Chillagoe-Mareeba line has been successfully
engineered through Parliament another proposal
to connect Normanton and Cloncurry is to the
fore. Democrat Sim is its ablest advocate. Hard
to. understand how Labor voters can support a
trio of legislators who are doing their best to
advance schemes utterly at variance with Demo-
cratic principles.
To fix credit where credit is due some
member should enquire in N.S.W. Assembly how
many J’s.P. have been appointed during the last
three years on the nomination and by the influence
of members of the Labor-party. If the names of
the J.’sP. be also enquired for some peculiar social
combinations will be disclosed. Aproi>os, the
latest additional list of honorary N.S.W.. magis-
trates includes the names of several individuals
who, instead of being held in public respect, are
held in absolute contempt by 99 out of every 100
people who know anything about them. Surely
that list can never have been revised by the
Executive !
Premier Reid’s suggestion that Victoria
should combine its debt of =£4l per head with
N.S.W.’s j 248 per head, which means a dead loss
to Victoria of .£3,000,000 ; and that the Victorian
education system, which costs 10s. per inhabitant
per annum, should combine with the N.S.W.
system which costs 11s., are sacrifices that the
small Southern state will probably think reason-
able enough as the price of unity. But on top of
that the demand that the Federal capital shall be
fixed in N.S.W. as a matter of right, because of
the extra sacrifices which the alleged mother pro-
vince is making in the cause of unity, looks a
tolerably loud and aggressive piece of piracy.
Vic. Assembly thinks of inquiring into the
mysterious vanishment of .£500,000 worth of rail-
way rolling-stock. But, after all, there is very
little to inquire about, unless it is suspected that
the stock was stolen by S. A.—there is no break of
gauge on the S.A. border, and that is the one
place where the Vic. locomotive could be prigged
silently in the night. Barring that, the only
possible explanation is that the old stock wore out
and was broken up, and the painfully loose man-
agement preserved no record thereof, and there
was no regular stock-taking, and the general
policy was one of incapacity and drift, and a
tendency to go out and see a man about a dog.
Camden promises bo be a warm contest at
N.S.W. general election. There are already five
candidates. At last election Kidd was displaced
by Bull. Kidd’s defeat was the result of being
too good-natured and doing too much for his con-
stituency. When Postmaster-General he got
about half the electorate jobs in the G.P.0., and
when election time came one-half voted against
him because he hadn’t given their brother Bill a
job, and half the remainder voted against him
because he got Clancy’s son, Mick, a better job
than that provided for brother Bill. Now, Bull
has got nobody a job, so Kidd is “ coming at him
again.” The result should be worth watching.
The net result of a fortnight’s tariff fight
in Tas. Assembly, in the course of which the
fiscal issue was raised and sunk at least 40 times,
was the remission of a few small revenue duties—
about .£7OOO a year in all. Treas. 'Fysh fought
like a bull-ant for every penny of revenue, and
despite the fact that a year’s surplus of over
£lOO,OOO is in view—which, in proportion to popu-
lation, is equal to =6800,000 in N.S.W. —he resisted
a very loud demand for remission of taxation
with great success. Fysh’s ambition is to totally
wipe out the accumulated deficit before he parts
with any of his income, for which reason it is a
pity there aren’t more Treasurers like him. And
when the deficit is wiped out, if he still resists all
demands for reduced taxation and abolishes
borrowing instead, P. Fysh will be remembered in
years to come as the one courageous and common-
sense Treasurer in thriftless Australia.
They have a brisk, off-hand way of “ puri-
fying the electoral rolls ” in Wes-
tralia. Once a year an official
goes over the roll and marks the
names of all persons whom he
suspects of
being gone, or
dead, or dis-
qualified. As
he is a tired,
perfunctory
person he gen-
erally does his
work by sus-
pectingalmost
everybody of
being “dis -
qualified,’’and
leaves the elec-
tor to prove
that he isn’t.
Then a court
is held ; each
name is called
out ; and if
the person is-
n’t there he is
struck off. No-
body attempts
to prove that
the elector is
disqualified,or
that he has
received no-
tice of the pro-
ceedings, or
anything else.
A man simply
stands up in
one spot of
the 900,000 square miles of W.A. territory,
and says in a tired voice, “J. Smith ! ” And
if J. Smith isn’t right there he is disfranchised.
The court sat recently, at Perth, and struck
off 2968 names in the course of one morning.
Nobody appeared to protest, >vnd the names
were struck off as fast as the husky official
could read them over. No wonder the W.A.
electoral list keeps small.
The present is the first N.S.W. general
election without its Parkes since the inauguration
of Responsible Government. Even at the last
political upheaval the old man in eclipse cut in
with his little party—Me and Wise and Jimmy
Martin, the last-named now departed. If Parkes
had only carried Federation through when the
power was his !
A WAR ITEM.
“ Hey, mister, is the war over? ”
Whether Tasmania is having a boom just
now, or whether it is merely getting out of a
fit of depression and recovering its normal state,
it is difficult to say. No one ever recognises a
boom, unless it is a very big one, till after it is
gone. Anyhow, the Bvaddon-Fysh Govt, despite
its lack of big ideas, shows a good deal of strong
horse-sense in the way it uses its opportunity. In
place of spreading out expenditure it plugs away
hard at paying off the old shortage, and if the
revenue drops again there will at least be less to
pay out of it when the bad times return.
S.A. Govt, is in at least one tight place.
Glenelg, that province’s “premier watering place,”
is connected with Adelaide by a couple of railway
lines. There never was enough business for the
two, so a few years ago the original co. bought out
the hopeless newcomer, and, since then, has only
run an occasional train on it. Now the Govt.,
which has the right to buy out the original co.
(though the right expires shortly), offers a price for
the original line only, and the co., which is
reckoned the meanest in all Australia—and its
rolling-stock is certainly the shabbiest—bucks
against anything of the sort. The Govt., on the
other hand, cannot see why it should buy two
lines when one is quite enough ; but J. G. Jenkins,
the Minister for Works, sits for Glenelg, and
Glenelg demands that the Govt, shall purchase
something. In the end the Govt, will probably
have to buy both lines ; but Kingston will be an
ugly customer to cross for a few days afterwards.
After all, N.S. W. Attorney-General Want
does speak the truth when he says that he is a
Federationist. Want is a Federationist just as
The Bulletin is a believer in the total abolition
of Parliament and the establishment of an abso-
lute hereditary monarchy. When the King of the
Cabbage-Tree Mob defined his position in his
famous speech in the N.S. W. Leg. Council last
year, he said that he wanted Federation—with
the proviso that N.S.W. was to boss the Parlia-
ments of all the other provinces. And The Bulle-
tin wants to abolish all Parliaments and run the
whole show’ with a hereditary despot, provided
there is a sufficient guarantee that the despot will
never do anything wrong or foolish, and will never
leave undone anything that is right or wise or ad-
visable. Jack Want has always been a Federa-
tionist, and this paper has always believed in
absolute monarchy, and anyone who says any-
thing to the contrary is an Ananias of the most
nefarious kind.
Westralia’s Premier should be remem-
bered as John the Promiser. In April, : 96, he
said to A. M. Hassall, member for the district,
that he was not in favor of constructing a line
from Ooolgardie to Norseman, but when the line
was built it would start from Esperance (Esper-
ance got drunk on receipt of that news, therefore
remembers it perfectly). In Dec., 97, the bulky
one told an Esperance deputation that Esperance
should certainly be the port of the Norseman gold-
field, and again Esperance got drunk. In June,
’9B, John’s programme includes a line from Cool-
gardie to Norseman, and John, in reply to a
plaintive wail from Esperance, says he doesn’t
remember promising anything. Two years ago
Esperance was a bustling little seaport with 14G0
able-bodied inhabitants, who took their liquor
like giants, and their town stood third on the list
of Custom-receipts for the province. Now, the
place is a deserted village with 242 ghouls wan-
dering aimlessly round the tin shanties in search
of something big enough to throw at John Forrest
and all his works.
NURSERY RHYMES UP-TO-DATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Father, may I go out to vote ? ”
For Federation ?” “ Oh, yes !
Put on your little hat and coat,
But don’t you vote for No-Yes ! ”
“ Mother, may I go out and vote ? ”
“ I wish you could, my daughter;
Because, you see, I know you dote
On Barton, as you oughter.”


New System of Healing!
The Polypathic Institute and its Remarkable Work.
With absolute certainty of locating disease, they cure beyond reasonable doubt in all cases.
23 Y orlt Street, WynyardL Square, Sydney.
Thousands
Cured
Annually.
Thousands
Cured
Annually.
Dr. WILLIAM FLETCHER HALL, The Eminent Diagnostician, of the Polypathio
Medical Institute, 2!) York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
The Diagnosis of Disease.
Without, looking at the Tongue, feeling the Pulse, or any previous hnotvledge of the case.
Polypathy claims the freedom of accepting the pood and rejecting the bad in all systems ; it has formulated
special treatment for itself in all chronic cases ; it prepares its own medicines, and applies them in the light of
nineteenth century progress.
THE POLYPATHIO MEDICAL INSTITUTE, SYDNEY, where more capital is invested, more physicians
employed, more patients treated, and more CURES made, than by any other System in the world. 29 YORK
STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
You are earnestly invited to come, see, and examine for yourself their institution, advantages, appliances, and
success in curing the chronic ailments of suffering humanity.
Th ir patients are numbered from all parts of the world, and so remarkable has been their success that one
pauses in wonder at the superior qualifications of a man who can, FROM A STRICTLY SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE
OF THE STRUCTURE OF MAN, TELL DISEASE AT A GLANCE, WITHOUT ASKING ANY QUESTIONS,
LOOKING AT THE TONGUE OR FEELING THE PULSE.
They treat all Female Troubles by the Polypathetic Method, which does away with the speculum examination,
rings, pessaries, and all local treatment.
The3' also desire to impress upon all men who are suffering from the errors of youth that they have the justly
celebrated Hindoo Remedy, so well and favorably known in the Old World as the “ Anti-Agnechal Tabloid Method.
All desiring to test the system will have such opportunity.
WHITE. WRITE.
IF YOU CANNOT COME TO INSTITUTE FOR CONSULTATION, WRITE FOR
LIST OF QUESTIONS.
Enclosing Stamps for Iteply and FIVE SHIHINQS.
Hundreds Successfully Treated Every year by mail.
WE HAVE THE MOST PERFECT SYSTEM FOR TREATMENT BY MATT. EVER
USED IN THE COLONIES.
The Management of the Polypathio Medical Institute have leased the entire building, 29 YORK STREET
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY. This building has been most thoroughly re-modelled, and is now fully equipped
and furnished with Reception Rooms, Consultation Rooms, and Laboratories, all complete. All of the Polypathio
Institutes are presided over, in the Medical Department, by fully qualified medical men, whose credentials are second
to none in the medical world, and they are fully registered by the Medical Boards of the colonies in which they
practice in full compliance with the medical laws.
The Polypathio Institutes have the Largest Private Laboratories of any Private Hospital or Institute in the
World, and they are also presided over by expert chemists, fully registered by the Pharmaceutical Boards of the
colony in which they reside.
♦
Polypathio Medical Institute,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Hours of Consultation—lo a.m. to 4 p.m. DAILY.
The c>nce-be;iutiful Empress of Austria,
a dashing 1 huntress until recent years, is said to be
suffering from insomnia and heart disease. Em-
press Elizabeth is 62.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere. *
The Salvation Army has a home in the
lonely recesses of Pakenham (Gippsland, Vic.) to
which it sends giddy young females entrusted to
its care, with the intention of reclaiming the
girls and reclaiming the land at the same time.
The home is in the howling wilderness, but the
matron is much distressed, and there is police-
court business and great ado and devilment be-
cause diabolical young men travel miles to hide in
the scrub surrounding the retreat and endeavor to
inveigle the inmates with whistling, and to had
them over the hills and far away when the atten-
tion of the matron is otherwise engaged. There
are always young men in the scrub, day and night,
and the air is full of discordant whistlings and
insinuating cries. The other day two female
officers saw men signalling in the bush, and they
put off their uniforms and badges, and, sallying
forth, made a very satisfactory pretence of mash-
ing the intruders in order to secure evidence for a
prosecution. But the prevailing J.P. at Paken-
ham said the case was blankfoolishness, and the
young men are still whistling in the scrub around
that ’appy ’ome, and the Army is calling tenders
for a larrikin-proof fence half-a-mile high.
Lord Windsor has gone into the pub. busi-
ness in a town near Cardiff (Wales). Runs the
concern through a manager, closes strictly on
Sunday, and, as he doesn’t allow anybody in the
house any interest in the grog-sales, the “ noble ”
liquor is of the best.
Every sixth person in France has an ac-
count in one of the State Savings Bank’s 2000
branches. Interest is 3£ per cent., and total de-
posits about <£140,000,000. Most that can be held
in one person’s name is £OO, and it has sometimes
been found necessary to reduce the amount in order
to keep the vast capital within bounds. About
half the depositors are women.
Old Bishop Goe has after all some sense of
humor. Awhile since, a handsome young curate,
very popular with his fellow clerics, met with an
accident One day, when he was recovering, four
brother curates, all young, called on him. Being
alone, they settled down to enjoy themselves.
With their clerical coats off they sat round
the bed, smoking pipes, drinking whisky, and
playing a little game of nap. They were getting
along famously, and the fun was becoming
boisterous, when there came a knock at the door.
“ Come in,” yelled the man in the bed. And Lo !
Bishop Goe popped in his head! There was
general consternation. One curate grabbed the
cards, another tried to put the whisky under the
bed, and a third covered up the glasses. But Goe
grasped the situation. “Oh,” he said, “a little
prayer-meeting, I perceive. I’ll come back in ten
minutes.” Good old gaiters and apron !
SfIKCgSS iQ BQsipgSS-
-135,000 NATIONAL CASH REGISTERS
In Daily Use in all parts of the Civilised World.
|n Retail Stores
More money can be made
with less trouble if a
NATIONAL . . .
CASH REGISTER
is used to take care of I
Credit and Cash Sales.
aiWMMiiii
|n Hotels
It is absolutely necessary
to have a reliable system
to check Cash received and
paid out. The
NATIONAL. . .
CASH REGISTER
will do this.
The NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO.
(OF DAYTON. OHIO, U.S.A.),
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Melbourne (Vic.), Brisbane (Q.), Adelaide (S.A.), Wellington (N.Z.),
Hobart (Tas.), Perth (W.A.)
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager for Australasia.
You can Buy >
at PALING’S
Catalogues post free,
111. ft. Paling 1 Go.
Z>tdL.,
Sydney, Brisbane,
Newcastle.
PIANOS
ORGANS
MUSie
VIOLINS
aeeeRDEONS
AUTOHARPS
SORNETS
BANJOS
FLUTES
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
MeuTH Organs
POLYPHONS
STRINGS
AND
FITTINGS
For
every In-
strument
Cheaper and better than
any other house in
Australasia.
A Significant Sign!
The wear of a tyre is the true criterion of
its durability. It is on this point that
Dun lqp Tyres
stand out so far ahead of all other tyres.
They are made to stand.
No falling to pieces in a few months, as is generally
the case with cheap grade tyres. The small differ-
ence in price between “Dunlops” and their imitators
is not worth your taking any risks.
Duniqp Tyres
LAST YEARS
Where other tyres lasts months. Ask for
“ Dunlops ” when buying your machine, and
protect yourself against imitations by looking
for this TRADE MARK m~
None genuine without it!
First in 1888. Foremost ever since.
Tbc DGplop PoeOfpatic Tyre Co. Ltd.
486 Kent Street, Sydney ;
and Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.


* Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Dill), fflont de piete
D. & I, Co., Limited
(Large White Maeble Building),
74
CASTLEREACrH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnbroking Pranch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MOATTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, v
••• AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY. Manager.
u
OFF, Cc
Intersection Hunter! Bligh and
C4STLEREAGH STREETS,^*-*
* SYD ftgy .
dProo**-
Offi CE in Austk*U* •
UAL JffCOME asd !NYESTtD
Fmds Exceed Jf2oo. ooo perl ini.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NifiW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers ana Wigmakers
.TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites Hair working. ll^
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/-each. Newest, Designs. Best,
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Seal pets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
A 'IS I,ST ANTS Engaged for the Country.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels
,afes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SNADLER,
SYDNEY AND SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Years.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD
HOMAH or HOVIS BREAD
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel.,
No. 312.
Head Office
Tel.,
No. 312.
73 HOTTER ST., SYDNEY.
fl SilverljatcFFree;
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but, to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
nni . , , w,u e r - If ,.vou want one, write to us with-
out delay With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send vou
Six of our full-sized wonderful Potosi Silver Teaspoons
winch wear like solid real silver throughout. After vou
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
Thi"w f a ' ld . ea]l t , h ® lr attention to this advertisenient.
The Watch is sent by registered poston vour complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
TifiLLING Cards (Mdme-
_ Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
FORTUNE
LOVE
JuJ!iT jLifiKo,
_ _ 12 of the best
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Continental Supply Agency,
Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
ITIHELL’S Dipped Wool trumpets its own fame
34. Realised top price, 12id., for N.S.W. wools at
Sydney; and top price, 15id., London,’98 —both greasy.
0 0
0 0
, Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, <St Agency
Company, lAm ited.
Established 1878.
SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000
CA I 'lJ A L PAID-UP .. .. .. £6O 000
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
ns. (i in the Company’s business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
31st December. 1897 £6,021,410 0 0
DIREG 10RS': F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-uhairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Lube Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delanay Street, Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAM EM LORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
Total Capital
2,000,000
500,000
500,000
£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. 800 000
Paid-up .. .. .. los.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Cu.ne, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ■
Meares, -Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornier,
General Manager ; Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Inspectors: Win. Turner, John M‘NaII, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. O. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES’
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
May market, Gosford with agency at Wyong) New-
o-stle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
jnivnlile on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
i ula y-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street> Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq. !
Resident Secretary ; A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,743 - assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928 645
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable,' Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lor* * z-i.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. JLiabilty
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.'
IL r u' A - T- MeBKS ' JP - Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth A W
f akquhar. J. J ALLEN, Manager for Australia,'
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites &c
1 or tariff, apply to ’
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street •
or to ’
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
E. A. WEINBERG, E. M., General Managfr!
CEEUUI
Woollen
Cellular
onoEim
WINTER COMFORT.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses.
Bodices, etc , in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, or Cotton.
Gentlemen’s Department :
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etm
Thro fl ?i E M L^l,A;R ' m Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
Sole Agents :
David graham Co.,
(between George and York streets).
, Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'.
GEELONG
PORTLAND I
WARRNAMBOOL J
Konoo'.varra, Sat., July 16, 2 p.m.
-Gabo, Thursday, July 21, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, July 23, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE a
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE f
PORT AUGUSTA )
Gabo, Tuesday, July 26, 6 p.m.
bunbury
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, July 26, 6 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, July 16, 2 p.m.
■Barrabool, Tuesday, July 19, 5 p.m.
Konoowarra, Sat., July 23, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, July 16, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Sat., July 23, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith 8s Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Svdney
ana Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and Sail Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their ;ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, Han Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
« n ? T t [i er T lnforma,io ."> a PPIy Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street.
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
&
AND
J Af>
Aty
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
1)
at
ESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
Gibbs, bright & go., managing agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide
Brisbane, and Newcastle. ’
Business Announcements.
tffjs
_P L'
A. GEO. RING,
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
Bd. per 1000.
33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Cable Address—Riemseil.
Code—Moreing & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available. J
Out INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
& WOOPS
( FRANK WALLEN, \
\ Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock amt Share Jirokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. boOfQ^.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ SUIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis , to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
ft
WANTED to send for our Book, containing information
regarding the Disease of I
and its cure by Eucrasv, which-*iA *ni-KGIIIIGSS •
can be given secretly. Posted Free,
Address Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-street, SYDNEY '
, . Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
EX £!3w aSS ? n^ r S ?J7 ice t 0 and from We sfc Australian,
south Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Innamincka (from Melbourne)
Friday, July 22.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA, f
BUNBURY, GERALDTON I
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Innaminoka(from Melb.)
Friday, July 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
July 22.
Best; & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G- S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
be T des?aSdasfonoTs S :i PS ° f the above Company will
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
louching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
July
Aug.
Aug.
Aug.
Ade-
laide,
2 p.m.
July
Aug.
Aug. 18
30 Sept. 1
Kates of
p"" T u evor y alternate week. Kates ol
Passage-money : LONDON, Reiurn Tickets, £65 to £llO.
Western £2s> A 27 ll,s - £3s ‘ Cheap Fares to
favornhlp Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
Huddart, Parker £ go’s nine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIME-
SSYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
t atdp ca,liri S' at MELBOURNE, ADE-
wn, I L E^L B ei N SUEZ, and PORT SAID, .
Ade-
laide,
Noon.
uuuKeu co Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to 170
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
TT . SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
i°n ?anHln enge !i S for on( *° n . and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS? FIRST-CLASS
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
forrebuni by Itan'or^by'SleaF offi ° eS ’ interoha «^able
Qi^n^^ a mstre^ P Svdn“ he C ° U ’P an >” s
E. BLANC,
_____Principal Agent.
fl)‘|luiraith, ft go.
PROP. LTD.
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply 7 ’
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
~ ~ ~ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
FORTH GERMAN LLOYD
STFAMFRQ 8 are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE COLOMRO
ADKN STTlt'7 DODmoim u II,UJUJO,
Steamer.
Karlsruhe
Oldenburg
Gera
Stuttgart
P. Regent!
Luitpold
Leave
Mel-
bourne.
Leave
Ade-
laide.
July 19 July 23
Aug. 16 Aug. 20
Sept. 13 Sept. 17
ll j Oct. 15
Nov, 8 Nov. 12
T j T J lus - rveiurn tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weeklv
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackav
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas "
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON— Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN— Fortnightly, via Brisbane
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthlv
s ™ N StTwest
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine tinrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents i
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp &Co Ltd 10 Rri r i',„ .
aKidS'w^-V 0 - i Ltd " CoHins B St d rfet Street -
ADJiiLAIDE—B. W. MacDonald. Currie Strppt
lK»S l vy' fc pE »™-»-


Do you ever have a headache ? Would
you not have a cure —simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is pat up in packets of ten tablets—
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post.*
George Robertson and Co. issue Ferris's
admirable pocket road-map of N.S. Wales with
information for cyclists and others.
The Lowest Prices—
The Highest Testimonials—
The Finest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recom-
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
djinervapeptonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, has been reduced to the
public from 2s. 6d. to Is. 9d. The high quality of
the preparation has not been reduced.
Minerva Feptonised Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
.on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. large size, and to Is. 9d.
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street, by enclosing with the above
price 6d. extra to cover postage. Sample bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Co.,
Manufacturing Chemists & Pood Specialist".
LONDON : 15 and 17 Pore-street Avenue, E.C.
NEW YORK : Kemble Building', Whitehall-street.
SYDNEY : 56 M.irgaret-street.
a|ZD3i|9e|y *jQ
Expanding shoulder
BRACE for MEN.
In bringing this Brace before the public we are supplying
a long-felt want. It can be worn with perfect ease, and
for Clerks, Accountants,'and more especially Cyclists, it
will be found invaluable. In fact, they are such a protec
tion to the lungs
and kidneys the
wearer can sit in
draughts with im-
punity without the
slightest danger
of catching cold.
BiCP\ r ,
»
i
DU. MAC K NSIE'S Celebrated Shuilder Brace.
These BRACES can be obtained nowhere but from the
DR. MACKENZIE CORSET COMPANY, and are not sold
by anyone but ourselves, we having the patent rights of
the goods. Beware of Spurious Imitations.
Send for Circulars to above Company. Address—Dß.
MACKENZIE, 89 YORK ST., SYDNEY ; 147 b COLLINS
ST., MELBOURNE.
Mrs. FRAZER, Frankville Terrace, Wellington, New
Zealand.
T be Owl Drug Stores,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets,
SYD dXT EY.
Patent
Medicines . . .
Fancy Goods. •
Toilet
Requisites . , ,
at
COST . .
. . PRICE
Wl
Prescriptions
Faithfully
and
Accurately
Dispensed.
I). COBCItOFT ... Proprietor.
W. E. Arnold, Manager.
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER.
%etnms
HAS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations.
“ BEETHAM’S" is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/- & 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAM
Si SON, Chemists, Cheltenham England.
FELTON, O RIM WADE & 00., Melbourne
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
HjEALCpER.iviA.iM Hollow GROUND
y Zyy
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE
IN
IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADE
BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
■Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON v
]| Cold Ulatch for [adies Free.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE :
T*E N*W^W*M*N.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving' the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Ladies’ Solid Gold Watches. Jewelled
Movements, and are Reliable Timekeepers. List Price,
£5 10s. Send your answer at once, with a stamped ad-
dressed envelope, to know if you have won the PRIZE.
If so, and you purchase one of our Real Gold Ladies’
Chains to wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will he
sent securely packed, free by registered Post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ,
This well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
9.
COUGH
Si Dp s
Col
SPOONFUL
DOSE
Gives Immediate Relief and Rest.
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
See that HAYMAN’S is supplied.
ATKIHSOHS
EAU
DE
COLOGNE
THE FINEST ENGLISH MAKE.
More Fragrant; More Lasting;
and very much more refreshing
than all others.
USE ATKINSON’S ONLY.
AND BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Only genuine with “White Rose” Trade Mark
Of all Dealers & of the Manufacturers—
«T. & 33. Limited,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
Colemane’s—
vM/v
*7^
Eucalypte
Extract »
, itively the Purest Eucalyptus on earth and
e VV or id’s Great and Reliable Remedy in
fluenza, Colds, Chills, Coughs, Bronchitis
id all Chest Complaints and Derangement.
Used and recommended highly by Lord
nrrington, Earl Jersey, &o.
file GREATEST REMEDY KNOWN
Wi|tSvVfl3>ST
lARK
Corset
WitvoWfliST CorSET
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN, ALWAYS WILL BE WORN
PERFECT in SHAPE.
len gthens the WA IST
BEAUTIFIES TH E FIGURE.
W'u-owa'ST CorSET
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
ask for
Corset
OF ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN BY
F. W. LEE, Camden Buildings.
2 18, GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY.
A
Kasai
0? r f;
ShNl) v UR ORDER TO DAY.
We will more than please you.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co.,
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 ios., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 10s. Descriptions Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, 80 inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual of keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden'toned rieds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £to. Reference, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
Business, Robbery, etc-
Apropos the remark that “ there is no business
Which booms more continuously than the pawnshop,” it
is curious that no such institution has ever long survived
at Broken Hill, with its varying population of from 20,000
to 25,f100 and more. Several Cohensteins have made the
experiment and failed ; failed so dismally that for six years
the three balls have not been seen in the town.
* * * *
A Sydney firm doing a large country trade has,
for years past, charged its customers 10 per cent, per
annum on the unpaid balances of monthly accounts. By
an incomprehensibly - simultaneous stroke of what the
firm calls “ had luck,” nearly a snore of these customers .
wrote, in one week lately, setting up claims for refunds
of interest paid. The firm gave no formal notice that it
charged interest; it merely tacked it on as an item at
the foot of the account; and how about 20 traders in dif-
ferent parts of the country could go on uncomplainingly
paying, for nearly 10 years, to all at once round-up and,
in almost identical language, demand refunds, puzzles
Nehemiah. The demands were alike, even to a reference
to the existence of the Statute of Limitations, and the
steps to be taken if Nehemiah kicked.
* * * *
In these days of more or less rapid telegraphing,
Adelaide merchants complain that the sun is an out-of-
date institution. The trouble is that a Melb. merchant
can wire to Adelaide at 5 p.m. Melb. time and get a reply,
because 5 p.m. Melb. equals 4 p.m. Adelaide ; but the
Adelaide merchant can’t get a reply from Melb. unless he
wires at or before 4 p.m. Adelaide time. So the Melb.
merchant has an hour’s “ bulge ” on his dear brother over
the border. S.A. Govt, has been several times begged to
put back the clock in its province ; but it so far declines
to interfere With the internationally accepted zone
arrangement.
* * * *
A-certain guarantee society once solicited sup-
port from prospective shareholders with the assurance
that on an average 80 per cent, of defaults would never
be collected. The society would only pay after the con-
viction by criminal prosecution of the person guaranteed,
and it was pointed out that by making a specialty of
guaranteeing relatives of the socially well-connected such
prosecutions would rarely be instituted. The well-con-
nected friends would hush the matter up.
* * * *
A rich Victorian lushington stripped and went
to bed one night in an open paddock, where he was found
by a miner, with his pocket-book and a lot oLscrip lying
bes'de him. The miner had him taken to an hotel, and
called next morning with the valuables, £530 in all. The
loser was overjoyed, presented the finder with a fiver,
and assured him—“ When you want a good turn done,
come to me.” Some months after, the miner was
in need, and called on the other, who received him
warmly ; and, on the position being explained, exclaimed,
“ I never forget a good turn ! Here is my lawyer’s
address. Call on him and submit your security, and it
will be all right! No, I never forget a good turn ! ” The
beauty of which announcement lay in the fact that the
miner was as bare of security as George Reid is of political
conscience.
* * * *
N.S.W. would do well to assimilate her Land-
lord and Tenant law to that of Victoria. Lately, a
Richmond (Melb.) house-agency firm which had seized for
rent, in different houses, two sewing-machines, obtained
on time-payment, and s'.ill partially unpaid for, was pro-
ceeded against for illegal detention, and compelled to
give the machines up, with 13s. costs in one case and ss.
in the other. Under the Vic. 1895 Landlord and Tenant
Act, also, a tenant’s goods to value of £2O are exempt
from seizure, whereas, in N.S.W., the landlord can sell
the bed from under a sick person, which is why time-pay-
ment people require to see rent-receipts. In one reported
Sydney case, a widow with a family was prevented from
obtaining a sewing-machine and constant work because
the landlord a rich suburban alderman would not
guarantee not to distrain upon the machine for about 18s.
rent owing.
* * * *
A smart landlord let a 10s. a-week rookery to a
poor devil of a tradesman who by hard work and long
hours got together a connection, for which another man
offered him £lO ; but when the tradesman communicated
with his landlord, latter said that unless he-got £2 out of
the transaction, he’d refuse the prospective tenant and
turn out the present one. Tenant perforce consented,
but, when he got receipt (unstamped) for the £2, he took
it to the police-station, and Shylock fell-in for a £2 fine
and 10s. 6d. costs !
* * * *
Vic. Income Tax Commissioner will not permit
deduction of sewage expenses from income—holding that
such matters come under heading of invested capital, and
increase the value of the property. Fatman grumbles.
He cannot get any more rent, and the sanitary improve-
ment of the premises concerns him not. He doesn’t live
there !
» » * *
The small vfnegrowers in Victoria, in their
endeavour to get the Government to assist a scheme for
the establishment of the central wine-cellars, are beset by
a strange combination. The wine merchants, represented
by the Central Wine Association, are dead against such a
scheme, as it would cut into the present monopoly badly.
Then the Cold-tea cranks are “ agin’ the Government ”
assisting the wine industry in any way. At a recent con-
ference of vinegrowers, the small grower was overpowered
entirely by the big growers, who are on the side of the
wine merchants. One of the small men got in a nasty
knock on the Central Wine Association. In scorn, he
drew attention to the queer combination against those
in favor of central cellars. “It is,” he said, “ a stranger
combination than the lamb and the lion, of Scriptural
legend. Here we have the Central Wine Association
quietly lying down with the Women’s Christian Temper-
ance Society.”
* * * *
Melb. milk-retailers are constantly being fined
for water-adulteration, although they prove that they
dispense it as received from the milk-farmer, who in turn
declares that he delivers it pure. A,s tea-leaves have been
found in the cans, it has been suggested that the railway-
men take toll and make up the diminished bulk with
other matter. A can which, while allowing aeration,
would defy abstraction would be a bonanza for the in-
ventor.
* » * *
Landlords of Melbourne premises whence the
Totties have been hunted are growling about having to
accept from respectable tenants 13s. to 20s. per week as
against the 30s. to 40s. from the daughters of joy. Some
fashionable people are among the sufferers.
« * • *
A debt-collector called on a civil servant, at the
latter’s office, the other day, to collect a tailor’s bill. The
collector did not know the debtor, and, when he men-
tioned the gentleman’s name, the latter calmly assured
him that he was dead—had died three weeks before of
typhoid. The caller expressed his sympathy, and had
almost reached the door, on the way out, when the head
of the department entered, and gave the shabby-genteel
bailiff a what-do-you-want-here sort of stare. “I was
only calling on poor Mr. ; but am sorry to hear he
is dead.” “ ?” replied the other; “why, that’s
Mr. there,” pointing to the clerk, the collector had
just been speaking to. Explanations followed, and the
pen-driver was promptly told to pay the money due out
of his next month’s salary, or he would be reported to the
P.S. Board. He almost deserved better luck.
* * * *
If Federation doesn t come, the probabilities
are that Victoria will shortly put a big duty on imported
coal. The local coal-owners allege that coal can be
carried profitably on the railways at sd. per ton per mile.
Railway Commissioner Mathieson demands fd. By way
of encouraging the industry Premier Turner has allowed
the coal to he carried at Id-, but he has given notice that
this reduction is to cease. The Commissioner gives
notice that owners must pay full rates, and as that extra
id. per mile means Is. 6d. per ton added to the cost by
the time the combustible reaches Melbourne, the N.S.W.
coal-owner, with his cheap sea-freights, will almost cer-
tainly cut out the Gippsland man so far as concerns the
city trade. And that will cause such a truly fiendish row
that Turner will almost certainly follow the example set
by Queensland and Tasmania and put on a duty. If the
duty is only Is. (id. per ton, so as to make up for the
extra railway tax on the local article, it will leave the
rival producers just where they are now—the only differ-
ence will be that the Treasury will be some £40,000 a year
to the good. But if the Government once begins to move
in the matter if. may put on 2s. or 3s. or 4s. per ton duty,
as Tasmania and Queensland have done, and then N.S.W.’s
biggest coal-market prac. : " Q "'-' shuts up.
In connection with a recently-mentioned meat-
preserving industry in far west N.S.W., taken over by an
English co., it is understood that an irrigation project is
afoot ; and it is said in Sydney that there is Anglo-Indian
influence with the board to have the labor on the settle-
ment supplied by a shipment of Hindoos. Dp to date the
Hindoo agricultural settlements in Australia have been
exclusively on the coast.
• * * *
“Malle”: The N.S.W. No-Liability Co. Act,
despite repeated tinkerings, still affords iegis for fleecing
the public. To obtain registration it is necessary that
10 per cent, of the contributing capital be paid up, i nd
that seven shareholders shall sign a memorandum of
association ; these seven also make the rules by which the
co. is to be governed, and can elect the first direc ors
from among themselves, such holding office until first
general meeting, which must be held within four months
after incorporation. A lot can happen in four months ;
muddle and incompetency during such a period will make
ducks and drakes of subscribed capital. The usual prac-
tice in floating is for one of the vendors to be the first
legal manager, and so soon as 10 per cent, of contributing
capital is subscribed, he can gather in six of his clique
(who may not hold 50 shares among them) to sign memo,
of association, frame the rules, register co., and carry on
a go-as-you-please for 4 months, while the shareholders
who have “ put up the stuff ” have no voice whatever in
it. The memo, of association should only be signed at a
general meeting, where the persons to do so could be
chosen by the shareholders, who could at same time elect
the first directors, and no general meeting need be held
for 12 months thereafter. Also clause 26 gives the signers
of memo, another excellent chance of dishing the share-
holders. It is there enacted “that seven clear days’
notice, at the least, shall be given of every general meet-
ing, specifying place, day, and hour of meet-
ing, &c., &c., but the accidental omission to give
such notice to any shareholder, or the non-receipt
of such notice by any shareholder, shall not invalidate
any proceedings at any such meeting.” Therefore should
a few large shareholders be likely to be unduly inquisi-
tive or to' differ materially from aforesaid hole-and-corner
brigade, it is very convenient to accidentally omit to give
them notice of the meeting. To overcome this, a notice
of every G.M. or Extraordinary G.M. should be posted
per registered letter to each shareholder at least 14 days
prior to meeting. If the legislature think the additional
postage an unfair tax on co’s funds, let it be enacted that
all such notices shall be registered at ordinary letter-rates,
and that the non-receipt of such notice by any share-
holder (providing such is not due to postal authorities or
to any contingency such as change of address of which
co. had no cognisance) shall invalidate the meeting, it
being taken for granted that the omission to post same
was not accidental.
* * * *
An experienced Vic. miner who went west
recently, writes from Kalgoorlie : “Contract work can
sometimes be got, but prices are so low it won’t pay for
skilly. Thousands of men are hard at work doing nothing
all over the shop. The sole desire of every second man
you meet is to earn enough to carry him east to the
missus. Mines are shutting down rapidly. The Great
Boulder cut cleanout at 400 ft., but they hid their sorrow
till they sank on to her again. Short reefs are the rule
as far as I have seen—nothing running over a mile. The
alluvial that caused the Kalgoorlie ‘ riot ’ is not worth
a sundowner’s damn. The only men who get a bit in the
wash in these parts are those who have jobs in the quartz
mines, and put in a little time in the shallow ground when
on afternoon shifts. There is no field for the prospector
nearer than Mt. Leonora. Bread Is. 4d. the 31b. loaf, and
Forrest has just put freights up 80 per cent, to encourage
the miner. Stay where you are and thank the Lord.
Would rather be rocking a cradle on an old Vic. field my-
self.”
* » * *
“Jim” Kearnan, ex-manager of the Boulder
Perseverance mine, who was an early rusher to Klondyke,
writes back that, to even his hard sort, the journey up is
awful. Kearnan just missed the Chilcoot Pass disaster.
“ I am camped within four miles of the scene,” he writes ;
“ it’s a tough sight to see them pulling the poor beggars
out by th,e legs, and identifying them by their miners’
rights. As yet.no Australians have been found under the
slide. . . . One of my mates is down with fever. 1 have
sent him on to the Skaguay hospital, strapped on a dog-
sleigh. . . . Six of the Australians here have gone stone-
blind, frost-bitten ; they have gone back to Vancouver.
£5OO is not enough to put a man through in comfort. . . .
Stop in Australia as long as you can.”
* * * *
Easy to see from late London papers that
Hooley was tumbling to bits, and that some of his promo-
tions were crumbling in their rottenness. These covered
a capital of 19 millions, and it was not his fault that it
was not a lot more. The public have long had a feeling
that they were suffering from an overdose of Hooley.
His marketable promotions show a loss of over five
millions, and a number have dropped right out. In the
Dunlop and Bovril deals he made no secret of his profits,
but in all subsequent flotations he kept them out of sight.
His stock-exchange transactions are gradually being
dragged into the law-courts. Hooley is the man who
changed the capital of the Pneumatic Tyre Co. from
£300,000 to five millions, and within a few weeks
it had a market-value of seven millions! “Yet,” says
the Ceitic, “ it had plenty of enthusiastic flatterers to
start with. That particularly innocent and gullible
financier, Mr. Harry H. Marks, M.P., used to sing its
praises in season and out of season in the Financial
Nbws, and I remember especially one fulsome article, in
which he predicted that the co. would earn 100 per cent,
on its deferred shares.”


The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet
‘ Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the depdt, 257 George-street,
Sydney.*
C. E. Fullford, the head of the Bile Beans
Manufacturing Co. is a 30 years old, clean shaved
American, who says: “I am a Canadian, a chemist,
born and brought up in the medicine business;
rr.y uncle, the proprietor of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People, is a millionaire several times
over. With reference to Bile Beans for Bilious-
ness—l had the formula before coming to Aus-
tralia, two years ago; I knew that there are
800,000,000 people in the world all more or less
bilious; at 4 o’clock one morning the name Bile
Beans struck me like a blow in the eye, and next
morning I placed the miracle Bean on the Aus-
tralian market, and since then I have had to
almost keep the people away with a shot-gun. I
am glad I came to Australia, because the people
here know a good thing when they get it. Here
are some orders among a great number. By Rocke
Tompsitt, of Melb., 114,300 boxes; by Elliott Bros
50,400 boxes ; by Hoffnung and Co., 35,800 boxes ;
by Hart and Firkin, of Newcastle, 14,400 boxes. I
am 150,000 boxes behind my orders, but I have
8,000,000 beans on the way to Australia. This Aus-
tralian business is the nucleus of a big fortune, for I
sh al 1 place the miracle Bean upon th e world’s mar ket
and its future success is beyond all question of
doubt. Just now lam being harassed from all
parts of Australia by people who want me to take
up their ideas to push a liniment, or charm or
cough-mixture, or what else. As The Bulletin
goes everywhere throughout Australasia, I’ll
answer all these people once and for all right
here. To place a medicine successfully on the
Australian market .£12,000 must be thrown right
out. _ Concerning scienced advertising, I believe
that if the Gospel were as well advertised in Aus-
tralia as Bile Beans are, this country would
speedily be known as the Paradise of Saints.”
Between the Devil and the Deep Sea.
Dear Bulletin. —There’s a moral for Austra-
lian voyagers in that recent loss by collision of the
French Transatlantic-liner, Bourgogne, and 500
lives. There doesn’t seem to be much attention
paid to the elaborate rules for the management of
vessels in fogs. This particular vessel is reported
to have been steaming 18 miles an hour through a
regular Newfoundland Banker—bad as a London
November “ pea-souper.” Whose the blame ?
“ Skipper’s,” 99 out of a hundred would answer.
But there is. another side to this question.
A transatlantic liner’s captain is the servant of
one of a number of competing liners, all
doing their best to attract the lion’s share
of the traffic, which can only be done by
keeping up their speed record; and, when
a skipper makes a day or a day and a half
over-time, it is of little use for him to plead com-
pulsory slowing-down for fog. As likely as not
he’ll be told, “Well, Capt. had two whole
days fog last voyage, and was still up to time;
very sorry, but we ll have to find someone
who can compete with him ! ” Thus, the
unfortunate skipper is forced to choose be-
tween the “ sack ” direct, and the risk of
losing his certificate over a casualty. And all
this without reference to the safety of the travel-
ling public, which, by exacting a high rate of
speed, is itself the cause of the evil. Public sup-
port of lines with the best record for accident im-
munity, is the only thing which can release the
unfortunate skipper from his present position
between the Devil and the Deep Sea.— Nauticus.
Numerous Enmore (Sydney) residents have
lately been settling themselves to their evening
paper in their supposed homeward tram, only to
wake up in the wilds of St. Peters and face a dis-
gusted tramp back. Reason—the newly-instituted
branch service carries same distinctive lights
as the direct Enmore trams.
Bruce Smith on No-Yes Reid :
Many people were saying that Mr. Barton ana Mr. Reid
were advocating the same thing, but that was a false-
hood. They no doubt had all heard of an Eolian harp.
It was a small-stringed instrument which they placed on
the window-sill, and it played tunes according to the
direction of the wind. (Laughter.) That was the best
illustration which could be given of Mr. Reid as a poli-
tician.
In the coming N.S.W. election there are
sincere Federalists in both the opposing political
camps. The difference between the two sides is
this that whereas leader Barton and his lieu-
tenants have been earnest and consistent Federa-
lists all along, leader Reid and his chief lieutenants
have at one time or another been the open and
avowed enemies of Federation, and have only
professed a desire to bring about a united Aus-
tralia since they began to appreciate the irresistible
drift of the current of public opinion. Barton is
a volunteer Federalist: Reid is a man in the
hands of the press-gang.
Mick Simmons has been coming more and
more into prominence for the last quarter of a
century, and now has a big and popular establish-
ment in one of the best business centres of Syd-
ney. The building is a grand one, magnificently
lighted by electricity, and a few headlines will
give a notion of the firm’s great business :
Tobacco, cigars, cutlery, hairdressers’ requisites,
urns, soaps, razors, fishing tackle, all sporting
requisites, bicycles, purses, dolls, jewellery, picnic
hampers, haberdashery, music cases, indoor
games, albums, sponges, &c., &c., &c. Among
razors such names as Bengal, Klein, Kropp,
Rogers, and Sproch command patronage; while
in tobacco the brands of Golden Pheasant, Native
Rose, Leger, Can’t B Beat, Bully, and T. 0.
Williams have become famous by excellence.
“Next mail,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, “I shall have exclusive
and authentic details of a huge wholesale-murder
scheme now engaging the attention of Scotland
Yard and several leading firms of solicit'; rs. The
alleged engineer of the scheme is a notovious per-
son with a ‘ not proven ’ verdict recorded against
him.
T.D. : What a singular contrast be-
tween the cases of the Westralian boy who
suicided on discovering his illegitimacy and the
other bright youth who suppressed for many
hours the newsof his parents’ tragic death with a
view of trading it off to the newspapers !
Maupassant would have seized the second story
with no less avidity than the first. One seems
the natural outcome of our European fatherhood,
and the religious and hysterical temperament; the
second goes to prove that we are developing, to
an extent, the business traits of the Yanks. That
smart boy has the makings of a Barn urn—if he
isn t watched too closely at first.
A CLEVER GIRL
will always speak with enthusiasm of “D.C.L ”
Whisky after her “boy ” has tried it once. Most
whiskies, she finds, tend to make him dull and
morose. A nip of “D.C.L.” causes him to sparkle.*
u-
*
*
a rA r
r?s 'ft
AUTION.
A WORD OF CAUTION to buyers should be offered.
In buying 1 a Bicycle, as in buying - anything - reouirinsr
supreme skill to produce the highest, and most endur-
. ■ mg results, remember that the influence of the mass
,°, f ' nak ? rS and a f ent ® IS enlisted against the leading article of its kind and
, n that inducements other than the intrinsic merits of the goods themselves are
fully used to force the sale of a cheaper line. “Under the best apple tree are found
our f^ndfmin a the S trad e e n <*> hear the pitiful stories circulated by
oui triends (..) in the tiade, to injure the standing and reputation of RED BIRD Cycles
Cychsts of common sense are not led astray by false yarns circulated by dealers One
" a ;' l ud "® a cjcle is by its sales. If it sells well against competition, it must be
' i SC .S Vf Jli lfc 18n * wo rth considering. More Red Bird Snecial
an^, jßlack Bird Cycles are sold than any three makes put
together in Australia. This says something. Why not send for list of New Models ?
THE GOOLD BICYCLE COMPANY, LIMITED,
Australasian Branch —64 King-st., Sydney.
Colhns-st., Melbourne; Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ; Rundle-st, Adelaide, S.A.:
Harris-st., Wellington, N.Z. Factories—Brantford, Canada.
If there isn t an Agent in your Town, let us know.
HUMBER
“ These are produced by the same methods
xocse are proaucea Dy the same methods as those in vogue at the Beeston Works J
the workmanship and materials are of the highest quality.”
(AMERICA)
LADY’S
GENT’S
Reduced
26
25
The Australian Cycle & Motor Co. Ltd., 45 York
.-street, SYDNEY; and at 381 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Th® sun shone upon the first Saturday of the
G.N. meeting at Flemington, and the crowd got some
hn? 6 '!.'? ®P ort for its money. The course, was soft,
but not so heavy as to spoil the top weights' chances, nor
on P Pi! ry f eno^? h £° Slnt the Hebrew layer who looks for
f, the favorites to cotne to grief. As a matter of fact,
the list of accidents was much below the average, and
ever % \ thing passed off without a broken neck.
So-and-So pretty well backed at the last minute,
made the Ballaratians happy by winning the Maiden
Hurdle race in a canter. Later on, Pirate, a thiek-leoged
customer from the same stable, took the Maiden Steeple,
m which N.Z., an even-money favorite, proved the most
°" ns , pl ?l l ° UB fall , u J e of the day. Shaping badly from the
start, N.Z. was the only one to topple over.
• squatocracy in general dropped its money
over the Carbine colt, Lee-Metford, for the Two-year-old
Handicap. This well-grown youngster went out at sto
2 with a small boy (representing Bst. 31bs.) on its back,
and whereas a man might have done the trick it was
evident the lad aboard the sluggish favorite couldn’t get
h , m going until the leaders were nearly home Lee-
Metford finished fourth, several lengths behind Bushy
ofno luncheon mber ° f arp6 Vic * landow ners went sadly
The Provost (whom The Bulletin picked in
preference to Pat, Soult, Reindeer and two other rash
suggestions) got one of his hind legs galloped into when
he was going nicely, and the Westralian fancy came in
rather lame. If the injury wasn’t serious The Provost
may capture a smaller event before the meeting closes.
i, black Soult, handsomer than ever, achieved an un-
lucky fall at the back, but everything else of importance,
bar Hirundo, managed to get through. Hirundo-pos-
siblya dead bird if he hadn’t bungled a fence and
parted company with his rider-travelled ahead of the
field and took the jumps joyfully when there was no
weight in the saddle, notwithstanding a cut foreleg.
Jack Brewer, who trains Hirundo and Pat, gave
his valuable services to the more seasoned jumper, and
trusty Pat rewarded his owner’s confidence as they
say in the horse journals—by taking him home a short
head in front of Reindeer. A few groans mingled with
the cheers for Pat’s victory, against which Reindeer's
rider lodged a protest on the ground of interference when
coming down the straight. The trouble arose from a
swerve. Reindeer—not Pat-was the swerving one, and
anything that Brewer may have done in the matter was
done in self-defence. So the protest was quashed.
Baronet Rupert Clarke has probably repented
of his foolish quarrel with the V.R.C. ; anyhow, the ami-
able grandson of Big Clarke was walking around at
rlemmgton on Saturday, instead of sulking elsewhere.
Sirupert reckoned that he had a good thing for the
Hurdle Race in Paul Pry until he scratched all his horses.
Afterwards he put his trust in The Provost, who was the
jumping hero of Kalgoorlie what time Paul Pry won
the local Cup.
* * * *
• V.R.C. Grand Nat. Steeplechase there
is absolutely nothing that any reasonable mortal can ex-
pect to win easily. Hayseed, last year’s winner, will
carry a big weight if he goes, and at time of writing he
is said to be looking thinner than he should. Old Floater
has a good chance on recent form, likewise two or three
more of them. Tins Bulls™ fancies Songster, all going
well with the old ’un up to the day. 8 s
* * • •
Melb. suburban and pony courses are attended
by numerous determined persons, who go out armed with
the resolve to get expenses, and a bit over, somehow If
they can’t get a winner, they get a watch-or anything
else of value that's handy. Pockets are picked, searfpins
and tickets snatched at every meeting, and still “the
mugs ’ roll out. Confirmed race-goers consider them-
selves exempt from these tithes, and are indignantly
aggrieved when, for lack of easier prey, the talent exacts
tribute from one of their number. A very “fly” racing-
man took a, country friend out to Moonee Valiev
the other day, and the youthful bucolic lost a valu-
able scarfpm. Experience was greatly enraged at
this, deeming it an insult to his intelligence.
He was seen next day at Richmond ponv races
strutting about the paddock and shouldering in
most aggressive manner every spieler he met. In reply
to a question came the explanation : “ I took a vouiig
fellow out yesterday, and some infernal scoundrel sneaked
his very fine diamond scarf-pin, so I have put on the most
tempting thing, in paste, I could find, and am just pray-
ing that some gun will try to ease me of it-in which case
he shall feel the strength of my fist and feet.” “ But
you re not wearing a pin ! ” was the questioner’s retort.
The man of wiles could not believe it, but his neatly-tied
scarf was minus the bait 1 J
* * * *
NewTotalisator Bill introduced in Vic. Parlia-
hament by M.L.A. Murray, is much more liberal to
backers than to clubs. Thus, no proprietary course will
be allowed to run a maqhine ; the club’s percentage may
be 5 per cent., or over, but not more than 8 per cent •
and of the profits one-third is to be paid to Govt for
support of a charitable fund. Compared with S A or
Westraha, where deduction is 10 percent., or Queensland,
where the club takes 10 per cent, and Govt. 2}4 per
cent., the Vic. proposal reads very pleasantly to small
backers. Suggested that provision should ‘be made
for all totalisat'ors to be conducted under supervision of
Govt, officials, who would guard interests of both chari-
ties and investors. Unlimited opportunities for fakes in
matter of fractions, also in cases of private commissions
entrusted! to men working the machine—and invariably
registered after the general public has finished at the
ticket-windows. By-the-b.ve, a Queensland man has in-
vented a tote which is said to walk round all others vet
seen in matters of public convenience as regards easily-
seen totals (the great drawback of S.A. machines), auto-
matic registering, and regularity and celerity of working.
This should he worth a trial by Victorian clubs if the Bill
passes—second reading about Aug. 27.
• * • *
“ When rogues fall out.” Hitherto Ikev Mo
has liberally offered backers £5OO to 1 the two Cups. But
recently there has been a split in Victorian Club camp
and some blackleg is laying £lOOO to 1, while several
x.icnn S i"? Wo « h / t! ? e name of bookmakers, are offering
£l5OO to 1. Reflective punters will probably wonder just
how much profit there has been in previous golden years
in £5O) to 1 double-books. Curious also that the
announcement of this “liberal” extension of the odds
should just precede published news of first reading in
Vic. Parliament of the new Totalisator Bill
•** - •
The A. J.C. s attempt to put down pony racing
by vetoing bookmakers who wager at unregistered or in
other words, pony meetings, and by barring “horse”
trainers who dab’ble in ponies, will have about as much
effect as pouring water on a duck’s back. There are only
about, two Sydney “horse” trainers who handle ponies':
and the books will send their agents and cash to.the
pony meetings. If the A.J.C. really meant business, it
.would make a law preventing suburban proprietaries
holding pony meetings on its courses. Kensing-
ton could tnen hold its well-conducted pony-meetino-s
once a week; audit, in turn, refusing to accept iTn
entry from any pony running on the soup-plate courses,
would put matters on a decent footing. That ponv
racing should be completely knocked on the head is not
desirable for many reasons, the chief of which is, perhaps,
that it helps the breeders by making a market for their
otherwise-valueless undersized stock.
• • » .
The A.J.C. has made a good move bv in-
creasing the amount to be added at all registered meet-
ings within the metropolitan area from £350 to £4OO • this
sum to be distributed among not more than six races
if it had gone farther, and raised the minimum to £5OO
there would be better racing and fewer courses, for some
of the weaklings ’ would have to drop out.
o<l galloway, Watercolor, continues to
yd^ey t? ony courses - He cantered away with
ft Juft'l° Kensington Handicaps, and, on present form,
ever he lacked* We ‘ ghfc t 0 Bt ° P him winning when ‘
* * * *
.T. 6 food old four-figure days are gone and,
•? rece " fc events, studmasters need a lot of held
£,™ ke ,fc w ° rtb th eir while to keep going. The other
now l Mr Sr r EaleS broke up the Ducken field stud; and
H«h,,*£n Lo ! ,^ announceB fche dispersal of the historic
Hobartville stud on 12th Sept. next.
.** * *
ha^i 161 " 0 * s a jockey now riding in Australia who
wl ®i yet been known to ride a winner. Still he is
= flit V P ° n as a le . ad mg rider, and he never fails to get
m ,? unt ,n all *% races. Cute punters who lee
h“K d -t gentlema "" p on their Particular fancy always
have a bit on something else. J
• * * *
tho ® rav 9 ’Billy Jones, of Ballarat, by winning
/ , . tb Airs and Graces at 12 to 1, has consider-
f* y , ra} d fcbe sjllten bonds,’ ” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent. “ Had it not been that the Prince
wt r ™ a< lf a u en -l 00 t 0 Bin tens a we ek previously
ght J?-T? been made a p -°- as a punishment.
f“. e .“' y . r ? n a blt ‘young’ in the Two Thousand Guineas
bnd cer ’ and was never given consideration
2?* *' d ® th ? stable, yet she won as she liked, and repaid
guineas the Duke of Portland sacrificed her for.
Trainer Day swore by her, but some of those who should
J’hJirn n r W u , ha d bttle to say, and in my humble opinion
iILt,r ng ,L turfi l t *s are merely about to begin a series of
fesiors ** n the ethlcs of racing from Australasian past pro-
.* * * •
The mistake, so far, with Australian horses in
England has been flying at too high game. Maluma’s
tra'.oor w going for minor events, and winning races. Mr.
* no 8 Phenomenal success on the Australian
turf was all due to his astuteness in placing his gee-gees.
When he got hold of a good one, he would not keep it a
year m the hope of winning a Melb. Cup, but would run
it out, week after week, at suburban events.
* * * •
'^■®9 or^*n £> . to the jockey Hickey, who spent
years , ln , England, the starting-machine is not
W to be adopted there. He says: “ The trainers and
jockeys won t have it at any price, and there is a better
chance of getting the totalisator at Flemington than the
English public have of seeing the gate in general use.”
10 5 ab^urs * i Cup. won by the horse Coventry in
"° W ornaments the window of an Elizabeth-street
(Melb.) pawnshop.
• * * •
_ A N.S.W. policeman recently won .63000 in a
.law. s sweep. And every paper that chronicled the fact
gave his address and mentioned that he was unmarried
* * * •
A late development at ’Ome is the “Picture-
Puzzle-Tipster,” who, for a small fee, supplies what he
f be the ? orrecfc solutions to the pictorial
« U oi i th t for P] a feature in sundry alleged journals.
Said that some of em make a living at the game.
Sport in Queensland
LONGREACH PONY AND GOAT RACES.
_ Thursday, June 9th, 1898.
Procession to start from Masonic Hall at 11 o’clock.
1.-OFBNING Handicap, 220yds. ; for all goats that have
not won a prize of Cl.
2-Flv’no Handicap, 150yds., for goats.
A RaC , e ’, 13 °yds., for goats ; hurdles 15in. high.
4. Pony Race, 1 lap, for ponies 11 hands and under.
. Lunch.
To commence at 2.15 p.m. sharp.
5. Pony Race, £-mile, for ponies 12 hands and under.
6. Shorts Handicap, 130yds., for goats.
7. Selling Race 440yds., for goats ; winner to be sold
for 10s., surplus to goto club.
8. Pony Race, £-mile, for ponies 12 hands and under.
»•—Hurdle Race, for goats, over 15in. hurdles.
10. Chariot Race, 200 yards, for four-in-hands.
11* Chariot Race, 200 yards, for pairs.
nlKa’ fmile ’ IOVl OV ponies l3i har >ds and under,
if* Handicap, 300 yards, for goats.
14. High Jump, for goats, to start at 18in., and to be
raised at discretion of judges.
15. High Jump, for ponies, to start at 2ft., and to be
raised at discretion of judges.
!*•— Consolation Goat Race, 440 yards.
17.—Oonsolahon Pony Races, to suit various classes.
Conditions.
Riders to be approved of by Stewards.
Nomination free for all events.
The names of all ponies and goats intended for the
meeting to be in the hands of Secretary on or before
Friday, June 3rd, at 12 noon. e
Ponies nominated on ground will be charged a late fee
of Is., and goats 3d.
The decision of the Stewards to be final.
Admission—Gents Is., Ladies 6d., Children 3d.
J. Grehan, Hon. See.
* • * *’
About 11,000 people attended Randwiek-Uni-
versity football match for the final Sydney Cricket Ground
trophies The game was evenly and fairly contested
University being decided favorites with the crowd
Randwick scored three in the first half, and University a
similar number in the second and, as in the meeting' of
the clubs in the preliminary round, a draw was declared
Casualties : Surnian, collar-bone broken ; Henlen a
couple of teeth knocked out. ’
* * * •
Sydney and Wallaroo met on the Agricultural
Ground, Sydney, to decide which team was to be coupled
with Pirates to be drawn against University and Rand-
wick for the semi-final of the Agri. Society's medals.
Tb ? r p,re OSt control > a,) d, after a rough-and-tumble—
which degenerated into little better than a slamdng-
match Sydney was declared winner by 15 to 5 There
were several fights, the most noticeable being when a
Wallaroo man grabbed an opponent by his ears and rubbed
his nose in the dirt. Both sides went in for kicking in
trie scrums. *
The Sydney team consists mostly of laboring
men, but they are probably the best-disciplined crowd in
the competition. They all look upon Hardcastle, their
captain, as a champion of champions, and his word is
law both on and off the field. Sydneys are a greatly-im-
prpved team, and will take a lot of beating for the Agri-
cultural Society s medals. °
* ♦ * ,
South Adelaide genuinely walloped Essendon,
Melb. s senior football team, in Adelaide recently by 4
otw ijT^i d °" had p C eviousl y easily wiped out the
~ heß *° Adelaide teams, Norwood and Port Adelaide.
The Melb. men excuse their defeat by alleging that their
footballers are not all bigoted teetotallers. *
* * * *
Kanowna is the real centre of Westralian foot-
ball at present. The matches are played oil Sundays-
and, lately, of just about 2000 who attended 1817
parted, * the contributions amounting to £9O 17s A
thousand people were trained out from Kalgoorli • • and
the pious will grieve to learn that betting was brisk; and,
still sadder, the Cementers, who were the favorites by a
shade, just won, so that the wicked were not checked^in
their mad career.
“ cricket season has not far advanced ”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ yet
thanks partly to the unseasonable weather, J. T. Hearne
has captured 75 ‘ first-class ’ wickc ts at a cost of 11 -21 each
Rhodes, the new Yorkshire bowler, has 49 at B’l and
Lockwood 21 at 10-4, and Tom Richardson is not placed
as yet. Rhodes has a slow, dropping delivery, and this
week in Surrey s 2nd innings, took 7 for 24, whilst Wain-
wright got the others for 10—a total of 37. The last five
wickets were directly nabbed by Hunter off Rhodes-
three stumped and two caught, a record for behind the
sfcioks. The Surrey ‘rot’ was at its best, and the
‘rottiest’ erer seen. Lookwood, under the new and
stringent agreement with his club, is a much-improved
man, and Peel’s fate has been a hint to the pros.
. K Roche leads among the Australian trio, his 20
wickets for the M. 0.0. having cost about 11 runs each
O’Halloran is not too prominent, whilst A.E., after
making 16 runs for each of 7 innings and taking 23 for
18 average for Middlesex, injured himself peculiarly, and
is now resting. He had been using a towel in the dress-
ing-room and threw it carelessly at a hook when his hand
caught on a sharp point which ripped open his palm,
making a nasty wound. Of course, it was the right and
the wrong hand, and very hard luck. His county is doing
badly, and Yorkshire is going strong for the championship
with Essex close up.
“ With the bat J. R. Mason is doing well,
having an average, mostly on bowlers’ wickets, of 62 for
7innings; 80, 60 and 152 are his best as yet. ‘ W.G.,’
Storer, Abel and Brockwell are in the first ten, and Hay-
ward had 66-53, with a ‘ highest ’ of 126, until the York-
shire match upset him. Stoddart made 138 v. Notts in a
slow, determined and finally brilliant manner. He staved
off defeat for Middlesex, and put on his last 50 in as
many minutes. It looks as if he had struck his old form
at last.”
» * « *
One of the shrewdest of Aust. cricketers, Joe
Darling, prophesies trouble in English professional ranks
when the Australians go to England next March. Most
of the English pros, have agreed to demand a bigger
share in the spoils, arguing that the Australians are as
much pros, as they are. Another big question next year
will be the status of Australians in EnglaTnd, hitherto
treated as amateurs when on tour. But the question isn’t
as big as it looks. All cricketers who have the time to
visit England in tour after tour and play in Australia for
months on end are no more amateurs than are W. G.
Grace and others of his sort.
* * » *
An interesting little sporting event came off near
Melbourne in the calm of a recent Sabbath morn. Two
untrained and inexpert amateurs had a difference about
their bikes in a city hotel on the Saturday night, and it
ended in one valiant cyclist, a meaty young professional
person, undertaking to ride the other a mile, and after-
wards whip him in fair fight, the contestants to start
fighting immediately after dismounting from their
machines. The whole matter was settled in something
under six minutes. The meaty challenger lost both
events, and a nice new tenner into the bargain, in return
for which he got two lovely black eves and a valuable
practical illustration on the folly of offering battle to an
unknown with an underjaw like a soap box.
» » » »
From the descriptions of “ Kid ” McCoy, who
claims to have a say for the World’s Championship, he
must be very much the stamp of Jem Hall as regards
appearance and style of boxing, before the latter took to
making things merry. Hall was one of the coolest and
most scientific boxers the writer ever looked at, but as a
boy this soribe saw him lie down before a man he could
have beaten in a round ; and the boy proved father of
the man. Jem never liked a tough job.
• * * •
Sculptor-athlete C. B. Lawes, who, at 54 years
of age, has lowered the amateur biking record for a mile,
is the son of J. Bennett Lawes, the famous scientific
agriculturist. Fifteen years ago the veteran cyclist
figured as defendant in the sensational libel-case of Belt
v. Lawes, arising from his bold assertion chat sculptor
Belt’s works of art were executed by a “ ghost.”


PAINT Covers a Multitude of Sins, but will not insure safety
against flaws or shoddy building.
THE SILVER RIBBON NAME PLATE
on the MASSEY-HARRIS CYCLE
is a Guarantee of Perfection by an old and honorable Company
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
ESTiUrTSHKD
1817.
Australasian Branch : 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 294 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 385 George Street, Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
Telephone, 26 KOGARAH— connected with Sydney;
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On tub Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Hall will accommodate 800 persona. Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
Water Baths (a sure Oure for Rheumatic Complaints) only one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Beating;
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation. TERMS : From 25/- a Week.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
.. CLEARANCE SALE . .
UJolfflmerican High flrt Cycles j
. . AT . .
half-phicb i
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. US' Everything fancy but the price, j
English »| American pycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-cl_u.s Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
{}
MACKLIN
HENLEY
ORIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Built Like a Watch..”
STERLING CYCL€S.
AT BRUSSELS EXPOSITION the
GRAND PRIX was awarded to the
STERLING- against all European and
American Manfacturers.
Chicago Road Race.
This, the Chief CYCLE Contest of the
Year, fastest and fourth - fastest time
were done on Sterling’s, off one minute
and scratch marks respectively.
Write for Catalogue with full description of
Morse Pivot Chain
fitted to Sterlings (since riding which SUTHER-
, LAND has won all championships in New Zealand.
Absolutely no friction, no stretching.
JOHN D. PATTISON,
STERLING DEPOT,
75 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
Country Buyers mention Bulletin uhen'u-riting.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Warung; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
J ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ell>s’ Kiiig-stret‘l CoHec Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
-TTTTE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
V» We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date. „_. ,
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 284 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
S3T Agent for “Naumann” and “Clyde Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
66 DOWEXDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIN: ).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. F. McDermott,
General A-rent for Australasia,
48 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
SHORTHAND
JONSON,
Col. S.J.
Schools).
| Tel. 3015.
thoroughly taught
by post. r. VV;
20 years' Certificated Te cher (of R'\i rview
• Petersham and Ashlield Govt. Technical
* Sydney Typewriting School, 2i Elizabet.h-st.
Pitman’s Books. MSS. typed.
OACfNC
sue
&
S3^Pt«
SIR
SIR
SIR
E—a
&SIR
31*
316
s*rs
6K3l*
< M
*£»
1®
S*R
SrRiS
9TK
S«F
SIR
OAGLNCY
sne
TO
TO
<»fe
-w-
-<ififc!
CT
aM i
6H*
MK
SIR
sne
«e
sir
sir
sasaß
S g
w
tea
‘ie.K
Sfck*
<srß'
R
SIR
MS
TO
TO
TO
SI w
to
TO
SIR
ss>:
*r»rr*
SIR
&
><K
TO
£»
SB
TO
m
£l
ffifj&ai
$8
M
■Sa«ncv<
TO
SIR
SIR
SK
ft
ft
#»
ft
THE
Ho. 1 ROAD RACER.
(Fully guaranteed in every respect for 12 months.)
SPECIFICATION.
WHEELS -
BEARINGS -
FRAMEWORK
GEAR - -
SADDLE
FINISH
Driver, 28in. x l|in.; Steerer, 28in. x (or x 30in.) j butted tangent
spokes, Dunlop-Welch rims.
Lapped to gauge, balls all over.
Specially-selected weldless steel tube, strengthened by bushes where necessary.
Gear case clearance. Saddle and handle-bar adjustable, arranged for the most
approved position. Light detachable step and lamp bracket. Best quality block
chain. Detachable cranks, 6|in. throw.
Interchangeable and easily detachable, 65in., or to order.
Brooks’ best.
Highest grade, enamelled black, usual bright parts heavily coppered and nickel-
plated. Fitted complete with light rat-trap pedals, oil-can, screw-driver, and
accurately-machined plated wrenches.
Fitted with Australian Dunlop Detachable Tyres.
PRICE.
(VARYING ACCORDING TO CUSTOMS’ DUTIES.)
NEW SOUTH WALES, 391 George-street, Sydney ...
VICTORIA, L 39-141 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND, Adelaide-street, Brisbane ...
WESTERN AUSTRALIA, 403 Hay-street, Perth ...
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, 33 Rundle-street, Adelaide ...
£2B 0 0
28 10 0
29 0 0
30 0 0
30 0 0
NEW ZEALAND, Colombo-street, Christchurch
J} J} 123 George-street, Dunedin.
„ „ 61 Lamhton-quay, Wellington
29 0 0
TASMANIA, 112 Charles-street, Launceston ... ... ... ... 29 0 0
SOLE AGENTS:
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd., 391 George-street, Sydney.
Alfred Allen’s candidature for Queanbeyan
against E. W. O’Sullivan is, though nominally th e
result of a recent personal estrangement, really
the recrudescence of an ancient Parliamentary
irritation. O’S. hailed Alfred’s advent to the
Parkes benches with word-pictures of the touzelled
Freetrader’s father’s entry as a sturdy, uncom-
promising Protectionist; and kept the mockery up
till the scoff rankled.
Specimens of the vituperative accomplish-
ments of N.S.W. Leg. Assembly, when the
shadow of deatli fell upon it: “ Cur,” “ coward,”
“murderer,” “rat,” “sewer-rat,” “ruffian,”
“blackguard,” “monkey,” “ man - monkey,”
“ourang-outang,” and “gorilla.” These were
members’ descriptions of one another.
Westralia, N.S.W., Maoriland and South
Australia all started their Parliamentary session
with a no-confidence motion, but the Ministry sat
tight in each case. In Victoria the Opposition
was so hopelessly situated that it didn’t even try
an attack. Instead, when it heard that railway
construction was to be resumed, it fell on the
Government’s neck and wept on the Ministerial
shirt-front, and called Turner blessed. Even the
Council was so much moved that it spoke in the
kindest terms of the Ministry which wants to
abolish the property-vote and introduce the
Referendum.
Talk about Provincialism ! For weeks
past the N.S.W. metropolitan and country papers
have (in view of the impending general election)
been flooded with items about “ additional sums ”
of .£l5 or £2O granted by Govt, for the improve-
ment of parks and reserves, bridges and gutters
in the electorates represented by Premier Reid’s
gang. Also, on the eve of the elections the Govt,
issues yet another useless list of new magistrates.
How much has the province paid in Govt, bribes
for the retention of Reid and sainted Brunker
in their cherished billets ?
Captain Fairchild, of the M.L. Govt,
steamer, whose death by accident is cabled, was a
jolly old Nova Scotian sea-dog, and had been for
nearly 40 years in State employ. He commanded
in turn the Govt, steamers Luna, Stella, Hinemoa,
and Tutanekai. The Luna was a long, low
wooden steamer, proud of her 10 knots an hour ;
she had been a crack blockade - runner dur-
ing the American War. Present writer fancies
that the identical vessel is now rotting out its
existence at Melbourne. Fairchild, nicknamed
“the Admiral,” was on terms of warm personal
intimacy with Hori Grey. Yogel and Atkinson
and Grey especially would listen for hours to
“ the Admiral’s ” dry humor, delivered in a nasal
monotone. “ How is it you don’t get on well
with Whitmore?” asked Grey one day. “Wall,
ye see, Sir George,” was the reply, “ we’re both
shook on the same gell, an’ I’m the purtiest.”


TO TONE UP THE
SYSTEM AGAINST
OPPRESSIVE HEAT
“I Consider it Unequaled”
Mr. Edwin Bright of Brisbane,
Queensland, gives this strong testi-
monial :
H
itr
m
“I am pleased to say I have used
AVER’S
Sarsaparilla
both in the United States and through-
out Australia whenever I have felt the
need of a tonic. As a remedy for loss
of appetite, weakness and debility, and
to tone up the system to withstand the
oppressive heat and sudden changes I
consider it unequaled.”
For constipation take Dr. Ayer’s Pills. They
promptly relieve and surely cure. Take them
with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
jbecond-hand
AND
TVTEW FURNITURE
“™ (Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully ;>0 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Geonre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
THE
DEAF
HEAB
“Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Ciialmkrs, Agent,
229 Collins-steeet, Melbourne.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. lojir, .ye. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worlted tip, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigzell;
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price L!et>
Prompt attention given to Country Orders.
r A f or £ n £ t 0 T - P. O’Connor M P of
tete th
member^r^e^ritish^CaWn^t t 0 I* 36 ‘‘ t] '*” S Z
French with c.ffi • / ~ ,lblnf t who can speak
~ with sufficient fluency to carrv on the
weekly interviews with foreign Ministers.”
In some Northern towns the genial, gentle
little female Jap is becoming a very numerous
boasts'fi° n " l n Charters Toilers onef Jane Xne
boasts five cottages run by Jap ladies. This lane
was formerly almost exclusively occupied by
nnese. National rancor, however, doesn’t trouble
if - - chanced
<( “A protest,” wails a N.S.W. parson i
ought to be publicly made by the Church i
against some of the most pathetic scenes in fts
history being placed on the stage to draw people
them for the purpose of making money and to
get them into the habit of going to a place which
was too often the gateway of hell.” But, if hell
w>rj ate 'm y ih nd nobod -y could get admission
where would the parson come in! He’d be as
poorly-off as the temperance-apostle in a grogless
The second schedule to the act of ’B7
which provides for the government of New Guinea’
requires that after the Administrator has consulted
the Governor of Queensland, the Governor should
consult the Executive Council on all matters relat-
ing to the possession. Also that the Government of
Queensland should consult the other contributin’''
pro vinces on all matterso; her that those of ordinary
administration Nelson pleads in. justification of
l' 8 Procedure that the practice lias been to consult
the Prime Minister of Q.
, , w only. It is cheering to
know, however, that ’Ugh regrets to discover
that other Governments were not consulted.”
The Maori race has a deep love and vener-
ation for Premier Seddon. That big, brawny
politician appeals to the old Maori in particular
for if he were only brown and scrawled all over
with tattoo-marks they reckon he would have
made an ideal cannibal to howl at the head of the
fighting legions when they went out to demolish
one another with the axe in the good old times,
bo when beddon had a birthday recently, about
eight fleshy chiefs of long standing in the com-
munity called on him, and shook his residence, to
its foundations by dancing a “ haka ” on the
premises, beddon himself was unfortunately
absent, but the solid old brown gentlemen
“haka’d ” in the presence of Mrs. Seddon and
daughters as a token of good feeling, and when
they heaved themselves up in the air and came
down, flat on their sixteen feet every door in the
house flew open, and then flew shut again with a
bang. The haka is dying out, by the way. The
young, up-to-date Maori doesn’t take to it, and
the old Maori who still remembers it is getting
too fat to danee.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC
fit
THE CELEBRATED
LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
LUSTROUS BLUE
AND
JET BLACK,
AND
EVERY CONCEIV-
ABLE SHADE FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
“LOUIS” Velve-
teen is essentially a
Ladies’ material, and
surpasses all Fabrics
for the adornment of
women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME
FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
NOTE WELL. —Each yard of genuine “ LOUIS
Velveteen bears the name, and is stamped with
guarantee of wear.
Ladies should reject all Substitutes.
a
CIGARS FREE
i^m^ICKsTMMON
?
DHOP3? IN THE SLOT
9 MS
Hum
? iftinniiiiniiiiinmmuniin
MICK SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
No Extortionate Prices.
We give Value for Money .
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Value
in N S.W.
Xj.A.'WJEg.EJXrOE’S Patent Tobacco
„
Cutter.
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
s
E
L
F
F
E
E
D
I
N
G
FOR
COUNTER
USE.
Sole Agents for Australasia :
Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
Cooling.
Sparkling.
Fresh.
VELTEN LA6ER
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
DAVID STORER & SONS'
TATTOO OIL
(The Perfect Sheep Marker)
In Three Colors, BLACK, RED
and BLUE ; is the only
ABSOLUTELY SAFE
• • • WOOL MARKING or
Kept by all Leading Merchants
and Storekeepers.
Sbecp BrapdiQg Oil.
Sole Proprietors: WILKINSON, HEYWOOD & CLARK Ltd.
LONDON, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO defy competition.
WTWBIS The Best Brands ° ni y ot SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
DA.PTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near SYJ3KTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
V
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWAEEA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS JEWELLEBS’ «WTTP
PRICES PATD F ° R ORES ‘ PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS
lor all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to The Manager, Smelting Company of Australia,
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Ltd., Mutual Life Buildings, Martin place, Sydney.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.”
London Medical ‘Record.
Infants
9
■mm
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized "
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Mouses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
the aged.


H err RaSSn)£sSS€i) , & Malice Herbal Remedies.
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
JV Few of Them.
+
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, 1 consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear
Sir,—l think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that hecari highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. 6. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Greoious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
▼ery serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoor’ie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that, the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady's Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. I am, vours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.'W
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir.—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the System for over seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I was advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall be most, happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anvone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness : John Hagerman (my husband), caretaker,
Tivoli Theatre, Sydney.
A Cyclist Cured of Files.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excruciating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist
Narrandera, N.S.W.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several.of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERB, RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing'
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas. —“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A. —“ Herr Rassmussen's
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.— “ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “ It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington. —“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
HERR, RASMUSSEN’S
mission in the Herbal World.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and may be seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
Herbal Remedies are gradually pushing their
way forward, entirely taking the place of those
remedies which contain mercury, arsenic or strych-
nine.
The Australian press has fully recognised the
noble mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise
bestowed upon him from this important source has
not only been most whole-hearted, but also very
generous. Space will not permit to repeat one-
tenth of his best press notices, but few will suffice
to show the public the estimation in which Herr
Rassmussen is held by the Australian press.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common ? ” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as- he possesses thousands of testimonials to that
effect.
IMPORTANT
WARNING •••
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscruputo us
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they -
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents—which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Bemedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Eassmussen, Up-to-Dati! Herbalist ,
IMPORTANT
- ■ WARNING
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
P ate nt Medicine
dealers for the genuine
Al/aline Remedies.
£5O REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OE THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK
“THE NAT DUAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rasstmissfin,
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
A
CURED
Herr Rassmusseu’s
Alfalioe Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Alfalioe Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Rassmussen’s
AlfaliQc UQiVerSal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Fills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flalulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders -A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no mat ter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago, Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet seat free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -o Wonder-
ful Remedy for < oughs, Colds, Consumption, bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6->.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo derful f >r Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6*. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation -Is Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric B3lts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
JA
m
REES
1
m
m <
Or
\Wf \X
%
mm
LFA LINE PILL Sf
100.000 TOR THE BLOOD u. NERVES.
:v AWARDED
TWO GOLD
Pedals
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office: 547 George Street, Sydney.
■A.nd. Important Branches as Follows:
Brisbane 160 Queen Street (near Creek-st.) |
Melbourne 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East, Markets)
Adelaide 154 Rimdle-st. (near York Hotel) (
Ch. Towers ■ Royal Arcade, Mosman-st. j
N.Z.-Wellington - I 91 Lambton Quay |


CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. 1 >£d. each.
(English Rate.) "*►
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
Missing Friends.
INFORMATION WANTED of THOMAS
SMITH, a Seaman, who left England for
Sydney about 40 years ago. He was for some
time living with his AuST’Esther, who ran a
butchery business.
Please Address—
NICHOLAS SMITH,
1432 Andre St., Baltimore, U.S.A.
Patents for Inventions.
Robt. Gr. Mallinson, J.P.,
163 VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, 82 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
I employ leading Patent Agent each country. Few of
niy charges. No drawings. N.S.W., Vic., Queensland,
Tas., New Zealand, £7 10s. W.A., S.A., G. Britain,
Belgium, £8 10s. Canada, France, Germany, India, Italy,
£ll. US. A., Spain, Denmark, Austria, £U. Portugal,
Turkey, Cape Colony, £lB. Argentine, Brazil, Transvaal,
±'22. Russia, Mexico, Jamaica, Newfoundland, ±'27.
Chili, Peru, Venezuela, Finland, ±43.
A Silver Watcb
GIVEN AWAY.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at ±2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
N*V*R B* W*T*o*T A W*T*H.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
. We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir. —Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. 1 was really
delighted with it when 1 opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, IS9B.
Address—THE MANAGER,
; The English Watch & Jewellery
Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney.
Amusements.
TTER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
**■ Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening,
at 8.
Wednesday Matinees,
at 2.
TH€ LITTLC MINISTER.
Interpreted by
Mr. RICKARDS’S SPECIALLY SELECTED COY.
Including Miss Pattie Browne.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
XpOYAL STANDARD THEATRE, SYDNEY
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereagh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
OOth \ HENRY’S \ 00/h
M EEK / DRAMATIC COMPANY J WEEK
The Original, Sensational Drama in 4 Acts,
“THE PASSION OF THE HOUR.”
Wed., N. Sydney ; Thurs., Waverley ; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
IHEATRE
ROYAL,
SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT! Thursday, and Every Evening,
BLAND HOLT’S
First Antipodean Production of the Greatest of Drury
Lane Successes,
THE WHITE HEATHER.
Written by Messrs. Cecil Raleigh and Henry Hamilton.
With suggestions by the late Sir Augustus Harris.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day tickets at Gunther’s Hotel
Cigar Store.
Under the Direction oe JOHN LEMMONE.
- THE ALVA CONCERTS ■
MADAME ALVA, The Great Soprano.
Miss ADELA VERNE, A Genius of the Pianoforte.
Mr. SAMUEL MASTERS, The Coining English Tenor.
Mr. JOHN LEMMONE, The Australian Flautist.
Town Hall, Sydney— July 16ch, I9th, 20th and 23rd.
Victoria Theatre, NEWCASTLE—JuIy 21st.
Centennial Hall, BRISBANE—August 2nd and 4th.
fIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF
Miss PEGGY PRYDE
Mr. GEORGE BEAUCHAMP.
THE SISTERS TERRY.
Mr. GEO. H. WOOD. J. W. WINTON.
FOREMAN and FANNAN.
Miss MARIAN AINSWORTH, Miss VIOLET
ELLIOTT, WALT,ACE KING, IVY SCOTT, Mr.
FRANK YORKE, Miss LILLTAN LINTON.
/YP ERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
V Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Signor UGO BIONDI. Mr. J. COLEMAN.
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
Miss ALICE SIMMONS. Miss NETTIE WAITE.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. Mr. CHAS. FANING.
POLXJSKI BROS.
And Our Great Double Company.
B3®“' PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
HEA T R E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Harry Rickards.
Re-appearance of the Unrivalled Actor,
Mr. Charles Cartwright,
In his Marvellous and Magnetic Performance of CYRUS
BLENKARN in THE MIDDLEMAN.
Supported by full strength of Great Dramatic Company
of London Actors. For 14 Nights only and 2 Matihees.
tW" FREQUENT CHANGES OF BILL.
POPULAR PRICES! .. Box Plan at Allan’s.
JOHN C. LEETE, General Manager
T
T
OWN HALL,
SATURDAY
MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY SJlltllHf/ “ rops.”
On account of the Phenomenal Success of the FIRST
SERIES of Popular Concerts, Mr. PHILIP NEWBURY
has decided to postpone his return to London, and
inaugurate a Second series, commencing
SATURDAY, 16TH JULY.
2OOO SEATS MT ONE SHILLING!
Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
BTJ< > U T H EAT RE, MELBoTjBNK
Manageress ... Miss ELSIE LANDER.
Representative ... Otto Gould.
SATURDAY, 16th JULY.
ELSIE LA.NTDER
THE CHARMING AMERICAN ACTRESS IN HER
FAMOUS FARCICAL COMEDY,
“MISS CHICAGO.” By A. C. GUNTER.
For the first time in Australia. Miss Elsie Lander lately
finished a most successful 10 months’ season at a leading
New York theatre. Popular Prices ! Plan at Allah’s.
jJpttINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Musical : Comedy : Season!
“ The American Girl.”
Libretto by Mr. H. Temple.
Music composed by Mr. Alfred R. Moulton.
COMPLETE COMPANY of LEADING ARTISTS.
BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
Press Representative,
Ur. Cuas. W. Varuut.
Stage and General Manager,
Mr. Jok* WiLUoi.
Established Oyer Fifty Years.
ALL GOODS OF GOOD QUALITY.
FOR SALE, —Roofing Felt, 9s roll, covers
200 ft.; Black Barbed Wire, Bs. cwt. ; a
Cheap Line of Galvanised Barbed Wire, 9s. cwt.,
damaged ; Black Fencing Wire, 7s. cwt. ; Galvd.
ditto, Bs. cwt. ; Turned Axle Arms, with 3 x 3J
boxes, 20s. pair ; Haines, Is. pair; Chaff Knives,
Is. each j Hay Collectors, 30s. each ; American
Axes, 355. doz. ; Globe Horse Nails, 2d. lb.
(slightly touched) ; Walker’s Horse Nails, Id. lb. ;
Leather Girths, 9d. ; Crosscut Saws, Is. ft. ; Pit
Saws, Is. 3d. per ft.; Flax Engine Packing, 6d.
lb., by coil ; Leather Hobbles, 9d. ; Axle Grease,
2s. (id. doz. packages ; Sin vie Breech-loading Guns,
30s. ; D.8.L., 40s. ; British Bulldog Revolvers,
(is. each ; Green. White, Black, Slate Paint, 15s.
c* t. ; .Brown Paper, 12s. cwt.; Steel Crowbars,
401 b. weight, 2d. lh. ; Phoenix Dynamite, taking a
few cases, Is. lb. ; Flemming’s Boiler Composition,
20s. cask of about 2|cwt. ; 500 tons Bolts and Nuts
up to 36in. long ; Black and Galvd. Pipe up to Sin..
diameter. One of the largest stocks of IRON-
MONGERY in Australia. Cheapest Prices.
John Macintosh & Sons,
Wholesale and Retail IRONMONGERS,
307, 321, 276, 280 PITT ST., SYDNEY. ' 'i
J ack : I hear the Yankees are going to
give over using powder and shot
in their war with Spain.
Tom : How are they going to win,
then ?
Jack : With St. Jacobs Oil. It
CONQUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
£&* ~
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET.
IN LARGE AND SMALL CAKES,
EVERYWHERE.
“DRUNKENNESS CURED.
Lady having secretly cured ;> near relative of intem-
perate habits, will gladly send particulars of remedy
to anyone forwarding stamped envelope. Write Mrs.
C. FORREST, Box 1412, G.P.0., Sydney.
Prospectus.
BRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
THE
great northern Copper Co.,
NO LIABILITY.
ROSEWOOD, QUEENSLAND.
CAPITAL of £300,000, in 300,000 Shares of £1 Each,
£1 paid.
To be Registered in Victoria.
200,000 shares to go to the present proprietors as pay-
ment for the property, which consists of 225 acres, in
the district of Rosewood, Central Queensland, about 40
miles north-west from Rockhampton, held under
“ Gold Fields and Mineral Lands Act ” of Queensland.
100,000 shares to be offered for subscription, proceeds to
go to credit of company, less expenses of flotation
registration, &c., not to exceed £1250.
Provided that the company may be registered when
50,000 subscribers’ shares have been disposed of, and the
remaining 50,000 shares held in reserve for future issue,
primarily on a pro rala basis to the present subscribers,
or secondarily, as the shareholders may direct. The
rules and regulations of the company shall limit the
voting power of any shareholder to 2000 votes, on the
basis or a vote for each share held up to that number.
Preliminary to the registration, the vendors now offer
for subscription 125 syndicate shares of £l(,0 each, carry-
ing 400 shares, £1 paid, in the registered company.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. B. B. MORETON, Brisbane.
WM. SMELLIE, Esq., Manager Port Jackson S.S. Co.,
Sydney.
The Hon. DONALD S. WALLACE, Melbourne.
ALEXANDER DICK, Esq., 39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
JOHN THOMPSON, Esq., Kilpatrick and Co., Melbourne.
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. LYNCH and M‘DONALD, 481 Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
R. J. LEEPER, Esq., Brisbane.
BANKERS:
Union Bank of Australia Ltd., Melbourne and Rock-
hampton.
SECRETARY:
JOHN BROWN, 100 Queens-street, Melbourne.
The property is situated about 40 miles from Rock-
hampton, about 20 miles from the railway line, and about
40 miles from Mount Morgan. There are live distinct
copper fissure lodes in the property, the rubble yields BJ4
per cent, of copper, whilst the ore itself goes 36 per cent,
to the ton, and the gold gives upward of ]/, oz. to the
ton. 1,000,000 tons of ore are reported by mining ex-
perts to be obtainable from the main lode alone, without
going below the 140 ft. level, and should average 20 per
cent, of copper.
The facilities for working by open cutting on the
No. 1 west outcrop, which is about 12ft. wide (the
next to that described by the manager in his report
of 21st April, IS9B, as the main lode) would furnish
very large quantities of red oxide ores of payable char-
acter, and these, with the ores already at grass, should
suffice to keep two smelters fully employed while the new
shaft is being sunk and the levels extended.
Included in the company’s properties is the “ Golden
Bar” Gold mine, which yielded 3Uoooz. of gold from shaft
alone to a depth of 102 ft., and nuggets from 60 to 120 oz.
were found close by.
The proceeds of the 125 syndicate shares should be suflt-
eient for the erection of two smelters, the erection of
pumping and winding gear, the construction of tramway,
and the further development of the mines to the extent
of carrying the company into dividends within six
months.
The vendors receive no cash, and all the money sub-
scribed goes to the credit of the company.
The facilities for working the property are abundant.
FULL PROSPECTUS, including reports, &c., can be
obtained and samples of the ore may be inspected at the
office of the company.
100 QUEEN STREET, '
MELBOURNE.
JOHN BROWN, Secretary
At Poverty Point.
Somebody writes to The Bulletin to say that “ Pattie
Browne’s shoes, when she plays the gipsy in ‘ The Little
Minister’ are like the shells of green almonds, and her
little bare feet resemble the white kernel inside.” Any
further advts. of this sort will have to be paid for by the
foot. v.
Quaint clip from the Era, June 14, 1894 :—‘‘ln reply to
numerous inquiries, Mr. (well-known in Australia)
Degs to state that his marriage (February 1 this .year) is
'nvalid, the lady having been at the time legally incap-
able of contracting a marriage, notwithstanding her
repeated assurances to the contrar ”
“ Mahlstick” : Excuse my being a lover—of beauty in
the abstract. At a Melb. Theatre the otner evening l had
eyes only, for Florence Seymour and her sister, Rosa Con-
roy, in (he circle. Of course these twin-like charmers are
too sensible to imagine they can remain young and
beautiful for ever. Florence fits herself to middle-age
parts in “ Gay Parisienne ” and “ French Maid ” ; Rose
was a sthge mamma in “ The Work Girl.” I will not be a
fool if I am mashed on both. They are so arch and
piquant.
Rumor has it that “ Daddy ” Hallewell, after 18 years’
honest labor in sound music, is going to take a trip to
Europe. There will be a “ benefit*” and The Bulletin
wishes it every success.
“ Holdar” : Paintings of Shakespeare and Mozart ap-
pear above the curtain of a Sydney music-hall, originally
intended for a temple of high-toned drama. Aforesaid
curtain is’sicklied o’er with the pale cast of purple pills
and so forth, and immortal William seems to look down
in pensive consideration of the certain cure of rheumatism
at Is. lid. per box. Mozart’s melodious mind appears
to be directed to the merits of somebody’s whisky, and
unless the distinguished pair display greater decision in
placing their patronage, I fear their eventual eviction, to
make way for a more up-to-date couple who have been
“ cured after taking two bottles of your celebrated mix-
ture.”
The good-looking son o. Mr. and Mrs. Kendall, who as
“ Mr. Dorrington ” was playing out here with the Broughs
a few years ago, has now ‘’chucked” the stage. His
parents, though players themselves, were opposed to his
becoming a mummer, and wanted him to go in for one of
the professions. He has . now gone to South Africa as a
member of the mounted police.
“To encourage the British soldier-boys to run in the
right direction, Findlater, the Gordon piper, was given
the V.C. by Her Gracious’ own royal fingers,” writes The
Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ and the following
evening he opened an engagement at the Alhambra for
£5O a week, and the Throne rocked with horror. ’Twas
a military sketch, opening in the broadest farce and end-
ing in a portrayal of the Gordon Highlanders ‘ taking
it’ —whatever it was. The V.C. came on, making a
hideous row with his pipes, for which he was justifiably
shot through both ankles, nightly and compelled to sink
to a sitting position, carefully manoeuvring his kilts in
consideration of the front stalls. Headquarters, having
visions q| all the army Recklessly sitting- down on the
field of battle after being shot, with a view to £5O-a-week
engagements, instead of standing up to be shot again,
agitated vigorously. Findlater, V.C., was well off (they
said); why, a fine physical man crippled for life, he had
a crown a'week, V.C. pension, and a sum of money sub-
scribed for him, and he could go home to his native
village and open a shop, but to accept £5O a week on the
stage was to Imperil the Empire. So the piper is offered
the billet of park-keeperi. to Herr Majesty, provided he
keeps steady. Congratulating glorious drunks for re-
spectable sly-sipping; a hero a menial. Will the Gordon
piper ‘ take it ’ ? ’’
A painfqlly superior person who does the musical
notices for Melb. ’Erald gave full vent to his eulchaw
t’other day. Of a pianoforte concerto performance by Adele
Verne and her sister the lofty critic remarked that he
didn’t waft to hear it. “Frankly, I do not care a rap
for the piece, and have not studied it enough to render
my judgment on its playing of any use to the pianist or
of any interest to the public.” Then he went on to say
that th.; nevy tenor, Samuel Masters, has a voice which
“ reminds ope of Edward Lloyd at his best—it is silver,
clear, sympathetic, &c. ’ Most people will think that
Masters’ fine, strong, apd somewhat piercing voice is
rather hard, than sympathetic. Nineteen out of twenty
who remember Lloyd iq his prime will agree that the
’Erald critic’s comparison is more to be pitied than
blamed. . He is possibly tone-deaf in his upper register.
Hark to .the withering scorn of Melb. ’Erald’s special
extr’ordinary musical critic: “Madame Alva first sang
the scene f Com’ e bello ’ from ‘ Lucrezia Borgia,’ of
Donizetti. This pen is no ghoul’s lancet to dissect a
corpse, and if stuff like this is to be disinterred it is
pleasant to get away quickly from it. But the singer
gave a rendering so good—fresh vocal power, fine phras-
ing, perfect tune—all that deserves admiration from
musicians, that the vapid melody was actually tolerable.”
After the ’Erald genius had, in the aforesaid manner of
speaking, wiped poor Donizetti off the face of the musical
world, the editor chained him up, seemingly. The notice
Of the next Alva-Verne concert was not at all funny.
A mummer, well-known to the backbloeks, tells a yarn
of a country yokel who filled the role of mechanist for one
night only. The piece was “The Shaughraun,” and the
mechanic was told to light the beacon on Rathgarron
Head at the cue “ Robert Ffolliott has escaped/' When
the time came, the amateur mechanist, who had quite
forgotten the cue, stood trembling in the wines, and no
light appeared. “See, the beacon is lighted on Rath-
garron Head,” came from the stage, and the mechanist
promptly applied the light to the back of the cloth.
“’Tis lighted too late,” said Harvey Duff—and then from
the mystic region “ behind the scenes ” a terrified voice
was heard to exclaim—“ I knew damned well it would be ;
I’m quite new at this ’ere business.”
The death of Alderman Amess, of Meibom ne, recalls an
historical squabble. Mr. Amess was Mayor of Melbourne
when the local Town Hall was opened. On that occasion
he had a cantata, “ Euterpe,” composed specially for the
occasion by C. E. Horsley. The libretto was by Henry
Kendall, and Mr. Amess understood that the amount he
paid (£800) would be equally divided between Kendall and
Horsley, but the latter took three-fourths, and Kendall
had to put up with the balance.
M. Wiegand, Sydney City-organist (who has just been
awarded by the des Beaux Arts the honor of
“ Les Palmes”) was organist at Li6ge (his native city) at
the venerable age of seven years.
“Nyngan”: As lecturer for a menagerie I have been
astonished at the prevailing Australian ignorance of
natural history. I have heard the bear pointed out as an
elephant, the lioness as a tiger, and lion cubs as panthers
—t.he informants evidently guessing desperately, to cover
their ignorance One very funny thing. We had camped
some miles outside a township to clean out the cages,
and when the lion’s growling (he doesn’t like water) had
brought a crowd around, I asked one gaping young man
“how he would like to ride that gentleman?” “Dunno!”
he drawled ; “ does he buck much ? ”
“ Paradis ” : The most noteworthy Melb. performance
of the “Silver King” was when Lorimer, as Defence
Minister, hired the Theatre Royal, for one night, at the
cost of £250, and opened it free to all the military. He
died a fortnight afterwards, insolvent, as it subsequently
appeared. Bucklaw acted Denver on that swashbuckler-
ing occasion.
“Theorbo”: Madame Alva is the dramatic soprano,
i.e., the Strong Woman, of the Pasta, Grisi, and Tietjens
order, all but lost to the .stage.
A theatrical entrepreneur, about to open a show, wrote
a straight-laced Sydney friend asking him to engage
half-a-dozen female supers for him. That gent-., inno-
cent of things theatrical, put in an ad. with a dim idea
that those beauteous damsels would come along duly
chaperoned and armed with references. The first to
appear was a strong, well-built 20-vear-old ; after a few
questions, he said : “ I’d like to see your references from
your last employer, my girl.” “ bast, employer? There’s
mv references from th’ Almighty—look at ’em !” she re-
plied, gathering up her drapery and throwing an alluring
calf on his knee. He announced himself satisfied, and
concluded he wouldn’t ask other applicants for refer-
ences, in case they might be produced from the other
fellow.
Rather rough on an actor, who ran a brief season of
blood-and-thunder at an Australian theatre, and played
leading parts, to have his pastry-cook personality dragged
into court by a member of the co. The actor is a pastry-
cook (and a genius at crust manufacture, they say) when
not engaged with the British drama, but he acts and
manages quite as competently as many other mummers
who can’t make tarts. Also, he is better able to appre-
ciate the true value of jammy notices in the press.
A certain actress is juite disgusted with a oertain daily
paper for allowing “ luch a silly fathead ” as So-and-So
(mentioning his ChrL jian name familiarly) to write its
notices. Which is all he gratitude poor So-and-So gets
for his long and faithful praising of the lady’s charms
and graces. He didn’t notice a certain play “ properly," ,
or he didn’t give sufficient space to her individual per-
formance, hence his silly fatheadedness. As a matter of
faot, So-and-So is a pretty smart journalist and a good
fellow, and his only foolishness has been in stooping to
flatter and make himself personally cheap to people who
call him an ass the first time he gives them half-a-spoonful
less marmalade than usual.
“Paradis”: How is it grey mares succeed so on the
stage? Here is the Waterloo horse of Julius Napoleon
for one. Another, was the old white mare used as Don
Quixote’s horse, by Irving, at London Lyceum. The
horses.are like the boys ; they cannot act like the girls.
“Haresfoot” : Mr. and Mrs. Durward Lely attain the
ideal of most of the happy show people, a one-man-and-
woman display, like the variety artistes, who are never
troubled with Mr. Song hugging Mrs. Dance. Daere and
Roselle besought Smythe to engineer them for readings.
One esteemed music-teacher of my acquaintance, a
splendid vocalist, left the operatic stage in her prime, on
her marriage, because neither she nor her husband, a
professional, liked the fat macaroni tenors, with their
sucking-pig osculation. But the greatest sacrifice of all
was when that noble basso, Tommaso de Alba, solemnly
foreswore the stage for ever, in Melb., on his marriage
with the worthy capitaliste.
The gallant Colonel C. B. Hicks, of the Harmston-Love
Circus, moralises on the different effects which man-
mauling by a caged tiger has on colored and white people.
“ After the tiger had mauled a man in any part of south-
ern Asia, you couldn’t keep the people out of the tent ;
the niggers couldn’t see enough of him. But here—well,
say what they like about the people wanting sensations,
I tell you it just damns business.” Anyhow, the show
has had hardly a good night’s takings since Gomez was
mauled ; wherefore “ Prince ” has been dropped from the
bills and his exploits are never mentioned now.
Died in Perth Barno Fein, aged 34, founder of Cre-
morne Gardens—the best known of Westralian goldfields
resorts. Fein had been dying by inches ever since he
went to the fields, four years ago.
“ The Palace Theatre of Varieties is now the best
‘ class ’ and most entertaining ‘ musical] ’ in London,”
writes The Bulletin’s local correspondent. “The Bio-
graph flitter-tlutter pictures to Alt'. Plumpton’s accom-
panying music are beyond anything else in that line,
whilst lhe enterprise in portraying the last half-mile of
the Derby on the same evening was a masterly record.
Certainly a skirmish in Cuba between the’Murkans and
Span-miles troubles the credibility of the audience, but is
preferable to daily paper lies and pictures.”
“Mrs. Elinor Molyneux, formerly of B. and B.’s co.
and the wife of a Sydney doctor, has organised a big
lmtinde for the Charing Cross Hospital at Gattis’ Van-
derill,” writes Tiie Bulletin s London correspondent.
“The lady, who has just returned from provincializing
‘ Under the Red Robe ’ as Ren6e, appears in a newly-
blown duologue with Lawrence Irving, and will be
supported by a ‘ scotoh mixture ’ of burlesque and
music all talent. Mr. and Mrs. Ethel Haydon, Eugene
Stratton, Dorothea Baird, Arthur Roberts, Ellaline Terris
and Dan Leno will form the ribs and backbone of a strong
bill.” s
“ H.M.” : The serio-comic lady’s over-ripe gag in select-
ing a conspicuous listener at whom to aim her amorous
ditty had unforeseen results one recent night at a metro-
politan music-hall. A sailor was targeted, and com-
placently endured the loud laugh provoked by the stage-
syren’s solicitation to come along and cuddle her, finish-
ing with a toe-pointing climax. The simple victim, in
fact, took the invitation seriously, and presently found
his way outside, where he patiently waited. When the
now strictly serio lady with her husband appeared, the
expectant navigator, thinking his claim had been jumped,
made things uncommonly lively for the pair before ne
could be made to understand that it was “ all in the
piece.”
Ed. Bulletin.— The recent killing of Harmston’s animal
trainer by a tiger is another instance of the foolishness of
supposing that an animal can radically change its nature.
You may best them for the time, while you are watching
them, but once your eye is off them—look out. I had a
lucky escape once while lecturing on a trained lion. I
had been patting the beast from outside the cage, yet
when I turned round to answer a question, with my hand
holding one of the bars, no sooner were my eyes off the
lion than I felt his teeth graze my knuokles as his mouth
closed with a snap that would have done justice to an
alligator. Luckily his nostrils projected too far for him
to get hold. There is, in my belief, no wild-animal
tamer existing—unless he is a lunatic—who does not
know the risk he runs. When Harmston’s Qircus was in
Sydney I heard a lady say to the poor fellow now
dead, “ Look out he doesn’t have you some day.”
“No fear of that,” was the reply, “ I’m a bit too quick
for that.” But it’s the beast that’s always “too quick”
in the long run.—H.V.
“•Haresfoot” : Marie De Grey died in England a month
or two ago. She visited Australia with her co., including
Marie Kinghorne, the best of the Elders in the London
Haymarket “ Little Minister.”
“ Haresfoot ” : I will back Atholwood against Knight
or Romeo.
A serio-comic opera, “ The Beauty Stone,” written by
Pinero to the music of Arthur Sullivan and Comyns
Carr, is just about due in London, if not already pro-
duced. A leading character in Pinero’s plot is The
Devil, to whom the stage owes much.
Irving, for a change, has tried a new drama, “ The
Medicine Man,” with its first scene laid in Whitechapel.
The name-character, a Svengali, who mesmerises dock-
laborers and society girls, in the interests of humanity
and otherwise, finally gets strangled by his principal male
subject.
Alfred Bucklaw, one of Australia’s forgotten Silver
Kings, is just now playing the boss villain in “ White
Heather,” at Drury Lane. Have the Melb. girls forgotten
Alf. Bucklaw, and the trouble he took to let them know,
through the weekly press, that he was a virgin-hearted
bachelor?
“ Melb.” : Why cannot the “ Alcestis ” he given in Eng-
lish? The Greek spoken would be gibberish to the
Athenians of Euripides’ time. Not more than one in a
hundred of the Melb. audience can follow it, even if they
knew more or less Greek. There is an excellent poetic
translation of Euripides by Way, a former Melb. resident,
also translator of Homer. If the Trinity College pupils
gave this, the audience would be almost delighted, fur
“Alcestis” is one of the few really taking things in the
classic drama. Giving the English would tend more to
advance their Greek than rendering that text. [But that
isn’t the scholastic opinion. —Ed. B.]
Little Alma Gray made her first appearance in London
at Marlborough-street Police-court, when the manager of
the Pavilion Music Ilall applied for a license to put her
on the stage before 10 p.m. The beak, having duly ad-
mired “Australia's Phenomenal Child Artiste,” and
questioned her mother (Ruth Grey) as to the youngster’s
feelings on the subject, gave the necessary permit.
There are many bad young men, but the worst of all is
he who brings a banjo round to your house and shouts
“nigger ” songs without having taken the precaution to
black his face.
The Pope’s anxiety for the preservation of
the Spanish monarchy is significant. Priestly
power crumbles under republican rule. The King
is the natural ally of superstition, and the Jdoss
advocate of ignorance among the masses.


MELLIHS
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant. -
HI ELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Feckham, London, England,
Pub Ications, etc.
V
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
The Life
A d v e n-
tures, and
Confes-!
sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 918, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
fANO os' ®nmti FLAYING
LEARNT IN ONE DAY.
PRATT S CHART of CHORDS for PIANO and ORGAN.
A QUICK METHOD of learning to play the piano for those
without time or unable t) engage the services of a teacher.
With it any one can become an expert pianist accompany-
ing Songs and Dances Useful to the advanced Musician.
It is the NEAREST APPROACH TO A READY MADE KNOWLEDGE
OF MUSIC YET DEVISED BY THE HUMAN MIND.
I Pi CAIUfQ fpnn To introdu e to every home PRATT’S CHART
lOt oullgo lICC Published at 5/, we will send the Giant Album
3f 184 Songs, Words and Music FREE, together with Pratt’s Chart
:>i Chords for only 2/6 post paid 2/8. Stamps 2d. extra. Address:
-Vnglo American Publishing Co., Commercial Chambers, Sydney
Mention this paper when writing. AGENTS WANTED.
BEST SHILLING MUSIC BOOKS IN THE WORLD.
THE
FEDERAL
Music
Books
Price
*s
WORTH
FOR
51 BOOKS NOW
P J BLISHED
Each Book . . . .
Contains
ONE POUND’S
WORTH
Popular Music in Full
Size Sheet Music
Postage 2d.
250,000 of the Federals have already been sold.
The Federal Music Books contain :
SONGS—Popular, for all Voices, comic and sacred —Soprano, Con-
tralto, Tenor, Baritone and Bass. Irish, Scotch, American Christy,
Italian, etc. Students Songs and Choruses. V'OCAL DUETS.
PIANO LOS:-Very Easy. Easy and Effective. Moder-
ately Difficult. Brilliant Operatic, etc PIANO DUETS.
DANCE MUSIC: —Quadrilles. Lancers. Waltzes. Polkas.
Galops. Reels. Jigs, etc
VIOLIN S: O LOS, VIOLIN AND PIANO DUETS.
Full list of contents of all the above Books posted free to any
address. Send us One Shilling, and tell us what Music you like,
and we will for ard you a Sample Copy that will delight you.
Obtainable of all Music Sellers or direct from the publishers,
W. G-Xi£ST «Sc CO.
Collins St., Melbourne, & 359 George-st., Sydney.
BOOKS.
BOOKS. Books.— NEW UP-TO-DATE
PUBLICATIONS.—The Soiled Dove, being
the History of a Gay Young Lady, very spicy; Miss
Skittles, the Girl with Six Husbands, also very spicy;
Sappho’s Gay Life in Paris ; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s Art of
Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very spicy, post free Is. 6d.
The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes; The New
Receipt Book : How to command the Love and Admira-
tion of the Opposite Sex, STERILITY and Impotence—
each, post free, Is. R. W. SKINNER, New and
Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Telephone 3043.
USTEJ-W MUSIC.
“The Chimes of Normandy,” by Stanhope Gray, a song
certain to please ; “ Saucy Sally,” by Will Godwin, a good
song with a good chorus ; “ Pat Magee,” a pretty, witty,
Irish song ; “ Rose of the Morn ” Waltz, by Henri Laski,
‘composer of *■* My Polly ” Waltz ; “ Pierrot et Pierrette ”
(Gavotte), by Henri Laski, composer of “My Polly ”
Waltz; “ Fraseatti ” Waltz, by Theo Bonheur. Of all
dealers. Catalogues post free on application to IF.
j> j XTO .V A' <70., 203 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
HENRY FARMER S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell ” “ Faust,” “ Un Hallo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore'” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. (id. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2-. 6d. each. Of all Music-sellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
CONVICT SYSTEM.
per Post Is. 3d.
PRICE Is.
A gentleman with the appalling name
of Major Samuel David Thomas Augustus
Mordecai Woods has announced himself as a
candidate for Eden-Bombala (N.S.W.). His
leading plank is that the Federal Capital should
be either in Eden or Boinbala.. Eden’s _ chief
claim to this distinction lies in its proximity to
Bombala.
A motley crowd of poverty-stricken, half-
starved Greeks were landed recently at Largs Bay
(S.A.) They had little clothing, were absolutely
penniless and unable to speak a word of English.
These people, numbering about 20 all told, are,
without exception, the dirtiest and most for-
bidding creatures yet seen in S.A., and the local
police have decided to keep them moving towards
Sydney.
Young “Bob ” Burt, long conspicuous on
the Age staff, an unfailing first-nighter and a
“mould of form,” is now battling gamely with a
wayback organ at one-horse Dalby, Q. Ordered
from pillar to post by the doctors, for the salva-
tion of a lame lung, he has been chasing climates
for 12 months, and is now exiled to the land of
bananas for two years at least. Having still to dig
out a living with his J. pen, he has taken over the
Dalby News with the assistance of the chemist,
and the groceryman, and other well-conditioned
locals, and isnow keeping a lively eye on the Czar,
and chronicling small-goods, trusting fervently to
the fine, dry, Darling Downs atmosphere to do
the rest. Burt, who resembles the slim, pale hero
of a frail novelette, is the last man one would
expect to find pully-lrauling a backblocks news-
paper, but he has grit.
Brisbane Courier :
Consider Mr. Reid’s alternative proposals. First he
asks the other provinces, and presumably Queensland
among them, to accept such Federation as pleases a
section of the anti-billite party in N.S.W. Here are Vic-
toria, South Australia, and Tasmania, and a referendum
majority in N.S.W. pledged to the acceptance of the
Commonwealth Bill. We are asked to either put all
those majorities aside and back the demand of the
minoritp in N.S.W. for substantial alterations in the
Bill, or join that minority in seeking an entirely different
union which will exclude South Australia, Tasmania, and
Westralia. Either proposal is essentially anti-Federal in
its spirit. We believe the majority in Queensland would
much rather have the Commonwealth Bill as it is
than as Mr. Reid, Mr. Want, Mr. Lyne and their
friends would make it. We are sure also that
the majority in Queensland desire a Federation which
will include every Australian. There will be disap-
pointment in the hearts of Federalists here if one or more
provinces refuse, as it is possible they may do, to enter
the union. But certainly a policy of deliberate exclu-
sion—the strong excluding the weak —would be a dis-
tinctly anti-Federal policy. The nationality which
Queenslanders have been thinking of is all-inclusive. If
Mr. Reid wants the “ natural ally ” of N.S.W., the “in-
dustrial colossus of the North,’’ to join in kicking the
smaller and weaker provinces, we venture to say that he
has entirely mistaken the temper of the colossus. It will
be a pity if we should have to choose between Federation
as represented by the party under the leadership of Mr.
Barton and Federation as represented by the party under
the leadership of Mr. Reid ; but, if the choice must be
made, we trust the great majority of Queensland
Federalists will unhesitatingly declare for the movement
so capably, so consistently, and nobly led by Mr. Barton.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for East Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind UVUills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St..
Sydney.
JOLLY’S
"DUCHESS" PILLS
FOR PALE FACES
contains 6 0 a
kO | A*
%v
H 2
A
Positive
CURE
for
Price
2/6
a Box.
Post
Free.
Langour, Debility, Nervousness, Skin Eruptions,
Loss of Appetite.
A bsolutely free from vegetable or mineral poison.
2/6 per box, or 6 boxes for 12/6, post free.
THE BRITISH DRUGGISTS, LTD.,
H. H. Warner & Co-, Ltd., Melbourne,
Sole Australasian Agents.
GRIM AULT’S
mDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAUI/T & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
SNoIJLVIIWJ
M fdlo) Sw9o<o
iaKooA\ vhjC
|
PNftteS
JP^Wd.
n
“ I’ll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. 6d.
Sole Agents :
A,
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-832 Gsorge-st,, Sydney
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
Ladies should always Knit with
KHITTHG
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino, Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “ Beehive ” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softness and durability.
WSEE*~THIS TRADE fAARKLj)
£?' IS ON EVERYTySKEIN. ‘
Trade Mark Register"
Estab'isliedl7Bs.
Sample SHADE i
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Alan “ Reeliive ’’
Hosiery &TJnder-
wear manufac-
tured from the
‘Beehive'Woois.
J.aJ. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writ s a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re toied so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain maybe had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Eligh Sts., Sydney.
Read’s LiVcr Pills
Cures all Liver Ills . .
A perfect remedy for Dizziness, Nausea, Drowsiness, Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Coated Tongue, Pains in the Back
and Side, Torpid Liver, Indigestion, Dyspepsia. Small
price, 2/6 per Box. Only address—
H. READ, 115 Collins-st., Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
E.
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &C., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodvne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to ali
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, 89 Pitt-street, Sydney.
fHLOROPYN
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
I and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUAB.T & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
p.hiniiiiiiii
-,-Hiniiiinijiiii
KmjiHiiiiiiiji
, |,Q
ajW.'f'jjijiiiiiiiii
I Hl'HiiUmiai
■"SS!!!*'#!
jiiiiiijiiiiiliJiiiiijljiX
jH'j'iniiiii:
Hljl'iiiiiiiii iiy.iiii i'li!-!;}®
i»niiiiiiiii iiiiiij!!!!!! al
pir:k a
S:: ■ ■. ■ a
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 (>. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -. .
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&e. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21 -. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/1 1 . Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
; Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts, from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 211, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 (i. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dx'ess,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, f-h'rts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good V ctorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
USE
Spooler's
R[YAL fcl/VY
DRESHKO,
UNIVERSE L CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning ai d Polishing Roots
and Shoes (in tattles), Cd. and Is.
Black Gil,
The Best Dressimr for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unri vailed Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
Si ROYALNAW OaESSINC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
: DIRECIIONS FOR USE
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SLAB'S,
SADDLERS, &c.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE.
DRROOERTS’^
y R MAN?
(l
ointment
SK/rf D/SEASE!
AND WOU/VOS
or £ VER Y
DESCR/RT/OAF
Of 9 I C
Alterative p |LL
b —i for SKIN DISEASES.
AND ALL D/SORDERS OF TEE
SFOMA CM & L/VER .
or ALL CHEMISTS //// X EACH
BEACH Si BARNICOTT L°- BRI DPO RT.
MELBOURNE.
HHKK?
MTy POST FREE v't> j
WatcHes-Clocks-Jev/ellery-BirtHday*
WeddipJc z CHristeNiNg Presents
H'NeWMAN- 1755177-EMZARFTH ST*
OPPOSITE C:P.Q.
MELBOURNE.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own.
gift to manr-Electricity.
Our Elect ric Belts will cure-
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES ii|; all; stages, amt!
restore t, h e,. wearer to.
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
il am ntly cure you. If ib
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), wiving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address *
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A BOOH TO TH€ DEAF.
DEAFNESS, Head Noises,
and Singing in the Ears completely overcome, and-perl eet
Hearing restored, by the use of Peck’s Artificial
Ear Drums. The finest in the World. Send for Illus-
trated Book of Proofs and Testimonials, Frisk . j
A. M. NAST, 145 Collins-street., .
Melbourne. ,
QUIBULL’S Fluid Disitift etnnt is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
B’eautv. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and ia
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.


Qgden s’
*>-; £<r
■' V i . .
Wm.
i
j
AiX\‘
per
Ekcket
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
£?Zt Pw£rtiefe-° h “ a ®»° d Wife • especially happy 1, the wife when she
». Soyer’s Bakfog Powder.
riSe “ nd b 8 “ light ’ that ‘ he g “ d w he rises
SrAR TAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
DENT AT?n\f \ ’ KOLA NtJT TONI0 ’ 2 / 3 - This is a pure article—guaranteed.
JiiiN 1A COM A, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Loiv Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiOgtoo N. SoGl & Co., m sp.s.,
150, ISO, and 260 Pitt-street, Sydney; a ND at
Ctmrch-street, Parramatta.
ENO S 'FRUIT SALT’
I Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
•with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
S f A^ ET FEYER ’ erysipelas, measles,
for ten “ fi, 1 " 03 OV , GPy mention ab!e Disease. “I have been a nurse
gangrene nan,.!? ba Y® nurse< * cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
havf not been hi fnr Tu every disease. During this time I
Salt ’ which w 1 a «m g le day, and this I attribute to the use of Pino’s ‘Fruit
pa fonh durint n ke it , my blood T in a P ure state. I recommend it to all mv
overesMmded ’ C °A Va escence - Its value as a means of health cannot be
uveres.im teu. —A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
arnf vJv pb 7 ENO 5 ‘ FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and fb VERI6H CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURES OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
you haf}iV(m^^ss o ?mT.'atthY p N0 ’ s 7 r H'\ H lt - Without ifc >
at the ‘HUIT SA r wSS°?A»mTwl only by J ' c - Ltd.,
«. JAvLil kjAT.T WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
,0
wm
Stimulating—Nutritive—Exquisite in Flavor.
A DISH FOR PHINOES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and ail Imported Fruits
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
The best resource for every houses
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. &
Co., and other lea ing Wholesale Houses.
™K? F ?,[ JIT * s Dellcious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained whenever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
Dr. TARRANT
P.R.0.5.E., L.E.C.P.E., L.H.0.5.1., L.M.R.C.P.H.,
o
ii/c
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wiles G-overnment
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Pr. irate Ho pltal, and for
sixteen Years Hon. shirt eon lo the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, > r en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any lime
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike an.y other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hvpodernnc. medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
JMany sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential,; and are destroyed by fire .us soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Dr TARRANTt?' ncd , b y study and observa-
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the • 68 I fc a ®P eclal P olnt to eradicate thoroughly
i»ut immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.* ’ sunn £ not onl y permanent restoration to health,
system faZ»nSd? 000m,di8h a n ° ble pUrpOSe ’ beco,ne eminent > or thieve greatness, whose nervous
Man or Woman
FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
fnushadZfand eMbtoySu to numerous Prescriptions.
Complaints should consult Dr TARRANT who hna a , describe your case. Sufferers from Special
sa&SK.** *■* sourees - S 3 iKiSIK
e ™“™ slv l ™ l ' d <°*
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented unon fen r°t^ P ™ nc S i, whose case ® PF°. ve to he over-strained
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant P who has cured thmlmif f i. eVen i a physician so well-known and
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer write to the n w h .o have bee . n thus mistreated, by advice
teously and confidenUallv naming your maM v °V eC , e J pt ° f y T' * etter ’ cour-
you experience " ’ y° ur malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
Dangerous Symptoms,
;'sailow o'r Pimpli^Slchi^DuHnes^o^lnteh f mP p beC t'^ en ' ea ' c ’ Sore, Sunken,
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire foiCSoliti de nr Hrfnl i b ’ P w S ’ Constipation, or Relaxation of the
from the month during sleep Neuralgia Haokino- Pono-’h V<vm- neSS ’ y ea, k Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
to Throw Yourself Down When o v el i£ll? d,neBS -nS ear £ Insani, * v or Suicide, Inclination
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness oHriek Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
TARRANT makes ’ nmmDness, 01 Prickly Sensation, Tmndßy, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr!
Absolutely TV a Charge
lion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms Tfi??! ™" gue F T eV fl er ’ Dlsea T se s of Women, Constipa-
TAREANT decide he =„nol Jj.
One Pound will be returned to you.
d.teK“DriAßMri^^^
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT. 1 health bj carefully-trained nurses, under
TAmUNT?who\viVgTveTou?cV I Somp 1 t e courteous’ clreful AV confidence to Dr.
Ins diagnosis in plain understandable language. ’ ’ d conflde ntial consideration, and impart
COMxVIUNIOATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Sr * HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Uult.etin when writing.
for
WHITE HEATHER
S KY.


IHfi MOST REFRESHING, COOLING) & HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE.
Trade mark)
UIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON ; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle —D. Cohen & Co.
6
■ROOK OF NATUKF
® * —AN!}—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBAHBS AID WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
HOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new 1
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
1 p IPIN( j hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d • post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s • post 2s Od. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking* made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post free Is.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Pai ties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Bab ./, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave llorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private boolr, Is Od. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
dieato Bools: Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
FRY IT IN YOUR BATH
GRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
MARVELLOUS PREPARATECTJ.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation tor the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South "Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
A
Complete Sanitation.
LIFTS.
Electric Light.
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the
midst the Fashionable Quarter.
rsj_3
Gloucester Road,
London, S.W.
ZRO-A-HD
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Fo: table Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges,
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. N OAKES, M.1.M.E., COLONIAL MANAGER.
• Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
King Potatau’s Powder-Maker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bagshaw was on his beam-ends. As he walked
the quays of Wellington, he saw starvation staring
him in the face.
He was the kind of man that loathes manual
work, and his brains were not of a sort to stand
him in good stead. So he stole provisions from a
bonded store—and got three months’ hard. When
he came out of prison Bagshaw swore a deep oath
against all his kind, shook the dust of Wellington
from his feet, and swagged his way up country.
* * * *
During the Maori war it was always a matter
of wonder where the natives got their ammuni-
tion. Some thought that traders, who plied up
and down the coast in small cutters, made large
profits by the illicit sale of Tower muskets and
gunpowder. But curious cartridges, found on
many a battlefield, proved that much of the Maori
ammunition was the product of native industry.
These cartridges were made of paper torn from
printed books, the leaves of which had been
gummed together so as to assume the consistency
of cardboard. The powder used was of an inferior
kind, smaller in grain than the old F.G. powder,
uncertain of ignition, of an abominable stench
when exploded, and so fouling to the barrel that,
after three or four shots with it, a musket became
useless. It was evident that such cartridges
came from a factory not upon the catalogue of
colonial industry. But those who look for it can
find sulphur anywhere, from Lake Rotorua to
Taupo; charcoal is a thing the Maoris under-
stand ; and, as for saltpetre, he who cannot dig it
“ out of the bowels of the harmless earth ” can
make it for himself if he knows the disgusting
process.
In a quiet forest “ clearing ” near to Te Akau,
on the Upper Whanganui—the King Country—a
white man was engaged in a noisome task.
Beneath a great shed, which was merely a vast
raufso roof resting on substantial posts, he
had arranged numerous mounds of stinking
materials. Upon each of those foetid heaps he was
pouring a still more abominable liquid. The
stench was so overpowering that he was soon
forced to take a spell to windward of the odorifer-
ous shed, and, as he sat down on the grass, his
language was as foul as his occupation. As he lit
his pipe to mitigate the odor of the place, it could
he seen that his mouth was disfigured by a double
hare-lip.
A Maori woman came waddling out of the bush
—a, woman of great girth and fatness, and when
the man caught sight of her he swore at her in
English, and asked her in Maori why she had
been so slow in coming. He ordered her to take
up the bucket he had been handling, and attend
to the heaps. She expostulated. Then the
pnl-ehn- Maori rose, and, cursing her, kicked at her
with his heavily-bluchered foot. The kick struck
her on the thigh, and she limped as she went
towards the raupo shed and commenced the filthy
work. She was his wahine.
And, as he sat and smoked, the hare-lipped man
muttered, “ Wot’s Davy and Cruik doin’? Where
the devil’s Samuels got to?—blast ’im ! They
’aven’t been up these three months. No embargo
on saltpetre, either; though it’s a wonder the Guv’-
ment eye ain’t spotted the almighty bacon-curing
business up this Whanganui river. Most likely
one or the other’s blabbed. I dunno. Any’ow,
me an’ that old slut there has to make the cussed
stuff ourselves. Seventy-five per cent, saltpetre
in every hundred of powder. My Lord ! But
they give’s good gold in return, and I’ve the satis-
faction of knowin’ every bullet finds its billet.”
The man was Bagshaw, and saltpetre was his
trouble.
He was powder-maker to King Potatau, and Te
Akau was his arsenal. Any day were to be seen
there the methods of his manufacture.
In a large building groups of Maoris, mostly
women, might be seen squatting on the ground,
busily filling cartridges as though their lives de-
pended on the operation—as perhaps they did.
And up and down, and in and out, Bagshaw
would walk, overseeing the work, and swearing.
The fact was he had lost interest in his trade, and
had shown the chiefs a letter, which, he said, sum-
moned him to Wellington on important business.
But they shook their heads, and said he could not
be spared—his services were too valuable. And
when he held out as a plea that he would return
soon, they told him if he went to the pakcha he
must stay there—they would not have him back.
Hence his language.
But soon after that Samuels came up the river
with trade, and Bagshaw slipped away with him
down stream. So the post of saltpetre-maker
to King Potatau was vacant.
* * * *
Just five years from the time of his imprison-
ment for petty larceny Bagshaw came back to
Wellington. He had departed a “swagger ”; he
came back astride a horse.
The first place he visited when he got to town
was the Kangaroo Bank. As he pushed his way
through the swinging glass-doors, he put his hand
into the front of his “jumper” and drew out a
heavy chamois-leather bag tied at the mouth with
a boot-lace.
This he laid on the mahogany counter before
the brass scales and the gold-buying clerk. Then
he unhitched a greasy canvas belt from his dun-
garees, and placed that beside the chamois-leather
bag.
“There, mister,” he said to the dapper clerk,
“ that’s my pile. Weigh it.”
The clerk undid the bag and emptied the gold
upon the dish.
It was a laborious task to get the gold from the
belt, which was stitched up with flax fibre.
“ Open it up with a knife,” said Bagshaw.
The clerk ripped up the canvas, and the gold
lay in a magnificent heap. The gold-buyer gazed
at it long and steadily.
“ Can’t locate it,” he said.
“ Nobody arxed you,” said Bagshaw. “ Weigh
it, mister.”
The clerk weighed it—three hundred and fifteen
ounces. And, as it was good, clean gold, he
offered =£3 17s. per ounce.
If Bagshaw had been a true digger he would
have taken a hundred or two in cash, but, as it
was, he put a miserable £2O-note in his pocket and
deposited the rest of the money in his own name.
Then he walked down Lambton Quay till he
came to the offices of Messrs. Flint and (Squeezer,
barristers and solicitors, where he asked for Mr.
Flint, and was ushered into the room where the
senior partner sat.
“How dy’ do?” said the pakeha - Maori.
“You’re Mr. Flint, I believe. Here’s the letter
you sent me.” „ ~
“ Your name is Richard Bagshaw, then ? said
the lawyer. *
“ That’s me,” said Bagshaw.
“Take a seat,” said the lawyer. Well, Mr.
Bagshaw, I wrote to you because X had received a
communication from a relative of yours in Fjngland.
It relates to the death of your uncle, Mr. Charles
Bagshaw, who, it would seoro, carried on the busi-
ness of pork butcher, in Holloway, London—not
so very far from Holloway Gaol Bagshaw
winced, and the lawyer focussed him with his
spectacles. “ Your uncle bequeathed you a thou-
sand pounds, which I am authorised to pay you
upon your signing the accompanying Deed of
Release.”
“Jus’ so,” said Bagshaw.
The lawyer rang his bell, and a clerk entered.
“ Bring the Deed of Release in the estate of C. F.
Bagshaw, deceased.” The clerk vanished, and
brought the document. It was voluminous. Bag-
shaw took it as read; seized a pen from the
lawyer’s table, and signed it, and Mr. F lint
attested his signature.
“Very good,” said the lawyer. “ I’ll now give
you a cheque for the amount.”
“ You’re most obligin’,” said Bagshaw. You
show great trust in human natur’.”
“How’s that?”
“ You don’t seem to have any doubts of my
being the right man.”
“None whatever,” said the lawyer. I met
you once in the District Court —larceny, I think
it was—some five or six years ago. You’ve a re-
markable face, Mister Bagshaw. Your friend,
Samuels, answered an advertisement of mine for
you, and offered to carry a letter to you. That’s
how you were located. And now we are on the
subject of your identity, let me give you a word
of advice. The atmosphere of this town does not,
1 think, suit men from the milder interior north-
ward. To one like you, straight from the sol-
fatara country, with the smell of sulphur and salt-
petre still clinging to his clothes, I should say this
is a dangerous place to live in.”
“In many ways I think you’re right, sir,” said
Bagshaw, as he signed a receipt for the money.
“ I was thinkin’ of gettin’back soon. So, I’ll be
wishing you good arternoon, Mister Flint, and
thank ’ee kindly.”
* * * *
Bagshaw travelled alone- He had left Wel-
lington immediately after his interview with the
lawyer ; and it was well he. did so, for that same
evening the police were searching the hotels for a
lucky digger with a double hare-lip.
Careful to avoid all routes used by the white
troops, Bagshaw’s way was circuitous and crooked
—no uncommon thing with him—till he passed
the rubieon of Maoridom far up the Rangitikei
River. Thence he followed narrow native tracks
through densely-wooded defiles and over precipit-
ous ranges, till he had reached what the Maoris
called the aukati, or line of demarcation between
the King Country and the pakeha s sphere of influ-
ence. Outside that boundary a white man was
considered safe, since he was not on debateable
land or within the sphere of war. But to Bagshaw
it was a relief to get within the aukati. The Wel-
lington lawyer’s dark hints began to lose their
terror. A feeling of safety crept over him.
He had entered a deep gorge, through which a
sparkling stream tumbled noisily over its bed of
water-worn boulders, and half-a-mile inside the
ravine pulled up to give his horse a spell, and let
it graze on a grassy strip beside the stream. He
took provender out of his swag, ate, smoked, and
by-and-by fell asleep.
He dreamt of a time when the war was over,
and he was at liberty to return to the coast.
Visions of peace and mountains of gold loomed
before his eye. He dreamt he was an even richer
and more respected man than his uncle, the pork-
butcher. But suddenly there was a great noise,
and Bagshaw awoke to see a band of Maoris
stretched across the ravine with a row of muskets
pointed at him. He rose to flee, but finding that
another row of muskets barred the way behind,
placed his back against the rocky wall and drew a
revolver. Instantly the Maoris fired, and Bagshi w
lay prone—with his undischarged pistol beside
him—slain by his own villainous saltpetre !
* * * *
In the books of the Kangaroo Bank there is an
entry which shows that to a certain Richard Bag-
shaw’s credit stands a sum of £2192 15s. And for
30 years the directors have wondered why Richard
Bagshaw has not come forward to claim his own.
Nelson, M.L.
ALFRED A. GRACE.
G. B. Shaw, the loudest English exponent
of vegetarianism, has broken down on the edge of
40. He fell off his bicycle, and fractured a bone ;
and his vegetable-nourished blood is so poor that
the fracture won’t mend. So his doctor has put
him on meat diet, and, while waiting cure, he has
ceased to write dramatic criticisms. He doesn’t
need to write, for some of his plays have brought
him in good money lately.
When the Wairarapa was rushed on the
rocks on the Maoriland coast, two Coolgardie
miners named Bird and Manderson were among
the drowned. Their bodies were both washed up
on the shore, and each body li da belt on it. One
belt proved to contain <£l3;-! in gold; the other
was examined and found to be empty. Then,
when these discoveries had been made, it sud-
denly dawned on the searchers that they had mixed
the deceased up, and hadn’t a gleam of an idea
whether the gold was found on Manderson or
Bird. The coin was left with the Public Trustee,
but Solomon himself couldn’t decide the owner-
ship, and the two sets of relatives finally agreed
to divide.
Maoriland’s Premier was recently struck
violently on the back by an episode that happened
while he was being driven in a four in-hand to
some place in the country, foundation-stone lay-
ing. Digger Dick was getting along an endless
bush road, and, chancing to look round, spied a
cloud of dust that was following behind. Out of
it presently appeared a horse and cart driven by
an eccentric-looking old party, who was yelling
and lashing the alleged animal all he knew.
Digger Dick urged his driver to make the pace
and keep ahead of the dust, and he made the pace
with a vengeance, but the venerable in the cart
still kept goin % and made exciting gestures for
them to pull up. They pulled up; then the
ancient collided with them, and his horse went
down entangled in .Seddpn’s chariot, and the old
inhabitant was thrown from his seat, and landed
right on the back button of Seddon’s coat. After
things had been disentangled some, they asked the
breathless grandfather what he meant by assault-
ing the Gov’ment in that violent manner, but he
assured them he meant no harm, “ I only wanted
to have a look at the Premier.” Then he gathered
himself up, and remarked that he didn’t think
much of the Premier after all, and after that he
hauled the white horse up out of the dust, and
departed.


“Sir,” — Are you hard on clothes? You can
get more wear, look nicer, and save c-ash by wearing our
Gold Medal Tweeds, only 45s. per suit, to measure (12s.
6d. for trousers). If in town, call in ; we send patterns
free to the country, so no matter in what town vou are
when you strike this paragraph, we can send samples
and give you satisfaction by our easy method of self-
measure. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205,' 207, 209, 211 Piifc.
street (only), Sydney. (These tweeds took the First
Prizes and Gold Medals at the late Royal Agricultural
Show in Moore Park.)
Bile Beansfor Biliousness
INFLUENZA, COEDS, COSTIVENESS, INDIGESTION,
FEMALE AILMENTS, AND DYSPEPSIA.
They Tone-up the System and Purify the Blood.
Severe Biliousness Coupled with Sick Headaches
Completely Cured by Bile Beans.
A SYDNEY BUSINESS MAN SPEAKS ENTHUSIASTICALLY
OE 8.8.8’5.
Mb. Frederick Marks, of Park-road, Moore Park, Sydney, turned from his desk and greeted a
visiting reporter with a smile. bo you want to know about my cure by Bile Beans ’ Well some
ime smeo I sulTered severely from attacks of biliousness and sick headaches. I have not the slightest
Jouot that these periodical sufferings were caused indirectly by the warm, moist weather, which we
liud so trying m Sydney during the summer months. My constitu-
tion has never been one to be easily affected, but there is no other
way of accounting for these attacks. As time went on and the
weather grew hotter, the biliousness assailed me regularly ; in fact
every three days found me unable to attend to my business the
headache and dizziness being so bad that I could not read my papers
and correspondence, writing and type alike dancing in a confused
jumble before my eyes. Then, too, my rest was disturbed ; night
after night I would toss about, getting only an hour or so’s sleep at a
time. In the morning, when I got up, I would have a bad taste in
my mouth that was extremely disagreeable, and there was seldom a
morning that I did not-awake with a more or less severe headache
My appetite, a so, was exceedingly unsatisfactory. Sometimes I took
no food at all, but drank a great deal of water, which I’m now con-
vinced did me more harm than good.”
Anything else ? ’ “ Well, no, except that of course my system
, , , , T , • , ran down, and I became listless and suffered from ‘ that tired feeling ’
we hear so much about. I tried several patent medicines and seidlitz powders, also a lot of househidd
remedies, such as lemon-juice, but none of them did me any good at all. TheA a friend recommended
Bile Beans, and I tried them, and with the most gratifying results. They picked me up wonderfully
The headaches, biliousness loss of appetite and insomnia all completely disappeared in a short time
and now I never feel the slightest trace of any of them. Bile Beans have completely cured me and
I m glad to let the facts be known. I especially recommend this remedy for Biliousness, as I know
positively that it cured me after a great many other medicines had failed. You can make what you
like out of this. I think you’ve got all the facts now.” y
2U
fevil
a
3fej-
J : i;
f
INFLUENZA AND COLDS
realitv fl an Il a^Jr n v a 0 i l L| e f erally f unde r stood by the greater part of those who suffer from it. It is in
cient liver action is in most cases responsible for both. When the“ r Zl.ri T
5i!LSr fo ' B “ " iU d '- *»at no'' KS^itU'i« £
FOf\
lUOUSNESS
BILE BEANS
4™? Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous,
Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Female Weak
ness, Pale-faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples
SMS'TM F'eSSg'! B ’ L “ k ° fPh J si “ 1 T °»e. Heartburn,
Bile Beans are obtainable from Chemists and Store-
keepers generally; Australian Depot of the Bile Bean Manu-
facturing Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney ; Victorian
Rocke, Tompsitt, and Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne • S A*
f^ ntS ’w ?■ Co., King William-street Adel
laide; W.A. agents, F. H. Fauldmg and Co., Perth • Oueenl
land agents, S. Hoffnung and Co., Brisbane. ’ Queens-
A Medicine for the People at a Popular Price.
A Deceptive Duty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hkr f'l'nre prospects had long been a subject of
vulgar comment. Among those who knew her
history, there were some who saw in her quiet in-
difference to the eligible young men of heracquaint-
ance a touching evidence of female constancy :
and they prophesied a triumphant reward. What
her own opinion was on the likelihood of Shaw’s
returning after these years, no one knew. But
the fact of her withdrawing herself from all asso-
ciation with the pleasure-loving young people of
the district seemed best interpreted as evidence of
her hopefulness.
. oth ers again were satisfied that Shaw was mar-
ried and settled-down, or else that he was dead.
As they justly said, only a very optimistic mind
could look forward to seeing him again in Bris-
bane after these six years of absence. It was well-
known that no one had heard a word of him
after his arrival in South Africa; even Miss
M‘Leod had no later information of him
than that. Therefore it was not less absurd
than foolish of the girl to nurse fond
hopes concerning him. She ought to be
looking out for a husband while she still possessed
some attractions. She was getting older every
day, and, besides that, her father, though he had
hung on well to his pension all these years, could
not last much longer. Everyone but his two
daughters could see that he was breaking up at
last his asthma had made terrible progress within
the present year.
When it became known that Mr. Powell was
paying her attentions, her acquaintances prepared
to pronounce final judgmenton her conduct. Mr.
Powell was certainly a widower with one little
daughter ; but then he had an assured position in
the city, and no girl in Edith M'Leod’s place
could look for a better match. And, besides, she
had her duty to her sister Elorrie to consider.
Elorrie had been engaged to Archie Baker these
eighteen months, and, as everyone knew, there
was nothing standing in the way of their imme-
diate union, except her unwillingness to marry
while her sister was unprovided for.
* * * *
Mr. Powell overtook the girls after church and
walked home with them. But when they reached
the gate and stood talking, Edith, murmuring an
excuse, went inside, and left him to Elorrie.
“ I thought you had more sense, Edith, than to
play such a silly trick,” said that young lady when
she came in.
“ I didn’t mean any trick, dear. I left you be-
cause I thought it was best for me to come in-
side.
Well, you knew it wasn’t me that he wanted
to talk to.
“ How was I to know, Elorrie ? ’
“ Oh, that is enough of that nonsense ! Look
here, Edith, lam going to be very severe with
you- First of all > do you dislike Mr. Powell ? ”
No, dear ; I don’t think so. Why should I?”
Why should you !’ ” Florrie impatiently
echoed. “ Why should you act as if you did ? —that
is what I want to know. Don’t you think he
is ( good enough for you ? ”
‘ Please, Florrie, don’t talk in that way. I
don t like it; and, besides, it isn’t right.”
“ Well, even blind people could see that he
wants you. What do you find to object to in
lnm?”
“I won’t answer you while you talk in that
fashion.
“ Is it his little girl ?”
‘No ! ” The very likelihood of that possibility
assuming importance in Florrie’s eyes seemed
to her to demand the denial. “ She is a dear
little thing,’ she continued. “I am fonder of her
tli ;m I ever was of any child. But it is not in the
way you mean—and you won’t understand.”
Is it because he has been married before?”
ii t won understand ! ” she murmured.
Is it because you think Charlie Shaw will
come back . exclaimed Florrie in a tone not less
triumphant than denunciatory.
‘lt is not,” she protested warmly. “ I know
he will never come back. I have given up think-
ing of him, years ago.”
.... ou are quite sure, dear?” Her own sensi-
bilities enabled her to feel how tender was the
spot she was probing.
‘‘ es, Florrie, long ago.”
. Hei s dead, I should think,” Florrie said in a
hazy effort at condolence.
“I hope not.” She reflected a moment, and
t len went on : “I did get a letter from him,
Piorrie, that I never told you about. It was
shortly after he reached there. He asked me to
release him, as he had found someone else. I
never told anyone ; I convinced myself it was no
ones business but my own. And, besides, I
couldn t tell. You see, dear, I seemed to have
given hnn so much, and, in a fevv weeks, it all
meant nothing to him. It took me a long while
to get over it. But I have always felt since that
a 0° u un derstand men at all, and never shall.
And that is another reason why I never told you
e lorrie ; I was afraid it might make you feel as I
did—that it might make you hard and” indifferent
1 w, as afraid it might do you harm.”
u be younger sister, in spite of a vivid nature,
had a dim glimpse of feminine inconsistency, yet
her compassion was far more in evidence to tier-
s, " ~y°u should have told me,” she said, ten-
I would have helped you to bear it.”
; Yes, I know, dear.”
i?, ut ou don’t think Mr. Powell would turn
out like that ? ”
, N°! of course not. I think he is everything
that is good and honorable ; but, don’t you'see it
has made me different. I don’t feel that I could
Florrie 1- ” any ° ne again ’ 1 shall never marry,
“ That is nonsense, dear. There are lots of
m ® n m the world worthy of the best of women ”
Of course I admit that. But I can’t feel that
it concerns me.
'father would like to see you married and
settled before ”
“ Yes, yes, I know,” Edith murmured. It was
apparent that her hurried acquiescence was in-
tended to shut out the words that Florrie seemed
about to stumble on.
, de ar, I would not have spoken about it
at all it 1 were not sure that it would be for your
i?A7- neSS ‘ you believe that, Edith?”
know °'th^ r^” dear sister; surely I have always
“ Then will you promise me to think it all over
very carefully before giving him an answer ? ”
“How you talk, Florrie!” she exclaimed in
womanly protest. “ Why, he hasn’t asked me
yet.”
“ But he will, when you give him an oppor-
tunity. You will not send him away, Edith ? ”
“I cannot change my selfish nature, dear, even
if I would.”
“For father’s sake ? ”
~ 'IP* I don’t, don’t! ” Edith murmured tearfully.
You are asking too much.”
* * • *
Her engagement to Mr. Powell was made pub-
lic, and received its due baptism of ungenerous
comment. But the death of her father, following
close upon it, directed sympathetic hearts towards
her and her sister. The two girls were taken
possession oh and temporarily removed from their
old home. Everyone was most kind to them in
their great sorrow, but their chief support was in
one another. In their mutually tender com-
panionship they seemed to feel that he was less
lost to them. It was as if each embodied in the
eyes of the other some attributes of him.
was s itting with listless hands, looking
sadly back on past days, when Edith came into
the room.
, ,^ r '. P° we H has gone,” she said, in a voice
that quivered emotionally.
You should have got him to take you out,
dear, ’ said Florrie, softly. “ You would be better
tor it.
“He has gone for ever, I mean. I have sent
him away.”
“You have sent him away, Edith! What do
you mean ? ”
“ Don’t be angry, Florrie. You must be kind
to me now that I have no one.”
“ But tell me, dear, what you have done? What
did you tell him ? I can’t understand you.”
!< I felt that I couldn’t deceive him anymore.
I told him that I had never cared for him —that
1 had only accepted him so that father would
trunk—so that he could die peacefully,” she ended
piteously. “ And I told him how I despised my-
self for the way I had acted to him. I told him
everything I could think of. And I am glad I
had the courage to do it. And now I wish I were
dead ! ”
She gave way to the sobs that her tangle of
emotions summoned, and Florrie drew her to her
side in a tender embrace, caressing her fondly till
the outburst subsided. “ You are not yourself at
all, dear, she murmured.
“ Oh, I was, with him. He never doubted me.
Hon t try to think he will come back, for I know
better.”
“ But what made you say such things, Edith ?
1 hey were not really true. If you had not cared
for him a little, you could never have accepted
him at all. ”
“Well, what use was caring for him a little ?
Even if I did, what was that against how much
he deserves? Florrie, you don’t know how good
ho is. He has made me feel what a mean, despic-
au.e creature lam in comparison. I couldn’t bear
it any longer.”
I can t understand what has come over you,
dear. You seem to have acted very strangely.
What did he say to it all ?”
“He didn’t know what to make of it. Of
course he was shocked, and disgusted, too, I sup-
pose. But he tried to make out that the blame
was really his, for pestering me, as he called it.
That is the generous way he tried to look at it.
He asked me if I had come to hate him, and I
told him ”
“Yes, dear; but what a strange method it all
was of telling him.”
“ That I hate him ? ” questioned Edith, as if i»
a bewildered surprise.
“That you passionately love him.”
“Oh, Elorrie, don’t be cruel! ”
“ Isn’t it true, then, dear ? ”
“Pity me, pity me ! Of course it is true.”
JOHN REAY WATSON.
The Voice of Bullocktown.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jimson had not done the correct thing*—such was
the loudly-expressed opinion of Bullocktovvn and
of some half-dozen stations within a radius of ten
miles. The girl had been weak and foolish—but
faithful to Jimson ; the baby was as like him as
such a small brick-red irresponsibility could be ;
nevertheless, Jimson refused to do the honorable,
and Bullocktown was therefore righteously indig-
nant.
Righteous indignation, however, soon subsides
(it’s only the unrighteous variety that keeps con-
stantly boiling), and bit by bit folks were forget-
ting the iniquitous conduct of Jimson, and Bul-
locktown was gradually falling back into its cus-
tomary calm. Meantime, poor Mary was be weep-
ing her shame in seclusion and comforting herself
by kissing the baby.
The Salvation Army had been strong in Bullock-
town. But of late enthusiasm had wan' d some-
what, and it was necessary to introduce some
novelty by way of rousing popular interest and
, a little more cash. Accordingly a ‘ Sale
of (rifts ” was announced for the Saturday night,
and, at the appointed time, raw young biillock-
punchers, brawny shearers, and rough, unshaven
rouseabouts gathered in the Hall to see the fun.
A sucking-pig was the first article sold ; then
came a pair of hens, a goose, and sundry domestic
utensils. The pig was passed round the room,
pinched and punched—his d -spairing squeaks set-
ting the place in a roar. The goose fared little
better. Finally, when the public appetite for
horse-play was satisfied, the captain conducting
the sale suddenly attracted the attention of ttie
audienc- by holding up a small parcel for exhibi-
tion, and announcing “baby's bootees and rattle.”
A slight ripple of laughter succeeded, broken by
a stentorian voice bawlirur out :—“ Now, Jimson
—do your duty. Make a bid and take the lot! ’’
The guilty Jimson shivered where he sat, but
made no response. Forty voices took up the cry :
“Buy ’em in, Jimson.' Do yer duty!’’- but
Jimson never budged. A big, strapping drover
stepped up to the captain, handed him half-a-
croivn, and took the articles. Bootees and rattle
were passed from hand to hand, and at Inst safely
bestowed in Jimson s pockets. The hapless man
stole quietly outside amid a wild burst of stamp-
ing and ironical applause.
The next week Mary was married, and Jimson
took a hand at nursing the baby.
Q.
P. LUFTIG.


SALT RHEUM CURED,
Blood Purified.
Mrs. Mary Thomson, of Carlton (Melbourne), Tells the
Story of Her Daughter’s Sufferings, and of the Great
Blessing Ayer’s Sarsaparilla Was to Her.
m
&
i
2^(o-I
ft
Wi
I &
I
m
*•/. N.
s
;?s»
“For three years my daughter Edith suffered terribly with Salt-Rheum,
which affected chiefly her hands, and for nearly six months at a time she
was constantly compelled to wear gloves. Her hands were covered with
blisters, full of a watery substance ; the skin would often peel off, and the
itching and burning were intense. I paid doctors’ bills without number
and bought medicines of all kind; but all failed to give relief until I tried
AYER’S S All S A PAR ILEA. After using this medicine a short time an
in?provenlent was manifest, and my daughter took in all ten bottles,
o' a tinning it even after all signs of her affliction had disappeared. The
irsapnwiffl purified her blood, radically curing the disease, and we are
dost thankful for this great blessing.”
Re sure that you get the'genuine
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
The wonderful success of this great blood purifier has led to numerous
imitations. The name— Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—is prominent on the wrapper
and is blown in the glass of each bottle. Refuse all substitutes.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Sc Co,, Lowell. Mass.. U. S. A.
FOR
23 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
'Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
Iftanglonic
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EWiBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared hi/
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull
Sold in bottles, at Is. ljd., 2s. 9 d., 4s. 6 d.,
and Us., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Co' " il House*.
( UPy RIGHT.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
80 Reasons for Taking
BEECHAM’S PILLS.
Because your nerves they stimul 8
Each function, too, they regul 8
Every microbe they annihil 8
Clear off ye gathering ills.
Health and pure blood they soon ereB
And failing powers recuper 8
Move all the pains that irrit 8
Sure trust their use instils.
Perfectly safe they oper 8
Jn strength the weak they reinst 8
Lightly each course they lubric 8
Life’s efforts they invigor 8
Such wonder working pills
80
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Don’t Delay.
stop mat Coug-li!
. . . TAKE . . .
Bennington's
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis. Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s. Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTONS FILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
is. Box. \\
IRISH moss


WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
_ _ BUY the best. 9
PLATYPUS BRAHP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. agents : Messrs, ELLIOTT BROL, L+.d.
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
A, h J' e,ssing IN EVERY family.
OLLOWAY'S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
Lhere is ,lot a country in the civilised world where
“ -f-’-tues °f these a . ami medicines have not oeen
thoUs .!" ds , ot Bu ' ferers - In all the ordinary
"j™ ! 8 humanity Umu- beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st. , London. j> jr~ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
spurious' 1 " 688 W not 523 oxford - Bfcreet - London, they are
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS.
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where,
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
Wortfyg'ogtoi) PGnjpipg Epginc Company.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll BTOtherS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
w
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, JSi. S.W.
Agencies :
ictoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
outh Australia : AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE. ADELAiI)E -
Western Australia.- HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
asmama. T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND;
0. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stools.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
Rfi years dyeing
FOa THE LADIES.
w. c. ELDRIDCIe & GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS.
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to. v
What Health?
Sciatica,
Lurnhago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. i<\
346 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Buc penny stamps.
Sca 1 e of Advertising 1
—IN—
“ THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions)
Half Yearly „ (26 insertions)
One Year „ (62 insertions) im
or o^^^^^^^g^?l^a. Iper^inch 1 per^inch P per^nser l bion^nelt? U^D C Fron^o^Hi- V ll^' S r^r l liLh?ini^n^^h^^
6s. per inch per insertion, neMt
10 per cent, discount.
20
25
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S., Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
ECZEMA
Permanent Cure. Self Applied.
Jars (concentrated', 4/6) post 4/10
COLONIAX, REPRESENTATIVE FOB THU PKOPBIETOBS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Meib.
OLEAC”
ROBERTS’
George and UfITCTI
Market-Sts. » I * B IBLIm
FIRST-CLASS RESIDENTIAL HOTEL.
Perfect Cuisine. • - Moderate Charges.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.. LTD.
Pioneers of Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making 1 (which has done so much for
the coiony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making’
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
, onl y fclle Ver y Best Articles.
all t , he PRINCIPAL PLACES
Wi? with
Visit the CTTY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 I?nvAT
SSBBS xSB
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND
ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STB EFT
IHEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION. ' ’
H. PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
•#
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
m)
&
$
$
&
K
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westing-house Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
liyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
Batho’s
Baking p OW( | er
ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
k\i. o, ’ corner Little Collins and Eliza-
bet h Streets M ELBOU R NE. The Trustees offer to
STOCK*!- ° CLEAR the BAL ANCE OE THE
s’.'!! S L be !l t "^ s A ban 7 T ls ’ walnut stock double -rip, box spring triggers, best steel
Usual puce £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete
walnut otoftlr T r. i « , 1
4 Double-barrel Breech-loadir.* w
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete * lmproveinents > wlth cartridge machines
ments, unequal for m P rove -
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech Shi-On L "" a . lpr,ce -.21, red need £7l Os ea. complete.
Free, carriage paid to an/address in any of the Aust allskn co on AMr B?2e ? 2e * h °l AH orders
. Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Orders must be Tco. Un '
t • i , r v.-*'-' •*|iuu o/, *-*• Cl a. xvacum ocrs yij &p/n
List. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia
up to date, £7, £B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
H. P. GrREGrOKY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. # 435 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
m
BLAKE’S
Steam Pumps
•Ajre the Best. 1
We have them in Stock:
SINGLE aud DUPLEX,
up to
50,000 Gallons Imp. per Hour.
SEND FOR CIRCULARS & CATALOGUES.
Piping, Valves, Boilers, Hose,
and every other description of PUMP SUPPLIES
in Stock.
