

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. Reid’s London Draught Stout
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
'adbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
B. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE, DBYSDALE— °=
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briscoe & Co., Melbourne; Briscoe, Mac Neil & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe & Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, London.
268
Prize
Medals.
21,200
Steam
Engines
Sold.
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
i.
b:'
4 C
<Rac{aJ
I??
o
V
It. A- HBTtVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Stdnkt.
GIBSON. BATTLE & 0°
85 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOB
Ruston,
Proctor
ENGINES
&
AND
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
and pumps.
ECCENTRIC T3EI3Ft-A.S3Ea:3:3Ja-C3- MACHINES, SAW BEKTCHES, &cs
&o.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting".
A.nd see that you get its.
PROOF
&A/EYJS
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices — Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
w
mm
m
PATE'S
3
TTJKKISH & EGYPTIAN
CIGARETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
• • •
A GREAT TRIUMPH
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
tt; j. & n. CITfIJR A.M,
TAILORS,
112 Kihg-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
- the most nutritious.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
After all,
is
IS
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING?
The Leading Belt of Australia.
'Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& son, ltd.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
-Visitors to cairns, n. Queensland,
V should note c t^the^ rjL^i Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rood.?. Proprietor.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan • Lamp.
f'D IMIK9
ii:
ECONOMY IN - -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON 'I SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
it. Carrington-strect,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Larnps : NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC 00., Ltd., Ausfcwenan Buildings, Melbourne.
Poverty PoirLtera
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
BEOHART.
.*ss
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
rpALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
L Price W.-minß. Is. 3d.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and Hew Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W
THORNE’S WHISKY.
A 1 LIQUEUR. THORNE’S WHISKY.
The Bulletin
Voi 19.—N0. 956. J
[Saturday, June 11, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


T>Y APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THI
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
PER R.M.S. CUZCO.
Pulpit Commentary, St. Matthew, Vol. 2,6 s, pos
6s 6d ; Tomes’s Dentu) Surgery (new edition), 14s, post 15s
Neyinson’s Thirty Years’ War, 4s, post 4s 6d ; Armitage-
Smith, Freetrade Movement, 2s 6d, post 3s ; Beresford and
Wilson’s Nelson and his Times, 10s Cd, post 11s 6d
Astrup’s With Peary Near the Pole, 10s 6d, post 11s 6d
Bloundelle-Burton, Across the Salt Seas, 2s 6d and 3s 6d,
post 3s and 4s ; Rutherford’s Life of William Moon, ss,
post 5s 6d; Stott’s Missionary Work in China, 3s 6d, post 4s.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. OCEANA.
Sidgwick’s Zoology, Vol. 1., 18s, post 19s ; Le Gallienne’s
Romance of Zion Chapel, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Hugo’s Alps and
Pyrenees, is 6d, post 8s 3d ; Statham’s President Kruger
7s 6d, post 8s ; Complete System of Nursing, edited" by
Morten, 8s Gd, post 9s ; Mason’s Art of Chess, 2nd edition
7s, post 7s 6d ; Swift’s The Destroyer, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post
3s and 4s ; Kenealy’s Woman and Shadow, 2s 6d and 3s 6d,
post 3s and 4s ; Carey’s Robert Ord’s Atonement, 3s 6d, post
4s; Hungerford’s Lovice, 3s 6d, post 4s ; Burgin’s Cattle
Man, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Le Queux’s Scribe and
Pharisees, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Lyall’s Dono-
van, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Jephson’s Keepers of
the People, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Williamson’s
Woman in Grey, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s; Mur-
ray’s Race for Millions, 3s 6d, post 4s ; Crane’s An Open
Boat, 3s and 4s, post 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
Under Life’s Changing Sky ; A Tale of the Early Days.
By J. Campbell Browne. Wrapper, 6d, post free Bd.
THE BOOK OF DIET, by Dr, Philip Muskett, author of
“ The Art of Living in Australia,” “ Feeding and Manage-
ment of Australian Infants,” &c. Wrapper, 2s 6d, post 3s.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT
• George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bdli,etin.
Ask
for
Cameos!
vwjS!'//
rm
The flag under which reigns supreme—
PEACE I CONTENTMENT! HAPPINESS!
THE RED PAGE.
One imagines that when Daley’s book of verses
is published—it is promised in a week or three—
“A Sunset Fantasy” will remain the most
fragrant of all the fragrant poems he has
penned. This opinion, of course, is subject to
revision ; for Daley’s Bulletin contributions have
covered such a space of time that perforce one
must have unwillingly forgotten some and the
value of some—and, in any case, relationship
in a book puts scattered fragments in different
lights and perspective. But even Daley’s book
will doubtfully hold anything finer than the finest
thing in the way of picturesque poetry yet done
in Australia. “ A Sunset Fantasy ”is only the
glorification of an old sentiment, but what a
sweet and tender sentiment, and what a glow of
glory ! The images!—the sun sinking like a
peony drowning in wine-and this is surpassed for
idea, though not for picture, by the next-verse
metaphor. And the phrases—the ‘‘gold wave-
way,” the “sea-paradise,” the “ wind-harp in the
lilac- tree ” ! And those three splendid stanzas—
Our ships shall be of sandal built,
Like ships in old-world tales,
Carven with cunning art and gilt,
And winged with scented sails
Of silver silk, whereon the red
Great gladioli burn,
A rainbow-flag at her mast-head,
A rose-flag at her stem.
And, perching on the point above
Whereon the pennon blows,
The figure of a flying dove,
And in her beak a rose.
has vision ever been swathed in more luxurious
verbiage? It almost makes one doubt the
supremacy of the Idea, such aesthetic delight
comes to a lover of words in this idealess, effort-
less presentation of Beauty.
* * * *
oes not depreciate our prized bush-
baliadists in saying that the publication of Daley’s
book will be the most m niorable Australian
literary event since the publication of Kendall
and Brunton Stephens. Daley has not the rugged
force of Lawson or Boake ; but he has the sense
of form which permits to write nothing bad or
ungraceful he is our classic, our dexterous master
of poetical arts. Less Australian, he is more
literary—appeals not to stronger, but to subtler
emotions—peacocking it exquisitely in a garden of
enamelled roses. For the color of verse, we have
I,v ' n .g on,y . ■ lwo . to rival him—Brunton Stephens
R°deric Quinn —the first with more intellect,
the second with more glamour, neither singing
with the rich, honeyed tone which Daley shares
with Kendall. To each his honour: we have
honours for all of them. And this paragraph
closes in an attitude of happy expectancy.
It seems that there are actually persons who
look to this Page for literary guidance, and one
of them complains that no opinion has been for-
mulated regarding a recent Australian publica-
tion, “Dead Men’s Tales,” by Charles Junor
(Geo. Robertson & Co.). This spurs the writer’s
confession of grief that he hasn’t any opinion.
His attitude to said reliques is that of Gilead P.
Beck to Browning’s poems—he can’t read ’em.
Three attempts—one hopeful, one hesitating, and
one desperate—have hardly been able to take him
further than the “lariat” by which the Wes-
tralian explorer on page 1 “retains control of his
horse.” This is more to be regretted because the
tales are “rattling good’’—Robert Barr, who is
called a “ popular author ” in the introduction,
says so. One can only apologise for one’s incapa-
city—and make inadequate amends by expressing
frank admiration at “.Aguerra’s Bride,” an easily-
read poem which drops in casually later on.
* Aguerra’s Bride ’ is a legend of South America,
where*
Plaintive the plover’s call, warning
Mustang and wild deer, the keen
Puma prowls. So breaks the morning
Light, on the plains Argentine.
Two verses of excellent atmosphere bring us to
the characters—
Dusk descends. Moans the wind eerie;
Riders twain, pass through the waste ;
Dark-faced the man spurring weary
Horses. Beside him, in haste,
Presses a fair girl. Her laughter
Stirs no response. Looking round
Something meaning thrills—-After,
Both ride in silence profound.
Here the fine staccato movement of the verse
cleverly reflects the emotion of hero and heroine.
Carina loves Jos4 ; but a traitor has betrayed
their plot to Aguerra—
“ Death to yourself. For Garina
Wedlock with Josi ; and she—
Back returned safe to arena,
Loved since her childhood—will be
Happy and free with the traitor,
Sworn his past misdeeds to mend."
So wrote an ally. No straighter
Word he, Aguerra, could send.
So Aguerra takes Carina out riding, and lyrically
quagmires her—
Turned she her head, as he beckoned,
But for an instant. Drew back
Aguerra,, swift. In a second,
Reined in her horse on its track,
Hurled her down in the pit ghastly J
Stood he then by its edge close ;
Lit cigarillo ; and lastly
Hissed, with an oath, “ Adios I”
This has, as we say, the true singing note. Then
Carina’s agonies and entreaties are depicted in
five impetuous stanzas till
Birds on the wing stay their flight ;
Forth sombre forms, fear instilling,
Glide. The sun sets. It is night.
The end is a glimpse of Aguerra rushing on his-
road ad inferos —
Shivers a moment Aguerra ;
Slowly remounts then his steed;
Mutters aloud ; then in terror
Gallops forth. Dire is his need
Past recollection to sever,
Whispers a voice in the gloom
“ Satan’s beside you for ever
Torments of Hell are your doom."
This is “ rattling good.”
“ Compton ” commentators—
Alex. M. : “Compton” complains that aesthetic dis-
putants start “in the middle of things”—and himself
starts “in the middle of things,” according to his own
showing! But, as I contend, he has commenced where,
by the very nature of the cas>', he couldn’t help com-
mencing-not in the middle of things, but right at the
beginning of them; for the simple reason that, since no
man ciin transcend his own intellect, every man’s particu-
lar point of view is, for hint , tho virtual all-there-isof visu-
alitv. Nevertheless, it is upon the majority-basis that we
are obliged to depend for our most nearly absolute (though
logically inconclusive) criteria of conviction. “ What
all men think,” ay Aristotle, “ that, we say, is.” In
the last analysis “fact” is “opinion.” Yet we can
practically differentiate “ matter-of-fact ” from matter-
of-opinion.” If I say a certain wooden-door is made of
iron, I shall have in no way altered the facts of the case.
The material of the door will still possess the nature and
properties which to everybody else are connoted by the
term “ wood ; ” and, since this nature is a matter ob-
jectively demonstrable to the material senses, my setting-
up for myself of a private nomenclature will be
in no way pertinent to the real issue. But
take, on the - other hand, a man born, say,
in France, of German-descended, English-born par-
ents. He would be, in one opinion, German (extrac
tion); in another, English (immediate parentage); and,
in a third, French (nativity). And since, outside an
arbitrary legal or political status, there would be no
tangible basis of determination to the three discordant,
aforesaid, he would continue to be—with all the be-ness
possible in the case—French, German, or English, re-
spectively. With the critic in .(Esthetics it is the same.
His personal standard is the only standard by which he
can judge. There is a tangible mathematic—‘a discretive
and formulable logic—but, were the .Esthetic to be no
longer the irreducible and elusive, it would also be no
longer the Esthetic.
Ambrose Bierce (in The Anti-Philistine) : “ I say,
you ; ’ bawled a fat ox in a stall to a lusty young ass
%ho was braying outside ; “ the like of that is not in
good taste.” “In whose good taste, my adipose cen-
sor?” inquired the ass, not too respectfully. “ Why—
h’m—ah, I mean it does not suit ME. You ought to
bellow.” “ May I enquire how it happens to be any of
your business whether I bellow or bray, or do both or
do neither?” “ I cannot tell you,” answered the critic,
shaking his head despondingly ; “ I do not at all under-
stand it. I can only say that I have been accustomed to
censure all discourse that differs from my own.” “Ex-
actly,” said the ass ; “you have sought to make an art of
impertinence by mistaking prejudices for principles. In
‘taste’you have invented a word incapable of defini-
tion, to denote an idea impossible of expression ; and by
employing in connection therewith the words ‘ good ’
and‘bad,’ you indicate a merely'subjective process in
terms of an objective quality. Such presumption trans-
cends the limit of the merely impudent, and passes into
the boundless empyrean of pure cheek." At the close of
this remarkable harangue, the bovine critic was at a loss
for language to express his disapproval. So he said the
speech was in bad taste.
T.D.: Red Page slips with the remark that ‘a man
stone-deaf might be a master-composer ’ if sound vibra-
tions were not external to the musician. Beethoven teas
stone-deaf during a fruitful period of his career, and
never heard some of his own most glorious aggregations
of sound— i.e., by auricular demonstration. The musician
glances a composition through, and mentally hears the
sounds. But a ‘Moonlight ’ Sonata as the soul’s outpour-
ing of a man entirely deaf from birth is no less beyond
conception than a five-thousand-guinea Madonna out-
lined by Kipling’s sightless battle-* dabster.’ At the same
time, Musical Art and Pictorial ditto are not such distant
cousins as ‘ Compton ’ would believe, and says he does be-
lieve. Without an arbitrary scale of tones and semitones
or an arbitrary set of primary and secondary colors neither
would be possible. With infinitesimal gradations of
color, sound and form at her disposal, Nature herself—
grandest of all artists—oannot, apparently, evade set
rules and limitations. ' From the innumerable sounds
existent in nature twelve . . . form the entire material
of the composer.’ Exactly, and ‘of the six hundred
billions of colors in the spectrum ’ we have a chromatic
soale of seven to work upon. For the rest, the painter
mixes his colors, and the musician mixes his chords—and
each occasionally begets the imaginative ‘ light that
never was on sea or land ; ’ or imagines he does.”
♦
The nearly-finished Sydney City Markets are
an admirable lesson in literary criticism. This because
Art has only one face, and Literature, Architecture, and
the rest are mere facets. Note how an author-architect
can waste fine material and a fine opportunity. The
Markets architect had so much space to fill up, and the
beginning and middle of his storey are good enough—he
opens with a run of ordinary shop-windows, and passes to
a decorative facade of pillars which are sufficiently orna-
mental if not particularly novel or original—as we say
locally. Then came the climax—the roof—the olinching
assault on the skies of emotion ; and the architect failed
miserably he hadn’t any climax. So he covered his
shortcomings with the squattest, grotesquest, ugliest
pepper-pot-tops of little domes imaginable, and—down
goes his tale to the waste-basket? Alas, no! he has
written in stone, or its equivalent—l’iramortel malgrd lui!
The antics of Sydney chess-experts surprise
people who have read of the solemn dignity of players of
older countries and the old school, and people who have
become acquainted with the fine chesterfieldy politeness
which the better-than-royal game is traditionally calcu-
lated to nourish. Here, if a player has any dignity at
all, he invariably stands on it. The other day N.S.VV.
played Victoria, and the N.S.VV. champion was invited to
play second fiddle and didn’t. If he had played first
fiddle he would have had to place his men in order of
merit and battle; and the men were apparently so
frightened that their No. 3 might be his No. 5, or vice
versa, that they carefully clipped his wings beforehand.
(The metaphor is mixed to suit the state of things.)
Very obviously what is wanted is the suggested N.S.VV.
Chess Association, in which the good sense of the strong
clubs at Broken Hill, Wagga, and elsewhere can settle the
silly squabbles of the Sydney coteries—some of whose
best players play with the worst grace.
Lond. Academy prints a three-col. article on
Lawson as one of a treble to include Paterson and Dyson.
The advt. is distinguished : criticism un. The Dyson
advt. is not so long, but more intelligent. The Paterson
advt. hasn’t turned up to date.
Boston ‘Transcript’ prints these rules for tell-
ing to which sohool a painter belongslf he paints the
sky gray and grass brown, he belongs to the Old School.
If he paints, the sky hlue and the grass green, he belongs
to the Realistic School. If he paints the sky green and
the grass blue, he belongs to the Impressionist School. 1
he paints the sky yellow and the : grass purple, •
Colorist. If he paints the sky black and the grass <c
he is an artist of great decorative talent great en g
to make posters.
Hobart Mkrcury ad vt. : “My last Australia!
Tale, ‘Released by Blood ’ (copyright), will soon be ou
of the printer’s hands. Those desirous of obtaining
copy must forward orders for same, accompanied b
cash, postal order or stamps, value one shilling (or pre
paid postage at a distance, Is. 4d.), on or before Monaa
next ensuing. [Tuesday will be too late !] Aitnu
, author and publisher, -.Hobart. N.t
—Orders from booksellers and wholesale agents canno
be entertained until further notice.” Fancy the tain
Australian author talking in this way ! And yet the
say the Tasmanian devil is extinct!
Le G-allienne says his fellows of Omar Khayyair
club are not true to breed, patronise no moon-faces anc
slim cypress forms, don’t know’ the meaning of rose
and raptures. “They look for all the wcrjd like ole
maidish officials of the Board of Trade, and, if you 100
for vine-leaves in their hair, you will for the most par
find neither vine-leaves nor hair.”
Some new books promised for the mid-year—
George Egerton’s “The Wheel of God” ; Marriott Wat
son’s “ The Adventurers ” and “ The Heart of Miranda ”
Barry Pain’s “ Robin Hood ” and hoi k of dialect soDgs
Kipling’s and Stephen Crane’s new' collections of shor
stories.
Burton’s “Arabian Nights ’’ is quoted <£3l 10s
in London. By the way, “ Domainer” alleges that “ the
local reference to Burton’s charm for Sydney deadbeat
has resulted in practical withdrawal of the ‘ Nights ’ from
Public Library circulation. If you ask for vol. 3, ‘ Warm
Annie’— * It’s in use, sir.’ You look around and see no
body using it, but resolve to be content with vol. 7
‘Ginger Hot.’ ‘lt’s at the binder’s, sir.’ And all the
other volumes seem to be ‘at the binder’s, sir.’ It’s very
disappointing, these cold mornings.”
N. : “ With all kindly respect for the memory
of Mrs. Oliphant, a unique woman in the four-in-hanc
style of book-making, I dislike her last, work, on the
Blackwoods. It is sycophantic. The whole moral is the
superiority of the publisher to the author. A publisher
ought to have written it, not an author; but then a pub-
lisher couldn’t, and here comes in the primal eldest curse
of the author. Now, I will be bound Mrs. O. had her
grudges against the B’s. I will take my davy they didn’t
treat her as she thought she ought to be treated. Yet
she crawls-for a big-money book. Oh dear, what rush-
lights were Christopher North, Lockhart, Maginn, De
Quincey—especially—Bulwer, Hamlev, George Eliot—and
Mrs. Oliphant— to the God-gifted Blackwoods 1 ”
Bernard Shaw comments on the Shakespeare-
Ibsen comparison—“ Judged by intellectual force and
dramatic insight, apart from beauty of expression. Ibsen
comes out with a double first-class; Shakespeare comes
out hardly anywhere. In any language of the world
‘Brand,’ ‘Peer Gynt,’ and ‘ Emperor or Galilean ’ prove
their author a thinker of extraordinary penetration, and
a moralist of international influence. Turn from them to
‘To be or not to be,’ or ‘The seven ages of man,’ and
imagine, if you can, anybody more critical than a village
Schoolmaster being imposed on by such platitudinous
fudge. The comparison does not honor Ibsen : it makes
Shakespeare ridiculous.”
♦
Au temps des mftres ils ont chant 6
Mes lfevres qui cfedent
Et mes longs cheveux, tifedes
Commeune pluie d’4tA
Au temps des vignes ils ont chantfi
Mes yeux entreclos qui rayonnent
Mes yeux alanguis et voiles
Comme des ciels d’automne.
J’ai toutes les saveurs et tout.es les lueurs.
Je suis souple comme une liane.
Mes seins ont la courbe graeieuse des flammes
Et des fleurs.
CHARLES VAN LERBERGHE.
[Translations may be sent.]
A SUNSET FANTASY.
Spell-bound by a sweet fantasy
At evenglow I stand
Beside a strange sardonyx sea
That rings a sunset land.
The rich lights fade out one by one :
Like to a peony
Drowning in wine, the round, red sun
Sinks down in that strange sea.
With red clouds has he chapleted
His brows, like him who tied
Of old a rose-wreath round his head,
And drank to Death, and died.
His wake across Ihe ocean-floor
In a long glory lies,
Like a gold wave-way to the shore
Of some sea-paradise.
My dream flies after him, and I
Am in another land ;
The sun sets in another sky,
And we sit hand in hand.
Grey eyes look into mine: such eyes
I think the angels’ are —
Soft as the soft light in the skies
When shines the morning star ;
And tremulous as morn when thin
Gold lights begin to glow,
Revealing the bright soul within
As dawns the sun below.
So, hand in hand, we watch the sun
Burn down the Western deeps,
Dreaming a charmed dream as one
Who in enchantment sleeps.
A dream of how we twain some day,
Careless of map or chart,
Will both take ship and sail away
Into the sunset’s heart.
Our ship shall be of sandal built,
Like ships in old-world tales,
Carven with cunning art and gilt,
And winged with scented sails
Of silver silk, whereon the red
Great gladioli burn,
A rainbow-flag at her mast-head,
A rose-flag at her stern.
And, perching on the point above
Whereon the pennon blows,
The figure of a flying dove,
And in her beak a rose.
And from the fading land the breeze
Shall bring us, blowing low’,
Old odours and old memories
And airs of long ago —
A melody that has no words
Which are of speech a part,
Yet touching all the deepest chords
That tremble in the heart.
A scented song blown oversea,
As though, from bow’rs of bloom,
A wind-harp in a lilac-tree
Breathed music and perfume.
And we, no more with longing pale,
Will hearken to its blow—
I, in the shadow of the sail,
You, in the sunset glow.
For with the fading land our fond
Old fears shall all fade out,
Paled by the light from shores beyond
The dread of Death or Doubt.
And when Death from a cloud above
His awful shadow flings,
The Spirit of Immortal Love
Will shield us with his wings.
He is the Lord of dreams divine,
And lures us with his smiles
Along the splendour opaline
Unto the Blessed Isles.
VIOTOI J. DALEY.


RS
•V.v.v.v,*
*
Mill
f | { f//i|| | llliu
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
—WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand. ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.—A man wh 1 ? £ ffSSy all^S^UkfS
committing himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse experience of 20,000 men
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent £ow, n , >an ,’ ent of
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they 1 y -
Drs.
V
which has restored them to a perfect manly state,
but it is
This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the
which has made both fame v and fortune tor
WALLACE.
remarkable treatment
Drs. FREEMAN &
* i
£tWv
Ck
w Ji
In the JhJtuf}. mory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back ?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains ?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitehings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the ears ?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim ?
Nervous Debility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your, eyes sunken?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor ?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating ?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has'the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
All Trams stop a,t the Door.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to that unique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
hvho, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
i
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
m
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
R€&ctied at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer—in fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs.;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l,
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDKTEY.
pleas? mention this Paper when writing .] Correspondence, P.O. Box 359.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received hia education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study o f pRIVATE JOJRVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, sufife
from any of the following symptoms, namely -.—Frequent headaches, gid<- i-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling ol u
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during' sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
aversion
dreadful
memory,
enabled
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.’* If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Bo Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dk. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your ease, send (id. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
l ost free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses nonebut the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribe Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their eases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—•
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or
if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily,
’lO till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
in SVien^
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit —A benefit that you feel, know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address-
J. HINTON-WILLIS, >
Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melb. a
The modern medical institute,
41 Exhibition-street, MELBOURNE.
(Under the direction of the leading Specialists of
Australasia.
Health, Strength, Vigor, Manhood,
Absolutely and Permanently Restored.
It is a common practice of quacks and pretenders to
issue flaming advertisements and still more flaming books.
We do none of these things. Our business is to CURE
SUFFERERS. Write to us and we will correspond
with you by return post.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am'truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. —Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
, and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
‘ BULLETIN ’ PAMPHLETS.
No. ll.— The Suefield Case: the Evidence at)
the Tolice Court and at the Trial, with a
Plan of the Scene of the Alleged Out-
rage, and a Commentary on the Methods
and Manoeuvres of Botany Bay Justice.
Sixty-four pages. Price, Gd. ; post-free,
7d. in stamps.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 liunter-st., SYDNEY.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy E N TIH ELY
FItEE, in plain SEALED
Cover,. Address:
TRIUMPH,' P 0. Box 462. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VARICOm;
Suffering from Varicoeele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON, M.8.C.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
RUPTURE
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-
lief from pain; security from Strangulated
Hernia, and a permanent cure if possible.
Please investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic
Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at
what you will learn.' This Truss positively
does the work, and is worth £lOOO to any
ruptured man or' woman. If you want the /
BEST, call or send 2d. in stamps for free 1
Pamphlet No. 1. It contains full information. NAGNETIO
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H.
SOUL & CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
-9
O
w*
IF
OLD
HNS
u-»
SUNBU
fing
«/*
CHA
&.C
O/SfE
H
Y
r, etor
7/
A Golden Shanty.
per Post, Is. 3d.
PRICE Is.


TATTERS ALLS
• t i
Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL/’ care Geo. Adams, Holbart.
Roseliill 0. June 25.
50,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.Shares in the above.
Name.
Address,
s
Grand National Hurdle. July 9.
50,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name,
Shares in the above.
£
t
Address,
Australian Waterloo C. July 12 14 15
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name
Shares in the above.
£
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
.Great Mee Reducers
‘Friends of the family’
-AND-
Up-to-date (Derehants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY,
Mrs . Em
/LYNN
LINTON ,
The Famous Authoress
writes —
Brougham House,
Maevern,
January 16th, 1896.
“ I have used your'KOKO’now since
June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex-
cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling. Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing lor the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless. Clean. Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i 2/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARIGOPAS CO., LTD.,
16, Bevis Marks, Bondon, England.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (ail makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap. Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality ; best manufacture, newest
design, 10 6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made
from own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 5/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG <&TAITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 •( 682 George Street, Sydney.
“DRUNKENNESS”cu rep.
Lady having cured her husband secretly of in-
temperate habits, will gladly send particulars of remedy
to anyone forwarding stamped envelope. Write Mrs.
C. FORREST, Box 1412, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
»aaA/WvO
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in. high, or lower, silver dash, com-
plete, with lamps, £8 17s. 6d. SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buergies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s.; Double-seated Busrgies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES,
705.; Ladies’ Saddles, 70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s.
LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’ SADDLES
(best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
IT. HILLIER,
133 & 137 Sussex-street, Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of
Vehicles and Saddlery, Sarven Wheels, Springs, etc. Send for a Catalogue.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order saddles from
this advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOli A. CA.TA.LOOUE.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
. £8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Blackboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
£SP Send for Price List.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Best Quality CANVAS HORSE RUGS, check lined, 8/6.
r
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
E D WAR DS*
if
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer # Restorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLEHE" Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring Grey IT air
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
p
of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Botfcle-from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE" CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
K A.X OUR PRICES !
loo:
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, ±'6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRA.Y BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards. Silver Dash Hail
and Lamps.
£8 18. 6.
Note Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co.,
Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send for Our Illustrated Catalogue
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
De Mackenzie’s Soap is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most
lovely Complexion, free’from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Delicious.y and
expensively perfumed. ONE SHILLING PEK TABLET. Hector s certificate with each cakc
to its harmfessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imitations MADAME
ADELINA PATTI writes : “I find Dr. Mackenzie s Arsenical loilet Soap most excellent. This Soap
° U DIt. Macjlei?zie's lace Lotion is not greasy,does not contain Glycerine,and is absolutely harmless.
By tightening the skin it quickly removes all wrinkles, lines, crowsfeet, or puthness under the eyes, it
keeps the skin soft and velvety, and in summer will entirely prevent and quickly remove freckles;
whilst for excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. Price o/b jier bottle; lar e e
bottles, 5/-. This Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs on the face. Delicious in hot climates.
S. HARVEY, LTD.j 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists and Stores.
Plum
Pllj
THE
‘ Plum’
GENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
Tt is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
•p • ( Single Razor, in strong leather case, 109. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
Price |g; n n] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle" in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SHADIER,
SYDNEY and SUBURBS.
Established 1884 —44 Years.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HOVIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
TeTj. ,
No. 312.
Head Office:
Tel.,
No. 312.
73 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
Hat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Reads Litfcr Pills
Cures all Liver Ills . .
A perfect, remedy for Dizziness, Nausea, Drowsiness, Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Coated Toneme, Pains in the Back
and Side, Torpid Liver, Indigestion, Dyspepsia. Small
prioe, 2/6 per Box. Only address—
H. READ, 145 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the General Election following the
dissolution of Parliament in ’6B Gladstone was en-
thusiastically returned by Greenwich. In ’7B he
was compelled to notify that he would not be able
to represent the place after next election, as so
many electors were dissatisfied with his neglect
of local requirements. They were proud of having
as their representative one of the greatest orators
of the century, but when in his wide-eyed im-
perial enthusiasm he forgot the Greenwich Town
Pump, the said Pump made ready to biff him
severely next time he turned its handle. Which
shows what a powerful factor the Town Pump is
even in the Higher Politics.
The Grey Road to the River.
We were riding down the grey road to the
river
When the peeping stars played hide-and-seek
above ;
In the warm air, with the moonbeams all a-quiver,
We were jesting on the fallacy of Love ;
Till, where a darksome gully throws its mantle
o’er the track,
I whispered—what till then I never knew —
And the merry forest echoes laughing rang her
answer back:
“ Love ? Love l Oh l I like you—yes, Ido / ”
I felt my fondling hand flung off as I came near,
And saw the brown horse fly the moonlit rise ;
And all the way to Bland’s he kept that distance
clear;
Then I gained ! He flung the flint-stones in my
eyes.
And the bay horse lengthened grandly, and I felt
my pulses tingle
As slowly to her bridle-hand I drew,
And the shod hoofs on the ironstone rang out a
merry jingle—
Lov-ing — Love —Oh ! —I like you — Yes, I do l
And I rode beside her, held her hand and chaffed
her
Till 1 saw the drooping lashes’ glistening dew—
On the sweet, grave face no sign of bygone
laughter;
Then we stopped—suggestive home-lights just
in view.
And now, when stars are peeping through the
leaf-wrack up above
And I ask her—“ After all can Love be true ? ”
You should hear the low, rich laughter and the
merry answer —“ Love ?
Why — l — love — you. No, I like you. Oh, I
do l”
W.A.
L.M.D.
Makin’ Tucker.
When you’re only “ makin’ tucker,” then you get
a taste of luck
Of the very worst description, but it ain’t no use
to buck.
You’ve got to grin and bear it, to sing and see it
through,
And wait for times that’s coinin’ to make a better
do.
Makin’ tucker, only tucker, eatin’ all you get,
Takin’ blocks and pillars out, and drivin’ in the
wet;
Pannin’ off the tailin’ heaps that other fellows
tubs,
Battlin’ with bad luck and feelin’ hard luck’s
rubs.
You wouldn’t like to boast about the kit of tools
you use;
Your pannin’ dish is full of holes (Lord knows
what gold you lose);
But a pennyweight or so a week won’t buy
another one,
So it’s do the best you can until you strike a
payin’ run,
For you’re only makin’ tucker, eatin’ all you get;
Every hole’s a duffer while misfortune’s got you
set.
But it kinder seems consolin’ rememberin’ other
chaps
Is feelin’ just the same as you, p’raps gettin’
harder raps.
Your clothes is none too good to wear; they’re
patched about a bit.
You smoke a pipe that’s hard to draw, some days
it’s scarcely lit—
The tucker that you’re makin’ is the poorest
people knows ;
And your leavin’s is so little that it won’t attract
the crows.
Makin’ tucker, barely tucker, it'll never make you
fat;
Fossickin’old gullies out and sinkin’ on the flat;
Turnin’ over worked-out ground, and round the
fire o’ nights,
Discussin’ with your comrades the price of miners’
rights.
But it ain’t no use of growlin ’cause the worst of
times you’ve got,
It’s all in life and diggin’, and you ’ave to take
the lot.
You’ve got to go on sinkin’ holes, and hopin’ for a
patch,
Knowin’ that you’re only one out of a biggish
batch.
Makin’ tucker, earnin’ tucker, eatin’ all you earn.
Diggin’ hard and waitin’ round until your luck’ll
turn ;
Takin’ blocks and pillars out, and pannin’ tailin’-
heaps ;
Battlin’ with misfortune, and misfortune playin’
keeps.
So it’s shoulder gear and move around to other
fields afar ;
There’s sure to be a dip somewhere—Life ain’t all
midlock bar;
And, averagin’ year and year, you’ll mostly al-
ways find
You’ve made your tucker and a bit above ; so
never mind !
If you’re only makin’ tucker, keep on diggin’,
don’t be beat;
You’ll strike a gutter some day that ’ll put you on
your feet.
Try the likely places first, then pick into them
that’s not —
It’s all in life and workin’, and you’re bound to
work the lot.
PROSPECT GOOD.od.


MOtOal p Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR. ”
Pirectors Hon Sir J P ABBOTT, K.C.M.G M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
Lsq ’ ’ £ U - , MKKKS ’ Es( b ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ;
JUbEFH ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making- unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235. yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,090.
!Olea,<3. OHlce : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON. Secretary.
a
AU
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
Trams, &e. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night —advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES: 12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
is called the “ BUILDERS’ BOOR ”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
l-ailway. Other thickn'esses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD.. O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Agents: *
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabetb-st., Melb.
A. W. SandfoiU) & Co., Adelaide.
Gko. Ross, Lamb.ton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
HUM DON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.’
Tattersall’s Hotel and Cafe,
SYDNEY,
Comprises a Magnificent Block of New Buildings running
through from George-street (opposite New Markets) to Pitt-
street (opposite Lyceum Theatre); and located within a
hundred yards of Her Majesty’s, the Palace, and the
Criterion theatres, and three minutes from G.P.O.
Electric Light throughout; Telegraph Office; Telephone 728.
Every facility for Visitors and Families, whether on busi-
ness or pleasure. Perfect attention throughout day and night.
TARIFF: - - Bs. per Day upwards.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian Brandy.
Boomerang Brand.
The Report of the British Commission to the Brussels Exhibition of 1897, which has
just been received, speaking of <his product, says: —“This Brandy was
judged by a jury of experts in French Brandies, and so WORTHY OF
COMMENDATION did they find it that they awarded it a GOLD MEDA L.
It cannot but be with the utmost satisfaction and congratulation that English-
men find that they have in their own colonies a product of this class ABLE
TO COMPETE FAVORABLY WITH THE OLD-ESTABLISHED
BRANDIES OF THE CHARENTE.”
In Cases, Casks, Flasks, and Half-Flasks.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales
and Queensland.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
, Dentist.
T’HE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means « jfJiridf/eu’ovJe,
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-98 Kiaag-st., Sydlney
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 26i5.
Ladies.- call and
see our OH CAP
MACHINES, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fitting's,
etc.
S'. ROWLEY & CO,,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
m 'O/1/ .
f r& 7"'J W nr/*.), , J
’ZgLrirj/jva>/"ir irpiuv nun/u\t i,ny \ on 'i \
i"'v *
!gu,,pn—' ‘"4 *?!>•"’■* n"u™,imi.:/*"K
ayw’”"/? 1 ""/''"- -ii-'-S.
feapanTj
■ J
fP!. l * iwaim niUJ Sum
JTANWWO3 sasimsiQor
l!p:j 3Hoiai»oU4 «ii
-
aavaj.
km
a wn
VdW
prink
IDoderately.
Take a little Whisky
‘ 1 for the stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.CJ.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L.’
THE LAST OP SIX.
PRICE Is. ;
per Post Is. 3d.
Sydney and Bock Bier.
BEST
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
last N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all corners.
CHEAPEST -
Costs LESS than any other Lager in the market.
BOCK
BIER
IS
a Perfect
Winter Lager.
Quality.
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney, in
his analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol.
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour
- - Try it -
Brewed and
Bottled by
Obtainable in draught or bottle at all leading hotels.
Bottled Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld., Moore Park, Sydney.
Manager, Aug. J. Metzler. Sec., T. H. Jackson.
acts Respecting Qixson’s Tobaccos.
DURING 1897, DIXSOKPS Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leal
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
Yaokee Poodle.
The of this one .Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright. The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
Cban^pioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
CoocjG^ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Cci) tcQQial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Moiiopo'e, Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for Gd.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 956.
SATURDAY, JUNE 11, 1898.
Pbioe, 6d.
COA/P/\A//OZ 1/ P/C TURKS'
George Reid to Sydney D.T. :
“It must be very gratifying to the Daily
Telegraph that such a large vote had
been cast against the measure.”
Judas Iscariot to Pontius Pilate : "it
must be very gratifying to your Worship
that this tiresome Nazarene has been suc-
cessfully crucified by an enthusiastic
minority.” ...
AL\!M\!L/v£ KOlvlE
(i E CAY li L> LvULv'i/UvltELiS.
fix /J-k' \
M/c, MT K
ft-jat-j
\ Svs O R D •
The “ Hbrald’s ” Constant Reader : “ Tell me, Mister
—I beg pardon—Sir James, how did you ever come to
make such a blunder?”
Bachelor Jim : “Why, the fact is I was so occupied in
trying to realise what a great man I have become that I
momentarily lost my grip of minor matters.”
to the editor.
Dear Sir-Enclosed please find cheque for £5, which I ask you to devote to whatever charity you
question. “Undoubtedly we have had a narrow escape from a great calamity. Thankmg you in anticipa-
tion for the trouble you will be put to.—Yours, etc., G.K. , . ,
' (Cheque for £5 received. The amount will be devoted to a chanty, as desired. .Lid. D. .)
The Bulletin suggests an appropriate “ charity.
THE DAJ AFTER.
JLnti-Billite : “ Ah, well, never mind, old fellow ; our
side will now give you a Bill that we can all vote for!”
Average Citizen (hoarsely): “Oh d your BilH
The crying want of the hour is a brandy and soda 1
AN UNRECORDED INTERVIEW.
Interviewer : “ Do you think the provinces will fede-
rate after all, and, if so, when ? ”
Our Artist, in reply, pointed with a bony finger to a
more or less allegorical picture on the wall.
And now The Question in Sydney D.T. office is,.
What shall we do with our boys ? ”
Just listen for the sickening thud !
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 .12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
-•- - NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly coiifidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Slack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiib Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
South Africa, — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal 11.
Solomon and Co., 32 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith A Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria. S, A ustralia,
West.ralia and ATaoriland,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage , England £l, with
6s. 6d. added far postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynnc.-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JUNE 11, 1898.
The Buie of the Minority.
Last week Yietoria, S.A. and Tasmania all
accepted the Federation Bill by large
majorities. New South Wales also voted by
a large majority in favor of the Bill; and as
the cry of Want, Lyne, Heydon, Norton,
Rosa, Tommy Dodd and the Telegraph and
Star has all along been that they desire
above all things to preserve the sacred right
of majority rule, a fine chance here presents
itself. At present, because the 80,000
minimum, fixed by the Amending Act at the
time when New South Wales broke its
agreement with the other provinces, was not
reached, the small crowd bosses the situation
and the large crowd goes for nothing. An
anti-Federal minority is allowed, by a fraudu-
lent misuse of the powers of Parliament, to
overrule a Federal majority ; and, strangely
enough, the party which has all along been
demanding majority rule at the top of its
dissonant voice is now the minority which
rules. Also it seems quite satisfied with the
situation.
* * * *
The Federation Bill was stranded in New
South Wales, as it was intended it should be,
on the 80,000 minimum. When the original
agreement was made it was decided that to
accept the Bill there must be a majority
in its favor —only that and nothing more.
'ldle conference of Premiers drafted the
Enabling Bill on these lines, Premier Reid
being the leading member of the conference.
Then the Reid Government straightway
broke its word and inserted the first mini-
mum of 50,000. Three other provinces
agreed to follow her lead, the minimum
fixed being 50,000 in Victoria, and 6000 each
m Tasmania and Westralia. South Australia
alone went on the straight, Democratic prin-
ciple of majority rule pure and simple. The
Convention was elected on this arrangement;
it was tacitly accepted by the people ; and
each province went into the movement upon
the understanding that the others really
meant to give Federation a fair show. Had
IN ew South Wales fixed a practically impos-
sible minimum at the beginning, the other
provinces would probably have recognised
that the whole affair was intended to
be a mere waste of time and money
and stationery, and have stood out.
Then, when the work was half - way
through, the soulless and conscienceless
parochial gang which forms the bulk of
New South Wales Parliament broke its
agreement, and would have sacrificed its
honor, only it had none, by raising the
minimum to 80,000 —well knowing that the
tired Cornstalk never voted with sufficient
energy to give 80,000 votes to any one party.
The people were not consulted in any
way about the matter. They were dis-
franchised wholesale by their hired servants
in the Legislature without even the pretence
that they had assented to their disfranchise-
ment. There was no reason assigned—
except that Parliament said it considered its
act of treachery advisable. The measure
which enacted this deed of repudiation
was introduced and advocated by a party
which had always been bitterly anti-Federal
and whose object was almost admittedly to
wreck all possibilities of union. It was
accepted by the turn-coat Ministry of Eight
Gon-feanng Iscariots ; the Reid Cabinet
did not call on its party majority to vote
against this gross breach of faith, and in
addition to that negative act of treachery it
gave a good many individual votes in favor
of it. And the result is that a minority
bossed the situation on Friday, and a
majority was nowdiere.
* * * •
Obviously, the coming New' South Wales
general election must be fought on this same
question of Majority Rule. The one issue
to be put before the country is Federation
or Parochialism. The country has already
done its share of the work about as
well as the tired Cornstalk ever does
it. It elected a Parliament with a majority
of professed Federationists. It accepted
the agreement that it had to raise a
50,000 minimum and a majority before union
could be accomplished. It elected its ten
Convention deleg ites on that understmding.
It supplied both the majority and the 50,000
minimum with a big margin in each case,
and it did this in the face of the loudest,
wildest blast of misrepresentation and hard
lying that ever blew in New South Wales.
For a chronically tired community, New
South Wales did its part of the work reason-
ably well. The Cornstalk people kept faith
all through with the people of Victoria,
Tasmania, and South Australia, and these
three provinces kept faith with them m re-
turn. And now the only difficulty in the
way is that the Legislature (half of it acting
witji no mandate from the people, and the
other half—the nominee half—being abso-
lutely irresponsible and having no connection
with the people at all) has chosen to decree
that the majority shall not rule, and that
the bargain upon which the people
first went into the movement shall
be broken. Therefore, the question to be
put to the nation at the next election is
whether or not New South Wales shall
repair that mean act of treachery, and go
back to the 50,000 minimum which was the
basis of its agreement with the other pro-
vinces and with its own people ; and de-
clare by Act of Parliament that the Federal
Bill was carried by the vote of 3rd June,
seeing that the vote conformed to all the
conditions of the original compact. There is
no other question which is worth dealing
with at present, except the incidental neces-
sity of casting out the politicians, and parti-
cularly the Ministry of Eight GoD-fearing
Iscariots, whose breach of faith handed over
New' South Wales last Friday to the rule of
the minority. Also, considering that the
New South Wales nominee Council is mainly
anti-Federal, and will probably resist any
attempt at enforcing majority rule, and
further considering that Premier Reid now
states that he isn’t going to abolish the
nominee principle, and proposes to keep the
Council very much as it is, another inciden-
tal necessity is that of getting a new Govern-
ment which will really reform the Council
when that body gets in the road.
* * * *
The Sydney Telegraph, the great anti-
Federal organ of New South Wales, already
announces that the province must set to
work and get a more acceptable scheme pre-
pared, and generally start the struggle
afresh. But it is best to be off' with the old
struggle before commencing the new one,
and in this matter the other provinces have
also to be reckoned with. Their position in
the matter is as follows : They have twice
accepted invitations from New South Wales
to federate, and each time New South Wales
has deliberately broken her bargain and
wrecked the movement at the last moment.
In the present case they were led into the
movement at the urgent request of the New
South Wales Government. They agreed, at
the invitation of the New South Wales
Premier, to an Enabling Bill which left the
final decision in the hands of a popular
majority. When the New South Wales
Government smashed its brittle promise and
decided to give the cause of disunion 50,000
start, Victoria, Tasmania, and W.A. gave way
toherforthe sake of uniformity. Theyallowed
a New South Wales politician to lead the Con-
vention. They left the drafting of the Bill
to a committee of three, in which New
South Wales had two representatives and
S.A. one, while Victoria, Tasmania and
Westralia were wholly unrepresented.
They gave way to New South Wales on
almost every point, and it was largely
to oblige that province that the rivers, debts
and railways remain under provincial con-
trol. The New South Wales delegates voted
strongly for equal State representation in
the Senate and for the financial settlement,
and got their way on these as on most other
matters. Their hungry grab to secure the
Federal capital for Sydney, and thus gather
in extra population and force up land values
and rents, was the only grab of any import-
ance which didn’t come off. The other pro-
vinces loyally accepted the Bill which New
South Wales had mostly framed, and gave it
a vast majority. New South Wales also
accepted it by a majority, and gave it much
more than the minimum number of votes
provided in the original bargain—the bargain
on which the other provinces went into the
movement. If the New South Wales Legis-
lature has chosen to enact that the majority
shall not rule, and that the minimum shall
not be adhered to, obviously the other pro-
vinces cannot help that. But, when
the New South Wales minority asks Vic-
toria and Tasmania and South Australia
to abandon the measure which has been
accepted by the majority, not only in Vic-
toria and Tasmania and South Australia, but
in New South Wales also, and, instead, to
accept some measure which will satisfy the
aforesaid New South Wales minority, they
will probably reply to that unspeakably im-
pudent request in a way that is hardly polite.
If there is any faith in the Government or
Parliament of New South Wales, it must go
back to the 50,000 minimum—the basis on
which New South Wales induced the other
States to join the latest Federal crusade.
There was never any reason for departing
from it except the loud, coarse insolence of
the Cabbage-Tree Mob, bent on showing
that New South Wales was so far the boss of
the movement that it could make or break or
alter the whole basis of negotiation at its own
sole pleasure. And if all the howling of
Want and Lyne and Heydon and Reid and
their newspaper barrackers about the neces-
sity of preserving majority rule isn’t sheer
hypocrisy, then they must vote that the
Federal Bill, having the support of the
majority, shall be accepted. But they won’t
vote that way all the same. Majority rule is
the very last thing that the Want crowd is
looking for.
The Parochial Pecksniff Paper.
On Saturday morning, when it was definitely
known that the N.S.W. Federationists, though
in a large majority, had not got the 80,000
minimum, Sydney Telegraph came out with
an eloquent article calling on the Federal
majority to keep quiet while the anti-Federal
minority ran the show :
To eliminate the minimum vote provision by retrospec-
tive legislation would be a distinct violation of the whole
agreement under which yesterday’s battle was fought and
won. To “ validate ” the unsuccessful referendum in that
way would be as unjustifiable, even were there a majority
•to do it, as to invalidate the Convention. The Conven-
tion and the limit principle are both creations of the same
Parliamentary Act, and if one were tampered with the
whole might as well be treated in the same wav. When
it was proposed to make the limit 80,000, this
journal opposed it. We fought against it, fairly and
strenuously, as we did against several other details of the
Enabling Act. We were defeated, and loyally accepted
our defeat. Had the Commonwealth Bill been carried
yesterday, we would have been prepared to accept the con-
stitutionally-recorded verdict of the people with equal
grace. If the Conventionists had won, it would have
remained in the power of Parliament to refuse to submit
this Bill, to which a majority of its members are opposed,
for the approval of the Imperial Government. JSIo pro-
posal of that kind, however, would have received a
moment's consideration. This Bill, as a whole, is dead ;
the country has stamped its heel upon it; it cannot be
resurrected. The duty of all true Federationists is,
therefore, to join together with the view of producing one
that will be more acceptable. In doing this all the good
points of the rejected measure are available for incorpora-
tion in the one that is to take its place. Yesterday there
were two Federal parties in New South Wales,' which
nullified each other. To-day there is but one, and out of
their union, with the light and experience that the con-
test has brought, should come a Bill worthy of Federation,
worthy of Australia, and thoroughly adequate to the
needs of a free, fraternal, and progressive people.
* * * *
This is the Telegraph, of June 4, when, by
means of the “ faked ” minimum, it had been
decided that 71,000 Federalists should knuckle
down to less than 66,000 anti-Federalists.
Therefore the Telegraph points out enthusias-
tically that, if the majority takes steps to enforce
its will by repealing the 80,000 minimum, and
going back to the original agreement on -which
N.S.W. first asked the other provinces to join
it, and objects to be jumped on by the minority,
it will be a very dreadful crime indeed. And
the Telegraph says magnanimously that it
would never have attempted such a thing.
But, beforehand, when the same mendacious
organ expected to be on the wrong side, it
simply howled to Parliament to stand by and
be ready to squash the Bill if the minimum was
forthcoming. For instance, this was the same
Telegraph, of May 17 :
It will be quite within the province of Parliament by a
meeting of the two Houses or by the two Houses sitting
separately, as was the case before the Convention of 1891,
to appoint delegates to a Parliamentary Convention to
reconsider and revise the Bill. If it should be necessary,
an amendment of the Federal Enabling Act might be
made for the purpose. The Bill, as redrafted, could then
be either submitted to another and final popular referen-
dum or left for the acceptance of Parliament in the form
of adopting the address to the Queen. Mr. Lyne is one of
those who think the proposal an eminently safe one. As
the Bill has been prepared, and as there is so much of it
that can be adopted with scarcely any alteration, it is
unnecessary, he thinks, to have a second elected Con-
vention.
Therefore, on May 17, the Telegraph, when it
expected its minority to be the bottom dog,
was sooling on the N.S.W. Parliament to re-
fuse to recognise the popular majority, and to
disregard the referendum, and to disfranchise
the nation bodily, and throw the people’s Bill
overboard, and make a new one without giving
the people any voice in the matter. And now
it says that it would never have dreamt of
doing the thing it was lately yelling for with
all its might. Also, if the Federal majority
does anything even approaching to what the
Telegraph was lately urging the anti-Federal
minority to do, the proceeding will be very,
very sinful indeed. And it tries to demonstrate
the sacredness of the 80,000 minimum by saying
that it and the Convention were created by
“ the same Parliamentary Act.” As a matter
of fact, the Convention and the 50,000 minimum
were created by the same sacred Act—the
Enabling Act of 1896. The 80,000 minimum
was created by an Amending Act late in 1897.
And the Telegraph didn’t fight against the
80,000 minimum and several other details of the
Enabling Act, for that detail was never in the
Enabling Act. Thus does the parochial Peck-
sniff organ pour oil in the ear of its fatted
minion, Reid, the politician who is on both
sides at once and does no credit to either.
* * # * £
Even this, however, is only a small part o
the anomaly. The Telegraph now rises gladly
to say that the Bill which got a big majority
has been stamped on (by the minority), and the
majority is dead because the minority has
jumped on it, and the majority’s Bill is past
resurrection because the minority says so. And
the minority paper therefore reports that its
party in N.S.W. will combine with the other
party in N.S.W. and all work together to pro-
duce a measure with which both parties in
N.S.W. will be satisfied. Considering that the
Telegraph faction wants a Federation which
will include the debts, railways, posts, tele-
graphs, customs, and excise; and the Reid
faction wants the debts and railways left out;
and the Heydon faction wants the customs,
excise, posts, and telegraphs also left out, and
says, in addition, that it would be unwise to
federate at all; and the Want faction desires a
Federation in which N.S.W. won’t be “out-
voted ” —in other words, apparently, one in
which N.S.W. will be allowed to outvote all
the other provinces ; and the Slattery crowd
and most of the Sydney property-owners are
against any Federation which doesn’t make
Sydney the capital, the idea of this ragged
regiment working together for any pur-
pose is very “beautiful indeed. * Then,
again, the Lynk gang, led by the most
wooden and incapable person who ever
ran a party in any of the eastern provinces,
wants to make sure that the Commonwealth
shall be Protectionist, and Reid wants to make
sure that it shall be Freetrade, and that the
policy of a little over half a province shall be
accepted without demur by 4tj provinces. And
they all kicked at an arrangement by which
every province and every inhabitant was to be
taxed on the same basis, and produced strange
arithmetical contortions to prove that the policy
of taxing everybody on the same basis was a
hideous injustice to N.S.W. Yet no one ever
suggested how anything could be done except
by taxing everybody on the same basis.
* * * *
And even if all this incongruous minority
could be unanimous it would lead to nothing.
The Telegraph’s proposal simply is that the
N.S.W. minority—its minority—shall combine
with the N.S.W. . majority to make a Bill
which will be perfectly satisfactory to N.S.W.
No doubt that could be done; even Tas-
mania could do as much any morning before
breakfast. The Bill which would perfectly
satisfy any province would be one which
gave that province all the power and left the
others to pay all the taxes. If N.S.W. was
going to federate all by itself the scheme would
be admirable ; as it isn’t, the scheme doesn’t
amount to anything. What N.S.W. has got
now is a measure that satisfies the majority of
its own voters and the majority of the voters in
three other provinces. It isn’t good enough to
let that go until something better comes along.
If something better is coming along it had better
come quickly. Therefore, it is hereby suggested
that a conference be immediately held consist-
ing of the directors of the Freetrade Telegraph
and the Protectionist Star, also Want, Reid,
Lyne, Gould, Sydney Smith, Heydon, Nor-
ton, Crick, the Labor-party, Salomons,
Pilcher, Coghlan, Sunday Brunker, Slat-
tery and John Haynes, and that the police be
in attendance to prevent free fights, and an
ambulance to remove the wounded to the
nearest hospital. And it is further proposed
that all these harmonious Kilkenny cats should
come to an agreement as to the kind of Federal
Constitution they really do want, and that the
survivors publish the results, so that the
N.S.W. majority will know what kind of thing
the N.S.W. minority is offering it.
PLAIN ENGLISH
A Tight Place.
The fact that S.A., Victoria and Tasmania
have accepted the Federation Bill by large
majorities, and that it has only been lost in
N.S.W. because the majority has been annulled
by Act of Parliament, leaves tilings in a com-
plicated situation. There is no chance of
any new Bill ; the present one has been
accepted by four majorities, and for four
majorities to abandon their work at the dicta-
tion of one minority is wildly absurd. The
only question is whether, as soon as the
Westralian Parliament meets and settles its part
of the business, the accepting provinces will go'
straight ahead with the formation of the Com-
monwealth and let N.S.W. come in when it has
had time to squash the Ministry of the Eight
GoD-fearing Iscariots, or whether they will
wait. It probably matters very little ; either
way the final result will be the same. The
only reason why the other provinces should
wait is that to do so would be an act of courtesy
to the N.S.W. majority which is out of the
movement through no fault of its own but solely
through the base treachery of its Ministry. The
only reason why they shouldn’t wait is that
the surest way to get the Commonwealth
started is to start it with what materials are
available. So far as the figures are to hand
at time of writing, Victoria has accepted the
Bill by 99,000 votes against 22,000 ; S.A. by
26,000 to 14,000; Tasmania by 11,000 against
less than 3000. Therefore Victoria, one of the
populous provinces, which suffers to almost
exactly the same extent as N.S.W. by the
principle of equal State representation in the
Senate, gave a majority of nearly sto 1; and


S.A., one of the three small provinces which
are supposed to be greatly advantaged, could
only raise a majority of 2 to 1. The fact that
Victoria, whose unfraternal border tariff has
been so much denounced, gave the biggest
majority of the lot for the abolition of border
tariffs, and for throwing her markets open
to all the people of Australia, is also remark-
able ; so is the fact that allegedly Freetrade
N.S.W. gave the smallest majority for Free-
trade throughout Australia. Probably the
biggest mystery of the lot is what will happen
when N.S.W. Parliament meets. Reid will
have to face the Labor crowd after his recent
admission at Bathurst that he doesn’t mean to
make any serious reform of the Council, after
all. Thirty-seven anti-Billious members, in-
cluding the Premier, two other Ministers and
the leader of the Opposition, all have to con-
front the painful circumstance that their con-
stituencies have gone strongly against them.
Also, the whole crowd which voted for the
80,000 minimum will have the awful fact in its
eye that the country is against it. And it is a
very long time since any Parliament has been in
such a tight spot as that.
+
Want and Misery.
Some of Jack Want’s gorgeous oration the
night when the Federation party in N.S.W.
got 5000 majority : ,
I knew as well as you knew that the people of this
province would not fail to rise to the occasion [they rose
and left Want’s party 5000 in the rear] and that they
would not fail with their intelligence to recognise the
faults in this Convention Bill when it came to the question
of voting. [The 5000 majority for the Bill stood up in
great letters just across the street.] . . . When I started
out on this campaign I had few supporters, but as I went
along I found that they grew and grew in number and
that there was to be a great triumph of Democracy. To-
night shows a triumph which I hardly expected. [The
triumphant gentleman had just been licked by 5000
votes]. ... You have been told by those people who
supported this Bill that you cannot have another Conven-
tion, but I want you to watch these gentlemen ;
I say again, watch them. The very men who are
now telling you that you cannot have another
Convention will be among the first to start out and
boom another Bill. You will find that these men who
have been booming this fraud and sham will be in the
front ranks of those who will be starting out to-morrow
to try and run another monkey-show ; but they will find
themselves in the same position as they do now. (5000
ahead.) I cannot tell you how deeply I thank you from
the bottom of my heart for the position in which you have
placed this Bill (at the top of the poll). I have never done
anything from first to last but fight the battle of the people
of this country. I have had no axe to grind, and I have
had nothing to gain. I have had everything to lose, but
I am proud to know that, sacrificing everything as I have,
I have won the acquiescence of the people of this colony.
[The people of N.S.W. had just decided by 5000 votes that
Jack’s gospel was a sham and a fraud]. The vote to-night
tells me that I have done what is right. [A 5000 majority
had just up-ended Want’s provincial superstition in the
gutter.] . . . The approbation of this mighty audience
is the wildest possible delight which any public man can
store up in his memory or in his heart.
Apropos of which, The Bulletin is still wait-
ing to hear Jack Want’s manly retraction of
the—well—inaccuracies with which he helped
to work up that minority against the Bill of
which he is so proud. For instance, he is re-
ported as having told a Sydney audience, by
way of rousing its parochial frenzy against the
other provinces, that the delegates of these
other provinces “ kicked the Referendum out
of the Bill ” at the Melbourne Convention, when
there never was any Referendum in it; and
that Victoria, by means of duties, permitted
“ hardly an ounce” of N.S.W. coal to get into
that province, whereas there is no duty and
Victoria is N.S.W.’s biggest coal customer.
And, when the 80,000 minimum was proposed
in the Leg. Council, Want, M.L.C., assured
the House, as an evidence of the absurdity of
the original 50,000 minimum, that there were
nearly 350,000 voters on the N.S.W. roll —
which was some 80,000 to 100,000 more than
the truth. As it is a low and degrading and
crawlsome thing to bolster up any cause by
gross misrepresentation, The Bulletin still
waits to hear Want deny the accuracy of the
newspapers and the Hansard which ascribed
these statements to him, or else acknowledge,
like an honest though reckless bigot, that he
didn’t know what he was talking about.
Trot Out the New Bill.
Now that the Convention Bill has not got the
required minimum in N.S.W., and the boss
howlers of the provincial minority are boasting
that they are the apostles of genuine Federa-
tion, and that they have rescued the province
from the clutches of a purely bogus article, it
is about time these same gentlemen explained
the kind of Federation they do want. So far
they have only talked about the kind they
don’t want and about their desire for Federa-
tion in general. Therefore, The Bulletin
proposes that the Review of Reviews, as a
kind of peaceful bottle-holder between parties,
should send copies of the Bill to Reid, Want,
Lyne, Heydon, Brunker, Gould, Cook, the
smaller Piddington, M‘Gowen, John Norton,
and the editor of Sydney Telegraph, and ask
each to strike out the clauses he objects to
and fill in the new clauses required to produce
what he regards as a fair and workable scheme
—one which he will cordially support. The
trouble with all these loud smashers is that
they have constructed nothing, while they
threw bricks persistently at the work of other
people. They all say they want a Bill, also
that they don’t want this Bill. Will they now'
produce in concrete form the Bill they do want ?
They have all promised that if this Bill was
rejected a far better one would be forthcoming.
They never produced the better Bill which they
had in their mental vision so that the public
nrght judge, before it threw away this one,
how much better the next one was likely to be,
but they said there would be another one, and
that it would be better. If there is any truth
in the promises of Want, Lyne, Reid, Heydon
and co., and if they are not mere destruction-
ists like the other famous lunatic who burnt the
temple of Ephesus, they must have some kind
of improved Bill in view. And the country
wants to see it. Until they produce it, it is
impossible to tell whether there is any hope of
a compromise between the constructive party,
led by Barton, and the party, hitherto only
known as an Anarchistic crowd of breakers and
smashers, captained by Reid and Want and
Heydon, and any chance of agreement between
them and the Federationists of the other pro-
vinces. So far as The Bulletin knows, it is
the only paper, or the only person, who pub-
lished in detail its idea of what the Federal
Constitution ought to be (see article headed
“ The Bulletin’s Federal Constitution,” pub-
lished 23rd January, 1897). It is now waiting
to hear from some of the other people.
When Lawyers Pall Out.
The Victorian Law Commission now sitting
will probably do more in the way of legal reform
than has been before accomplished during the
history of the province. At the outset it
seemed likely that the Commission would fail
to penetrate the mysteries of legal practice as
the Supreme Court itself has failed up to now.
But, fortunately, the old jealousy between the
two varieties of shark gave rise to some nasty
remarks by one barrister re “amalgams.” This
resulted in retaliation by the next “ amalgam”-
witness, and since then the two branches have
been cordially exposing each other for all
they’re worth. Every witness finished with
at the early stages of the sitting is coming
forward again to ask: “If the last witness
complains of my charging a client £2O for
writing a letter, what should be said of his
charging £3O for serving a writ ? ” It is simply
the old detective game of going to one member
of a gang and “ drawing ” him by telling him
that his pals have “ split,” only in this case the
sharks have “ given away ” each other. Sample
of evidence given by an amalgam, who is
referring to one of his bills of costs, exhibited
by another solicitor during his evidence :
The Chairman (Mr. Higgins, (M.L.A.). —In that case
your charge for “ instructions for brief ” amounted to
£289 165., and £164 16s. was taxed off?—Yes. The pro-
portion taxed off was greatly less than the average, which
is about two-thirds.
You charge £l4 Is. for drawing up brief? —That is so.
We are perfectly entitled to that.
And £8 4s. 7d. for engrossing the brief?—Yes; we all
do that.
And you marked your fee on brief at 50 guineas?—Yes.
Do you know how much was paid to the opposing coun-
sel ? —Not of my own knowledge.
Mr. says the fee was only 17 guineas. Can you
explain that? —Yes. I recognised the gravity of the case,
and they did not.
Your bill of costs amounted altogether to £585, and of
that £233 was taxed off? —Yes ; but, as regards Mr. ,
I would like to say that four days before he gave his
evidence one of his own bills of costs was taxed in a case
where he acted for one of the defendants, and as solicitor
only. His bill was £450 11s. 2d., and of that £203 15s.
was taxed off. “Instructions for brief” was charged
£2OO, and £125 was taxed off—a considerably greater pro-
portion than in my case.
Can you point to any item in your bill of costs where
your client saved anything through your acting as bar-
rister as well as solicitor ? —I have been told by a taxing-
officer that the amount allowed to me for “ instructions
for brief” is less than it would be if I instructed other
counsel. I cannot remember who the taxing-officer was.
Can you mention any specific items? I was allowed
nothing for attendance on myself with brief, or for attend-
ing with refresher, or for solicitor’s attendance in court.
The fact that this man charged nothing for call-
ing on himself with his brief, or for paying him-
self the money he was owed, or for attending
the court as solicitor to give any passing hints
to himself as barrister, is indeed touching tes-
timony to the hardness of a lawyer’s lot and
cheek !
♦
Bull’s Brother Jonathan.
Few things make The Bulletin smile a wider
smile than the tale about the “blood-brother-
hood ” between Britain and the United States,
and the proposed union of Bull and Jonathan
in a great Anglo-Saxon Federation. When the
last census was taken, in 1890, the population
of the United States consisted of 45| million
white Americans, 9£ million white or partially
white foreigners,and 7| million negroes. The
million negroes were plain, ordinary, black nig-
gers with no Anglo-Saxon yearnings or relation-
ships, though a lot of them may have been named
Johnson. Of the million foreigners, rather
less than 1£ millions were British ; 1,871,000
Irish (the Irish are not generally supposed to
be yearning for any alliance with Bull) ;
2,784,000 were Germans, mostly named Hans ;
and 31j millions were miscellaneous. As regards
the Americans, what is now the United States
began with a British element in New England
and in some of the southern districts; a
strong Dutch element in New York and
its surroundings ; a French settlement in
Louisiana, and Spanish ones in Florida,
New Mexico, Texas, Arizona, and California.
But the mass of the Americans are the children
and grand-children and great-grandchildren of
the immigrants who swarmed into the United
States after 1820, the year when immigration
seems to have fairly commenced. There were
15,334,000 of these arrivals between 1821 and
1889. The official records show that 2,281,000
of them were British ; 4,140,000 were Irish
(the Irish are not exactly Anglo-Saxon) ;
4,475,000 were German ; and over 4,000,000
were of other nationalities. From 1890 to 1897
the U.S. received 3,295,000 more immigrants, of
whom English, Scotch, Welsh, and Irish put
together were only 740,000. Therefore, the
beginning of the United States was largely non-
British. The contributed material of the great
immigration period, which has since been
assimilated and is now called American, was
less than one-sixth British, and much less than
half British and Irish combined. And
of the undigested foreign population —
the part which is still called “ foreign ”
—the British element is less than one-
sixth, and the British and Irish com-
bined are only about one-third. Moreover,
according to U.S. census returns there are on
the average 144 children to every 100 German
adults, and only 122 children to every 100
British adults, therefore the German element
is not only stronger than the purely British
one now, but keeps getting further ahead. For
these reasons this paper smiles a good deal at
the shriek about the “ blood-brotherhood ”
between Bull and his alleged brother Jona-
than. Pretty nearly the only thing about the
States which is British is the language, and the
Americans speak a good deal of English merely
because it was the official language of the
old ante-WASHiNGTON days—otherwise German,
spoken with a strong Irish accent, might have
crowded it out. If this motley nation allies
itself with Britain, there will be a great deal
more of policy than brotherhood in the business.
+
The So-called Vic. Charities.
Years ago—somewhere back in the last cen-
tury —a Charities Commission was appointed
in Melbourne. It had for secretary the dead
“ Vagabond,” and made sundry well-con-
sidered recommendations which were duly
hung up and left to solidify ; and the whole
matter was shelved in the characteristic way of
Australian people and Australian Governments.
But the objectionable practice of poor people
being ill and sometimes even being so incon-
siderate as to die in the streets, has become so
frequent that at last the police authorities are
stirring the municipal ditto to “ take steps.”
The incident of a sick person being rushed around
to sundry hospitals and finally driven to the gaol
for medical attention (possibly dying in the cab
en route) has become so common as to pass
without notice. Out-patients at hospitals are
treated as no man who had any regard for
their life and health would dream of treating
his cattle. Yet the State, which admits its
liability and enforces its claim upon the life
of the citizen by prosecuting him if he
fail when attempting suicide, shirks the
question by shoving it on to the shoulders
of that chill and barren thing—private charily
—the charity of Melb. Hospital, or the Bene-
volent Asylum, or the Salvation Army Home.
The other week, writer saw five small children
brought to Melb. Hospital, suffering from
diphtheria ; two were admitted as in-patients,
the other three were compelled, with the
mother, to wait for over two hours in a chilly
room, among a crowd of other sufferers, to get
their medicine. A day or two afterwards, a
woman came to the police-station, saying her
daughter was dying of diphtheria, in Carlton.
The police tried in vain to get her into a hos-
pital ; some refused that class of disease,
others had no room; and finally the girl
was taken, in a state of collapse, to the gaol !
In Victoria, for want of hospital accommoda-
tion, the gaol is the destination of a large pro-
portion of the poor, the sick, the aged, the
imbecile, the miscellaneous vagrants —in fact,
all the derelicts slop over into it when the
scanty infirmary accommodation gives out.
Yet it is just as cheap to treat patients in a
properly-managed hospital as in a gaol. There
is no saving of cash in the present system ; it
is even questionable if the province doesn’t pay
extra for the disgrace. Premier Turner now
promises to increase the charitable vote, but
that is not enough. The whole system needs
re-organisation.
In its issue of 26th February The Bulletin
published an eloquent article in favor of Feder-
ation. It was entitled “ A Word for Aus-
tralia,” and the writer spoke pityingly of
“ these good Englishmen and Irishmen and
Scotchmen who are arranging our Federal
destiny.” He was an Australian himself, and
he was sorry for these imported people because
they couldn’t understand the yearning of the
real Australian after a nation of his own. He
pointed out that it vvas the Australian who had
to do the work, and supply the fire and enthu-
siasm, and put a big bony shoulder to the wheel
and shove the big car of progress along. And,
to The Bulletin of June 4th, the same
patriot supplied another glowing article headed
“ For Australia ” with this peroration :
The appeal of the present is to Australians, not to
aliens. The appeal is to Australians, not to the men of a
province. The appeal is to Australians, not to calculat-
ing self-seekers. And it is to Australians who are worthy
of their opportunity and of their country that the chal-
lenge conies to stand up for the promise of a nation, for
the indissolubility of a race —for Australia.
The Bulletin only mentions these things now
because the burning patriot in question is an
Australian native and an enthusiastic believer
in the Bill which didn’t get on so well as it
should have done last Friday—and he was too
darned tired even to take out an electoral right
and vote. Which is an indication of the
reasons why the national cause didn’t get on
quite so well as it should have done last Fri-
day. The present writer, being a Scot with a
streak of the Frenchman in him, did manage
to vote. But then he comes of a race which
has rather less poetry and not nearly so much
tiredness.
*
“ Once accuse a man of a crime and people will
be ready to believe him guilty. Place the most
honest and pleasing face behind the rails of a
dock and it at once becomes a face that ex-
presses every passion,” said the late W. B.
Dalley, Q.C., at the trial of Sussex-street
murderer Scott. A few r days ago a man was
charged with having raised a cry of “Fire ! ”
at Melb. Opera House to avoid getting arrested
for the theft of somebody’s purse. The first
time he came to court he wore a dull, vacant
expression of countenance, which almost con-
vinced the indignant onlookers that he must
be “ shamming.” Under the circumstances he
was regarded as an artful monster of the
deepest dye. After a week’s remand he
toed the mark again with an excellent char-
acter from his employer, w’ho explained that
the accused was an absent-minded and timid
young man, very apt to get hali-scared out of
his wits when sharply spoken to. Whereupon
the magistrate and the newspaper reporters
and all the other critics in court perceived his
innocence sticking out a yard. The hypo-
critical thief and false fire-alarm-raiser van-
ished like a passing cloud of suspicion, and an
estimable, unlucky, industrious mechanic stood
in the phantom’s boots. Which suggests that,
notwithstanding the Law’s endeavor to believe
every prisoner innocent until he is found guilty,
the average juryman naturally jumps to the
very opposite conclusion.
■ ♦
Charles Edward writes from Brisbane re Old
Age Pensions.—
Dear Bulletin.— Re an article which appeared some
time ago in your journal on old age pensions, in which
the writer inferred that no scheme could be just unless
every one received a pension, irrespective of his or her
position. This at first sight appeared lo me to be a self-
evident proposition, but on reflection I arrived at a
different conclusion. Let us consider the subject as a
problem in life-assurance. A pension is proposed to be
granted, contingent on certain conditions to which all
are liable. In this case the condition is poverty, which
we will suppose to mean not having an income arising
from any source (except wages) exceeding 10s. per week!
But, to encourage thrift, should a citizen’s income exceed
this limit by Is., 25., or 3s. and so on per week, the
pension might be reduced to 95., Bs., or 7s. and so on to
correspond. Of course this is contingent on his reaching
the age specified in the Act. No man can possibly foresee
what his income may be on reaching 65 years of age 1
therefore, no one can reasonably object to contribute to
the necessary taxation. But as the majority of contri-
butors Will die before reaching the age at which the
pension becomes payable, it is a duty owing to them to
make the burthen as light as possible, and this is done
under the present scheme. In short, my theory is that
it is not necessary to give every aged inhabitant a pen-
sion in order to relieve the recipients from the stigma of
pauperism. It is simply a question of life-assurance,
every inhabitant being compulsorily assured against two
contingencies—that he will live beyond a certain age, and
that he will be in a certain financial condition at that
age. The man who has to collect his insurance money in
his old age will be no more a pauper than the man who
collects his fire-insurance when the contingency of a fire
comes his way.
**
“Nil ” (a medico) talks right out :
Dear Bulletin.—Your par. re Sydney D.T. on “ age-of-
consent ” mentions “ Surgeon’s ” “ view of the tender age
at which a great number of girls become tainted with
‘ immorality.’ ” Here you touch upon a fact which under-
lies a pestilential morass of side-issue, half-truth, cant,
prurience, and many kindred social weeds. Into the
morass Ido not wish to plunge. The fact is, in spite of
statements to the contrary, that creole children become
sexually mature at least two years (average) earlier than
those born in the colder old country. Then come some
subsidiary factlets : (1) Boys and girls are allowed to
sleep together to a later age amongst the half-educated
of Australia (especially in the country) than in similar
grades “at home.” (2) They foregather with “grown-
ups” to a greater extent at the same time. (3) At an age
when a spurious precocity reacts on early subsexual
awakenings they are permitted to see and hear connubial
interchangeson.the parents' part which most savages would
draw a veil upon. (4) They are sent to school (“ State ”
and especially “ Free ”) in many cases merely to “ keep
them out of the way.” (5) It is the invariable custom (in my
province) to have the boys’ and girls’ latrines either semi-
detached or but a few paces apart. Almost all teachers
of “mixed” government schools know the results of this
train of circumstances. A few will admit as much confi-
dentially to—well, perhaps the local doctor. One may
(once in a blue moon) inform the parents. Of course it is
then a case of “ Not my Tommy ! ” That teacher is very
apt to find it convenient to ask fora “shift.” The local
doctor may (and nearly always does) know all about it, but
“privileged statement” and “professional ethics,” and,
particularly, bread and butter, bar the way to exposure.
The writer knows a case of a female (child ?) of eleven who
for the last three years has been leading a “ gay ” life
with boys of about her own age. She still attends the
public school. He has also seen letters, intercepted by a
teacier, from mere children (in years) making
assignations for this purpose with others “after
school.” . . . These serve merely as instances
in no wise singular enough to be startling —to
the writer. And then we have to listen patiently to all
this perverted eroticism from the Gimlet person about
age-of-consent! Age of I want to know what, in
the circumstances, may be called the age of refusal ? The
whole subject is so hideously nasty that thinking people
flinch from dragging it into daylight and dealing with it.
The average parent being merely an unthinking breeding-
machine with that tired feeling and a confidence born of
stupendous conceit refuses to recognise its existence.
The wonder is not that the “ certain cure, with or with-
out medicines” is so profitable a trade, but that there
appears, at least, to be a fair proportion of the population
attaining adult age who have anything left worth “ con-
senting ” to.
■ ♦
In the projected fever hospital, Melbournians
are adding, at a cost of ,£17,000, one more huge
white-elephant to their already over-elephanted
city. The desire for multiplication of charit-
able institutions badly gives away the “charity”
of many of the supporters thereof, because it
shows plainly that humanity is of small account
beside advt. -Thus, while the subscriber of
£lOO to a brand-new institution has his name
extensively paragraphed, his speeches listened
to at preliminary meetings, and his beneficence
even engraved on the foundation-stone—the
giver of a like amount to a going concern has
nothing but his own feelings and the secre-
tary’s receipt to reward him. This fever-hospi-
tal project is the outcome of the turning away
of dozens of contagious-disease cases from the
existing hospitals, the only one of which—
the Melbourne Hospital—which will admit
contagious cases being in a condition
of chronic congestion. An unthinking press
hereupon took up the cry for a special fever-
hospital ; a few well-meaning people and a host
of advertisers set about getting a scheme into
shape, and a soft-headed Government was
“ kidded ” into granting land for a site. The
result is that the building will probably be
commenced in six months or so, and the utter
idiocy of the whole thing will not begin to
dawn on anybody until the roof is being put on.
With only £17,000 at its disposal, Melbourne
—an ill-drained, red-hot city with 450,000
inhabitants—proposes to build a fever-hospital,
while Edinburgh, with a decent sewerage sys-
tem, a cold climate, and only 240,000 inhabi-
tants, has just expended £llO,OOO over a similar
project, its ambulance arrangements alone hav-
ing absorbed £16,000, or nearly as much as Mel-
bourne proposes to spend altogether. On the
other hand, were the money in hand applied to
the maintenance of the existing hospitals, the
whole of the contagious disease of Melbourne
could be adequately dealt with. The Alfred
Hospital has 80 beds in an unused ward—un-
used because there is no money available to
work it; and the Melbourne Hospital, as has
been said, has its accommodation completely
occupied. The “way out” lies with that
£17,000. Were the £17,000 applied to the
endowment of that extra Alfred Hospital ward,
the Melbourne Hospital might be continuously
eased of 80 cases, and the whole of the city’s
contagious disease concentrated in one section
of the metropolitan institution, where it could
be safely and effectually treated. No new
building, no additional nursing-staff, no com-
missions—(everybody connected with the new
project has the cheek to demand his “cut.”)
, Nothing but provision for the suffering poor in
a manner so economical and unostentatious
that, as it wouldn’t make cheap advertisement
for anybody, nobody takes the trouble to con-
sider it.
An Australian Premier possesses the main, and
often the sole, influence in determining the pro-
fessional fate of the lawyers about him. He
can give the barrister odd jobs, such as draft-
ing bills, annotating opinions and appearing in
occasional cases; he can appoint him Crown
Prosecutor, and make him a Q.C. ; he can give
him a seat, temporary or permanent, on the
District Court Bench ; he can grant him holi-
days on half or full pay, can agree to his
request for retirement on full pension, and can
obtain for him any of a number of Imperial
titles and distinctions. These things being so‘
is it seemly or congruous to have a Premier
appearing as an advocate in ordinary court
cases in the guise of a barrister who is on an
equal footing with the barristers about him ?
Should he not, while in office, refrain from
ordinary competitive work ?


The MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
of NEW YORK.
Australasian Department: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager,
Company's Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
A FEW COGENT REASONS why you should Insure in this Company in preference to
any other :■ —
BECAUSE
it is the
BEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
SAFEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
LARGEST.
BECAUSE
it is the
CHEAPEST.
It is PURELY MUTUAL. All Profits go to the Policy-holders..
In its Fifty-five Years’ Record it has no compeer.
It is subjected to Annual Examination by the Insurance Department,
of the State of New York, a thoroughly independent authority.
Assets, December 31, 1897 ... £52112204
It has returned to its Policy-holders, or holds on their behalf, after
payment of all expenses of management, about 14J millions sterling
more than it received from them.
For detailed information concerning the most profitable forms of investment insurance policies aunfy
at any of the Company’s Branch Offices or Authorised Agencies. ’ 1V J
Telkhioxe 2761.
(LATE OF MELBOURNE)
TAKES THE LEAD for
[ifelike and j|rtistic portraits.
NEW STUDIOS :
308 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
OVER LLOYD & COLLINS’.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal. “Straight from the Heart *
Her Majesty’s “Sign of the Cross.”
Lyceum ~ “The Field of Ice.”
Royal Standard “ Fun on the Bristol."
Tivoli Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ The Little Minister.”
Royal “Shall We Forgive Her.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
BiJOU “The Alhambra Girl.”
Alexandra “ Breaking the News.”
Town Hall.. Newbury’s Saturday “Pops.”
Seen through a rich haze of scenic magni-
ficence, there appears to be some kind of a story in
Bland Holt’s latest effort, “Straight Brom the
Heart,” but it is a tale that has burst in various
places through being crammed too full of incident.
It contains just about everything barring a giraffe.
The incidents are past enumeration, but they in-
clude the murder of a red-headed man in act 1, a
robbery, a blazing ship, an execution which is
interrupted by anarchists exploding bombs under
the guillotine, and a bad egg in the desert. There
are three eggs as the sole provender of four people
lost in the blazing Sahara, and as one of them is
very bad indeed Bland Holt reserves it for Jack-
son’s breakfast, Jackson being the villain of the
party and any kind of egg being good enough for
him. Also a small boy who had already been
falsely accused of robbery, and partially fried in
the burning ship, is strangled in the same desert
after being 26 days or thereabouts without food;
and Norman is shot there by Baker, only he turns
up in the next act as good as new to assist at Baker’s
execution, and seduce his wife, and if the lady's
long-drowned father, who was last seen sinking in
the Atlantic many miles from land, didn't step in
just then and pound Norman something awful
with his walking-stick, it is impossible to say what
might not have happened. The drama doesn’t
say on what evidence Baker was going to be
executed ; but the murder of the red-headed man
is laid at his door, and there is a very realistic
guillotine with a large knife that comes down im-
pressively, and but for the fact that the anarchists’
bomb knocks the machine sideways Baker would
be dead before Bland Holt has time to arrive on
horseback with the reprieve. Just a few minutes
before this Norman, whom his fellow anarchists
have discovered to be a traitor, has been beguiled
away by two other anarchists to have a drink,
and The Bulletin presumes that they murder
him with the bottle.
* * * *
As this paper has remarked on several
previnous occasions, the magnificence of Biand
Holt’s scenery mostly covers up the defects of his
dramas, and in this case the drama is wilder
than usual and the scenery even stronger. The
palace vvhere the coarse, red-headed man wallows
in his ill-gotten wealth and his lost “h” is a
dream of magnificence, and the desert and the
burning ship and the execution are all big efforts
of stage art. Cosgrove gets out of his usual groove
this time. As his own self in a top-hat and a long
coat Cosgrove is wearisome, but as the red-headed
millionaire he is a very gratifying and interesting
person to meet, and he makes old Pry the best
feature in the play. Bland Holt temporarily falls
away into the character of a Spanish duke and he
is also refreshing. The rest of the excellent co. is
of varying degrees of excellence as usual. One
feature of the drama which calls for loud cheers is
that there is no long fupny scene between Mr. and
Mrs. Bland —in fact there is no scene and no part
which are specially labelled as being funny. The
red headed man is cheerfully and unobtrusively
grotesque till he dies. Also Bland and his
estimable wife don’t stop to be funny ; they are
simply funny as they go along, which is far better.
#* * *
The present Sydney Lyceum drama is a
very large affair, and Diver pursues bis blood-
stained road to ruin till a late hour. Said drama
bears the harrowing title of “ The Coroner and
the Coiner’s Gang,’’ and the wickedness of it
passes description. Compared to the boss Coiner,
even Nero was a tame emperor who would feed
out of the hand. The Coroner begin.? gentlv by
casting off his wife and slaughtering Old "Dad
Goodman for the sake of his money. Then he
sets up as a respectable country squire, and gives
his wife poison* and wants to throw her in the
river also* only there are too many people about,
so he locks her up instead. In between times he
hires old Mike to murder George, and he also
charges George with murder and robbery, and
gets him locked up for 12 months, and he sools
Mike on to rob old Corbin, and hires Mike’s son
to steal Corbin’s little boy. By way of casual re-
freshment he makes bad coin, and engages Mike
and his son to defraud simple-minded German
emigrants with it, and while he is waiting outside
a public-house so that he can betray Mike and his
son to the police he shakes his abandoned wife
and threatens to knock her head against the quay.
Likewise he brutally assaults George who is now
out of prison and starving; and he hires Jake to
personate a parson and perform a bogus marriage
with Nora. There is hardly anything in the way
of sin that he doesn’t either do himself, or incite
Mike to do, or persuade Charles to lay Mike on to,
or perpetrate with the assistance of Jake ; and if it
wasn’t that the policeman to whom he is always
betraying his associates is really a noble but dis-
guised character named Dick his career would
probably end with the slaughter of everybody.
Dick is übiquitous, and turns up everywhere.
When Mike and his son break silently into Cor-
bin’s house, and burst open the chest where his
money is concealed, Dick, disguised as a very deaf
patriarch, rises out of the chest. Then the two
silent burglars naturally yell in his ear for ten
minutes so as to avoid observation and not waken
anybody.
* • • •
TheMacMahonfirm is nowputting on anew
drama every week, and “The Field of Ice” is due
next Saturday. Till then “ The Coroner and the
Coiner’s Gang ” should do first-rate business—at
least it deserves to. When Tins Bulletin's
staggered representative resolved to give up won-
dering about the motive of anything and take the
show as it came he enjoyed it amazingly. It is
well-staged and is choke-full of situations and sur-
prises, and it never flags for an instant; before the
first suspicion of dulness can descend on it Mike
always breaks out into a new crime and gets £5O
from the “Coroner "for doing it. Among thepeople
who hustle the gay show along, Harry Dher calls
for kindly mention as the boss fiend ; Shine, as
the comedy ruffian in the white bell-topper ; and
Charles Field, as Mike, who is a truculent monster
in depressed spirits. Laurence Dunbar is five
different people, and shows a remarkable capacity
for disguise, and bright Inez Bensusan hovers
generally on the outskirts of the drama. One of
her appearances is in the capacity of a suddenly-
awakened girl in a long and elegantly-frilled white
garment, and in this capacity she takes well and
is universally popular.
** # *
The worm of change has begun to creep
into the co. which keeps up the “Sign of the
Cross ” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. The same
Marcus still giv r es his noble limbs to the lion for
the sake of the same pale Christian girl, and
Berenis, Tigellinus, Poppcea, Dacia, and the
noble old Roman drunk are unchanged. But
Caleb Porter has quitted the co. and a new Csesar
has fits in ancient Rome in his stead. Mr. H. .T.
Carvill makes a respectable Caesar, but it is diffi-
cult to replace the jewelled party who lately filled
the imperial bill, and the show suffers a little in
consequence. On the other hand, Miss Annie
Cubitt, as the smallest Christian with the least
quantity of clothing on, is an improvement on her
predecessor, so, perhaps, things are about even.
Cyril Keightley now fills the massive sandals of
Metellus with very good results, and the “Sign”
still prospers and sheds a mellow radiance over
the days when the Early Fathers were done brown
for the sake of the Faith.
** * *
The Tivoli is now Rickards’ only show in
Sydney, the Cri. having closed up and the deserv-
ing Cartwright co. moved north. Miss Peggy
Pryde still grows in favor, and that bright and
clever little she-humorist seems good for a lengthy
run. Also John Coleman has produced a number
of perfectly new jokes, and the other people, who
are many, remain in good health and condition.
*# * *
Old “Fun on the Bristol ’’ has risen from
the oblivion of years, and is doing a short season
at Sydney Royal Standard, with Miss Billie
Howard as Dora. This ancient joke has grown
and altered so much in the course of time, and so
many new jokes have grown on to it and old ones
dropped off, that it is hardly recognisable as the
Widow of a dozen years ago. Still, it remains a
very respectable joke to the very last, and Sydney
should be able to stand a week of it, anyhow.
** * *
“The Little Minister,” at Melb. Prin-
cess’s, is a quaint, pretty little play that doubtless
improves on acquaintance, but will probably seem
rather thin and fictitious to the average non-
Scottish person, ignorant of J. M. Barrie’s novel.
And the average person will be in a majority after
the first night. The meenister runs an Auld
Licht Kirk in the one-horse town o’ Thrums
where an alleged insurrection is expected when
the curtain rises. A vague, mysterious insurrec-
tion. The meenister, having aroused it by blow-
ing a horn to oblige a strange girl, rushes down
the hillside, and puts it out, and returns to his
bare-legged charmer. She is an “ Egyptian
wumtnan ” (otherwise gipsy), as far as the Auld
Lichter knows, swooping round the district in
search of chickens and things, and she simply
paralyses him at her first fell swoop. A casual
bcotch youth meanwhile has recognised her as
Lady Babbie for the information of the audience,
but the youth goes away and doesn’t tell anybody
else.
* * • •
Miss Pattie Browne, joyfully received by
her old admirers, makes a charming Egyptian
wumman—an incomprehensible attraction shining
in the middle of a misty narrative. She meets the
meenister again in the cottage of an aged Nanny,
and the amorous evangelist loses his head more
than ever. He takes to writing godless verses,
ending with “bo, her boy am I,” when he ought
to be preparing Auld Licht sermons. His thoughts
are quite diverted from religion. The elders of
the kirk bewail the meenister’s bewitchment, also a
converted drunk, Rob Dow, relapses into liquor
and tries to suppress the extraordinary damsel,
consequently the meenister ignores a prayer-meet-
ing in order to rescue his unaccountable girl, and
follows her to the castle of the noble earl, her
father, and proposes to her in the hall, under the
impression that she is a trespasser, escaping from
justice, without a pair of boots or stockings to her
name. The original horn-blowing episode supplies
the play with a semblance of plot at this crisis.
Miss Pattie’s noble father comes to thank the
meenister for having put the insurrection out,
whereupon the lady runs into the next room,
and presently reappears with her title and
declares her love. But a painfully upright
captain, in an uncomfortable uniform, wants to
arrest the meenister for blowing the aforesaid
horn, likewise he holds a warrant for the arrest of
the Egyptian woman, who is now Lady Babbie
1 urthermore, the plot is complicated by the dis-
covery that Lady B. married herself by Scotch
law to her adorer in the first act, when she made
him call her his wife before witnesses. In the
ordinary course of things this young- Scotch couple
must have known all about the Scotch marriage-
law from the start, but the play allows them not
to know it until they are informed by a third
party. The meenister returns to his forgotten
prayer meeting, and tlie Auld Lieht congregation
arises in a body from behind a garden wall to see
him hug his bride, and the noble earl gives his
blessing, whilst the uncomfortable captain, who
had come to arrest the criminal, goes away to hide
his diminished hat. A queer plot. The interest
is centred in two unconvincing characters, and a
number of small convincing circumstances help to
give the play a charm of its own.
* * * *
Miss Pattie Browne, as the Egyptian fly-
by-night, is the main cause for whatever success>
great or medium-sized, the show may be achiev"
ing. Her part suits her, and she performs it in a
little better than her best saucy manner of the old
B. and B. days. Cecil Ward puts all the sincerity
possible into the name part, and sundry natives of
Thrums—-unimportant characters in their drama-
tised capacities—are well done by J. W. Sweeney,
Oily Deering, Miss Athena Claudius, Fred Cam-
bourne, and F. Macviears, a new-comer. Another
nevv-comer, Miss Beatrice Day, scores as a French
maid, and a particularly natural bit of comedy is
supplied by Miss Eloise Juno, who puts herself
into the place of Nanny, and defies one to tell
t’other from which.
** * *
Malevolent Johanna, at Melb. Royal, has
removed a portion of the original chalk from her
countenance, and “ Shall We Forgive Her?” is
progressing favorably. The Bulletin took kindly
to the Johanna’s nightmare aspect, but perhaps
it was wise to wash away some of her ghastliness,
thereby giving the domestic side of the drama a
chance to be taken seriously. The penitent
heroine (Miss Gresham) attracts attention to her
bursts of feeling now that Johanna seems less
inhuman, and the oftener Miss G. is regarded, the
more she seems likely to shine as an emotional
actress if she can manage to get her head
and shoulders under stronger control. Perhaps
parson Titheradge, who is her friend and adviser
in this tearful story, will tell the heroine how
he cultivated repose long ago by standing motion-
less against a wall, or a bed-post, whilst he hurled
fiery harangues into space. If he found any part
of himself throwing off the restraint, he stopped
his elocution and made a fresh start, and the re-
sult is seen in the quietly-impressive Titheradge,
who leavens a large lump of drama and makes it
fairly digestible after the prologue has passed
away. Nothing could mitigate the awfulness of
the prologue, which happens in Queensland at a
time when the local water-supply is reduced to
half a pint. Hans Phillips staggers upon the
scene in the last stage of drought, and the heroine
gives him the half-pint, also she takes him into
her hut, and places her bed at his disposal.
Then she wakes him up with the news that a
mob of desperate men are about to murder him for
his gold, and bids him fly ere it is too late. So
he flies, but returns immediately and stands lis-
tening round the corner whilst the desperate
diggers hear the lady confess that she isn't law-
fully married to their ringleader, and has other-
wise sinned in advising the droughty capitalist to
save his money and his life. Then the infuriated
mob, having come for the purpose of murdering
somebody, start to slay the unmarried female, but
the capitalist whom they meant to annihilate in
the first instance, and who had begun to bolt from
his doom ere he changed his mind, stands forth
and subdues them with a rifle. The prologue,
however, only serves to provide the sinner with a
Past to pave her road to Hingland and Johanna.
#* # *
“Dr. Bill ’’is struggling through a third
week at the Bijou, and if there is a Lady Doctors’
Association in Melbourne it might as well give
patronage to this riotous moral lesson. “Dr Bill”
is a joke that tends to set Adolphus ruminating
every time his best girl consults a masculine
specialist in “nerves,” and leaves her future hus-
band cooling his heels on the doorstep whilst the
other fellow sounds her in sundry places with an
artful little trumpet. On Saturday (11th) Miss
Myra Kemble will set up “ The Alhambra Girl.”
** * *
At the Alexandra, this week, a more
coherent melodrama than the previous effort is
calculated to improve business and urge the Wil-
fred Hayes co. to further acts of violence. On
Saturday, the co. will begin “Breaking the
News,” and Miss Hattie Hayes is to assist the
proceedings.
* * at *
Also, on Saturday the seventh or Penulti-
mate “ Pop ” will transpire at the Town Hall,
and an announcement that Phil Newbury and
Madame Spada intend to sail for London shortly
is printed on the penultimate bill. Meanwhile
Harry Cogill is preparing to re-open the Gaiety
with a “combination of novelty stars ” and the
strictest regard for Refinement. We are whales
for Refinement in our present state of advanced
civilisation.
** * *
The Tiller Quartette, who have been much
missed in Melbourne since Rickards’ pantomime
went away, returned to the Opera House on
Saturday, and shook their wild, spontaneous
understandings at an appreciative crowd. The
Poluski Bros, are still getting routed seven times
a week by one of their gallant boys in red. and the
Kellino Family are even more remarkable acro-
bats than ever, but neither of these strong turns
is anyway wicked. The city was crying out for a
little refined wickedness, when the Tiller Quar-
tette came along with the desired pinch of salt-
god blessem !
** * #
Florence Schmidt has fairly captured her
countrymen in Queensland, and, what is a far
more difficult feat, her countrywomen. Rock-
hampton fairly excelled itself in its reception of
the cantatrice, and no doubt the fact that Premier
Byrnes brought her up-in the Govt, yacht Lucinda
and gushed over her will mean a majority for the
Government next time. Luckily, the gifted
Florence has a very level head, and will hardly be
spoiled by success. She still has the musical world
to face, and though The Bulletin puts its money
on her, it hopes she will not stop up too late o’
nights, or dance too many dances, or shower her
pearly notes around, without adequate reward, in
the salons of Rockhampton millionaires.
** * *
Dear Bulletin —Your remark, “ The
Firm is now the only institution in Sydney which
retains the prescriptive right to charge ss. for ad-
mission,’’may be applied, with equal truth, to Mel-
bourne. Bland Holt, by supplying handsome and
well-acted spectacular plays at “ popular prices,”
has practically prohibited all managers, save \V.
and M., from making money at the old rates. B.
and B. oouldn’t flourish at Molb. Bijou of late
years, and were forced to appear at the Princess’s
by arrangement with the Firm. They, like
Rickards with his Cartwright Comedy Co., would
doubtless have done better had they knuckled-
down to the public demand for a lower tariff,
nevertheless the 5s. maximum was no more than a
reasonable charge in each case. And the Firm is
not really a gainer by this failure of rival manage-
ments to maintain a competition on even lines.
A show at the Princess’s must be large
and glittering, or have a particular “ boom ”
element, otherwise it doesn’t go to any great ex-
tent. “ Prisoner of Zenda,” for instance, couldn’t
have been a very profitable venture, but when
Julius Knight and co. were put to “ The Sign of
the Cross ” the exceptional notoriety of the play
gave them a “boom” which accounted for the
subsequent success of “A Royal Divorce.”
Notoriety scored again for a season with Wilson
Barrett. Yet it is undeniable that the Wilson
Barrett and co. of to-day would have been a more
durable attraction ten years ago, when popular
dramas ran for eight or ten weeks at the Royal on
terms which the modern public would consider too
hierh. The Firm doesn’t gain anything from being
left in a position of “ splendid isolation.” As the
competition among popular-price managers in-
creases, the public will demand more and more
value for their money at the more expensive
theatre. And the public’s idea of extra value is,
unfortunately, not High Art. — Old Melboukne.
For “ Poverty Point ” see pages 14 and 28.
A Nation ! No—Damnation !
“Probably Spain now wishes she had
never discovered America.”—Yankee.
John Norton—Alderman, M.L.A. Next?
Great is “Truth,” and will prevail!
“ My idea of woman was not drawn from
my experience, which only illustrates it.” —
Goethe.
The Review of Reviews for May repro-
duces a batch of Bulletin pictures, and credits
most of them to other papers. One is acknow-
ledged to the Queenslander and two to Melbourne
Punch.
The Commonwealth Bill has been dis-
honored in N.S.W., bya timid, selfish, provineially-
minded minority. It will be presented again in
due course, and met at maturity.
As the late returns crawl slowly in, the
N.S.W. majority in favor of the Bill grows larger.
At time of writing, the majority is 5430, and it
will probably get close up to 6000 before all is
finished.
For the billet of inspector of evil smells at
Kanowna (Westralia), the place where all the gold
is being got at present, there were 116 applicants.
And, strange to say, the job went, not to a Yarra-
side man, but to one from Sydney.
Bananaland is great in the field of scientific
experiment. Recently, that province has been
dosing the rabbit with chicken cholera, but with
no more serious result than an alleged slight in-
crease in “i he rate of reproduction.” Cannot the
Bananaland Govt, adopt an old Bulletin sugges-
tion and persuade the übiquitous tick to browse
on Bunny ?
It is authoritatively announced that none
of ex-Premier Nelson’s colleagues knew anything
of the agreement entered into between the Pre-
mier—on behalf of the Govt, —and the New
Guinea Land Grab syndicate. The first notifica-
tion they had of the transaction was through the
Government Gazette- after all the documents
had reached London for Royal assent. Same old
Q.N.B. smell!
Isn’t it about time that Lyne and his ally,
Sydney Telegraph, furnished the names of those
imaginary gentlemen who, they say, sent along
large sums of money from Victoria to help along
the Billious interest in N.S.W. ? If any such
money was sent, there is absolutely nothing libel-
lous or dangerous in mentioning the fact that
certain Victorians subscribed to the N.S.W.
Federation fund. Therefore, the darkly-mysteri-
ous attitude of the anti-Billious can’t arise through
any need for caution. The only possible explana-
tion is that these murky Victorian conspirators
are mere inventions. Besides, owing to the dread-
ful curse of Protection, Victorians can’t have any
money.
Premier Reid, says his own special press
organ, “is cogitating. He is very desirous not to
make a mistake about his next step. He is
anxious to do the correct thing. He is carefully
considering the position, and will not commit
hiinself hurriedly to any announcement of the
future course of action. The Premier’s position is
one of some difficulty. He absolutely declines at
present to commit himself to any statement. All
that Mr. Reid now says is that he will consult his
colleagues at an early date, probably during the
present week.’’ In a word, the Man on the Fence
is now astride of a weathercock on the top of the
fence. Also, before saying anything, he will con-
sult his colleagues, the seven other God-fearing
Iscariots.
The mistake which led to the announce-
ment on the S.M. Herald’s notice-board that
over 80,000 votes had been recorded for the
Federal Bill was the saddest event of that cold
Friday night. Barton was humped round the
room in the Empire Hotel by his cheering friends,
and after that he got into the middle of an enthu-
siastic speech from the balcony where the Federal
flag was —and just then the 80,000 came down and
a bleak and disastrous 68,000 went up in its stead.
It was about the saddest pint of cold water which
ever fell on an enthusiastic politician in N.S.W.
The other side of the case was that dozens of the
enraged anti-Billious sloped violently for home
when the 80,000 went up, and gnashed their best
store teeth all night, and drank more than was good
for them, and raised Cain generally. Anybody who
saw a thoroughly wretched-looking cat next morn-
ing might safely bet that it was the cat of an anti-
Billious gentleman who had thrown it out by the
tail the night before while laboring under serious
misapprehension. Or else it was the cat of a
Billious gentleman who had thrown it out by the
tail while not laboring under any misapprehension
at all.


A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO.)
On invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
mebchai^ts,
82 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
“Tbe R€AL MAC KAY
'(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES. *
Harrison & A.ttwooc3L, Sole Proprietors
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists ; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
R. BELL & CO., Ltd.,
LONDON,
Original Patentees of Wax Yestas.
Ads. l
Kbps. I
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
BLEACHING POWDER, 38/367.
Caustic Soda, Carh. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
93/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Harkwald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; IK Curriest., Add■; Qaeen-st., Brfeb.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Maori kind ended its financial year at 31st March
with a surplus of £160,858, and the accumulation of
£354,286 brought forward from previous years made a
total surplus of £521,144. This is the tenth successive
surplus which Maoriland has produced, and considering
that it is the only province which has a war-debt, and the
only one which never had any great land-revenue, be-
cause Maoriland alone of all the seven states had to buy
much of its lands from the natives instead of getting them
all by plain robbery, this is a remarkable result. Out of
the surplus, £300,000 is paid into the Public Works Fund
for the purpose of building railways, &c., without piling
all the liability on posterity, and 221,144 is carried
forward. Maoriland is also the only province, bar Wes-
tralia, which has no accumulated deficit to work off, and
altogether, so far as fi lances go, it is distinctly ahead of
all the other six Australias.
» • * *
The N.S.W. revenue for May boomed suddenly
and violently up to £1,003,210, which was £110,406 more
than the revenue for May, 1897. The expenditure was
£643,710, and Treasurer Reid solemnly announces that of
this sum £602,079 is chargeable to this year, so apparently
he is still debiting large hunks of present expenditure
back to that dreary myth called the “ Dibbs deficit.” It
is now close on three years since the famous Cash Basis
started, and the finances don’t seem to be any nearer get-
ting on to it than they were before. Also, about a year
ago it was officially announced that only £7OOO or so re-
mained to be charged hack to previous years, and when
that was finished the Cash Basis would really get com-
menced. As far as can be gathered from the monthly re-
ports, about seven times that amount of expenditure has
since then been gently removed out of this year’s accounts
by putting it back into the expenditure of previous years,
and the Cash Basis is still being waited for.
For the 11 months of the financial year that
have now elapsed, the N.S.W. revenue is £8,661,189, or
£227,961 more than was realised for the corresponding
11 months of 1897. The land-tax supplies £216,942 of the
increase. Expenditure is nominally £8,647,452, so that,
there is a visible surplus of £13,737. But for the shady
device of still charging back expenditure to ’95 and ’94,
and previous years, there would still be a considerable
deficit. All the same, the improvement is very great,
and it looks as if Reid’s accounts might show a small, real
surplus for the first time —always allowing for the fact
that all N.S.W. surpluses are made by charging the repairs
to old punts, and the new roof to the museum, and the
new crockery at Jenolan accommodation-house, and about
£500,000 to £BOO,OOO of other little jobs to loan account as
“ permanent and reproductive works.”
* ♦ * *
N.S.W. Government gathered in ,£858,523 of
borrowed money during May. Seemingly, 1898 is going
to be a real good borrowing year.
• * * »
Queensland’s revenue for May was £291,594, an
increase of over £39,000 on May, ’97. For the eleven
months the revenue (£3,417,000) is £113,000 better than
for the first eleven months of last financial year, and, so
far, the receipts are £625,000 ahead of expenditure.
m * * *
Westralia’s revenue for May was £215,631, as
compared with £221,501 for May, 1897—a decrease of
£5870. For the eleven months that have expired of the
financial year the revenue is £2,473,495, so, with only one
month’s revenue to come in, there is no earthly hope of
reaching the estimated £3,008,000. At the end of April
the expenditure was already 11326,381 in advance of re-
venue, and the gap keeps widening. At the same time,
Forrest’s finances are not to be judged by N.S.W. stan-
dards. Westralia for a good while has charged to revenue
all the small accounts for repairs to public works, half of
which go into loan charges in N.S.W., and has also paid
out of revenue for a great many new works, all of which
N.S.W. charges to loans. In Australia, as a rule, the man
who makes the public expenditure large by paying all
legitimate charges out of revenue is cursed as a spend-
thrift by people who never look at details, and is thrown
out; the one who keeps expenditure down by charging
things to loans, and running into debt, and leaving
posterity to pay the bill, is called an economist. The
great mistake consists in mixing up ordinary and public
works expenditure in one budget. The latter should be
paid, as in Maoriland, out of a separate Public Works
Fund. Then the ordinary expenditure would show how
much each Government spent on merely running the
State departments, and the honest Treasurer who fed the
Public Works Fund out of revenue wouldn’t he regarded
as a spendthrift, and the prodigal who supplied it out of
borrowed money wouldn’t be called an economist.
As a case in point, Dibbs, in 1892, was a spend-
thrift because he spent £9,931,411 in all, while the econo-
mist, G. Reid, spent only £9,523,057 in 1896—difference,
£408,354. The other difference was that Dibbs, in ’92,
paid for 61,387,203 worth of public works out of revenue,
while Reid, in ’96, paid only £978,497 difference,
£408,706. Dibbs, the spendthrift, actually ran the
country on an expenditure of £352 less than the sham
economist who came after him ; his offence was that he
charged to revenue the works which Reid charges to
posterity. If there was a separate Public Works Fund,
and all expenditure on works came out. of it, then the
bogus economy which consists of running into debt would
be publicly recognised and called by its right name.
Tasmania’s May revenue, £78,788 ;an increase
of £12,038 as compared with May, ’97. The Raspberry Isle
begins its financial year on Ist January, and the four
months that are gone show an increase of £47,126 as com-
pared with the figures this time last year. Treasurer
Fysh already reckons that he will be able, during 1898, to
pay £120,000 off the old deficit. In proportion to popula-
tion, Tasmania shows the biggest increase in revenue and
the biggest increase (barring Westralia’s) in the number
of its people ; and Treasurer Fysh is certainly wiping off
the back debts left him by his predecessors much more
rapidly than any other Australian financier.
Victoria’s revenue for May was £535,798—an
increase of £28,578 as compared with May, 1897. For the
11 months which have elapsed the revenue is £6,309,696,
an increase of £233,094 as compared with the receipts for
the corresponding 11 months last year. Turner now
reckons that, even after paying his regular annual
£250,000 off the old deficit, a surplue is assured for 30th
June. ,
S.A. has something like £3,000,000 of public
debt falling due next year, and, by floating a renewal loan
at 3 per cent., it hopes to save £30,000 or £40,000 per
annum interest. Which is very cheering—only, unhappily,
the prices of the commodities which Australia sends to
Europe in payment of the interest keep falling much
faster than the interest itself. And, considering the pre-
sent value of money, the interest payable on the old debts
which the large, lavish, drinky Fathers of the Country left
behind them is truly awful. In ’96, these provinces were
still paying 6 per cent, on nearly £2,000,090 of debt
(£849,400 of this belongs to luckless S.A., and some of it
isn’t redeemable till 1918), 5 per cent, on 4A millions, 4£
percent, on 7 millions, and 4 per cent, on 129 millions.
Considering that money is now worth only 3 per cent., that
last item alone is equal to a dead loss of £1,290,000 a year.
* * * »
The Standard Bank (Melbourne), which recon-
structed in 1891, 1893 and 1895, will apparently either
have to reconstruct again this year or perish. It
owes £729,445 to depositors ; and its assets, set down in
the balance-sheet at about £840,000, are estimated by a
committee of experts, which has lately subjected them to
careful overhaul, as likely to realise about £ 85,000. The
first instalment of the reconstructed deposits falls due in
August, and the whole institution would hardly suffice to
pay that one small instalment. Therefore, it seems about
certain that the Saddest Bank on Earth will go out of
business this year.
* • • *
Ten years ago there were over 300,000 sheep in
the S.A. districts west of Port Augusta. Now there are!
probably 8000. The long series of droughts has eaten up
the rest.
• • * •
The directors of the Overflow claim that their
cyanide experiment was not a failure, but a success,
though some additions, which it was hoped might be dis-
pensed with, must now be made to complete the plant.
Pending the perfecting of cyanide arrangements, expendi-
ture has been reduced to a minimum by the dismissal of
nearly all hands.
« * * *
Sydney D.T. mining-man has revisited Peak
Hiil’mine, and reports the striking of a vein of mineral-
ised ore at 600 ft., very rich in gold, assays up to 2500 z.
per ton having been made. Here we have the explana-
tion of the enquiry started for these shares some two or
three months ago when they could be got for fourpence.
They are now more than ten times the price. Next to
nothing has ever been published about this new develop-
ment —made, the writer is told, in March—and the reason
is said to be that the mine authorities have had so many
disappointments they thought it better to await develop-
ments. All very well, hut who are the people that have
been buying shares meanwhile ?
* » * *
Mt. David (N.S.W.) : “403 tons ore mined;
415 tons crushed, yielding 4510 z. smelted gold, worth
£4 os. 5Ad. per ounce ; average, loz. ldwt. 18gr. per
ton ; total value, £lBl7 3s. 6d. ; total cost., £687 Bs. ;
net profit, £1129 15s. 6d.” This is concise, and reads
well. But there is something else the writer would like
to be clear about. It is alleged that the mine is in no
condition to keep going the new battery, now almost
finished ; that to get these good crushings the ore has been
won, more or less, at the expense of development ; that
the time is nearing when this money, instead of going to
clear-off a big debt, will have to go back into the mine to
put It in shape ; and that, meanwhile, some knowing
people are getting out. Whatever the value of these
rumors, the mine has been worked in so curious a fashion
that time had better he allowed to show its real value.
* * * »
Dear B. —Re Lake George mines. There is no
difficulty in raising and smelting a ton of sulphide, ore at
18s. Perhaps you are not aware that this coarse matte
on its first appearance runs about 13 per cent, copper,
and that it has to be again put through the smelter. To
what percentage of product does the “ three per cent, coni
consumption ” refer ? Are you aware that it takes fully
80 tons of raw ore to produce a hundred units of copper
from this famous mineral at a cost of fully £77 ? (See late
report.) 1.27 p.c.—a little over 281 b. of copper per ton cf
raw ore—where is the div. part to come in ? The eminent
metallurgist now in charge will perhaps explain to—Scrip.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—l see at various times that
Girilambone mine reports raising so and so tons of ore,
and concentrates for smelting. Toting the quantities out,
it seems that for every 100 tons concentrated 25 tons go
to the smelters. What becomes of 75 tons? is it useless?
No wonder calls are coming on so steadily. Someone may
explain a little—about the missing 75. —Calls.
* * * •
Lithgow, N.S.W. ;—“At Capertee River some
unemployed coal-miners are engaged fossicking, and the
majority seem capable of obtaining sufficient to keep
themselves in food.” What a prospect for scores of men,
who implore the writer to tell them where to go prospect-
ing 1
mm**
Menzie’s Barossa, S. A.’s only big gold venture,
is in a very bad way. After the recent crushing shares
slumped to almost nothing, and now Govt. Geologist
Brown practically declares future prospects to be hope-
less. The directors expended £lO,OOO in a 40-head battery
before the mine had been even tested.
* * * •
The prophetic Bottomley “He would refer to
his old love, the Northern Territories Goldfields, which he
had taken an active part in bringing before the investing
public. He took every opportunity of accepting respon-
sibility for that business, and he held out to those directly
or indirectly concerned the expectation of quite a
phenomenal result at no distant date. On their intrinsic
merits they were worth £lO a share, and he hoped before
long they would be seen at that price. He was not a
sporting man, that was to savin the city—(laughter)—but
he wished he were as sure of the winner of the Derby as
he was of that fact. (More laughter.) At any rate, when
he came to think of it, he was not certain that he was not
equally sure of both—(laughter, this time with cheers).”
Bottomley’s “ old love ” proved very fickle. Within two
weeks of that speech, instead of going from £4 to £lO,
they went back to 305., and threaten to go down to 10s.
Wonder if Bottomley is talking of taking ail the responsi-
bility now ! He promised the shareholders something
sensational, and they have got it with a vengeance—at no
distant date, as he said. Probably his certainty of the
Derby winner was equally misplaced.
* * * •
The official returns put down the gold product
of Westralia for the first four months of 1898 at £1,165,073
as compared with • 1,123,749 for the last four months of
1897. The record month up to date was January of this
year, and after that there was a very heavy drop which
hasn’t since been made good. The following are 16
months’ returns :
1897. £ s. d.
January ... ... 153,469 9 8
February ... .. 123,598 16 0
March .. ... 153,126 4 6
April .. .. 150,799 8 6
May ... .. 224,624 13 6
June ... ... 202,725 4 4
July ... .. 185,482 13 10
August ... ... 247,490 17 0
September „ ... 272,750 18 9
October „ ... 287,622 13 10
November M .. 288,211 2 5
December ... ... 275,164 10 7
1898.
January ►. -. 354,902 13 5
February ... 201,203 17 7
March .. .. 286,444 0 0
April .. .. 319,517 16 2
Of course the recent fluctuations don’t necessarily mean
anything. For instance, in December, ’94, the output
was worth £104,000, and it didn’t again get within gun-
shot of that figure till October, ’95, when it reached
£105,000. Then it dropped about one-half, and until
June, ’96, when it reached £106,000, Westralian gold-
mining seemed as if it was dying a natural death.
• * » •
The new co. formed in Adelaide to takeover
the General Gordon has begun by making a call of 6d. per
share. Meanwhile the mine enjoys exemption, and the
splendid winding and battery engines (among the best in
W.A.) are being rapidly destroyed by rust. Prof. Krause,
the late manager, is located at Kalgoorlie, and, according
to advt., is prepared to act as geological expert, &c.
Paddington Consols, a show near Broad Arrow
(W.A.), from which great things were expected, has toed
the mark at lid wt. to the ton. As the reef is some 12ft.
wide it. is possible that, if well managed, she may even-
tually reach the div.-list.
m m * *
Hit or Miss, Mulgarrie, again shut down. The
co. pulled itself together a little while ago, and having
secured the services of Jimmy Henderson, a veteran
manager from Charters Towers, evidently determined to
make a final effort to test the value of the property.
Contracts were let for the deepening of two shafts to
300 ft., and the battery was set going on stone taken from
an open cut on the famous Black Reef, which, at clean-
up, proved worth a shade over 2dwt. This and other
circumstances probably proved too much for the long-
suffering shareholders.
Buyers’ prices ruling in London for shares in
Westralian mines, carrying the deadweight of enormous
capitals, and on which, in most cases, £1 a share has been
paid ••—Arrow Brownhill, Is. 3d. ; Bayley’s United, 2s. ;
Big Blow, 2s. 6d. ; Birthday Amalgamated, 9d.; Blacket’s
Gold Mines, 3s ; Brownhill Proprietary, 2s. ; Cassidy’s
Hill, Is. 6d. ; Cue No. 1, Is.; Fingall Reels Extended, 2s. ;
Gladiator, 9d. ; Golden Cement Claims 6d. ; Golden
Ridge, 3s. ; Hannan’s 100 Acres, 3s. 6d. ; Hannan’s Consols,
s. 6(1. ; Hannan’s Croesus, 3s. Od. ; Hannan’s Main Reef,
3s. 6d.; Hit-or-Miss, 6d. ; Kalgurli Great Western, 2s. 6d. ;
King of the West, 2s. 6d. ; Lady Loch, 2s. ; Londonderry,
2s. ; Mawson’s Reward, Is. 6d. ; Menzies’ Golden Age, 2s. ;
Menzies’ United, 2s. ; Miner’s Dream, 9d. ; Mt. Magnet,
6d. ; Mt. Margaret, Is. 6d. ; New Chum, 3s. 6d. ; Princess
Royal, Cue, 2s. 6d. ; Sam’s Wealth Mines, Is. 6d. ; Sugar-
loaf Cement, Is. 61. ; True Blue, 3s. 6d. ; West Boulder,
Is. 6d. ; White Feather Main Reef, 2s. 6d. There was a
time when all these —or nearly all—were selling above
par ; in several cases the shares were sold in thousands for
more pounds than they are now bringing shillings. In
many cases, the mines, too, are as good as ever—which
means that they were never any good at all. The want
of a market is caused by the want of gold in the mines,
the prospectuses of which are now good for brooding pur-
poses.
* * * •
So far, the filter-presses treating slimes on Lake
View Consols mine are showing an extraction of about 86
per cent. The cost of handling and treatment and the
exact percentage of recovery are not available, but should
be known in a week or two. Should these come out all
rigid this system will attract big attention in other parts
of the world.
• * * •
Great Boulder annual report: —The average
yield works out at 2oz. lO.jdwt., as compared with 3oz.
7dwt. for the previous year. By the operation of 30
stamps, instead of a varying number never exceeding 20,
the ore crushed last year was increased by 12,744 tons,
while the gold recovered has grown to the extent of
27,3430 z., the total being 83,2920 z. Dividends, £264,022,
representing 155 per cent, of its capital, against £223,705.
Cost per ton—opening up, 6s. 6d. per ton ; stoping, 13s. ;
battery expenses, 10s. Bd. ; general charges, 6s. sd. ; sun-
dries, sd.—total, £1 17s. 6d. per ton ; the principal saving
in battery expenses, which have been reduced more than
half. The assay value of the reserves of oxidised ore, loz.
14dwt., against 2oz. lldwt. given in ’96. The reserves of
sulphide and telluride ores— i.e., ore in sight, are 10,000
tons, the value of which is stated at loz. 16dwt. What
newspaper lies we have had from the camp about this !
Here it is clearly and officially admitted that the grade of
the ore is coining down rather too rapidly to be pleasant.
Attention, however, is directed to the concluding passage
of the manager’s report:—“ The deepest workings on the
lodes show the ore to be of high grade, having a width
equal to the average of that in the upper levels, and bear-
ing more evidence of permanence. Everything points to
the year 1898 being a prosperous one.” The directors add
their encouragement: “ They feel justified in saying that,
in their opinion, never in the history of the mine (lid the
prospects of the future appear more favorable than at the
present time.” No doubt for years to come the Boulder
will be a big producer, but its gold and divs. will come
from ore not half as rich as that crushed by it during
nearly three years past.
* • * *
Some weeks back the Great Boulder was suffer-
ing from “ rumors,” in London. Shares fell from 245. to
16s. —a drop of nearly in value. Daily Mail
gave it out that the high-grade ore was failing, that the
mine would soon have to depend on its low-grade ore, that
the eyes had been all picked out, and the days of highly
profitable returns were over. The management replied
denying it all. The Critic showed clearly that the
returns had come down in easy stages, from an average
of 3oz. per ton to 2oz. Where is the mine in
God’s green earth—as Kurnel Bell would say—that didn’t?
It was that way at Mt. Morgan, Broken Hill, and the
Rand mines. As stamps and tonnage go up averages go
down. Tonnage enables the Daily Mail to turn out a
good paper lor a half-penny, and tonnage will no doubt
enable the Great Boulder to turn out the same divs. at
2oz. as it did when the average was 3oz.
* * » •
Hannan’s Croesus, W. A.: —“ Expected that the
mill will be in full swing to-morrow. Sufficient ore at
grass to run three months on stone estimated at 1 Aoz. per
ton.” Well, the shareholders have been waiting three
years for the mill to talk. Of human yabber they are
“ full up.”
• « • *
Waddington has given the Menzies Golden
Rhine shareholders another mine free of charge (in the
Mt. Margaret district) —one recommended by Hamilton,
boss of the Boulder. The experts who reported that the
G.R. would go 3 and 4oz. have been duly cursed, but
whether their opinions proved a blessing at the time to
Waddington no one at the meeting was rude enough to
ask.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—Specimen from local paper of
what we poor West Coast, Tas., devils have to suffer
twice a week:—“The Oasboult Copper, Gold, and Silver
Mining Co. intend to thoroughly develop their property, and
have put on an extra man to open up the lode.” Any
show in which the late £160,000 Crotty’s crowd is in-
terested is boomed to the utmost; mine-manager’s names
given in full and every movement chronicled, whereas all
other mine-managers are entirely ignored.— Mineroo, Mt.
Lyell.
* • « *
Crotty’s will directs his executors to convert
into money all his estate with the exception of his shares
in Mt. Lyell. Which discounts his attitude against the
management of that mine as well as his declarations con-
cerning the North Lyell.
m ■* * *
Dear Bulletin. —Re a boomish-looking para-
graph lately printed by you. As an outsider, profoundly
ignorant of mining history, I would like to offer my prob-
ably stupid remarks on the Chiilagoe Proprietary spec.
Assuming that I am fairly correct in my figures, this is
how the present situation strikes me. Some time ago a
number of Melbourne speculators decided that a copper-
boom would fill a long felt want, to which end they
formed a syndicate—2oo shares of £lOO each. They
selected the old, not to say abandoned, copper district
of Chiilagoe, in N. Queensland, and the 200 original
shares were mostly no doubt taken up with the hope that
whatever the real worth of the field in copper produce, it
would at least prove a lucrative boom “pitch.” The in-
vestors were mostly “good” men i.e., silk - hatted
mortals who have waxed plump and important on the first
proceeds of previous booms—yet it was a significant fact
that none of them cared to run a great risk in this
matter. They put down sums ranging from the
minimum £lOO to £5OO or £6OO apiece mere
trifles to men who fare sumptuously every day.
The Chiilagoe scheme was practically a railway scheme,
based on the supposition that Chiilagoe is a gorgeous
greeny tract of solid copper, waiting all these years for a
means of transmitting its green stuff to market, and that
N. Queensland has been waiting for strangers to come
forward and seize an easy opportunity to develope the
“ vast mineral resources of the country.” The formation
of the syndicate was the signal for a whisper that the
Copper Boom had started. Melbourne rises at the word
“ Boom ” like a trout at a fly. Chiilagoe shares advanced
rapidly from the £lOO par. until it seemed advisable to
water them, and after some judicious watering they
sprouted more vigorously than ever. To-day they are
quoted at £lBOO apiece, which represents, I am told, a
paper value of nearly £BOO,OOO for the property. Genuine
buyers for holding (if there were any such) would be nowa-
days counting on the certainty of Chiilagoe yielding—
well, how much value in copper should Chiilagoe
yield before the net profits amounted to £BOO,OOO,
plus handsome interest on capital, during the
years spent in effecting this glorious result ?
The £lBOO quotation has been arrived at through the
persistent whispering of the aforesaid “ good ” men and
their myrmidons. Chiilagoe Proprietary shares, says the
Whisper, are to touch £lO,OOO, £20,000, £40,000 a-piece,
You just buy, and sell at a fine profit next month. Take
£lO,OOO as the figure adopted by the more “ representa-
tive” boomsters among these dear, “good” men. It means
that Chiilagoe profits, after paying for a railway and
mining exes., must amount to, say, six or seven millions
sterling ere the field is worked out. But this is not the
full strength of the Chillagoeic allegation. There are
bands of minor performers, taking up adjacent properties,
and playing variations on the main Whisper theme. To
the visionary wealth of these green fields there is no end.
And N. Queensland, we are to believe, has allowed its
noble possession to be pegged out by noisy pilgrims from
foreign parts, who arrived like so many Excelsiorians,
bearing each a banner with the sweet device, “The
Copper Boom is Coming.” Don’t you think it has already
come as far as it ought to be allowed to get without pro-
test from—A Copper-Headed Juggins?
• * * »
Within a few weeks Chiilagoe copper-camp will
no doubt have its own newspaper—its own mining boom-
ster by wire. It will import a few up-to-date men from
Westralia —in which case we shall have the same lying
business over again per medium of the innocent Sydney
press. Meanwhile, there is a man standing to the wire in
Brisbane. He proclaims that there is a large influx of
Southern syndicates, speculators, investors, and the pros-
pects of Chiilagoe w»ere never brighter. There is reason
to believe that Q. Govt. Geologist Jack is on his way to
the field. Jumpers have arrived already and started biz.
Thousands of acres have been pegged. N.S.W. is repre-
sented by the “veteran mining-expert” W. S. M'Dowell 1
who has pegged a large area of ground. This is tew much !
—but there is some consolation in knowing that, for the
present, Dowell has ceased pegging out N.S. W. Chiilagoe
Proprietary shares still in the neighborhood of £lBOO.
• • * •
Re Chiilagoe by wire “ Since Stewart’s
examination, the Chiilagoe Proprietary has taken up 940
additional acres. This is regarded here as significant
proof of the glowing nature of his report. Frew, the
C.P. railway engineer, is leaving for Melb. next week to
consult director, and it is expected that the building of
the Mareeba-Chillagoe line will start as soon as he returns.
A report to the C.P. on its water-power scheme at the
Barron falls for smelters will shortly be available. New
finds are reported from the junction of the Einasleigh
and Copperfield Rivers, and a story is current here that
Stewart himself has secured an option on the Noonday, a
big copper lode located by M'Lennan, eight miles south of
Bedford. Speculators are arriving daily, and amongst
the experts are G. A. Stockfeld and Herbert Daley.” First
meeting of Chiilagoe Proprietary shareholders held
in Melb. on Monday. Chapman, the man who has
taken the most prominent part in the inaugura-
tion and promotion of the whole scheme, pre-
sided, and did some tall talk for a man of his pe simistic
proclivities. Total area, 3009 acres, embracing seven dis-
tinct groups of mines. Cast of railway to be known in a
month. Believed with tolerable certainty that £500,000
capital w’ould be sufficient to place the undertaking on a
profit-earning basis. The move now’ is that the pre-
sent holders provide £lOO,OOO of this amount to show
their confidence, and to put the directors in a good posi-
tion to raise the balance. New co. to be 900,000 shares of
£2—£1,800,000 ; present holders for their rights and sub-
scription of £lOO,OOO to have 580,000 shares fully paid.
With £lOO,OOO in hand, it is thought the balance can
be raised by a debenture-issue suitably secured, with right
to convert into shares within a certain time. Chapman
remarked that Stewart had examined the whole of the
mines as well as the railway-route. Though it would be
some time before his complete report w'as available, he
had admitted that the properties justified the building of
the line w'ithout delay, providing facilities for treatment
of the ores and generally w’orking the mines on a scale
commensurate with their magnitude. The directors con-
gratulated the holders, and expressed their unanimous
and unhesitating conviction concerning the great possi-
bilities of the mines. The scheme was passed w'ithout a
murmur, and everybodj went home well pleased—some,
no doubt, to dream of the immeasurable wealth Chapman,
Reid, Knox, Stewart, Moffatt, and other mining philan-
thropists had in store for them.
* » * *
The Q. copper-boom has galvanised several
nearly-forgotten fields—notably the Rosew’ood, near Ips-
wich, and Mt. Perry, near Bundaberg. The lat' er was a
MTlvvraithian venture, and, in the good old days, had a
railway built to its owm cheek.
* * * »
Some Q. mining items: Eidsvold Minerva
crushed 150 tons for 5550 z. ; 6d. div. No. 1 S. Great
Eastern, Gympie, 280 tons, 9390 z. ’ihe Orient line on this
field is turning up trumps. C. Towers : Papuans, 945 tons
for 11430 z., and a 6d. div.; mine apparently all right again.
Clark’s Worcesters still in the doldrums. Brilliant and St.
George, 1169 tons for 11590 z.; Is. div.
* * * •
Gympie May crushings, 8087 tons for 91500 z. ;
divs.', £12,443 —an average month. But this year, so far,
is 10,6030 z. better than last, and things keep a-goin’.
* • * *
One of the (at present) best paying claims on
Croydon was, some time ago, being financed by a local
bank. Things looking blue, the manager of latter insti-
tution declined to subsidise the show any further, when
the Q.N.B. stepped in and took over the business. The
Q.N.B.’s luck this time was in the ascendant, and the con-
cern is now one of the most flourishing in the North.
* * * m
Aitkin and Grant’s find at Tara go River, Gipps-
land, created a regular bush-fire sensation in the dis-
trict, and the city mining men sickened with a fever of
longing at the figures blazoned forth in the morning
dailies—“lB77oz. Bdwt. 22gr. fine gold to the ton.” “ Fine
gold ” seems altogether superfluous and uncalled-for.
Alas ! what a slump in public interest followed
when, a day or two later, it became known that
only a sample about as large as a piece of cheese had been
sent from the dyke at Tarago, and the assay of this gave
an average of “18770 z. Bdwt. 22gr. fine gold to the ton.”
Oh, those assays ! It’s like sending a man’s gold-stopped
molar to the assayer, and hearing a week later that the
auriferous citizen would go “ 18770 z. Bdwt. 22gr.” pure
gold to the ton. We are all of us of “ average ” wealth,
according to the assayer’s fairy system.
» » » *
A Maorilander’s letter from Klondyke : “ You
may expect me home as soon as my clothes thaw enough
forme to get my hands into my pants pocket and reach
the money to pay for my ticket.”
* • * •
Twenty-five years ago, a party of Sydney com-
mercial men, some of whom still survive, formed a com-
pany to purchase and colonise about half of the then
known Papua. The Governor of the day communicated
with the British officials, and the issue was a summary
snuff-out of the daring enterprise.


&
CL
ORIENT " %
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAK
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
(TZT)
SYDNEY.
A
SNAP-
SHOT
, The
Victor
Canon
211-
ne
Duple*
Canon
k
plate.
25/-
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
•>ce our Advertisement on Page S 3
Society
The full published particulars of the gilded
Mr. Jim Crotty’s will show it to be just about as
disreputable as early rumors represented it.
Crotty’s wife gets =£loo a year for life out of the
old man’s glittering pile ; his four sisters and two
brothers get .£lOO a year each ; one executor gets
<£3oo a year and another <£loo, and a R.C. priest
.£3OO a year. Then all the rest of the pile—
alleged to be .£150,000 —goes to the church. Old
Crotty was benevolent after the usual fashion.
He hung on to the money while he had any use
for it himself, and, when he had no further use for
it, he gave it to the cause of religion, in
the hope that the gift would be of use
to himself in the next world. He didn’t
deny himself for the sake of his faith, but he
denied his bereaved widow like a hero, so Mrs.
Crotty has to fall from affluence and live on
.£llBs. sd. a week in order that Crotty may be a
remarkably good man after his death. It is a
miserably mean kind of piety which offers
up the old woman on the altar of its
faith—a kind of piety which wants to be
enthusiastically kicked by every decent person in
the community. All the Seven Provinces badly
require a law which will give the old woman a
lien on the old man’s money when he dies, so that
he can’t rob her by way. of paying a big fire-
insurance premium on his own scared soul. For,
mark you, the old woman is the old man’s full
partner, by all that’s fair and square ; the old man
deliberately took her into partnership and signed,
sealed and delivered the contract, and even if he
did not promise in writing to go her fair halves,
there was at least an honorable understanding to
that effect. He endowed her, not the Church,
with “all his worldlv goods ” in the marriage
service. Is Holy Church going to act as re-
ceiver to Mr. Jim Crotty’s theft from his wife, or
is it going to offer her the square deal which was
denied her by the old hunks? Receivers are as
had as thieves ; also, no man should be allowed to
leave money to any church without having first
provided for his own wife in accordance with the
financial station at which they had ar rived at the
time of his death.
• * • *
A droll incident occurred at a certain
Government House on Queen’s Birthday.
Amongst the mob who came to shake His Ex-
cellency’s fist was an aged person of High-
land descent, sporting the original kilt, plaid, and
bonnet in which he tramped his native heather 40
years ago. The kilt was held together in places
by wire and pieces of string. The eagle’s feather
no longer waved defiantly, but hung limp, broken
in two places. The weather being bitterly cold,
the old warrior wore under his kilt a pair of
flannel pants. He declined to change anything in
the retiring-room, but proceeded into the recep-
tion-room ; in sight of all, he pulled off his pants,
and, throwing them on a seat, was presented to
the Governor, who shook him warmly by the
hand.
* * * *
“ Scot ” :
Be loafing in N.Q. hospitals. The same holds good in
N.S.VV. and Vic. I have known “forty-fives" and a
concertina going in the big ward when a man was next to
the gates of life. The eoncertinisfc had a little sore in his
leg, kept open by scratching round the edge. At grape-
picking and lamb-marking time it healed up. With a
determined doctor, or even wardsman, the best prescrip-
tion to. clear such trash out of the hospital is floor-scrub-
bing, window-cleaning and, above all, low diet. There is
a certain hospital that has eight or ten derelicts always
there, and they own the shanty. One man, after six
weeks, really got fever, and there was found on him a
bank deposit receipt for £llO. He had entered as a
pauper, but the secretary is Scotch, and knew how to
deal with the banking account.
* * « *
“Convert” sends a poser to The Bul-
letin :
Knowing you as a theological authority, can you inform
me what the Anglican Blessing is as practised between
dear brethren and sisters. My curiosity has been aroused
by this. Going down street at 10.30 this morning I wit-
nessed a meeting between an Anglican bishop, who is no
longer very young, and a rather pleasant-featured young
lady. There was a cordial yum-yum sort of handshake ;
then the bishop, after a rapid glance round, put his gloved
hand to his lips, osculated thereon, and laid it swiftly on
those of his companion, who dittoed pianissimo. Not
much in this, but there was a sort of wouldn’t-I-like-to
twinkle in the eye of the bishop, reciprocated by the
lady, which lent much glowful color to the incident.
Hence my thirst for knowledge as aforesaid, previous t 0
making a beeline to join the Anglican community Don’t
dash my hopes by telling me this blessed privilege is con-
ne(lto bishops.
m. • *,, , *. * _ *
Tins can t last long: .Mrs. S. J. Way”
—that is, the wife of the Right Hon. Chief Jus-
-7“ 1, • // leufe ’ ~. ( /° v ' of S -A— “ then P re-
w,th a trow 4 And yet Queen’s
M P ‘w ed w l ltho " t £ Sl^n - Llke the Right
LL f r f * d 7 f^ res ™ osfc Prominently
?Llike meetln S s ’ foundation-stone layings, anil
'** * m
lifo • j *
- 7 .r’ ’ Q, bll hood, purgatory ;
marriage, Heaven, or Hell.
“The extra expense.’'* N.S.W. State-
school teacher: “ Why have you been
without a note-book all this week ?
Surely your mother could afford
you a penny note-book.” Sissie
Socks : “ Please, sir, no! She’s
got to pay furra <£28 peean-
ner an’ a <£16 buggy — an’
we’re goin’ to get a ’orse.”
* * *
N. : “ People some-
times live together,
without marriage, in
England, from an ex-
cellent motive— be-
cause they are
disinterested and
do not wish it to
be supposed they
are after each
other’s money—
thefortuneof one
or both. Thus
all the relatives,
often deserving
persons, with a
moral claim on
the estate, are
left at ease in
their minds.
Marriage is, of
course, only in-
tended as a pro-
tection for the
woman.”
* *
S.O’B. : The
ruling passion.
In a lane off
George-st., Syd-
ney, is a dossers’
penny lodging-
house. Stopping
to watch a “fa-
kir,” who had
“pitched” in the
lane, and was offer-
ing the odds on the
vari-colored wheel —I saw
one of the dossers put
down a penny on the 4 to 1
chance, and lose it. Then he
began to whine —no bed ; have
to sleep out, and so on. The fakir
took pity on him, and gave him back
his penny. The dosser stood watching
the game for awhile ; then, despite the
fakir’s caution that there would be no
giving back this time, he staked again 4 to 1—
lost, and went off up the street without a word.”
A rorty spectacle was provided in a fashion-
able bar, up North, the other night, when a cleric
(in costume), a well-known jockey, and half-a-
dozen of the latter’s friends held high revel. The
horseman had exchanged hats with the parson
early in the evening, and saw the whole of the fun
through in a broad-brimmed tasselled affair, which
harmonised with his adamantine face no better
than his own perky-felt did with the monkey-beard
of the cleric. The latter was in no way disturbed,
however, and, when the racing-man tired of the
fun, he made things willing enough “ on his own.”
Ultimately, the whole crowd drove off in hansoms
for —supper.
* * * »
“ To- enjoy a thing exclusively is com monly
to exclude yourself from the true enjoyment of it,”
says Thoreau. A stab at marriage ?
Melb. : “I pass daily by the Out-
Patient Department of Melb. Hospital.
It is positively the most dismal, horrid
place in the city. Why ? When poor crea-
tures are possessed by the blue-devils, they
have to go to a damp-looking, wretched
den, more melancholy than any about the
gaol. Watch the crowd of men and
women in the waiting-room, an ingenious
compound of a Methodist conventicle and
the ante-chamber of Hell, the walls a sug-
gestion of a leprous lazaretto, while the
benches look as if made out of all the old
court Bibles. I claim that the department
should be a pavilion in the pleasant garden
of the front, just as cheerful as at the Alfred
Hospital.”
* * * *|
Into the casualty-room was carried
the form of a young woman with unusually
luxuriant hair. Her head had been badly
damaged in a street accident; one Sin. gash
running round the base of the skull. Sur-
geon (to assistant) : “ Get the shears—all
this hair 11 have to come off.” The poor
girl, hovering between life and death, heard,
and, with one supreme effort, feebly ex-
claimed : “No! no! Not mv hair!
Please don’t.’’
* * » *
Holdar M. : “Have noticed an in
increasing tendency on woman’s part to en-
croach on the restaurant accommodation
intended specially for males. The change
does not seem to be appreciated by the trou-
sered tyrant, who wants to wolf bis food and
mash the waitress apart from hostile obser-
vation. The waitress, too, jibs against
serving her haughty sister, who, she says,
is fond of making complaints, and is harder
to please than a tableful of men. In any
case, eating being such a dreadfully unro-
mantic business, the whiskered sex should
be protected from lady intruders. The
inured waitress doesn’t count.
No sense of humor in the daily press.
The other day, a Melb. man found an ominous-
looking brown-paper parcel, labelled “infernal
machines,” on the doorstep of his office. He
cautiously shifted it to a vacant allotment, where
it could explode with safety, so to speak, and then
discovered the contents to be 11 second-hand
Bibles. And this was what the papers called “ a
stupid practical joke.” Why not “a brilliant
topical satire ?
* * » *
Melbourne has been antagonistic to its
tramway men ever since they “ struck ” for higher
wages at a time when they were getting about
10s. a week more than their present pay. The
strike didn’t seem to be justified, and a lot of
people expressed their feelings by raising a sub-
scription for the “blacklegs ” who had prevented
a sudden stoppage of the. tramway service. A
strike which inconveniences the public is accursed
for evermore if it doesn’t get a vote of sympathy
at the outset.
* * * *
Gov. Buxton caused a flutter in S.A. reli-
gious circles by inviting Bishop Harmer to his
official Queen’s Birthday dinner, despite all prece-
dent to the contrary. H.E. seems to beat all vice-
regal blundering records.
EXISTENCE KODAKED.
LITTLE MARY (after receiving
several successive reproofs for
different things): “What a
pity dot nearly everyfing is
somefing you MUSTN'T do!”
A par. in Literature (issued
from London Times office) announcing
that Rolf Boldrewood’s next novel is to be about
Maoriland, uses The Bulletin name Maoriland ;
and does not use quotation-marks either.
* * * *
On a recent Sunday evening Melb. Con-
gregational Dr. Bevan told his congregation that
there were pickpockets present, but that he
hoped God would change their hearts. Where-
upon the godly glared enquiringly at each other,
and dropped their prayer-books, and clutched
their purses, and the spirit of devotion went down
badly before the devils of suspicion and greed.
And, when the collection came on, few people
dared withdraw their purses from their pockets.
So that the plate suffered and the curly Bevan
probably was sorry he spoke.
“HOUSE FULL!”
REV. NEEDRILL : “May the Lard be with you, Fairy.”
FAIRY : “I ’ope not, sir, I don’t want ter be run off
my laigs. There’s too much f a push in the
’ouse already!”
LOVE
A LAMODE.
kylfje river
a md lover
AfJljey Quiver
\Unlt)e \yf\Ters UNcler, oven V
3 N T/j)e/A Tov>-ers « popW^TnTely,
L/W a willow weeps >sed rifely
.B^ T ~^l e preTTy Tale l^esTell,
,\\Y 16 fjes Ijnlf
bjerlitfle fc> cxso/eV, swe-JI in^
dIT s/acTon anc| ~77qKt feci no .
TRuJdK be doesnT Tell iT'bndly
e 'willow whispers SMdly '
TS soA\e A\fli clcns lifllj-Vi scone
t~]e I?as Told bejore..
Seif Tf?eTiny w'Avefels .curling
Oer T ,5! TRt) eddy 1 n £?,6wirf 1 n
Ripple bMcK.Aip Answer, 1 AophiNo;
11 »I | ' CO CZ3
Willow, you Are cßj'jiNpA
Tbr sene lovers score
vdR g h'TS lisTenecl To in erfore .
MFKemp.


r
«HavE You
FoROOfTEfi
K^clTriErii,?”
1 {Jim
I "I
O
m/twnt%
-DOSE’S CELEBRATED
**' BYE LOTION -
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st.,Sydney. Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly refcommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOTJNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
Tartaric, Acetic Acids, Cream Tartar, Carb
Ammonia, Almonds, Sorrentd Walnuts, Seeds
(Canary, Hemp and lUillett).
CAT ALLA BO LIQUORICE,
Wholesale Only
from HY. MARKWALD,
11 Pitt-st,
SYDNEY.
178 William-st.,
MELBOURNE.
14 Currie-st.,
ADELAIDE.
Also at Wellington (N.Z.), and Queen-at., Brisbane.
The Snodgrass-Gold tragedy is a pretty
large field for Westralian speculation. Snodgrass
(aged 55) and the late Captain Gold (aged nearly
70) were chummy. On the death of the captain,
a year ago, his comparatively young widow (aged
33, or 46, or something in between) found consola-
tion for a while in the bosom of the Snodgrass
family, and, when the family opened dining-
rooms in Hunt-street, Coolgardie, the widow went
with them. The restaurant soon collapsed, where-
upon Mrs. Gold obtained a place as nurse at the
hospital, and Snodgrass visited her once a week.
Having a daughter and another lady relative
among the staff, his frequent visits looked harm-
less, and his little attentions to his old friend’s
widow passed as properly sympathetic under the
circs. The nurses, who are credited with a know-
ledge of most things that happen in Coolgardie,
didn’t blush over the Snodgrass-Gold “friendship,”
and, when that friendship could crawl through the
needle’s eye of their rigid inspection and come out
uninjured at the other side, it may easily be re-
garded as absolutely sinless. Perhaps Snodgrass
shot the lady in despair of her ever going astray.
* < • *
A Bulletin scribe re the Coolgardie
tragedy
Nurse Gold’s murder by Kenneth Snodgrass, a much-
married man of 55—who at once shot himself dead—re-
moves from that wicked willy-willy-stricken town a bright
little lady ; her sad death will bring tears to the eyes of
many patients who were ministered to by her dainty
hands and cheery smile. Snodgrass is not the first man
by a long chaik to make a fool of himself over a
local hospital nurse. Two doctors rendered them-
selves objects of ridicule for many days by their
jealous bickerings, of which the nurse whom they adored
was, womanlike, totally unconscious. Also, a fever
patient in the convalescent stage developed love symptoms
in alarming degree, which eventually broke out in the
shape of declaration and an impassioned request that
the nurse would say “ Yes ” (writer occupied
next stretcher). Much to the writer’s relief, the nurse’s
reply was beautifully evasive, whereupon came the deter-
mined rejoinder, “If you don’t promise to marry me
I’ll die. I’ll make myself die.” And he did die. Went
on a wild jamboree immediately he was discharged, was
brought in to exactly same cot in a state of collapse, and
soon threw in his cards almost in his goddess’ arms.
* * * •
The A.N.A. uoom for Federation at Melb.
Town Hall was quite a triumph of stage-manage-
ment and dramatic effect. Before the talking had
begun, and just when the “No” minority was
meditating a demonstration against the bootnsters,
the organ struck up “Yankee Doodle.” Roars
of applause. Then “ Rule Britannia ” and an in-
creased volume of roar. After which the chair-
man read a telegram from Barton, and announced
that each speaker would be limited to a ten-
minutes’ oration. More enthusiasm at the news
that no performer would get a chance to grow
wearisome. The discovery that each man had
been appointed to furnish his own particular sec-
tion of subject matter was another glad surprise,
A COLOR-NOTE.
HE : “ Nice fresh complexion, that girl.”
SHE: “ Yes ; probably put it on just before she came out! ”
and what with the rapid succession of spouters
and sundry musical turns to vary the proceedings
the “Noes” were hopelessly demoralised. They
got no openings for interruption. A brisk and
bright entertainment (as political meetings go)
concluded with the best. imitation of patriotic
enthusiasm that Melbourne has ever produced.
The humorless re-
ligion shriekist at a re-
centMelb. prayer-meet-
ing: “Oh! Lord, our
numbers have been re-
duced since our last
annual meeting. Some
have gone to Heaven to
be with Thee; some
have gone to Western
Australia, and some
have gone to other
places.” Heaven, Wes-
tralia,and (presumably)
Sheol. But the order of
comparison should have
put Westralia last.
* * *
Melb. : “ Saw a
funeral pass just now.
Two mourning-coaches
followed by 11 wag-
gonettes, of which six
were quite empty.
What an insult to the
dead to send a few
flowers and a hired
cab to follow; or are
they all part of the show? Nevertheless, it’s
their funeral, after all.
* » * *
“ Melb.” ; Fawkner’s house, the first built
in this city, was reproduced at the Old Colonists’
carnival. I saw the real one, just before it was
knocked down, only about ten years ago.
Fawkner’s house, afterwards used as his print-
ing office, and subsequently as a sort of old
rag-and-bone appendage to a warehouse, stood
behind the Union Club Hotel, formerly the Shakes-
peare, corner of Collins and Market-streets.
• * * *
“ Yiator ”: I especially like the Old
Colonists’ Homes, because there is not the faintest
suggestion of the workhouse about them. They
are charming brick villas, hard to equal amid
places of their stamp, with pleasant, well-kept
gardens, whereas the attempted gardens at other
charitable places get like the neglected graves in
cemeteries, with the broken, rotten railings em-
blematic of grief. Mr. Coppin is justifiably ner-
vous lest his evaporation should be followed by
that of his two noble charities, the O.C. and the
Decayed Actors’ Homes, from which dear old
Gladstone emerges, to do the Napoleonic veteran,
in “ A Royal Divorce.”
* * ♦ *
There is a nation on earth somewhere which
allows single girls perfect; liberty, but chape-
rones are de rigueur for married women. A wise
people!
Story of a giddy little Tottie and
a great Australian daily. One even-
ing lately Tottie strolled into the office
and handed in this advt. :
Miss Flossie Goodenough begs to notify
her numerous friends that she has removed
from 348 J Denuire-street, Carlton, to 902 Se-
lect-street, Richmond, and trusts to receive
a continuance of their favors.
The advt. was duly set-up, queried by
the printer’s “reader,’’and finally came
under notice of the sub-editor. The
latter eyed it doubtfully ; it looked so-
so, but then, again, it might emanate
from a respectable dressmaker, or a
most virtuous white - worker. The
members of the staff were called upon,
but they one and all appeared to be
afflicted with utter ignorance, or tem-
porary lapse of memory, or denseness
of intellect. Finally the sporting-edi-
tor arrived. Now, the s.e. is a godly
young man of the Brunker brand, and
when he had read the advt. he con-
demned it at once. Then the sub-edi-
tor was satisfied, and said he was so
glad that at least someone on the staff
knew Miss Goodenough. Whereupon
a wicked laugh went round, and the
sporting-editor went out and kicked
himself.
* * ♦ *
Dear B.—You might take this
on as a puzzle : Where do the servants
sleep in Sydney ? In places I have
lodged, the problem has in nearly
every case baffled me. In the only
instances in which I have solved it, I
found one sleeping in a cubby-house,
between the dog’s-kennel and the
fowlhouse ; another, under the coun-
ter ; and still another, under a stair-
case that led into the yard. I had no
other motive than curiosity, and don’t
walk in my sleep. How about a law
for the protection of indoor servants ?
—Maria.
* * * *
Again the guileless nigger !
At Bundaberg, t’other day, an abor-
iginal committed for trial on a charge
of killing his gin by an undue enforce-
ment of club-law took objection to his
wife's giving evidence against him.
The possession of a gin is, of course,
native custom ; the holding of a wife
as well is a concession to civilised cus-
tom ; the belting to death with a nulla is aboriginal
tradition again ; the raising of aforesaid objection
in Court is civilisation with a vengeance !
* * • *
The two Sydney lady-doctors have settled
down quietly to work at Adelaide Hospital,
although, it is said, they did not receive a very
cordial reception from the male medicine - men
previously in sole possession. The trouble which
for years lias raged round the institution has now
subsided, and, for the first time since the row
began, there is professional peace in the farina-
ceous village.
» * * *
In a recent S.M. Herald appeared a
learned disquisition on the “mystic number,’’
which was alleged to be 9, because so many per-
sons of greater or less fame {e.g., Gladstone and
F. W Haddon ?) were born in the years ending
’O9, T 9, ’29, and so on. But this sort of argument
would apply to almost any number—what’s the
matter with 15, anyhow ? Magna Charta was
signed in 1215, Agincourt was won in 1415, Water,
100 in 1815. But, after all, as a certain cynic onc e
THE NEW THEATRE HAT—AT SYDNEY CRITERION
observed, “ The magio number is Number One,
and it doesn’t do to forget it.”
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.—l was last week a drunk
passenger on board “ the drunks’ train ” —11.25
p.m. on Saturday, Sydney to Richmond. I’m
invariably maddened by the check-notice —
“Break the glass and press the button to stop the
train ” ; for the penalty-warning underneath seems
to dare you to break, with reason or without. On
previous occasions I haven’t been drunk enough to
defy the notice ; but on Saturday I was. I broke
the glass with a stirrup-iron, pressed the button,
and waited for the deluge. It didn’t come—
nothing caine. The train didn’t even stop; and
all my bravery was wasted. Now, just how much
security to passengers does this inefficient check
offer ?—B.
* * * •
Adelaide sometimes takes an intensely
practical fit, as it did lately when the relics of the
Calvert Exploring Expedition were sold at auction.
Spite of puffs preliminary in which sand-drives
and treeless deserts and weary waiting and
watc’.iing figured largely, Johnny All-sorts had
most of the lines to himself; and it is recorded
with much bathos that, instead of Adelaide
flocking to get souvenirs of the disastrous jaunt,
“a riding saddle on which the renowned and
deeply-lamented explorers jogged thro’ the thirsty
wilderness went to an unpoetic general dealer for
a sovereign.” So the “ few melancholy memo-
rials left of the latest explorers are scattered
and the hobbles that once adorned the great Cal-
vert’s camels now prevent Smith’s cow from
wandering too far outside Smith’s back yard.
* * * «
The Chinaman sent to S.A. quarantine-
station as a leper has substantial cause of action
against S.A. health authorities. It turns out that
he is only “ suffering from the effects of a Chinese
plaster applied to the leg four months ago,” and
the yellow man is now in Adelaide Hospital.
Wah Lee will now probably be worried by an
army of Adelaide lawyers anxious to take up his
case on spec.
Melb. : I often meet
two notorious embezzlers
who ought, legally, to be
in Pentridge, though,
morally, they may be suf-
fered to rip, and feed
themselves, instead of
our doing it. Then there
is a man who shot at an-
other, but got out of limbo
most mysteriously.
People do get out. Others
don’t. My idea is that
the Attorney - General
ought, now and again, to
look over the gaol-rolls
and see if the taxpayers
may not be lightened of
a lot of harmless fellows.
Public safety is the
grand consideration. Let
out the harmless Dido
Bunces and their donahs.
* » *
The most extraordi-
nary fetish in Australia
is the gorgeous Presenta-
tion Volume from Queen
Victoria, under a glass-
case, at Melb. Public
Library. A card notifies
that it contains H. M’s
signature, but nobody is
allowed to 100k —only to
Worship the outside of
the sacred vol. Also, in
N. S. W. National Gal-
lery there is preserved,
under glass, something al-
leged to be the facsimile
of a book presented to,
or by, Queen Victoria.
No profane hand ever
touches it. It is the only
thing under lock-and-key
in the whole institution!!
* * *
Cheerful chunk from Nelson (M.L.) Even-
ing Mail’s Quee’bir’day loyal snort:
Not many more times will it be given us to hail her
natal day. A few more years—perhaps months —and the
joy-bells will be muffled, the crimson flags will be draped
in black —even as to-day the flags mount to the truck, to
fall to the half-mast again to-morrow, telling of him who
has gone before his Queen, her senior by but 10 years.
In view of this kind of rejoicement, perhaps it’s
as well that the Mail’s gruesome congratulations
are not in much danger of reaching the poor old
lady’s ear.
w m ♦ ♦
As a specimen of mixed metaphor the fol-
lowing excerpt from a recent Northern address to
Premier Byrnes is not so bad : “ Apparently your
path is strewn with roses of welcome, all vieing
with each other to sound your praises, irrespective
of their real feelings, the intention being to utilise
your position, if possible, to suit the material
requirements,” &c., &c., &c.
* i * »
i'hosd glittering swashbucklers, the Sydney
Lancers, proposes to send to England 100 of
its members to drill with the—haw—Imperial
troops. Well, they will probably teach the Im-
perial troops something in the way of military
upholstery. But it is bad form to sneer at the
Lancers. They may yet save the country. As
thus, for instance—by way of forecast:—
* • *
“ Creeve Roe ” on the Melb. bomb-ouf>
rage :
The party whom the criminal idiot responsible for the
deed seemed to have intended to send—with all his
household—to Kingdom Come, is an obscure, inoffensive,
retired publican named Maloney. I can understand
dynamiting anybody named Romanoff—but why blow up
Maloney? If the crime was really—as the misspelt word
“Anachy” on the bomb would seem to indicate—
planned by Anarchists, they must have pitched on their
proposed victim in a fashion similar to that attributed to
the N.S.W. Govt.-billet dispensers who, it is said,
used to settle all conflicting claims with the oracular
sentence— “ Appint Maloney ! ” The Age, in its report
of the affair, says : “ Between 10 and 12 years ago there
was a weak-kneed brotherhood in the city prone to give
way to extreme talk ; and sparsely-attended meetings
were held ; but these, small at the outset, dwindled away
to nothing.” Quite true. J discovered that brotherhood
and described it for the Age in an article Entitled
“ Terrible Fellows.” When I attended one of their meet-
ings—which were held in an upstairs room in one of the
small two-storey shops that used to occupy the present
site of the Alexandra Theatre—I felt that I was carrying
my life in my hands, and would probably not carry it far.
But after I had ascended the dingy stairs, and, passing
the janitor, who had eyes of the color of weak soup,
had entered the meeting-room and taken my place beside
a wraith-like female with scanty hair parted on one
side of the head, and had glanced over the gathering
generally—l was no more afraid. An orator with a feeble,
wispy beard, and pigmentless eyes, and a consumptive-
looking chest, and a small, black tie fixed in front of a
paper collar, was informing the audience that the only
way of achieving anarchic freedom was by wading
through Seas of Blood. And he uttered the dreadful
word “ blood ” in a tone which the ordinary man would
have used in referring to milk-and-soda. But the
audience didn’t seem to get excited. This sanguinary
style of speech was, evidently, de rigueur in the Anar-
chists’ Club. Then several other terrific dynamitards—
who looked as if they had been casually crumpled up and
A MEDICAL ITEM.
In plain wrappers, secure from observation.
kept, by an oversight, under the counter of a pawnshop
for some months—arose, and, still in the same scrannel-
pipe key, proclaimed that what was wanted for the
regeneration of the world—and Melbourne particularly—
was Lots of Gore. Finally, someone came round with a
collection-plate and we dropped threepences into it and
I went away disgusted. I had been present at Dorcas
meetings that were far more lively. As for doing any-
thing—there wasn’t one of those sheep-faced, wholesale-
murder advocates who would have been able to summon
up sufficient courage, even when hungry, to decapitate a
fat fowl.
• • * •
Recent Melb. Age advt. :
Blank.— On the 24th May, at , , Mr. Charles
J. Blank, of a daughter. Both doing well.
And has the New Man indeed come to this !
And here again (Argus, 24/5/98) :—
TOOLE.—On the 22nd May, at the Hotel de la Ville,
Little Myers-street, Geelong, Daniel O’Toole, relict of
the late Mary O’Toole, aged 54. R.I.P.
Evidently the grey mare wasthe better horse.
The foe—a furious hungry horde —
Had swept the land with fire and sword ;
And now, all bloated with renown,
Had come to pillage Sydney Town.
“ All’s lost! ” through desp’rate teeth a-clench
Hissed madly Major-General French.
But Colonel Burns said : “ Sir, restrain
Your grief—the Lancers yet remain 1”
It was a gay and gallant sight
To see them prancing out to fight
In scarlet coats, with haughty air,
The idols of the Sydney Fair.
The hostile General, when he spied
These splendid warriors, loudly cried,
With many dreadful foreign oaths—
“ Take them alive ! Don’t spoil their clothes !"
The enemy broke rank and chased
The Lancers o’er allotments waste;
Then poured the people from the town
And cut the scattered foemen down.
A cup now to the Lancers fill,
The warriors weird who dress to kill!
And let this truth be here conveyed—
Much Virtue dwells in Gold Brocade!


' , v
w
H
»a\ r
.
WM
w&
jyS>y,'Mb
\> ■.'• •
mmifi
vcmm
. .v,; v
V l '" •■/■'': ''--V;™! r
■~“ ££§£s£B:4V/'&'Xi&j-’-■ ■ • •■'^%’'i^k-^v>-''V'f-; , v/'
*» ■ -'- - . ■ ' V =-,': ;• - * - •
The Moral of % Rain Storm.
WEAR
A
PAIR
Callaghan
WINTER BOOTS.
CALLAGHAN WINTER BOOTS
■ ■ ■
Keep BOTH FEET Dry and Comfortable.
For Ladies
and Gentlemen.
395 George-st., Sydney.
S 8
m
41
£
IN
All Drapers Everywhere.
“Home, Sweet Home.”
Witat a beautiful place home is when the father
is bilious, the mother is suffering from female
weakness, and the baby has the croup; father
frowns and swears, mother scolds and grumbles,
and baby yells ! And yet this husband and wife
may be two of the best-natured and reasonable
people on the globe when they are in good health.
It may seem ridiculous to say that nearly all
domestic disagreements are caused by the liver,
but a careful study of the problem reveals the fact
that such an assertion is quite within the bounds
of reason. When persons are in ill-health they
are impatient, unreasonable and quarrelsome;
what more natural then than a family “tiff”?
Few people are cynical enough to believe that
married couples don’t wish for peace and harmony,
and some reason must, therefore, be found for
their all too common differences. Bile Beans come,
therefore, in the guise of a peacemaker ; they put
the liver in good order, and invigorate the whole
system, giving new life, as it were; then every-
thing goes as smoothly as a freshly-risen honey-
moon. A word to the wise: Marriage need not
be a failure when Bile Beans cure Indigestion,
Liver Troubles, and various other ailments,
thereby making husbands and wives happy com-
panions. Bile Beans are made in one of the
largest and host-equipped laboratories in the world
at Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A. They are an un-
doubted specific for Constipation, Biliousness,
Headache, Indigestion, Debility, Female Weak-
ness, and all Liver Troubles. For sale at all
chemists; price, 9Jd. per small box, large box
Is. lid., or six for Gs. Get the genuine ; take no
worthless substitutes.*
CUBE TEIS
have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 2 57 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, June 7, 1898.
Mr Dear Mtek—
A large but quiet crowd thronged Govt.
House drawing-rooms last week, and stood about
from 10 till 12 in the belief that it was having a
deliriously exciting time. The skim of the Cream
was net present, but there was plenty of that good
milk that goes thick if you keep it long enough,
and any quantity of the plain, skimmed material.
A few old-fashioned souls pined for the photo-
graphs and picture-books that used to lie round
under other regimes, but the majority wanted
nothing but to be There. Just inside the door
Lady Hampden and the Governor shook seven
hundred hands and smiled seven hundred smiles,
and careful consideration decided that Lady
Hampden has the most effective smile of all our
Governors’ wives. Hers is a gentle, motherly
radiance that reveals no sign of string-pulling.
The fashion of the evening was a sort of fancy-
mixed. Long sleeves and short sleeves, trains
and ankle-revealers, high neck and no neck, dress-
blouses and ball-costumes, betrayed the fact that
dressing for an at-hcme is a puzzle to those who
don’t know everything. Somewhere out of sight
a band played fitfully, the supper-room was open
early, and—well, I think that was about all. A
stirring definition of this class of entertainment
came my way the other day. “ You just ask
people—that’s an ‘ At-Home.’ ”
The Fresh Air League held its annual ball at
the Town Hall next evening. The committee is a
specially hard-working one, but there was that air
of isolation about the dancers that has charac-
terised several public balls this season. Indeed,
the year has witnessed a perceptible falling-off in
this particular industry. St. Vincent’s, the first
charity ball of the season, was the best patronised.
Prince Alfred Hospital made a good second, but
neither the Factory Girls’ not the Fresh Air
League was sought after according to its deserts.
It is lucky that this falling-off means just what
you would think it did not mean. It points to the
fact that Charity is on the increase, not on the
wane. Every little stowed-away suburb now hops
for its own poor, has committee-meetings over its
own washerwomen, and is so busy with its own
deaf, dumb and blind bazaars, that it cannot join
in general charities so largely as it used to. Under
this new system the poor are the gainers.
To go back to the Fresh Air Ball. One of the
handsomest dresses in the room was black tulle
over rose pink, with rose velvet revers worked
with pale appliques. Another nice black dress
was worn by Mrs. Rennie. There’s always a
peculiar costume at every public entertainment,
and you may be interested to hear that, this time,
it was a poplin of a hue that came out of a bottle.
Judson’s Magenta is the briefest name I can give
it. A puce-tinted-scarlet-that-has-been-through-
the-chastening-waters-of-the-blue-bag is longer,
but yields a more definite idea of the eccentric
tint. With this was worn, so help me Worth,
clumps of forget-me-nots and yellow peas, and a
spray of roses that had rubbed up against a boiled
salmon. Every one knows that many people are
obliged to dye, but surely a good, homely, honest
black would have been kinder both to the «m a rer
and her floral decorations.
An interesting feminine crowd foregathered in
the Girls’ High School one night last week to
work up an Old Girls’ Union. Ethel Turner, who
edited a High School paper years ago, made an
affectionate little speech and was loudly cheered
by her old school-chums. The head-mistress, Mrs.
Garvin, who has seen the High School through
teeth, measles, exams., and every youthful ail-
ment, and is warmly remembered by hundreds of
girls all over Australasia, was elected President of
the Union. A vice-president was found in Miss
Florence Thompson, the first lady-graduate of
Sydney University. Dr. Iza Coghlan, Ethel
Turner, and others form the committee, and every
three months there are to be re-unions in the old
schoolroom, with buns and coffee and no mere
men at all, not even husbands, if any High School
girls have married. And here, on behalf of the
sex, I may remark that gatherings of this kind
are the only attempts women make at smoke-
concert effects. Frills are unnecessary adjuncts,
and conviviality is the one and only reason for so
meeting.
Ada Ferrar strained her ankle last week, and
the lovely Mrs. Maesmore-Morris hurried into
Mercia’s robes for one night only. The delicate
beauty of the new Christian was characterised by
a little note of worldliness that broke the heart of
the big audience, when the lions stretched their
jaws around the corner. It seems that there is
less pang and pathos in watching a really holy,
saintly statues* go out to be eaten, than in looking
on at the martyrdom of a lady who would be such
a dream of loveliness in a cotillion.
Federation Friday saw Cartwright’s last per-
formance in Sydney. In spite of the monster
opposition in the streets, there was a crowded
house, and a demonstration broke out at
the close. The house sat in its seats for
many minutes, and cheered hotly and waited
hungrily for the usual farewell speech. A
quiet bow said all that Cartwright cared to say.
Had he spoken there were several nasty remarks
he might have made about “ the colonies,” but on
the whole that bow said more than words.
Next day flowers and friends gathered lavishly
at the Brisbane boat to see the very last of the
company. Cartwright sat aloof in a deck-chair
with a gltini face that warned off casual devotees.
Miss Lamb took things calmly in a little red hat,
and nobody lost his temper when the boat was put
back three hours. By this time, these good people
are used to petty annoyances. They stoically
made their way up town again, and Miss Lamo,
M iss Stewart, and Miss Morley spent the after-
noon in a box at the Tivoli, while Charles Thursby
wandered round the dismal Saturday-afternuon
streets and looked in shop-wmdows fur want of
more exciting games.
By the way, the dreadful rumor that follows
this elegant young actor from province to province
has been dispelled at last. A few days ago, a jolly
afternoon tea-revel rose in a body, at the request
of the maligned one, and pinched him carefully
round the waist. The charge of whalebone was
then dismissed, for want of supporting evidence.
Tempe Ball comes off on June 22nd, and rumors
of fancy sets, and a lively Swedish dance in which
anyone may join, are lending briskness to the sale
of tickets.
A strong band of professionals and amateurs are
working up the “ Cloches de Corneville.” Three
charity performances are to be given next month
at the Criterion by a caste that includes Miss
Josephine Deakin, Madame Sul dene, and Mr.
Burns Walker.
Ihe Society of Artists, now presided over by
the boyish-looking Sid. Long, breaks into fes-
tivities and an exhibition early in September.
The fancy-dress ball is now fixed for Sept. 7th.
Artists' female folk ought to have a great pull
over the wives and daughters of the ordinary
business man, whose only suggestion is Red Rid-
ing Hood or 80-Peep, or some artless personage
that couldn't interfere with his wife’s reputation.
The weird, wild melancholy of the average
melodrama, is illuminated with a dazzling row of
novelties in Bland Holts latest production,
“ Straight from the Heart.” Thunder and light-
ning, and all those banalities, are driven into the
dark ages by the horrors of a fire at sea, shrieking
passengers, wreckage on a desert coast, Arabs,
Anarchists, and a great, red, greedy guillotine.
The gods shuddered when the guillotine was
screwed to the proper point, and the hero’s
hour appeared to have come. A fierce re-
bellion against inhumanity surged through
their elevated hearts, and every face was a picture
up there —a picture of pity! But, just then,
a little child coughed, somewhere away in a back
corner, and in a moment the gallery's noble feel-
ings fled. It turned on the mother like a savage,
and made fierce faces at her until she crept out
into the passage, where she probably relieved her
feelings by slapping the poor little cause of the
tender-hearted gallery’s severity.
It seems a waste of good material to make a
boy of Miss Fitzmaurioe Gill, who can play a
woman so delightfully. Her length of limb
evidently preys upon her mind ; she curls herself
together shrinkinulv wheuever a chance offers.
In her little death-scene, her manner of flop-
ping out of life is an excellent variation on the
average stage-death of linked horrors long drawn
out. Miss Watson works hard for her living
all through the piece, but her mouthy method
gets on the nerves after her first speech, and re-
mains there till gunpowder blows everything out
in the final act. In the proposal scene, this lady,
naturally enough, wears a gown of shimmering
gold. And, naturally enough, she wears nothing
but white in the wedding scene, even though it is
at sea, where you can’t get your clothes washed.
And, naturally, a dull, dark brown is donned when
grief is beyond words. These things have to be.
A little song of Sydney lloben’s is sung by an
unseen singer during the scene of the big, bour-
geois party, and MLs Coutts Duvalli touches her
harp gracefully in an ante-room. Bland Holt has
an excellent feeling for musical effects, and in his
last play he engaged four professional banjoists
for one little turn.
Which is vainer, the very vainest man or the
very vainest woman? Time was when vanity was a
purely feminine word, m-aningless if dissociated
from frills and bonnets, feathers and froufrous.
“ A vain man ” was an expression that no one
would dare to air in public life. But, la-la-la,
what do we hear this century ! A brave and
m inly naval man now brands himself complacently
with a little book of all the newspaper-cuttings
that have mentioned his name. He endeavors to
turn the serious side of the matter away by airily
remarking, as he hands the book to lady friends,
“My little Conceit Book, don’t you know.”
Within the covers innumerable small slips inform
you that Mr. So-and-So played the dashing lover
in Mrs. So-and-So’s private theatricals, and waxed
his moustache with a beautifully-scented pomade.
That the same being sang “ True Till Death ” with
a touch of loving pathos at Mrs. Otherwoman's
at-home. Or even such bald statements as
that the gentleman in question attended a vice-
regal hop last night, or “was present among
others ”at the latest society gambol. Now, do
you think the vainest woman in the world could
be as deliciously artless as that ? Anyhow, I feel
sure that she would have left out that “ was-pre-
sent-among-others ” remark. And if you think
that to leave that out would make for the greater
vanity on the woman’s side, let ine tell you that to
leave it in is a sublimity of self-satisfaction that
even a stone-blind woman could not achieve.
How’s that for the other side ?
Still, to appear to think a certain amount of
oneself is a necessary protector in this fitful fever
stage. The pretty wife of an elevated legal per-
sonage, who dresses in the simple frocks of a little
schoolgirl, was rubbed the wrong way the other
day by no less a person than a big Irish police-
man. He tried to stop her from entering one of
the courts, and was gruff beyond the bounds of
policy or policemen. “ But you don't know who
I am,” she said. And she told him. And he
laughed—laughed ironically. And if a friend had
not turned up just then she might have been wait-
ing admission still. When she had gone in, the
policeman turned to the friend and winked. “Do
you know who she said she was, sir? She said
she was Mrs. Top Rowe. I’ve heard that tale
before. But you can't have me” And he doesn’t
believe her yet. That's the worst of having con-
victions.
This month the streets are full of violets, full of
jonquils. But the little blue flower you buy for
threepence a bunch is as unlike the violet that
darts its arrowy odors through the brain till you
could faint with the delicious pain, as a turnip is
from a tuberose. Its only scent is of water, a
clean aroma certainly, but profoundly annoying
to some people, and never the scent one yearns for
in a flower. At the same time, anv one of any
class whatevah is heavily redolent of violet per-
fume at so much a bottle, and it’s possible that
the bottled perfume is chasing the natural one out
of the grasp of the senses. Down in Hobart this
flower is just reviving its popularity. Sometime
ago a murderer maliciously wore a big bunch in
his buttonhole, and carried another in his hand as
lie stepped on to the scaffold. The flower was
immediately as dead to the world as the man him-
self. For years Fashion would have nothing to
do with it. If Butler or someone of that sort
would carry a bunch of magnolias—the sickliest
flower for scent that blows—there would be virtue
iu his last act.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Spectacularly speaking, the Old Colonists’
Carnival was hotch-potch in patches. Watteau
flovver nymphs, Puritan girls, Salonite parlor-
maids, for the most part, adhered loyally to pre-
scribed inodes. But colors clashed, and stripes
ran mad on the star-spangled raiment of Buffalo
fals from Fitzroy, while, not far off, passe
luropean shoes put the com ether on the sequined
splendor of a flaxen-haired Zingari. And the jum-
ble of styles made onlookers blink when ‘Bohe-
mians ’ posed for a group-portrait in front of their
Oriental bazaar. Damsels in inartistic street-suits
and Indian slippers, or gorgeous ball-gowns and
coronets, rubbed shoulders with colored gentlemen
(genuine) in smug broadcloth and gold-embossed
caps. However, hurly-burly or not, that Eastern
depot excited outside feminine interest, thanks to
its brunette male contingent. Towards the end,
when tired vendors ceased from touting, neglected
she-customers gazed enviously into the shaded
booth where fatigued syrens basked recreatively
under their colleagues’ black Sphinx-like glances.
“ The cosiest corner of the * Carnival ’ was the
Gas Co.’s snuggery, warmed by such caloric con-
trivances as asbestos ‘ Yule-logs ’ glowing ruddily
on old fashioned ‘ dogs.’ Maybe, though, these
realistic brands, like the miraculous bush seen by
Moses (always burning, but never consumed),
might grow monotonous on further acquaintance.
lie the Carnival cookery displays : the pies and
sich turned out by a pretty young deinon-
stratrix seemed ship-shape enough and probably
tasted orthodox, but (considering all the pastry-
cutters and similar conveniences on hand) lacked
finish and coquettishness. Certain patties, too
(mushroom, most likely), with a soupjon of dark
ooziness pervading their seams and a singed freckle
or two on their upper crust, fell short of ehic-ness.
Then the eclat of the poultry was lessened by
their superabundance of long, ungirded leg. Per-
haps, when cold, they would be shorn of this shin-
superfluity and put into frilled paper pants—
though, when the public took its last long look at
the end of the display, they were still exposing
their spindle-shanks in a baking-dish.
“The Carnival has caused much wrath and heart-
burning in fashionable circles. There have been
quarrels, slanders, much calling of names, and even
nasty insinuations about where some of the receipts
went to. The esclandre is specially unpleasant for
those girls who gave their services with a laudable
desire of aiding a charity of the best kind, and
who now find their names bandied about with
those of the female ‘ push ’ against whom
the insinuations are made. The nasty remarks
flung around by a wealthy magnate in particular
rankle in many a virtuous bosom, and a general
shriek ariseth from the maidenhood of Toorak
and St. Kilda: * Never again, my dear—never
again ! ’
“ There were female jarrings indeed from the
very beginning of said Carnival ; bickerings almost
every day while it lasted, and a thundering big
row to" finish up with. An official endeavour is
being made to hush up the whole business,
especially in view of the financial success of the
undertaking, but it won’t work. There is not a
tea-drinking, character-worrying drawing-room in
Melbourne that is not agog with rumors—largely
malicious, probably ; but the feminine mind is
particularly resolved to believe that there is
fire where there’s smoke. It is openly stated that
someladies make a small pocket-money industry of
‘assisting ’ at bazaars and collecting for charities ;
and startling details are given. All of which, of
course, is delightful for the women who assist at
such functions with genuine desire to do a little
bit of good.
“By one of the grim ironies of Life the late
Baronet Clarke’s kindly widow was smilingly
making, at Melb. lown Hall, her first appearance
since her husband’s death, at the very moment
when her brother Kenneth Snodgrass, after shoot-
ing a lady whom he presumably loved to distrac-
tion, was ending his earthly perplexities with
a revolver at Coolgardie. Lady Clarke is,
during Lady Brassey’s absence, Acting-President
of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children. A combination of her own interest
with the wishes of her friends induced her to
depart from her usual course, only to retire the
next day into deeper seclusion. It was not alone
the shock of the episode, but the feeling that her
effort had been in vain to keep family trouble
from public discussion. It is generally known
that she has tried to play guardian angel to her
family ever since her marriage; and everybody
equally well knows what a Herculean task it is to
make the inherently crooked go straight. The
most charitable explanation of Nurse Gold’s
murder and Snodgrass’s suicide is that he was
suddenly overcome by the mental malady that has
kept another member of his family so long an
inmate of a lunatic asylum.
“Like the dove out of the Ark, finding no-
where rest for the sole of his foot, Prof. Tucker,
with a MS. roll in his hand, migrated from floor
to stair, and from stair to floor again, at Melb.
Athenaeum, on the memorable night when the
mob of Federationists, finding the Town Hall
wouldn’t hold them, rushed his lecture-room, and
drove him with rude laughter from the platform.
But his feelings were not outraged or his nerves
disturbed as much as sympathetic reporters have
described. He was upheld by a subsidiary elation
that did not communicate itself to his audience —
waste of time was a small price to pay for the
dramatic fitness of the episode. For once in a
way he lost his identity; he was no longer the
classical lecturer in evening dress and eyeglasses ;
he was, for one brief half-hour, the unpopular
actor driven from the stage of that old Dionysian
theatre at Athens by the laughter and taunts of
the manyheaded Demos. And, in order that none
should miss the point, it was artistically woven
into the lecture. The real trouble came in with
the loss of more than half the audience, who
haying fled discomfited into the streets could
neither be cajoled back by Chairman Wrixon nor
rounded-in by under-Master of Ceremonies Leeper,
though he beat up the highways and byway® for
the lost seekers after classical information.
“ Florence Schmidt got back to her native
Rockhampton as the guest of Premier Byrnes in
the Govt, steam yacht, with her host’s sister and
a Parliamentary party. Returning thanks for his
welcome, the Govt, chief praised the tuneful
Rockhamptoness sky-high, saying that if the lyric
stage had not tempted her, Miss Schmidt would
have had a fine opening in Bananaland politics.
In addition, he stated that all along the coast
theirs had been a joint triumph, and at Cairns the
dual toast had been—‘The Premier in Politics
and the Premier in Song.’ At this stage Rock-
hampton's solitary Frenchman interrupted with
‘ Place aux dames,’ but in the absence of an inter*
preter few saw the point. Later on the unmarried
Mayor fluted so rapturously of ‘ Queensland’s
prima-donna,’ that interjectors prescribed for the
enthusiast a douche bath of matrimony.
“ Solicitor Bertram Lilley, fourth son of Banana-
land’s late C. J., is to join in the bonds with the
prettiest girl in Q. Central Division. The youth-
ful bride-elect is one of a family of sisters whose
faces have literally been their fortunes, .and whose
late aristocratic father and handsome mother had
their own romance in days gone by.
“ It is said that rich-man Crotty’s ill-used widow
intends contesting his will. Those who knew Crotty
best also know what a hopeless waste of money
such action would involve. When remonstrated with
by a friend who was present when the rough copy
was read over to Crotty, the latter shut the re-
monstrator up by asking: ‘ls this your will or
mine that’s being read? If it’s mine, kindly hold
your tongue. If it’s yours, I’ll hold mine!’
“That lucky priest at Kew, who benefits so
largely by the Crotty will, is a typical Paddy.
A kindly soul, ten times as watchful of his flock
as the average shepherd. Even the juvenile
stragglers, lagging on their way to morning cate-
chism, get their share of pastoral attention.
‘ Hurry up, Ambrose,’shouts his Reverence, ‘or
I'll be after seeing your father about yez. Nora,
aren’t ye ashamed to keep the Reverend Mother
waiting ? ’
(Continued on page 24.)


SMOKE!
THREE CASTLES
(jeSies
n
. . .
as
•
CIGARETTES.
Kuppers Elberfeld La
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
EI, BOA XT AND
Emccnvm,
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE lIYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
ROILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with eack
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Eltfin-st., MELBOURNE,
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ He has fallen off his bicycle, off his horse,
off his boat, and off almost everything that is his.”
—London Critic, on Gov. Brasaey.
A southern deacon is said to have ab-
sconded with £2OO ef the parson’s wages 1 Is
there so much money in the world ?
The recent practical abstention of N.S.W.
Speaker Abbott from public appearances is due,
many will regret to hear, to really bad health.
Ned Trickett, ex-champion sculler, is
ticketed as the champion War Cry seller, in the
last issue of that paper, with his 120 weekly. To
what base uses 1
The chief man of a Gulf town was lately
locked up for drunkenness and “screeching.” His
friends excuse him on the plea that “Jimmy was
only practising for Parliament.”
Said the president of a N.S.W. town
Progress Association to a member who asked that
a lamp be erected near his residence: “Perhaps
if you were to take the pledge it would serve the
purpose just as well.”
Pastor-pedagogue Fitchett finds that blood-
and-bullet writing pays. He is now engaged on a
“ History of the Angio-Freneh War, from 1793 to
1815.” Pastor F. is evidently bent on “ teaching
the young idea how to shoot.”
The pi’ophetic legend of the Ticlibornes
—setting forth that after one of them had had
seven sons and another seven daughters the
family would become extinct —hasbeen fulfilled to
the extent that there now remains alive only one
of the seven daughters.
Another ex-Governor of a certain Aus-
tralian province has separated from his wife.
Several other Governors of that province had
somewhat similar experiences, which suggests that
there is a microbe ot domestic infelicity in the
local vice-regal residence.
Died lately at Lake Nyassa, Africa, Dr.
A. W. R. Fletcher, most promising son of ex-
Adelaide University Professor Roby Fletcher.
Fletcher, jun., a Victorian boy, after qualifying
as a medico, went missionarying to Central Africa,
and was a corpse within three months.
“Scribe.” fie Gladstone and “Reliable.”
When W. M‘Kinley law-reported for the Argus,
Judge Redmond Barry sene him a complimentary
note, but objected to being made to say
“Reliable.” The Judge wrote to the effect that
there was no such word in the language.
When the West Maitland (N.S.W.) coun-
cil-clerk was, the other day, receiving a presenta-
tion for long service, it was mentioned that he
had Bpent 60 years in the place. Just think of it 1
Three-fifths of a century in a community unto
which cow-merchant Brunker is as a god 1
ON THE BLOCK.—THOSE YANKEE
SHOULDERS.
Not long ago one of Alex. Montgomery’s
Bulletin yarns re-appeared in another Australian
paper, having been supplied, as original, by a
local man, who had cribbed it from an English
weekly, which had taken it from an American
paper which professed to have received the story
from the narrator viva voce and at first-hand.
Hero we are again 1 ”
In his eve-of-battle Provincialise whoop-
bigs at Parramatta on 2nd June, G. Republican
Dibbs described himself as “ an experienced states-
man of 40 years’ standing.” The man who oalls
himself ‘ a statesman ”is as bad as the bard who
labels his verses “poems.” Dibbs isn’t the first
creature of political circumstance who mistook
himself for a creator thereof.
Luck has attended
the great Bischoff tin-
mine from its infancy.
Like hosts of Tas. pro-
spectors, discoverer
Smith roughed it in all
weathers, fossicking here
and there with as much
notion of Bischoff and
its tin as a babe unborn.
Sam Jackson, Frank
Long, Carroll, Strong,
the Karlsens, the Bells,
and scores of others were
quite as scientific as“ The
Philosopher,” but they
hadn’t his luck. The
first intimation he re-
ceived of the presence of
tin came from a stock-
keeper of the Messrs.
Field, whose rented land
extended to within a
short distance of the
Mount. The “stuff ” was
described as “ heavy grey
gravel,” and Smith went
for it, found it in a creek,
followed it up stream,
and struck the Bischoff.
For this, and fairly
enough, Mr. Smith en-
joyed a penson of £2OO
from the Government;
and Long, who picked
up the first piece of sil-
ver-lead on Zeehan (frein
which field the Gov. has
drawn many thousands
more than from Bis-
choff), gets a paltry £1
per we k 15 years after
his d i sco very. Luck
pegged the Bischoff, for
outside the boundaries
isn’t worth shovelling.
Like the Tasmania gold-
mine, she holds all the
wealth of the district
in her arms, and hugs it tight.
Four “Johns” who were once insepar-
ables i-n Adelaide have been “decorated” —John
Bray, John Downer, John Colton, and John
Bonython. Another member of the circle will
probably soon be added to the list of titled
Johnnies in the person of John Cockburn, the
new Agent-General.
Paragraphed that Rowland Rees is a can-
didate for Westralian Leg. Council. Rees was
formerly one of S.A.’s “eccentric” politicians,
and, like the brilliant Parsons, marred his splendid
talents. Rees, Parsons, and Ward (the latter is
still a S. A. M.L.C.) formed a trio unequalled in
their day as political orators. Rees has now a
good architect’s practice in Perth.
At the Sydney Town Hall anti-Federation
meeting last week ex-Attorney-General Want an-
nounced that he was indebted for the use of the
hall to Mr. John Norton, who had engaged it,
but had generously and loyally given it up in anti-
Federal interests. Anti-Federation does make
strange hall-fellows ! Think of Jack Want giving
John Norton butter on a lordly dish !
Gov. Hampden’s distinction between Ang-
lican and R.C. bishops, for purposes of official
address, works out this way : The Anglican Bishop,
say, of Armidale, is addressed as “ The Bishop of
Armidale ” ; the R.C. Bishop is addressed “ The
Rt. Rev. Dr. Torreggiani, Bishop of Armidale.”
And the State pays some full-grown man to think
out and perpetuate such nice distinctions !
Obit the blind son of a well-known Austra-
lian Anglican clergyman. Deceased leaves children,
whom he never saw, for he had lost hissightwhen he
married a lady, by no means penniless, who had
known him in happier days. In darkness, too, he
successfully negotiated the first examination of
his intended law-course, but he got no further
owing to general break-down of his health.
The editor of a N.S.W. country paper
being ill, the proprietor asked a visiting Melb.
pressman fora “leader” —which, when supplied,
was found to be a rattling advocacy of Federation.
“Damn it all ! ” said the paper-owner, “I’m not
a blooming Federationist; but there’s no other
‘copy,’ and this will have to go in—so I suppose
I’ll have to be one from this out! ” And he is !
A very “long arm” this time! Last
year a Gundagai (N.S.W.) man was thrown from
his horse and died from the effects. About 20
years before he and four others were riding to-
gether when one of the party was killed similarly,
and since then this man has been present at the
killing, in the same way, of his other three com-
panions—finally meeting the same fate himself 1
Although Melbourne newspaper offices
have been simply inundated with Federation
“ poetry ” during the last month, only one bit has
seen print that had any grit in it—Edward
Dyson's half-column in the Argus. The rest of
the slush would have ruined any but a good cause.
It is said that editor Willoughby basketed no less
than 48 odes, sonnets and songs sent in one week.
Gazetted that Tozer (Q.) is to be allowed
to retain for life the distinctive title of “Honor-
able.” And, by the way, hasn’t “ a Tozer ” come
to have in Queensland a certain well-ascertained
meaning? But it works round all right. An
ambassador is said to—er —romance abroad for the
good of his country, and an Agent-General is a
kind of ambassador. The Honorable Tozer,
Agent-General, may pass.
At the eleventh hour, financial editor Nash,
of Sydney D.T., was drawn into the deep sea of
anti-Federal oratory—but the man who had
loomed large in print emerged as a very small and
flustered Samson. Not one journalist in a
hundred but courts disaster when his newspaper
shell gets too small for him—and it is unnecessary,
anyway, to face unsympathetic hundreds if one
habitually spreads himself to thousands.
Mr. F. Barrow Morley, portrayed in pre-
sent Bui.i.KTlN-issue, was born in Sydney in ’7O.
and displayed such remarkably early musical
ability that at 15 years old lie was equal to Bach’s
G. minor organ-fugue. Young Morley’s special
aptitude, however, was for the piano, with which,
under Mr. Sydney Moss’s tuition, he made such
progress that in 1894 he was able to make in
Sydney a very successful first appearance. Since
then his growth in public favor has been such as
to give every promise of a successful career.
BETTER THAN BLOOD .
STONE BROKER: “It’s no use troubling me—you can't get blood out of
stone. ”
DUN: “No ; but you can sometimes get gold!”
Adelaide Advertiser was worth studying
for a few days after its editor-proprietor Bonython
wasK.B.’d. The biographical notice tacked to
the cable talked much of “Sir John.” Then there
was a reference to “J. Langdon” B. And, next
day, the Advertiser’s world read of “ Sir Lang-
don Bonython.”
Albert Lucas tells an anecdote of Remenyi,
who was a great artist and a great boaster,
and particularly proud of being Hungarian.
Lucas was at an hotel in Johannesburg when
the violinist came in and introduced himself
thusly : “I, Remenyi, artist, musician, Hun-
garian.” Whereupon Lucas struck an attitude,
and exclaimed : “I, Lucas, actor, artist, thirsty.’
Remenyi took the hint, and they drank.
Facts about the Coming King. Name,
Albert Victor. Nickname, Tummy. Age, 57. Wife,
1. Children, 4. Grandchildren, 5. Height, sft. 6in.
Weight, 12st. 121 b. Eyes, light-gray; beard,
gray ; complexion, brown ; head, bald. Favorite
wine, champagne of ’B9 ; favorite liqueur, 40-year
cognac. Judge—of horses, dogs, and women.
Shoots, sets the fashions. Has 13 university
degrees. Is colonel of eight regiments, spends
£lOOO a year on telegrams, and won’t have a type-
writer in his house. Owns the deepest mine in
England, and was the first Christian to dine with
the Sultan of Turkey.
Years ago, in Sydney Water
Police Court, before the then
Police-magistrate Cloete, W. B.
Dailey and Windeyer got to say-
ing hard words about each other.
“Gentlemen ! ” expostulated the
P.M. “Why the plural num-
ber?” asked Windeyer, insolently.
“ Oh, well,” said Cloete mildly,
“if you have any objection, Mr.
Windeyer, I withdraw the word,
so far as your share in it is con-
cerned. But please let me know—
in order to facilitate matters—
what I am to call as—er—a
general thing—when it is neces-
sary to refer to you, or address
you, or speak of you, or —er—
think of you?” And Dailey
smiled large, and patted his
bingey, and Windeyer’s scowl
blistered the walls of the
court.
The Isis Standard, published in the tick-
and-kanaka infected districts of Bananaland,
winds up its obituary notioe on Gladstone :
He has laid down his lance, and the great and generous
deeds performed iu a well-spent life are now garnered
with the past which holds all things. During the closing
hours of the dying chieftain’s life the weakening brain
seems to have wandered to the Sunny South, as the cable
message states he occasionally spoke some words in the
French language. He was away among the golden glories
of Sunsets of Paradise, the scarlet blaze of a wilderness of
flowers, the sweetness of songs sad as death that was so
close at hand. . . . Then all pain vanished, and his soul
swooned, and was borne Heavenward amid the deep,
dreamy hush of white moons shining on silvery seas.
The constant repetition of the Tory legend
that M.L. Premier Seddon is a rich man who has
made much bloated affluence out of politics has at
last moved Richard of Ktunara to make a statement
of his financial position. The result is that, apart
from his political screw, along life of hard work
has leftSeddon with an income of rather under £4
a week. Seddon’s predecessors, Ballance and
Atkinson, both died practically penniless. So did
ex-Premier Whitaker. Ex-Treasurer Ward is
stone-broke, and another ex-Mimster has just
his schedule: assets £L3B9; liabilities,
•£3053. A politician can’t get enough tick to
make even a decent insolvency.
Purves, Q.C., to an E. Melbourne audi-
ence “I am against the Referendum. Can any-
one point me a single instance where it has ever
done any good?” Nobody had the presence of
mind to reply, “Yes ! when the people of Vic-
toria refused to elect James Liddell Purves as a
member of the Federal Convention.” Which re-
calls that when Laborist Sleuth appeared at that
memorable meeting of Broken Hill shareholders to
set forth the men’s case, Purves aforesaid attended
for the purpose of oratorically stoushing Sleath.
“ He calls himself a workman,” said the Q.C. ;
“ why, look at his hands—they are whiter than
mine!’’ “ Yes,” Sleath might have said, “they
are cleaner.” But he didn’t. Most people think
of these tilings afterwards.
The newspaper knight in Adelaide haa
discarded the name of John, and is to be known
as “ Sir Langdon.” His title, it is claimed, came
as the result of the energy of friends on the other
side of the ocean. Premier Kingston, it is averred,
had nothing to do with the matter, though dis-
affected persons in Adelaide pretend that it is a
reward for Bony’s services as journalistic champion
of the Govt, during the fierce Hospital fight, now
decided in Kingston’s favor.
The will of late W. H. Glen, music-
seller, who died six years ago, was dragged into
court by a crowd of lawyers last week, in order
that Judge a’Beckett might explain its meaning
on certain points. Any Melbourne man who dies
rich can pretty well depend on having his last will
and testament brought to court. It is beautiful
to see the learned brethren seated in front of his
Honor listening to an exposition of the Law at the
rate of 6s. Bd. per second, or thereabouts. Eleven
counsel and six legal firms had a picnic in the Glen
case.
Died in Ballarat on 29th May, Stephen
Cumming, aged 78. He was an old mate of the
late Peter Lalor, and sheltered him when he
escaped with a wound in the shoulder from the
fight at Eureka Stockade. After Lalor had
rested a little while in Cumming’s tent he wai
taken by the latter to the house of Rev. P. Smith,
where next day his arm was amputated by
Drs. Doyle and Stewart. Old man Cumming
was much esteemed in Ballarat, and most of the
surviving pioneers followed his remains to the
grave.
When Rev. Dr. Momerie (the “Corrup-
tion of the Church ” man) was out here, a Melb.
parson asked him whether he had called on
Bishop Goe. “Dear me, no,” exclaimed the
dandified heretic, hitching up his pants and dis-
playing his scarlet silk socks, “ when I was in
America the bishops all called on me. If the
Bishop of Melbourne likes to call on me at my
hotel I shall be willing to see him.” That clergy-
man, probably having an eye upon a better
vicarate, never dared to make the suggestion to
F. F. Melbourne.
A 10-years’ New Guinea resident, writing
to Sydney D.T. about that gorgeous Papuan land-
grab, deprecates the fixing of the responsibility
upon Gov. Macgregor as due to total misappre-
hension of the man’s personal character :
Whatever may be the secret history of this transaction,
I am confident, from what I know of him, that it will be
found that a higher authority than his hasbeen at the
back of it, though he would be the last man in the world
to clear himself by saying so.
A “ higher authority.” Now, The Bulletin
would like to know who —well, ’um ! —several
things !
Kenneth Snodgrass, the Coolgardie widow-
slayer and suicide, once made a valiant attempt to
oust F. C. Mason from his safe billet as member
for Gippsland South (Vic.), which was held by
father Snodgrass in the very early days of the pro-
vince. The new candidate hadn’t a ghost of a
show against the old campaigner, vvho has since
pushed his way into the Speakership. Bad luck
for Snodgrass. A comfortable seat in Parliament
would have been his salvation, and even the loss
of Mason’s services to Victoria might not have
proved a much sadder event than the murder of a
nice widow in evening dress.
A SYDNEY ’ BUS-HORSE ITEM.
“ Lost, flea-bitten grey horse, broken knee; 10s. reward;
detainer prosecuted.”—Daily paper.
A broken knee and “a broken heart.”
A venerable Cobb's coach, after long cor-
duroy-road service, fitly adorned the Vie. Old
Colonists’ Carnival. This kind of vehicle goes by
other names in America. The CoSl> is Australian,
after Freeman Cobb, who introduced the coach
about 4(1 years ago. His associates were Robert-
son, Wagner, and especially Clapp, while the
Clapp of the next generation bosses the city train-
roads as manager. The Cobbs, the Melb. ’buses,
and the trams were all kept pretty well in the
same progressive Yankee hands.
Cable : “ Samuel Plimsoll, formerly M.P.
for Derby, is seriously ill.” [He has since died.]
Footsteps on the sands of time
Mark the men of stature great;
Sammy Plimsoll. in his prime
Serving loyalb t State,
Played on cran y b ig and barque
Just a small, in.mortal Mark.
Every merchant ship that sa : ls
Bearing Britain's b mting brave
Calls to mind the shameful tales
Of sailors sent to find a jrrave
Peep in ocean caverns dark.
Ere the birth of Plimsoll's Mark.
Hated by the wealthy few,
Callous in their creed for gold,
Every stormy wind that blew
Cursed him in the days of old.
Stormy wind and hungry shark
Cursed the sight of Plimsoll’s Mark.
Now, when weak and sick he lies,
Onetime sturdy Seamen's Friend,
Memories of his work arise
Glorifying Plimsoll’s end.
When his form be cold and stark
Men will say, “ He left his Mark.”


‘ THREE
aooD
Madk in England.
THIKTGS
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
Worcestershire
Pure English
Pure Malt
Sauce
Pickles
Vinegar
"68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook’s Sauce H * s been awarded more Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALP THE PRICE Ol<’ OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
AUK SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “ I'URE MALT."
COMMON AND LOW-S'IUCKI) VINKOAHS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
By far the Best Victorian Coal
. . ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU . .
Address: THE COAL CREEK PROPRIETARY CO.,
Telephone 1431). Flinders Buildings, 312 Flindevs-st., Melbourne.
Aboriginalities.
K.: “Met an Australian to-day and asked
him the road to Tuppal. ‘Well, pard, can’t
’xactly direct; yer from yere. Better inquire at
the next ranch. Guess they'll be able to put yer
on the darned trail ! ’ said he. Which shows
what a singular hold the cheap Yankee dread-
ful ’is getting upon the gumleaf bloke. The boy
who shot the man at Mungadale ; the man who
lassooed the ‘galoot’ at Deniliquin; and the
crank who presented two revolvers at a citizen on
Narandera bridge and remarked that he * had the
drop on him,’ were all consistent followers of
Frank Reade, of ‘ The Land of Crimson Snow or
the Pirates of Sandy Hook.’ Common thing now
in the back country to meet men under different
degrees of the Dead wood influence, carrying the
indispensable volume in the billy with the pups,
or reclining on Matilda by the roadside, leading
the Outlaws of Nuggetty Gulch to victory—with
no socks on ! The hawkers are doing well. Met
a man recently carrying £1 worth of Deadwoods
in a bran-bag. This was his only swag. ‘ I’m
Tarantula Tom, the great Blood-Pudding of the
Norwest. I’m a bad ’un and I mean to kill! ’ he
remarked, dropping the pack and striking a blood-
curdling attitude. What price a 3d. purely-Aus-
tralian short-story library?
* * » *
Jim went broke at the pub. and drank his
dog. Got sober, took up his swag and walked.
Some years after he came across his dog. “ He’s
forgotten you,” said the owner ; and so it seemed
until Jim shammed drunk, rolled about, and fell.
Then the dog knew it was the same old Jim, and
lay alongside of him and defied one and all to
touch him. Beautiful moral somewhere.
* * » *
“ Mac.” : “ Lazarus ” is too cocksure as to
the pleasures and benefits of sleeping out in the
open. Depends very much on the locality. He
should try Woolloomdoloo Bay wharf. I did
ouoe ; and, what with broken bricks and coal, and
smears of tar, and other stuff, it wasn’t just
heavenly. And, after all, the skipper of the
cutter 1 was shepherding for a billet told me in
the morning that lie didn’t want any more hands,
and when he did he knew where to get ’em and
he said more than that, too—damn him ! Of
course, in the country one can go to sleep with his
head on a fowl and, perhaps, a couple of potatoes,
and, maybe, with his tongue reasonably damp,
and needn’t trouble whether the adjacent farmer
Wcpits him to go to work in the morning or not.
Perhaps “Lazarus ” can always get tucker when-
ever he wants it, and so can fix all his mindon the
search for a residence. But if so, he ought to call
himself Dives.
“ Tooroo ” : C.S. is right about the lyre-
bird imitating the jackass, but probably few of
DAN WANTED TO BE AGREEABLE.
DAN: "Your horse is fin, Jerry.”
JERRY: “Yis; he have the tampers had.”
DAN : “Och! no wonder — thim bush saddles would give anny horse the tampers! ”
your readws know that the satin bower-bird can
do so almost as well, and can also mimic black
and white cockatoos, gang-gangs, parakeets, and
many other birds. Having had a black satin-bird
for 2i years, I speak from personal experience.
* * * *
“Groffin”: A witness before Vic. Law
Commission was questioned as to whether there
was such a thing as racial or class bias amongst
Australian natives. The answer Was “No, ex-
ceptiiig in the case of Chinamen and their child-
ren.” The witness, however, could never have
lived in a community where there was a mixture
of Irish-Australians and Cornish-Australians. If
you want to specially insult the former, call him
a “ Cousin Jack,” and, if the latter, coolly observe
“ Get out; you’re Irish ! ” I was one day riding
in a cab from Mt. Pleasant to Ballarat. r I he
legal fare is 2d., but anyone who doesn’t want to
be condemned as a miser always pays 3d. The
cabman was the son of an Irishman, and a China-
man, who was amongst the passengers, alighted
and tendered two coppers. The driver exhausted
his stock of Billingsgate, and, when it was all
used up and there wasn’t another curse in him,
scathingly added, “ Well, you’re a dashed Cousin
Jack.” He could say nothing worse.
“0.P.”: He tobacco substitutes. I’ve
tried tea, tea-leaves, bark, dry roots, gum-leaves,
chaff, lucerne and dry dock. First six are of no
use whatever. Lucerne is better. Got the
wrinkle from a swaggy. He had it in a small
bag with a running string. Makes you fancy
you re a horse! Shade-dried dock, whtch I be-
he.ve belongs to the tobacco family, comes next,
But, after all, nothing short of the genuine thing
13 . m . ucl u . s f ’ e y, en b ac * tobacco fails dismally
to fill the void. Ive seen even horse and emu
dung burnt in the bowl, but have never done it
myself.
* * * *
f'Miell ; My friend from Gippsland
bad a cockatoo once. It was a most gifted
linguist, and could talk policies in five languages,
The bird was very fond of its kind master at first,
but, as its intellectual powers and its worldly ex-
perience increased, a coolness arose between them,
'ln fact the Gippslander was not class enough—-he
Miss PATTIE BROWNE, up to date.
Photo., Falk Studios , Melbourne.
lacked interesting matter and command of
language such as that bird demanded of a bosom
friend and confidant, and, as was to be expected,
the cockatoo went off one day in search of more
congenial society. Says the man from Gippsland
East : “ He was missin’ for about 14 months,
when one day while I was paddin’ it from Bruthen
t’ Sale, I heard a awful clatter in a ole white gum,
an’ dropped bluey to make enquiries. On a limb
I sees my old cookie perched, an’ lookin’ as old-
fashioned as a bloomin’ Judge. He had about
fifty million other cockatoos ranged around, on the
other branches in classes, an’ he was layin’ down
the blessed law t’ them like all what’s this. What
doin’? He was keepin’ school, teachin’ all the
other blanky cockatoos in the blanky country the
blanky English langwidge—that’s what he was
doin’.”
C.H.R. ; “Anybody wishing to be sea-
soned to Klondyke weather should try a winter
on the mid - tableland of Tasmania. The
present writer and a mate were fossicking
on the spurs of the Cradle Mountain
(5100ft.) one August. An afternoon
Bleet-storm came along rendering it
necessary to camp in a partiou-
larly cheerless spot just above
the timber line. Wood being
scarce, we were forced to turn
into damp rugs, and in the
morning my mate sang out
to know who had been pil
ing timber on to us (we
were in a field - bed).
Everything was frozen
stiff, including ourselves.
After violent exertion we
managed to crawl out.
Our shirts stood out like
sheets of bark, and we
had to prop our pants up
against rocks and lower
ourselves into ’em. Then
we overturned the tent and
upended the bedding, and
stood ’em up to thaw. An
old liutkeeper, who has resided
around the highlands for many
years, told me that his hat once
froze to his head and his old
woman only removed it by ap-
plying damper poultices every
two hours; and when it did
come it left his head as bare
as the palm of your hand. How-
ever, he was a bit of a liar.
The ‘ Big Freeze,’ some time in
the Forties, in the Lake Coun-
try, killed every pine for miles
and froze the entire surface of
the great lake 9in. thick. The re-
ports from the timber sounded like
the Battle of Waterloo, and thou-
sands of ducks and other birds died
on their perches. If the provinces want
re-naming after June 3, I propose the
Little Island’s name be changed to Klondob-
sondyke. ”
* * * *
It is told that when the first white man
who trod the soap-stone paths of Levuka, the
ancient capital of Fiji, struck a vesta on his
trousers, the whole of the scantily-clad population
followed in his wake for hours, repeating aloud to
each other, “Lo and behold the mighty white
man, who can bring forth fire from his trousers ! ”
* * * *
George : Met a woman-swaggie a few,
weeks ago camped outside a small western town.
Reckoned she was making for the city, where her
“ old man ” was supposed to be, and, if I “ didn’t
mind,” my company on the track would be very
acceptable. “I’ll find the tucker,” she said.
“ The blessed cookies always fork out to my little
yarn. You needn’t appear on the scene at all ;
or, if you do, remember you’re in the last stage of
consumption, and I’m your sister taking you to a
hospital in town. Weakly I assented, and after
many droll adventures reached the city, where I
had the devil’s own trouble to get rid of her. And
now that T am affluent and, of course, respectable,
I’m in deadly fear of running up against her and
being claimed as her long lost brother.
Ex-Queenslander Rawson
is giving some wonderful exhibi-
tions of boomerang throwing
at the Palace Theatre, London.
Alleged that Rawson can make
a boomerang describe three cir-
cles and return to his hand after
completing the third. Rawson
might return and give a. few
lessons to the aboriginals. There
are lots of districts where the
hapless remnant has almost for-
gotten what a boomerang is.
* * *
Bush Editor : Sample of
letters your brothers in the bush
have to bear up against when
they enter their offices on wash-
ing-morning (Monday):—
Dear Sir,—l threw into your letter-
box yesterday 7 pages of M.S. If
you publish them see to the autho-
graphy. That “y” in “said.” The
“s” in “prizes,” and “oar” for
“ o’er,” &e. When my mind is en-
gaged on any subject, spelling and
punctuations are of a second con-
sideration.
* * *
The squatter looks down
on the selector, the selector on
the village-settler, the settler on
the swagman and swaggie
scoffs at the lot of them.
* * *
Yic. Ped. : Two letters re-
ceived by me—one in my schol-
astic and the other in my private
capacity:—
Der Sir i want to know why it is
the object that my child is kept in
and she has a mark on her leg as she
noes her work every time so I want
to no why she is treated is it becaus
she is catylick or what is the object
so send word at onse to me and ob-
lidge Mrs. Hooligan.
Pleas sir mary was away as she
had a saw foot and could you pleas
give tommey too siblings as I want
to buy some floure.
* * *
Fromßockhampton Moan-
ing Bulletin :
mO Residents of Rockhampton and Travelling Pub-
lie.—By paying 3s. at my table (free bed, free
stable). Board and residence, 16s. per week. End of
balcony kept perfectly private for young or old mar-
ried couples spending their honeymoon. Certificate
indispensable. 11. Marquess, Melbourne House.
* ... *
On one western N.S.W. squattage, Pdola-
macea, the owner has more than average re-
gard for the aborigines’ well-being —besides, they
■come ill handy at shearing-time and for rabbiting.
Being shocked at the awful discomforts of
the “ camp,” made mostly of rotten bags and
forked sticks, lie built a big circular galvanised-
iron barn, with provision for a central fife. Then
he invited the “tribe” (a mixed lot, but mostly
deformed and diseased) to suggest improvements.
One or two things were done to the building as a
result ; and the “ tribe,” in great joy, trooped in.
In a week the first sneak-out occurred ; after that
THE SPREAD OF CIVILISATION.
VISITOR : “ You litre him cigarette, Billy?”
KING BILLY : “ Well, I dunno. What brand, ole
man?”
the disreputable old collection of bones and rags
and brawling things was gradually resorted to by
all the rest, the last to leave being the half-breeds.
♦ * * *
Dear Bulletin. tie kangaroos using their
tails in jumping. A couple of years ago we got
an old-man in our paddock, which had a high,
barb-topped fence. Knew he couldn’t jump it, so
we pressed him into a corner. But when lie got
near the fence he jumped on to a stump some five
yards off, and from that cleared the fence easily.
Evidently an old game of his; but his tail could
not have been of the slightest service in jumping
from tho stump, which was about three feet luge.
-F. R.
THE M‘CAMLEY MIXTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jaok M'Cainley,
Lank and long,
Ox-persuader,
Billabong.
Bluff and hearty
Sort o’ party,
Got the “ blanky ” habit strong !
Says the parson,
Bright old bird,
“ Whv’d you use that
Horrid word ?
(Jack looked grinful)—
Not say sinful,
But most vulgar and absurd ! ”
“ It’s the blanky
Church, betwixt
You and me, that
Got me fixed ! ”
Says M'Cainley,
“ In our fam’ly
Things is all so blanky mixed !
“ There’s me father —
Whoa back, Dick 1 —
Church o’ Blanky
England, stric !
There’s me mother
And one brother,
Roman —Blanky—Catholic !
“ But me sister —
Way, you Stan !
Don’t them bullocks
Rile a man ?
Kilts enticed her,
Went and spliced a
Presby—Blanky —terian ! ”
W. T. GOODGE.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
P.SES BY POST.
kUAID'S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/fi ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
TJ MOUNTS AST hE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per 14-rtozen through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, f>/ii.
Very Stronsr, Soft, Porous au<l Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. Stanthen;<
measure & size of collar worn. WK I l/.O < II l-. lts.
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BKI>I>ANE. Sole ajjents toi the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki ami Assam Silk.
Answers to Correspondents .
X„ notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Cooma: “True snake” to hand E. de K. :
“ Blanky Foreigner” hardly up to mark E.S.K. :
Storv no good, but the moral, which is “ blast foreign
missions,” is excellent Snooks: Story starts about
Unde Joe. Then Uncle Joe disappears, and George
turns up, and presently George disappears, and Joe re-
mains away, and the tale ends with two men walking
across a dry plain .... Nemo: Language fails us re poem.
Federalist: (1) Under the single electorate system a
man generally gets in because he is the big local store-
keeper. (2) The choice is narrowed. If two men like
lteid and Barton, who between them got 180,000 Conven-
tion election votes, stand for one electorate and two local
usurers for another, it follows that one usurer must
got in and one of the two most popular men in the
province must stay out. (3) The Fat Man can often put
up sham democratic candidates and get in by splitting
the Liberal vote. (4) The constituency system doesn’t
represent the people. N.S.W. in general was willing to
(4ve Barton 96,000 votes because he was the boss Federa-
tionist of Australia. And no single constituency wanted
Barton, because he didn’t look after the local culvert
Seedwheat: True, but where is the remedy ? B.T. :
And how much better were you when “Reid and his
push ” were in? Experto Crede : You don t howl for
the abolition of N.S.W. landaninkumtax in this organ,
anyhow. Tiie Bulletin wants a bigger exemption for
the benefit of the small farmer, graduated tax so that it
will fall heaviest on the biggest estates ; heavy absentee
tax, reduced tax on incomes resulting from personal ex-
ertion, and increased tax on incomes derived from invest-
ments ; also, a protective tariff to aid local industries,
and (incidentally) to supply enough revenue to keep the
province afloat without borrowing J.M‘G. : You say
The Bulletin keeps bad company in supporting Federa-
tion. Well, if it had been against Federation it would
have had for company Want, Ileydon, Salomons, and
practically all the N.S.W. Leg. Council. How’s that for
company? J.M. : Webley’s, Smith and Wessons, and
Colt's are all good. Prices, from 20s. up to £7 7s
N.M. (M.L.): Dark suspicion that poem isn’t moral
G.A.B. (Ch. Towers): Many thanks J.L.C. : Yes, a
little sun and air. Old joke J.M‘H. : But, then, Cecil
Rhodes wouldn’t have built a State railway across S. A. to
Pt. Darwin. Rhodes couldn’t make money grow on the
gum-tree any more than anybody else. He would have
floated huge syndicates, and given away the land to
private railway co.’s, and imported niggers and Chows
wholesale, and then he would probably have declared
war against N.S.W., or Victoria, and been captured and
hanged C.S.F. : Yes, but how in the name of all
that's wonderful did a bishop get housemaid's knee?
You don’t mean to insinuate that modern bishops
say their prayers that often? Old Sub..: For five
years (1892-3-4-5-6), New South Wales, 12,205 illegitimate
births; Queensland, 3564 ; Viotoria, 9606. For 1896
alone, N.S.W., 2445 ; Queensland, 732 ; Victoria, 1812.
Can’t find the complete figures for 1897 at the moment....
A. Cheval : Gloom and muddle T.B. : Lyreland won t
do as the new name for N.S.W. Couldn’t something be
made out of the name of Hartog, or Pelsart, or some
other old exploring person who has no longer any use for
himself? A.W.J. : Tale received beginning: “The
scene is pitiful, the sight is horrible, the pain is
agonising. . . .” Then a page further on it turns out
that a drunken person is jumping on Sarah. We wish
your manuscript was Sarah G.G. : You desire us to
state that your local policeman is a “ crawling Broken
Hill scab,” do you? P. Morrison : Many thanks. ...
S.O'B. : Graphic, but over-sombre for its length, and too
like the things The Bulletin is accused by its critics of
“ always ” publishing. Would find ready acceptance else-
where' W.H.W. : Could say nothing about it, except
in such very general terms as would serve no useful pur-
pose ... Pegg : Too beastly domesticated .... Medero : The
Bulletin, of course, can’t say it straight out, but it
thinks it does pretty well know now who salted the Last
Call. Recent events appear to cast a lurid light on that
little affair.......Al.G. : Unprintable personalities. J.
Sydney W. : Couldn’t print such a brutal thing—to say
nothing of emphasising it by illustration F. Redclyne :
Verse hot up. Other not worth the trouble taken to
decipher .... T.H.M'K. (M.L.): Verse too unequal. Poet-
anecdote smellful .... A.H. : Sorry no literary value ...
E.F.C. : Unpretending, and not without merit, but fails
in style 7x7: Interest of circumstances won’t carry
the doggerel Lucy F. : Like a small sparrow on a
large house-top 8.D.8. : Romantic as a round of beef.
Oona : You come out at same hole you went in at.
Such questions are best left alone—carpe diem / ....
\„nes B. : Thanks .... A.li. : Feeble verse about a tiring
F. BARRON MOBLEY, a rising pianist.
Photo., Crown Studios.
, .(son ... P.M.: Christie Murray appeared at Melb. Royal
in ‘‘Jim the Penman.” He had previously played at the
Opera House, in his own play Awkward : The Bul-
letin doesn't choose its company-never did. It writes
iust according to its lights and its liver. Even mur-
derers and perjurers, and blood-soaked usurers, are
entitled to strict'justice Walter R. (M.L.) : Thanks for
cutting. Some of the MS. usable Moonbie : You re
right "stripes wrong; helmet right—gowrong. .....
J. S. Stanley : Not the sort of tiling that could be publicly
stated, even if true up to the hilt R.S.T. (M.L.): Think
it was rejected. A. Thorpe : Would need complete re-
writing. Flabby Paul : Will squeeze you into shape.
Banool : Too underdone; you write as if you d been
there yourself. W.M.A.: Aged traveller laid to rest ac-
cordingly. Par. funny, hut too tropical. We said “ Hats,
too, when we found that your M.L. rat-adventure occurred
in “ a hut that had been occupied by the Kelly gang
Eric : “ Those that weren’t dead were lame.’ Well, your
poem it’os lame and is dead Allan Leith : Neatly
I old, but hardlv interest enough. Ethel M. : Graceful,
lmt weak in the hack Vixi ; Verse smooth enough,
but ideas too obviously mere adjuncts thereto Largo .
There’s comedy in it, hut hardly well enough worked-up. . .
Moonhill : In Victoria, constables wear their helmets in
court T.D.H. (Free.): Print that brutal thing! ...
E.L. : Most of the small training-stables are kept going
JZOC C-ESTIOH 5 TOH S
T)T the sign of the times
hymn/ /
Dook's ' \v
TO F3£ 1 U
G » v *S N«
/=WV *<\Y
t -the: t-
oooß^
the 4* si&n
OF T "£**s
cTH-NIC -S
OiNHisfd oF-
tBLeCTIOM IfTHoNI 1 q J
Tot O' '3lc J \j
poMsbook »» V
MARTYR'S j, \
W AM.KINC j
fkuftßV KOREtLI ,f,
r C. /
n>- j
SBmu kine rjARRPTT V
l|l} KlNt OF PSJtrgflUH.
MB \|[|]CH R' IN c-WILL
MWIFaKK- YH.ACCS
WJ/after the EAST
1 ILL- j
[\|jWHOTHERS METTI>,|
SCENE . SHOWING the MARVELOUS FORTITUDE OF
THE E-ARUY CHRISTIANS
riNfi
LBETWEE.N
p STEPHANOS
■- AMO
He-I MU3T-ER HAV-E R YOU 1 ' catch he”
the.
stufp£d
M LI OjNf
STtPH '" T Nlsl?N me;"
•ft SLOW TIME IN THE- ' "
ARENA THC LIONS ATTC R ONES
A\NJTO ea'-Y HYMN
by the bit-to-nothing laid by the punters
The principal professional objection to stenography is no
doubt that, since it expedites court-business, it might
lead to a discovery by the public that it is saddled with a
good many more expensive judicial officials than it nas
any use for. Also, verbatim reports of summings-up
don’t read too well and are beastly awkward things for
Judges who go wrong in their law .Fred Carter :1.
£3 Ist: £2, 2nd. 2. Both alluvial and cement. 3. Yes,
it’s good enough Richard F. : Fear there s not much
use in persevering. Good thoughts, but total lac
rhvthm-ear is fatal to versification G. 8.0. . Yes, Here-
ward the Wake. . Ito : Such a man ‘ replying to Barton .
A prawn getting in the road of a whale. But the bounders
and deadbeats of N.S.W. politics ranged themselves to a
man with the provincialists, because their show would be
even poorer under Federation than it is now A.C . .
The N.S.W. gold-production record will never be com-
plete until mine-owners are compelled to furnish returns,
as in other province C.H. (Auckland) : Just about two
inches from mediocrity She-Oak : The bookseller who
puts leaflets about “ The Queen’s Empire in this horrible
rag—and thus antidotes the bane while collecting his
sales-commission—should be prayerfully admonished with
a waddy Face : Will try and work up .. Edwin (ME).
You’ve got the wrong bone by the wool W -E.A. . What
do you take us for? Helen : Don t eare for ... E.L.S. .
None force enough G.E.B. (M.L.): No wterert ...
Elsie T. : “Barbara” artistically simple, but hardly
motive enough. “ Mrs. Ferry ’’ clever, but flattens down
badly at finish . D. Bon. : Verses curious mixture of
brilliancy and bosh. Story backs vigor. ..Benvolio
“Mrs. Stranger” inclined to be twaddly. Your literary
loins need girding-up. Rupert F. : Can t let any
“tocsins be sounded” in Bulletin Poniard . A veiy
blunt one, then ! ... N.B.W. : Yarn received with respect
due to its advanced age Xero : Floundering in
swamp of superfluous adjectives. Taffy : Won t accept
vou “on astiok.” .. .Laura C.: Metre impossible; rhymes
only too possible Ardath :It doesn t follow. Many of
the world’s great writers have been totally incapable of
verse . R.: As the “crack” Australian horses they are
entitled to “ booming.” One Australian horse, Carnage,
seems to have been sold again for £lO,OOO after eavmg
this country. ~G.E. : The ex-“ captain appears to have
published her grievances in a circular form mstead or
silently chucking up her billet. If the llarmy didn t
treat her kindly, let her rest content with the discovery
that religious hysteria is not all comfort and joy. At
present she slangs the Harmy, and is still anxious to go
on banging her cymbals J.B.M. (M.L.). llianKS....
Quiro : Yes ; but even if case does strictly speaking cease
to be subjudice with delivery of verdict in deferred sen-
tence cases, the Judge being only human might be in-
fluenced by intermediate newspaper comment. Not
probable, perhaps, but even the bare possibility should be
jealously guarded against... B. Neville: Received-
thanks... .A. J.G. : Funny dog enough—but you cant
hang puns all over us like that H.G. : You ask, with
unprintable detail, can a colliery inspector do hisi duty
properl v when he has a son employed in the colliery he
inspects ? Without knowing anything of the particular
case, this paper says No, on general principles ...
T W G * There’s a par. in it about 3ooft. down, and at
the end of a 96ft. crosscut; but we can’t go mining that
far Toby : Received.
On the Road to Klondike.
“ C.H.M.” writes from Wrangel, Alaska, under
date April 16, ’9B : .
Editor Bulletin.—Australians are here mi good force,
and the wish expressed by one and re-echoed by all pie-
sent that there was a copy of The Bullet n to be had
suggests that perhaps you could, in the interests of in-
tending Klondikers, find a corner for reliable information
re the journey as far as Glenora, to which point I have
been The first trouble one is likely to have is choosing
the right kind of outfit, and where so many cater and
each swears that his ideas as to the needful articles are
rio-ht, it is just as well for those coming to know that
three parts of the things said to be requ l red are utterly
useless. The weather here in winter is cold—no doubt
about that; but the best clothing is heavy woollen. Let
anyone making the journey bring woollen clothing and
plenty of it, and that, with oilskin outside-wear, isi the
best winter covering for these parts. Furs of every kind
are simply useless, and skin garments are wotse still.
Provisions, of course, depend on the person choosing, but
the everlasting bacon and beans are easiest and best
to take when a journey right through is intended of
course with a variety of dried fruits and groceries. Those
three kinds comprise, principally, the old h ®-" d *
Concerning the points for outfitting there is not much to
choose, hut Victoria and Vancouver arid Seattle in
America seem the most used at present. For Australians
Victoria is the best, as it is more expensive getting to the.
other points mentioned. Of the towns of Victoria and
Vancouver one cannot say much. The streets are poor
and the buildings mediocre (except the Parliament house
at Victoria, w hich is really a pretty building), and the
whole shooting match” (favorite local phrase) is run by
Fat Man. The wharves are Fat Mans, the railways are
Fat Man’s, the telegraph wires, the land the people
mostly, and what there is left, are all Fat Man s. Toth e
average Australian this does not seem as it should be,
and comparing the two countries, Canada and Australia, as
far as the privileges enjoyed by the bulk of the popuia-
tion cro, our own land is far ahead. The Canadians
are running Klondike for all it is worth, and
the papers vie with each other in booming any-
thing and everything connected with the Yukon.
Each corporation, and there are many, generally has a
paper of its own running to advocate its interests first and
the country somewhere (generally a long way) after. The
various routes into the goldfields also have many and
varied advocates, but the route via Wrangel and Stickeen
River (for summer months) is the best, and Skagway for
winter travelling. There is an all-water route during
summer via St. Michael’s and the Yukon—but that is too
expensive. There is no doubt of gold being found over a
very large area, as the auriferous nature of the country is
very apparent, and all the old Australian miners I have
met are pleased with the look of the place ; hut it is a
country that will have to be enormously rich to pay the
miner, as the disabilities incidental to climatic conditions
and bad government are such that ordinary returns will
be no good. The rush is enormous—and still they come.
This place (Wrangel). three months ago was a small,
scattered hamlet; to-day it is a young city. Three-
storied hotels, replete with every modern comfort, stores,
warehouses, coal-yards, theatre, and everything else that
go to make an up-to-date town are here, and, owing to
the rush, all doing a thriving business—except, perhaps,
the restaurants, which are even more numerous here than
in Sydney and Melbourne put together. The weather is
terribly watery. Provisions are fairly cheap ; but busi-
ness of every kind is overdone. To those “over there
who like a spice of variety and have a few hundred
pounds to gamble, this country at present offers induce-
ments, but the ordinary working-man, with less amount
of capital, would be a fool to even dream of coining.
The worker of every grade is far better off in Australia.
Better wages, shorter hours, and better treatment.
A rather successful Eng-
lish marine painter of former
days is now in an Australian
city teaching the local society
girls. But his undisguised con-
tempt for his present locale has
somewhat handicapped him.
Some time age he was asked by
a local dignitary to prepare
rough studies of a subject-pic-
ture of the Mayor, a crockery-
shopkeeper, for presentation to
the city art-gallery. He did so,
investing his Worship with all
the dignity and circumstance of
office ; but in an idle moment he
also thoughtlessly hit off a per-
fect likeness of his Nibs, bal-
anced, circus-fashion, with one
foot on the seat of his bicycle
and juggling with two most pro-
saic articles of crockery ware.
By mistake, the caricature got
mixed up with the other studies,
and was sent to the patron.
The poor painter didn’t get the
order for that picture.
The late Joseph M‘Mullen
Dargaville, who in the mid-
eighties shared with “ Tom ”
Fergus the beauty-championship
of Maoriland House of Repre-
sentatives, once made an attack
upon Premier Atkinson and his
colleagues with regard to the
Bank of New Zealand. He
compared Atkinson to Polonius,
and then, waving his hand with
scornful comprehensiveness
along the whole Ministerial
bench, added—he was a great
stickler for the proper Latin
plural was Dargaville—“ These
Polonii! ” This brought “Jack”
Kerr- to whom the allusion was
incomprehensible —to his gouty
feet with a point of order—
“ May I ast, Mr. Speaker,”
he croaked if me annerable
fri’nd is iiPordher in referring- to the Mimbers
of the Government as polonies? ”
Alternative. Melb. Age :
VS7ILL Private Gentleman Lend lady £l2 10s., low
’ ’ interest; or will pay 30 per cent. Fidelis, Age
Office.
“ Wooster’’-sauce
Lee, recently deceased
worth .£1,700,000, might
have cut-up for three
times as much but for the
fact that, as there could
be no exclusive legal pro-
prietorship in the un-
coined appellation “Wor-
cestershire,” the well-
deserved vogue of the ori-
ginal condiment brought
out a host of “ Worcester-
shire ” sauces, nearly all
“prepared from the recipe
of a nobleman in the
county,” and mostly imi-
tating the famous trade-
mark as closely as they
dared. So much money,
in fact, was thus unjustly
diverted from the pocket
of the proprietor of the
original concoction, that
Th e Bulletin has never
been able to see any of
these pseudo- 11 Woosters
passed around without a
sense of almost personal
injury, and feels now inclined
—millionaire though Lea was
—to drop upon his grave a
gustatory tear. Apropos, there
is a legend setting forth how,
when a newly-engaged French
cook at a N.Q. hostelry wanted
to begin with a convincing
taste of his quality, he threw
the whole resources of his art
into the manufacture of a
cunningly devised soup, and
planted himself, when dinner
arrived, where he would be
able to observe the expected
surprise and delight. What
was his horror, then, to see
every hand in turn reached
out for the “Wooster,” a
liberal supply of which was
discharged into every plate
before even an experimental
sip had been taken at the
sacred liquid. Tearing his
hair, the outraged artist
rushed frantically from the room, and shot or
poisoned himself.
An Australian at Winnipeg, Manitoba,
sends this comfortable picture of the Durward
Lelys—man and wife. They are well wrapped up
against the season’s influence, and are said to be
also absolutely wrapped up in one another. The
happy pair, leaving their bairns at home,
have come to sing “the auld Scots sangs to
mixed audiences at the antipodes, not, of course,
without an eye to the bawbees. The man from
Arbroath found himself on his native heath at
Dunedin and in the wilds of Otago ; but when he
got among the Englishry of Wellington and Auck-
land, Adelina Patti’s tenor was equal to the occa-
sion,and the ancient Doric only cropped up ocea
sionally in the programmes. The Carl Kosa-
D’Oyley Carte singer is a robust tenor ; and the
Spanish-American trouble, with the talk about an
Anglo-Yankee alliance, gave him a splendid
chance for warbling the “ Death of Nelson,
“Tom Bowling,” and the “Star-spangled
Banner ” amid wild outbursts of jingoism. Shep-
herded byR. S. Smythe, who scores once more
the Lelys are on their way from Maoriland, and
will make their first appearance in Australia in
Sydney Centenary Hal), on Monday next. Lily
Fusch the girl violinist from Berlin, who is several
years younger, and, it is said, a few degrees belt, r
than Bessie Doyle, is on board the same steam .
and will probably perform at the Lely ent«rt
ments.
Mr. and Mrs. DURWARD LELY.
Photo., Mrs. R. E. Carr, Winnipeg, Canada.
M.L. Parliament will probably have <■>
meet and admire Seddon’s big surplus this yem m
a public-house. The Largest Wooden Building m
the World was so visibly caving in that the eree
tion of a new structure had to be undertaken, aud-
it has just been discovered that the new structure
won’t have the roof on in time.


THE CABBAGE-TREE EXTINGUISHER.


*‘££.»c
' sof"® 4 °*e, f 4<? /V
v> /'“f ■%*■ /
**>-*s■*£/
££ coah
l 'reve Dtlo b u e °»er *fllf of 5" D «f»u
* 0 Wo«-e<j br° r CtlJe ity in^s-Society r w f >r,a
totalty SocZ or th °
‘has ohl, pl‘ s , !>«cb
J b e*hhy J. ua *bie $?•/* th ? Stitt
A i *
J\ Word lij ear Sadi
*
<^oVer^e V l 'plaf jof IVJ YerpoVad, but'
& dried do l)loW uj> life j
vr ’ /O /|
l°
ot eryployrne.fr K
2° 4 do do "'l'fffiyK <0
'busies-
* •'
4 tc'tt vcXl „a.'’
«,6*' \oi# ,et» co^ 9
*p, C °' «0 8t „«<>*
& \le &° C
S° C \vj\ °*
60 v
'r~ ri fe oaf" ijjvo Xv) e b' T uj\ fo/9 1 "? Aisfr
-you. uv* y y
lyy breyfeylivSj- c j?*y oV^-V'
7**^V-J7
A-KStJS.
' , I7K t p
. ' o, L n>« r
Voice'-, Ffovy-Jtje CjWd- ' D IL
■jooTi^u^Tj
skere is no longer any attempt to con-
ceal the fact that the Labor Party, as it it
known in Parliament, is torn'by violent
..dissensions
\\fe Pa^fly
1y *
A BOMB OUTRACE
■Ss-
-OH 'n[oW" J ook. erfe
(3 , yoixJc. o for
IfyYce , i)Q iporc rnffiTyou- J 32 */ £A^ > -
MELBOURNIANA.


Melbourne Items.
Mr. A. Johansen, of the well-known firm ot
Johansen, Castwood & Co., Bookbinders,
Paper Rulers Account Book and Manufacturing
Stationers, 303 Lonsdale-street, recommends War-
ner’s Safe Cure. In a letter dated January 29th,
1898, he says “Ten years ago I suffered from
pain in my back to such an extent I could not
stand to do my work, and had sometimes to be
taken home in a cab. I took Warner’s Safe Cure
—twelve bottles in all—and although I did not
keep to the prescribed diet, I have not had pain
in my back since. I consider Warner’s Safe Cure
cured me, and I have since recommended it to all
I know.”
Mr. Charles A. Jackson, 51 Toorak Road,
South Yarra, in a letter dated January 10th, 1898,
says:—“X feel myself in duty bound to express
my heartfelt thanks for the benefit I received
from the use of Warner’s Safe Cure. For about
four years I had been an intense sufferer from
severe headaches and pains across the loins—more
particularly my back. I was recommended by a
friend to give Warner’s Safe Cure a trial, with
the result that after taking three bottles X was
completely restored to my former good health.
Therefore I can, and always will, recommend
Warner’s Safe Cure to other sufferers.” *
Liverpool apd Lopdop
Slobe li)S£iraiK€ Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES,
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Mine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-e iff fit Thousand Pounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
Empowered by Act N.S.YV. Vic. 28, 1865.
FIRE INSURANCE
On EVERY DESCRIPTION of PRO
PERTY, RENTS, and INTEREST.
LIFE INSURANCE
IN ANY FORM. See Pr pectus and
Special Table D.
Local Directors:
Walter Cummins Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Kater, Esq.; and
Eric H. Mackay, Esq.
M. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Office Australasia —
-62 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Music Brooch, £2.
Heart, £2 ss; Double Heart, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Love Bird and Chain, 8s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 6s 6d.
A Saunders.
Boars’ Tusks, gold mounted, 12s 6d.
Tanks to match, 12s 6d ; Silver, 4s.
iOOO
oTQ
| —SOQO
cono
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold „ „ 455.
C ESI >
cnro
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, Bedstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond and Bedstone, 355.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls, £3ss.
5 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
18c. Gold Band, Pure 18c. Solid Gold Dia-
Double Cut Diamond, 2 Rubies and
inond, £3 ; smaller, Sapphires, £2 ; 15c.
£2, £2 10s. Gold, 20s and 30s.
A. Saunders.
3-Bird Heart and Chain Gold Brooch, 10s 6d.
Latest London Style.
15c. Gold 2-Heart, Opals
and Diamond, £2 10s.
Six Different Patterns.
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, 15s;
Large, 21s.
15c. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s, 6s.
18c. gold, 3 sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Dia-
monds, £3 ; Double-
cut Diamonds, £3los
and £4. Send for
illustrations.
15c. Solid Gold.
4 Diamonds, 3 Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
9c. Solid Gold Dia-
monds, 2 Red or Blue
Stones, 10s 6d.
Solid Gold, 7/6; extra strong', 10/- 15c. Gold, 15/-
18c. Gold, 20/- Silver, 3/6. Any Name or
Initial Free.
Gold 2-Bamboo Bars Scroll Pearl Set, 15s 6d
15c. Gold, 32s 6d.
Highly Recommended.
WATCH
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
Old Jewellery
RE-MADE
to any Design.
ITne 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases,
£4 4s, 15 years’ guarantee; ditto, 14c. Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £3O watch.” Ladies’,
“ beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for illustrated Price Book of Watches.
The Utmost Satisfaction.
A. Saunders.
Quite New Gold Bird, White Pearls and
Amethyst Heart, 21s ; 15c., £2.
Beautifully Chased.
Any Name.
9c. Goid, 12s 6d, 16s ;
15c., 20s, 25s ; 18c.,
265, 30s, 355, £2.
18c. Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamonds, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Send for
illustrated book.
A. Saunders.
Good Wishes Lucky Bone Gold Brooch,
10s 6d ; Large Size (plain), 6s 6d.
Pearl Set Bird Centre, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Viold Butterfly Brooch, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
15c., £2 15s, £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
lira®
O
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Bedstone, 20s.
)JP
tnc
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Pure Diamonds, Rubies, or
Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold, 2 Amethyst Hearts, Brooch, 20s.
BgSj
will
Hand - made Wedding Rings and Keepers,
9c. Solid Gold, 10s each. 15c. Gold,
15s; extra heavy, 255. 18c. Gold, 20s;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for
card.
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
Snap Padlock, Gold,
355, £2 ss, £3 ; extra,
£3 ss. 15c. £3, £4,
Send tor Pattern Book
lock, 10s extra. All
secured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
(Post Free).
Gold Baby Brooch, with Safety Pin, 5s 6cL
15c. Gold, larger, 12s 6d.
\m
Gold Brooch,
rk<
Pearl Heart,
12s 6d.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, 13, ! 0 ins,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, 7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, - 10s, 12s Od, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
We guarantee you the same satisfaction as if you were here to choose for yourself.
Our Stock is Large and Up-to-Date, and at PRICES FAR BELOW ALL OTHERS.
“All articles sent Post Free to any address required.” Send for Price List.
Send for our Complete Illustrated Price Book of Watches
Clocks, Jewellery and Silver-plate. Post Free.
A.
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, 815 George-street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY, N.S.W.
At Poverty Point.
When a certain beauteous actress was starring in the
English provinces, an enterprising tailor, who rented a
s top adjoining a certain theatre, erected a few seats on
the roof and charged his friends a crown a head for a,
brief glimpse into her dressing-room. Two bricks picked l
out from under the ventilator revealed the flame of
princes getting into fresh harness after each act. One
night a full-blooded pup-fancier gave the show away : he
was crouching near the windy aperture, his hair stiffen-
ing, his face agog, enjoying his “ look in,” when sud-
denly he drew back and said, “Oh my ——!” The
strong men waiting under the lee of the chimney attri-
buted his emotion to the large wen they had observed on,
the lady’s left knee. He was severely reprimanded for-
making a noise. Four minutes later nine earnest supers..
appeared on the farthest waterspout, It was a pretty
m6Re, and the people in the street below wondered
where the flying slates and hats were coming from.
Alba D. : Years ago an English journalist played it low
■ n an Australian bard. The bard was living peacefully
in his slab and bark hut until the E. j. came limping down
ihe bush-track and asked for a cup of water. Thereat
I hey became friends. At night, they smoked under the
adjacent gum and swapped phrases about glinting billa-
■ bongs and, shimmering mirages. The E.j. found the
bard's damper palatable and the life full of ease ;- also
the innocent bard never pestered him for board-money
So he stayed on, and, by way of payment, sketched out.
the scenario and plot of a soul-grappling play, which he
presented to the bard, telling him to stick in a bit of
dialogue, as there was a fortune in it, &c. The bard read
it dubiously, but after the first few pages he became con-
vinced that he was harboring’a genius who could sit down
casually and vomit masterpieces. The E.j. stayed on, while
the bard grubbed and shore, and sweated in the interim
over the unfinished drama that was to shake the world.
At the end of a year the bard came to Sydney with his
precious MSS., and fell into my arms outside the Lyceum.
He was waiting for the manager. YVe had a drink, and
he explained how a poor but brilliant Englishman had
given him the backbone of a fine drama. He permitted
me to glance at the MSS., and, while turning over the
sheets, related how he had worked at it night after night
until the candle-light had left him half blind. It was a
good play. I read how YVilfred Denver thought he shot
Ware, and called on somebody to put back the clock of
the world ; and when I reached the Spider and old Jaikes,
I dropped the MSS. on the counter and shouted another
drink. I hadn’t the heart to tell him he had written the
“ Silver King ” with poe*” variati-ns. It we a ghastly
trick to play on a bard
It is well known to everybody, oar the pubno, that the
heroine hates the hero like rats. He is adored by the
ladies of the workshops and the medium classes, and she
has earned a respect that is almost reverence by main-
taining a nun-like attitude through several emotional
dramas. W T hen she leans up against the hero’s brisket
and breathes sedate rapture to his Adam’s apple, and he
holds her tenderly and sadly responds, everybody says,
“ How- nice—how inexpressibly touching ! ” But it does
not occur to the keen admirers that she is a “dead
mark” to him once they step behind the wings, and on
the street she passes him in the wake of an arctic depres-
sion that sends cold chills down his spine. If his name
is mentioned to her, she says, with the expression of a
woman who has just trodden on a frog: “Mr. Blank?
Mr. Blank ? I do not know the man ! ”
Viator : “ Have seen G. Rignold in Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane, and on each occasion something upset
the gravity of the audience just when a ‘ bit o’ fat ’
was being sliced off. In Sydney the coarse joke of a
gallery-boy broke the spell in the third act of ‘ Called
Back.’ In Melbourne a nervous limelight-man sent a
drunken disc of light wobbling up and down the o.p.
side, leaving George in gloom ; and recently in Brisbane
in ‘ Lights of London,’ when Bess Marks invites the
escaped hero to warm himself at the fire, a ‘property ’
hand came boldly down the stage-chimney, struck a
match audibly, arid lit the gas behind the asbestos stove.
No wonder G. Rex kicks the stage-furniture a bit viciously
at times.”
Kati-Kati: “Three hours in the pit, on a warm, wet
Saturday night. Eight p.m. —Steam from hundreds of
■damp, dirty suits of clothes. By 9 p.m. is added the odor
■of hundreds of perspiring bodies. By 10 p.m.—Smells of
oranges, peanuts, cabbage-smoke, paregoric, peppermint,
whisky, and much-breathed air are thrown in, and the
atmosphere is the Irish-stew of smells. By 11 p.m.—
Everybody sweltering in the heat; there have been more
•drinks, and no more fresh air, and the atmosphere is the
lerman-sausage of odors. The Bible knew what it was
il .liking about when it referred to the horrors of the Pit.”
Happy marriages of eminent pros.: John Kemble with
a nobody, Mrs. Brereton, the actress ; Charles Kean and
Ellen Tree ; Mathews with Vestris, and afterwards with
Mrs. Davenport, divorcee : Brooke and Avonia Jones (?);
Compton and Amelia Montague; Creswick and Helen
P iget—his first marriage ; Sir William Don and Miss
;Sa inders— Lady Don’s father was a pantomime clown;
■Ch irles Kemble and Miss De Camp ; Garrick and Violette,
dan !3use ; S. B. Bancroft and Marie Wilton ; Eduardo
Maje.oni and Giulia Tessero ; Mdlle. R6jane and manager
Porel : Robert Keeley and Sarah Go ward —the nona-
genarian Scarron, a deformed comedian, and Madame
de Maintenon, who afterwards married Louis XIV.,
another comedian ; Kendal and Madge Robertson, an
amazing woman in physique, as the youngest of 20 chil-
dren by the same happily-married father and mother ;
Bob Brough and Florence Trevelyan ; Henry Squires and
Lucy Escott, if these two latter ever were married. To be
sure, marriage is not an absolutely necessary ingredient
of Thes'pic bliss. Some think they do best without. Mrs.
Siddons said to Macready, “ Don’t marry till you are 30.”
Unhappy marriages of eminent pros : Irving and Miss
M'Gilligan ; Edmund Kean; Sarah Siddons; Berlioz,
■composer, and Miss Smithson, actress ; Edwin Forrest
and Mrs. Sinclair; Sir Henry Bishop and Madame Anna
Bishop; Montgomery and Winifred Montague; Bouci-
■cault and Agnes Robertson ; Charles Young and Miss
Thomson—the Australian people ; Marius and Florence
St. John ; Shakspeare and Anne Hathaway ; Molibre and
Armande Bejard ; Eleanora Duse ; Sarah Bernhardt and
Georges Damala; Bellew and Eugenie Legrand; Jane
Hading and Parisian Manager ; Nellie Farren and
Suter; Ellen Terry and Charles Kelly.
Ed. Bulletin.— This being a country where the saint
is presumed to have no privileges beyond those held by
the common sinner, why do Sydney transit-officers and
police compel licensed vehicles to pass churches at walk-
ing-pace when services are in progress? With much
better reason could the rule be applied to concerts and
similar performances. During first-class musical enter-
tainments at the Town Hall many items are absolutely
spoilt by the spasmodic whirr of vehicular traffic outside,
whereas a passing fire-engine would, as a rule, afford wel-
come relief from the leaden monotony of proceedings in
Bishop Smith’s glory-house next door. —T.D.
Justin M‘Carthy, in his “ History of Our Own Times,”
either didn’t know, or didn’t wish to remember, the name
of the musical founder of the original Jingo Party in
Hingland. Says M'Carthy—“ Some Tyrtseus of the tap-
tub, some Korner of the music-halls, had composed a
ballad which was sung at one of those caves of harmony
every night. The refrain of this war-song contained the
spirit-stirring words —
‘ We don’t want to fight; but, by Jingo ! if we do,
We’ve got the men, we’ve got the ships, we’ve got the
money, too.’ ”
Is it possible that a M’Carthy has never heard that
glorious effusion associated with the personality of his
compatriot, Macdermott—the “ Great Macdermott ” —the
full-1 looded Irishman who drew his £2O a week (a fancy
price in ’7B) at the London Pavilion, and smaller sums at
three other halls, for the fervor with which he assured
his pasty-cheeked audiences that “the Russians shall not
have Constanti-no-ple ”? Never heard of the Mac. who
sang the Jingo song into popularity by sheer magnetic
brute force ? And this is Fame !
Says London To-Day, re Robert Buchanan’s protest
against prudish dramatic censorship: “It does not
matter to the smallest extent whether the Licensor of
Plays admits or rejects a problem play. His rejection
gives the writer a certain amount of advt. that the per-
formance of the play would never bring. Put a literary
play upon the stage, a piece remarkable for its fine lan
guage, and almost the only people to praise it are the en-
lightened, highly-educated literary men and women who
come in with free tickets.”
Nellie Farren is grand-daughter of William Farren,
one of the foremost comedians in English stage history.
He never acted anything but old men, having begun
brilliantly, in.that line, at 20 years old, with Sir Peter
Teazle. His son, Wm. Farren the second, uncle of
Nellie, replicated the performance, and there is Wm.
Farren the third in exactly the same line. He visited
Australia as a humble member of Garner's co.
Nellie Farren’s benefit, after paying all her debts, wi I
leave her with a safe income from capital of U 7 a week.
So the Rothschild guarantee of £5 a week for the invalid
will not be called upon.
“More than mild surprise was felt,” writes The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent, “at the published about-to-
be marriage of Ethel Hi.ydon to George Robey, of the
music halls. Robey, during the past year or so, has come
right to the front as an eccentric comique, and, barring
Dan Leno, is at present the most popular artist in
London. The usual margarine-headed public who have
never seen the man excepting on the stage in shabby,
much-rent, overgrown clothes never doubted that G. ft.
went about thus clad always. It is some of this section
of the public who, seeing Anson as Eccles in ‘Caste,
asserted that such a low-class drunkard should not. be
allowed on the Bijou stage ! Robey is, off his beat., a
quiet, gentlemanly fellow with a university education,
who is, fortunately or otherwise, irresistibly and cleverly
funny in anything but the kid-glove and enamelled shirt
line of comic fooling.”
Geo. Robey (Ethel Haydon’s fiance), shortly due in Aus-
tralia, is not, The Bulletin is informed, a ’barrister, as
reported. He is a civil engineer, who was educated in
Germany, took his degree in London, and made bis first
music-hall appearance in ’94.
Wilson Barrett, as is well-known, made bis first big hit
with “ The Silver King,” by Jones and Hermann. In bis
preliminary advts. W.B. inserted this ver-e'.of Tennyson :
I hold it. truth with him who sings
To one clear harp in divers tones
That men may rise on stepping-stones
Of their dead selves to higher things.
This W. S. Gilbert brightly parodied as follows :
I hold it spoof with other things
That men should sing in Barrett-tones
And raise themselves by aid of Jones
From starving “ potes ” to Silver Kings.
Equinox : “ Has anyone noticed how frequently Wil-
son Barrett’s voice is an exact reproduction of that of
veteran Edwin Kelly ? ”
Things looked at first very blue for the Broughs at
Shanghai, The Bulletin learns; and, though an effort
was made by the co’s well-wishers to make things “ hum ”
a little more audibly, business contrasted very unfavorably
with that done at Hong Kong. Races and other local
counter-attractions were partly responsible for the low-
theatrical temperature.
Cockaigne : “ Demise—French, the London theatrical
bookseller. He began as Lacy’s agent in N’York, then
bought out Lacy’s London concern. French developed
into an immensely rich old bachelor. He had a circle
of intense theatrical cronies, ladies and gentlemen, who
frequented his cosy table and had pros and cons among
themselves as to where the pile would go. French
settled it by marrying a delightful young lady, and the
poor pros, pirouetted elsewhere. ”
Wallace Brownlow, still hotel-keeping in the West, now
consents to sing at local charity and benefit concerts.
Siarred, of course. And business keeps brisk.
Holdar M. : One quite understands now the failure of
that reporter to make Maud Jeffries speak on her arrival
in Sydney. Indeed, at the time, the sweet Maud hinted
that her hesitancy was due to the boss s possible dis-
pleasure. However, when it was certain that, the boss
would be pleased, how the eo. did bay, and what a beauti-
fully unanimous howl it was !
“ The stage lover of iny early time was about 60, and
dressed like the waiter who hands round penny ices.”—
Clement Scott.
FIRST NIGHT.
“ Ready for the closing scene !”
Touch the bell ! Yes ! seventeen 1
Super-master, make ’em hurry 1
See each one is dressed correctly :
Curtain’s going up directly—
What’s the meaning of this flurry?
Fairy Greatheart’s lost her winglets !
“ Anybody got my ringlets? ”
Hush ! Confound you! Aren’t you ready ?
There’s the cue. Now, couples, steady !
In you go l Laugh ! Laugh ! Great Csesar ’.
Man alive, why don’t you squeeze her?
Ha ! ha! ha ! He !he ! Ho ! ho l/.
Slap your thigh and double—so !
That’s the ticket! Be vivacious 1
Don’t speak words, but look loquacious
Here’s.the hero. Crowd about him :
Look as if you want to “ shout ” him ;
Never mind if he gets twenty
Quids to your two. Big per canty
Is deducted. YVatch his hand.
“ Happy ever after.” Cue ! Now, band !
Squeal, you fiddles ! Cornet, blast you !
Ladies ! let each partner past you.
Tableau ! Double forte chorus !
Ring the curtain down before us !
What a great success it’s been !
’Specially that closing-scene. . .
Right, Orchestra ! ’Save the Queen !
OIGARD.


Melb. : “ Be Chief Justice Madden’s re-
mark, that he can do best without a jury, I heaid
Coroner Candler say ‘ When young at this work,
the jury seemed to me a ridiculous encumbrance,
but I have learned better by experience.’ ”
A LIGHT SUBJECT IS ALWAYS ENTERTAINING.
This fact is also a matter of great consideration - viz.,
that the residents of Victoria and N.S.VV. can save their
time, money, and tempers by sending or calling at our
respective warehouses for up-to-date Hardware. Amongst
this season novelties will be found the Royal Bath Heater,
burns wood only, and produces scalding hot water in a
few moments. Price (355. complete. Pamphlets posted.
Also, the great Galopin Lights, for kerosene, which, gives
the user the same facilities as gas. Bargains in all
departments, at McLEAN BROS, and RIGG, Ltd., Mel-
bourne and Sydney.*
Two returning Australian tourists lately
found themselves in Aden. They had been in
Aden before, and had had a guide, and the guide
had “had ” them. Got the same man this time,
went all over the ground with him, and, on return-
ing to the ship, tendered him 2s. 6d. apiece, which
he declined with scorn. “ All the gentlemen give
me sovereign. Mr. give me sovereign and
character, and Mr. Wack Jaunt he give me
sovereign and character. You read!’ they
read, and Mr. Wack Jaunt’s testimony ran—
“To all whom it may concern.. The bearer served
me as a guide, and I can confidently recommend
him as a blanky * thief and scoundrel.”
W.D. : “‘ It is only when Oscar Wilde
goes to gaol that he realises the misery and
brutality of gaol,’ remarks the Red Page, and, as
indicating his mental attitude on this point before
angered nineteenth-century morality cast him
from his artistic hothouse into personal contact
with the workings of the brutal British penal code,
take the following from his ‘ Decay of Lying :
I know nothing sadder than the artistic career of Uhas.
Reade. He wrote one beautiful book ‘The Cloister and
the Hearth ' . . . and \\asted the rest of. his life in a
foolish attempt to be modern, to draw public attention to
the state of our convict prisons and the management of
our private lunatic asylums.”
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be bad in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.
The instinct which makes whales adhere
to their migration routes is marvellous. Near the
Bay of Islands, M.L., is a deep strait not more
than 200yds. wide between an islet and the main-
land. The whales invariably go through the
strait, instead of outside the island ; the slaughter
of hundreds of them in the strait does not deter
those that escape from using the same dangerous
passage next trip. Up to 20 years ago whales
followed an immemorial custom of visiting the
shallow waters of the Firth of Thames and strand-
ing themselves on the bar of the Thames near the
township of Shortland. Once an 80-foot whale
went ashore on the bar, and a little 20-ton steamer
put off with a scratch crew, including the present
scribe, to attempt a capture. As the monster
seemed dead a hawser was made fast to its tail,
and, with the aid of the rising tide, it was towed
off ; the crew was just beginning to reckon up
its gains when the animal suddenly roused up,
and, making straight down the gulf, took the
steamer along, stern first, at a 25-mile gait. Ihe
engineer stood by the hawser with an axe, to cut
away in case the whale should “sound.” But the
creature merely gave us a 5-mile spin, made a
graceful curve, sailed back to the bar on which it
formerly grounded, and turned on its side. The
engineer made “siccar” this time by shoving Bft.
of red-hot “clinker slice” under its fins. It
panned-out nearly =£looo for us.
NO MORE BURDENSOME TAXES.
You will find them light after the cheering
effect of a packet of Ogden’s Guinea Gold Cigar-
ettes.* __
S.F. Chronicle, April 5, chronicles the
arrival in New York of a Swiss weighing nearly
6001b.—Harry Morice Canon—height, sft. lOin. ;
lOOin. waist; 70in. chest, and 40in. calf! Canon
is 48 years old, and claims to be the largest Euro-
pean in existence. He has a brother who turns
the scale at 4001 b.
It seems impossible to evade competition
in the rush of modern life. A lecturer at Sydney
University, who lately proceeded to work up some
mines in a spot in the East Indies, far removed, as
he thought, from civilisation, was surprised to be
met, when almost at his destination, by a letter
beginning “This Johnnie says his name is so and
so, and he can do all your washing,” and signed
by a former pupil, another Sydney man.
When the Princess Philip of Ooburg (in
family disgrace for her penchant for a commoner),,
lately cleared suddenly out of Nice, she left
behind 1000 dresses, 200 pairs of shoes, and 50
hats and bonnets—for which things and the rest
of her belongings there was a wild scramble of
creditors after the lady’s departure. And this
within cooey of august relative Victoria K.l. l
T.P. writes Be issue of business-cards
by Sydney Totties, the idea isn’t new. Years ago
I had one slipped into my hand in Melbourne by a
peroxided member of the demi-blonde which read
as follows , tlI , a m
MISS 0. and MISS T.
(“Lais” and “ Phryne.”)
At home afternoons and evenings. Nicholson St.,
Fitzroy. No cheques.
BEST SHILLING MUSIG BOOKS IN THE WORLD.
FEDERAL
Music
Books
Prica
WORTH
FOR
51 BOOKS NOW
PUBLISHED
Each Book . . . .
Contains
ONE POUND’S
WORTH
Popular Music in Full
Size Sheet Music
Postage 2d.
250,000 of the Federals have already been sold.
The Federal Music Books contain :
SONGS- Popular, for all Voices, comic and sacred—Soprano, Con-
tralto, Tenor, Baritone and Bass. Irish, Scotch, American Christy,
Italian, etc. Students Songs and Choruses. FOCAL DUETS.
PIANO SOLOS:—Very Easy. Easy and Effects. Moder-
ately Difficult. Brilliant Operatic, etc PIANO DUETS.
DANCE MUSIC :—Quadrilles. Tamers. Waltzes. Polkas.
Galops. Reels. Jigs, etc
VIOLIN SOLOS, VIOLIN AND PIANO DUETS.
Full list of contents of all the above Books posted free to any
address. Send us One Shilling, and tell us what Music you like,
and we will for . ard you a Sample Copy that will delight you.
Obtainable of all Music Sellers or direct from the publishers,
"VST". XX. G-LEM «8z; CO.
Collins St, Melbourne, & 359 George-st., Sydney.
GRA/y 0
SaiVJS
Character.
MINERVA TONIC
is a tonic of the high-
est possible character.
Minerva Tonio testi-
monials are testimoni-
als by the best-known
citizens of Australia.
MR. Gr. D. CLARK, the gifted mouth-piece
of the great Temperance Party in New South
Wale?, writes from the Grand Lodge in the fol-
lowing eloquent term, ut _ 1898 .
“ I have pleasure in stating that, having
tried Minerva Tonic, I am decidedly of
opinion that it is most helpful in clearing the
brain, stimulating thought, and making work
Splet,BUre -(Signed) “G. D. CLARK.”
Of all Chemists, or direct from any of the Aus-
tralian Depots.
THE MINERVA CO.,
Manufacturing Chemists and
Food Specialists,
London, 15 and 17 Fore st. Avenue, E.C. ; New
York, Kemple Building, Whitehall-st. ;, n< ? y ’
56 Margaret-st. ; Melbourne, 231 Ehzabeth-st.,
Adelaide, 98 Currie-st. ; Brisbane, Taylor and
Colledge, or 3 Darragh’s Buildings, Queen-st.
A sis: for
WHISKY.
NEW DESIGNS IN GOLD AND SILVER SLEEVE LINKS.
Quality, Finish and Durability. Guaranteed. English Hall-marked. Chain Connected.
oc
GOLD, 13s 6d; 15-carat) GOLD, 27s 6d ; SILVER, 3s pair.
THE ABOVE FOUR PATTERNS —9-carat
90., 10s 0d and 12s 6d,
15c., 255.
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
9c., 228 ; engraved, 23s 6d.
16c., 37s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d pair.
9c., 20s; Plain, 19s.
16c., 37s 6d ; Plain, 355.
Silver, 6s ; Plain, 4s 6d.
V
90., 11s 6d and 12s 6d,
15c., 255.
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
9c., 23s 6d; Plain, 22a.
16c., 42s 6d.
Silver, 5s pair.
90., 12a 6d and 13s 6d,
150., 255.
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
16c., 37s 6d.
Silver, 6s pair.
SOLID PLAIN FLAT,
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 258 ;
15c., 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, 4s, 5s pair.
RICHLY CHASED.
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s
15c., 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, 4s, 5s pair.
All Articles Sent Post Free
to any Address.
WILD BOARS’ TUSK LINKS.
Silver-mounted, 4s 6d pair. Gold-
mounted, 12s 6d pair.
BROOCHES—SiIver, 4s ; Gold, 12s 6d.
Please Send for our Illus-
trated Slips of Novelties.
9c., 20s ; Engraved,'2ls
15c., 35s ; Engraved,
87s 6d ; Silver, 4s 6d ;
Engraved, 6s.
‘ONE PlECE’Studs
and CUFF BUTTONS.
Unbreakable. ■ PATENTED. - Unbreakable.
Actual
Section
Collar Stud
Size
Enlarged
Collar
View of
Stud.
Actual
Section
Shirt Stud
Gold, Silver, Gold Plate, variety of Patterns.
Special Advantages of the ‘One Piece’ Studs.
1. Struck from single disc of metal—no solder.
2. —Elegance and absolute uniformity of curve, and s§
n. —Slipped into button-hole with perfect ease.
The World’s Most Serviceable Studs.
SOLID GOLD 9-carat. 15-carat. 18-earab.
Suite of 3 Studs 6/0, 9/-, 10/- 10 / 61 U ' 6 ’ 16/ ”’ lB 6
Collar Studs (ea.) 5/-, 6/-, 7/6 7/-, 9/-, 10/0 10/-, 12/6,15/-
Cuff Buttons 10/-, IS/-, 15/- 16/-, -/6, 26/
The public are cautioned against vamped-up imitations of
these Studs—clurasy —in pieces, soldered together but shaped to
deceive, and sold as the “ One Piece.
Alan a lare-a selection of 15-carat Front Studs, Diamond
Set, from 12s 6df Ruby, Sapphire, or Opal Set, 7s 6d ; Pearl Set,
53 6< 15-carat Collar Studs, Diamond Set, from 22s 6<L Ruby,
Sapphire, or Opal Set, 12s 6d. Pearl Set, 10s each.
NOTE—Our
Art Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers,
ONLY Australian Address-- 90 KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
12-
|>()()K OF NATURE
Complete Medical Treatise,
By DR. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOB OUlt UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, b\ 1: ■ boote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De b oe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is_6d.
Amours'of Gustave, from the trench, Is; by
cost Is 3d The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
F Piping Hot ; Aube Mourbt’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About tub Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d • post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s • post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s Gd. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s Gd ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
‘ Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is Gd post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free IS. TllE
Art of Wrestling, post free Is.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is Cd post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dol'd. 2s Cd.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
important
Unsolicited Testimony
*—FROM —'
BLAND HOLT, Esq.
MR. BLAND HOLT is a GREAT BELIEVER
in “ NATARA,” and RECOMMENDS
IT TO HIS FRIENDS.
Theatre Royal,
Sydney, May 27, 1898.
Messrs. FISHER & CO.,
Pharmacists,
337 George-street, Sydney.
UxiaL OllOj .... .
It gives me great pleasure to bear willing tes-
timony to the wonderful efficacy of your FAMOUS
“ NATARA ”as a cure for colds. It is certainly
unique in one important respect it decidedly ac-
complishes all that it promises, and there is no
question but that its virtues will prove an endur-
ing advertisement as a marvellous remedy.
Wishing you all success,
I remain, Yours faithfully.
FISHER and CO.’s
Fan>o(iS Natara
(REGISTERED).
- - - NATARA - - -
CURES THE HEAD,
CURES THE THROAT,
CURES THE CHEST.
Once Tried, always Recommended for COLDS,
COUGHS, INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, WHOOPING-COUGH,
&c., &c.
A MOST CERTAIN REMEDY.
UNRIVALLED for QUICK ACTION AND
IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
One Dose Relieves.
One} Bottle Cures.
PLEASANT TO THE TASTE.
The Singer’s Friend.
ACTUAL FACT. —We met a friend the other day who
said he had a slight cold. Upon our recommending
“NATARA” he took from his pocket a small phial of
“Natara,”and said: “Last night I had to sing a song;
I left home without an overcoat and caught a chill, so
that I could barely struggle through the song. When 1
reached home I took two do es of ‘ Natara,’ and here I
am about well. I have brought out of the large bottle
this small quantity to take during the day, and to-night
I will be as right as pie when I have again to sing. I
consider ‘ Natara ’ the most wonderful remedy for Colds
and Coughs, and I have used nothing else for years.”
Sydney, June 18, 1896.
Messrs. FISHER & CO., Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—The “Natara” came safely to hand, and it
gives me much pleasure to inform you that the very
severe cough and cold I was afflicted with began to dis-
appear immediately I used it. I experienced great relief
after only one dose, and I find a distressing cough suc-
cumbs to it like magic. Many thanks.
Yours sincerelv,
JOSEPH S. TEAGUE.
90 Albany-road, Petersham.
FAMOUS NATARA.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. PER BOTTLE.
BY POST, 6d. and Bd. EXTRA.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL CHEMISTS ANT
STOREKEEPERS IN THE COLONIES.
Wholesale from •
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS. ; AUST. DRUG COMPANY;
HOFFNUNG & CO. ; FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF &
CO. ; or any other Wholesale House.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY THE
PROPRIETORS :
FISHER AND CO.,
337 George-st., Sydney, N.S.W.


QbipS of Wisdon? . .
Eat Granuma and defy the physician.
Early to bed and early to rise,
And drink Billy Tea if you wish to be wise.
Granuma in the morning
For mother’s darling.
Billy Tea at night
Is mother’s delight.
A PROVERB FOR CYCLISTS.
Granuma Porridge for a hard road.
One cup of Billy Tea in hand
Is worth ten (of any other) in the bush.
The proof of Granuma is in the eating.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
Sole Agents and Proprietors.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
1 urn it tire <6 Vine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George. Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4 FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Uchl at the Auction Jtooins.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
Smoke
<0
Chief
MANUFACTURED iN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Wanted the address of the now historical
perjurer who said that Barton was a “ lazy man.”
~^i e rece nt N.S.W. Federal vote the
side that won lost, while the side that lost won.
Copyright paradox.
Q. Premier Byrnes is so terribly “ open
to conviction ’’ that he conveys the impression that
he has not a single established opinion or preiu-
dice on any earthly subject. The incarnation of
opportunism.
Ex-Premier Nelson, although relegated to
a sinecure, evidently fancies he is still in the
swim During his recent trip up North with
uov. Lannngton, he received deputations as in
the days of old, dispensed patronage, and pro-
mised redress and reform.
As an offset to the natural cleavage of
Billites versus Anti-Billites among N.S.W. poli-
ticians, half-a-dozen energetic underground
engineers are busy creating a new Bill-party out
of the anti-Bills. Then the cry will be New
Billites versus Old Billites.
Northern Democrats are, as a rule, too
desperately in earnest to develop their humorous
faculties, but occasionally they strike a patch
Recent joke by Labor M.L.A. : “Mr. Byrnes had
only two supporters in the town (Leyburn) but
next morning my horse’s tail was cut off.”
There is no payment of M’s.P. in Wes-
tralia, and already the poverty of Coolgardie’s
member, v osper of the Mane, the nearest ap-
proach the province has to a Labor-man, is said to
be hampering him sadly. The field would do
something ; but much of the field is busy just now
dodging the bailiff and the dun. 1
On polling-day the N.S.W. Government
allowed some of the Sydney trams, the people’s
property, to be decorated with placards calling’ on
the electors to vote against the Federal Bill. If
the public official who authorised this isn’t
promptly fired out of the service the people will
want to know the reason why, and want to know
it in a pretty loud voice also.
One Vic. politician who aid a lot in the
Federal campaign to revive a fading reputation
was Alfred Deakin. Deakin lacks constructive
ability, and when the Convention was slowly
building up the Bill he appeared to little advan-
tage-as compared with Isaacs and Turner and
Iren with. But he fought for it all through the
campaign that followed with never - flagging
energy and his eloquence on many occasions
swept the opposition off its legs. Wherever there
was a hostile feeling, and a chance of having water
or harder things aimed at him by the Maloney
crowd, Deakin was willing to face the audience
and in the end he generally came off best.
Somers Vine is
prime-mover of the Eng-,
lish party which has been,
day and night, urging
the British Government
to purchase Kaiser Wil-
helm Land from Ger-
many. That would give
another 68,000 square
miles of Papua to the
exploiters.
N.S.W. Minister J.
H. Young says the ques-
tion of old-age pensions
is “ fast coming within
the range of practical
politics.” All progres-
sive measures travel
swiftly as a general elec-
tion nears. Coming close
to the fateful day, stodgy
speculators in politics see
such measures actually
galloping.
The case of China
clearly disproves the
desirableness of beating
the sword into plough-
shares; and the shilly-
shally of unprepared-for-,
war U.S. and Spain just
as clearly proves that
nowadays more than ever
you must keep your pow-
der dry and your bayonet
fixed.
Australia is lost to
the Britisher. What
Chamberlain tries now
to do is what Gladstone,
if a first-rate Britisher,
ought to have been at
half-a-century ago, and
more. A Chat h a m,
Burke or Pitt would
have foreseen the development of British am-
bition, and identified himself with it. Yet both
Gladstone and Disraeli 40 years ago regarded it
as inevitable that the British Empire would split
up—which it will.
Premier Byrnes caused a sensation, t'other
day, by denouncing “ecclesiastical coercion.” A
few days after lie caused a still bigger one by lay-
ing the foundation of an Anglican church. Can
this be a plagiarism of Tozer’s policy ? Horace
used to trot round helping to inaugurate the little
Gawspel-shop, presiding at Salvation Army festi-
vals, and so forth. And the policy pays.
One lie N.S.W. anti-Federalists had better
drop is the rivers cry. “Our rivers” consti-
tuencies number about 11—say, Albury, Barwon
Bourke, Condobolin, Hay, Hume, Murruinbidgee'
Murray, Wentworth and Wilcantiia. These
electorates expressed their willingness to accept
the Convention’s settlement of the problem of
their blessed rivers by 7800 to 2400 votes.
In N.S.W. last Friday, the electorates of
Spiite a number of the anti-Federal leaders voted
or Federation. Among others, Premier Reids
constituency gave the Bill 120 majority ; Lyne’s,
over.'GOO majority ; Ashton’s, about 500 majority ;
Cotton’s, 70 ; Gould’s, about 180 ; M'Gowen’s, 00 ;
Sydney Smith’s, 300; Ball’s, over 700. These
figures seem to suggest that sundry individuals
will be very much missing after the fast-approach-
inor funeral election.
Voting by States the Convention Bill was
carried in all four. Voting as Australia, by over
100,000 majority. As provinces, Victoria carried
it by 4to 1; Tasmania, 3to 1; S. Australia, 2 to
1; N.S. W., by 6000 majority, and by 69 elector-
ates to 56. If this is not majority rule, what is?
Thk Bulletin isn’t talking or thinking about
Sydney. It is talking and thinking of Australia.
Friday’s poll is another evidence that, if
N.S.\V. doesn’t federate, the ultimate destiny of
the Kaverina is to separate and throw in its lot
With Victoria. All the districts whose natural
outlet is Melbourne, but which are practically
compelled by the provincial system to trade with
Sydney, gave a rousing majority for the Bill.
y, w ? n^e d to remove the barrier between them
and their nearest port; failing that, the next best
rp, ln S_ lB to get on the right side of the barrier.
Ihe fact that Riverina, which loses heavily by
provincialism, was manned down by the vote of
far away Sydney, whose gain is Riverina’s loss,
accentuates the difference of interests more
strongly than ever.
J. G. Drake (Q.), M.L.A., staunch Demo-
crat and one-time promising politician, is at pre-
sent puzzling his friends and baffling his enemies,
r ive years ago Drake was looked upon as a pro-
bable Premier of the immediate future; now
nobody knows whether he intends abandoning
politics or making a big political coup. He is a
Radical up to his_ hair-tips, an accepted and
sympathetic authority on Federation, and one of
the most popular and trusted men in his province ;
but he has obviously lost his way. With a strong
Socialistic-Labor faction in front, and a gang of
disreputable reactionaries in the rear, he stands
between the political devil and the political cess-
pool. Unless the coalition is burst up, Drake’s
time won t arrive before his epitaph is written.
The night before the Federal election, the
Australian Star came out with the magnificent
lie that the Federal Bill, which expressly provides
for absolute Freetrade inside the Commonwealth,
rendered all hope of intercolonial Freetrade
impossible. Also, it dished up the old perjury
that Victoria’s provincial bounties imposed before
June 30 were to be paid by the Commonwealth—
this despite the fact that there is no such pro-
vismn in the Bill, and that Premier Turner ex-
plicitly stated that Victoria would pay its own
bounties. And it also Asked the people to vote
at’q"w t * le because, under Federation,
iN.S. W. would not have the power to raise customs
revenue by a.separate provincial tariff of its own.
What kind of a Federation would it be wherb
each province could run its own separate tariff?
Rockhampton, headquarters of Central Q.
autonomy, has pronounced against Federation.
Rockhampton’s chief grievance is that clause of the
I ederal Constitution which requires the consent
of the Parliament of a province before that pro-
vince can be. subdivided. Rockhampton asserts
that this provision makes Separation an impossi-
bility, inasmuch as Q. Parliament never would
consent to such a sub-division. If Rockhampton
imagines Queensland will consent to partition if
she remains outside the Federal Union, that sultry
city is hugely mistaken ; and according to the
Colonial Boundaries Act the Imperial authorities
can t grant Separation in the teeth of the Q. Parlia-
ment. Charters Towers, however, the most im-
portant city in the North, is inclined to favor the
Federal movement, and the feeling in Southern
Q. is decidedly anti-provincial.
ONE BETTER.
SHE : “My father had pleurisy, but now he's convalescent."
HE : “ That’s nothing. My dad had a Dock a Durrhish last night, an’
he’s been in bed all day! ”
Apropos of N.S.W. Governor Hampden’s
assurance that any man can get an Old Age pen-
sion for himself if he wants one—the wages of the
Wallsend coal-miners, in the Jolly-and-Fat pro-
vince of N.S.W., have, for a good while back
averaged £1 2s. lOd. per week. Yet both the
coal output and the coal export of N.S.W. are
larger than they ever were before. How would
Gov. Hampden set about providing for Aiaold aire
on £1 2s. lOd. per week ?
S.A. Parliament meets again June 23, and
the chief energies of the session will be devoted to
the passage of a Pastoral Bill, which will relieve
the squatters without prejudicing the interests of
the country.
A HUMANE SUGGESTION.
REVD. SIGHTSEER : “My good man, is not the Zoological Gardens somewhere
about here?"
AMATEUR HUMORIST: “ Yes, just across the way; but if you’ll slip round the
corner there you may yet escape! ”
S.A. anti-Billifces, just on the eve of the
Federal polling, published a circular asserting that
Federation would result in an “exodus of em-
ployers, workmen, and general workmen to the
big centres of Australia.” Within a week the
answer came in a big advt. in the dailies from all
the big manufacturers stating that Federation
would increase and extend industries, and denying
the anti-Billites’ assertions point-blank. The
advt. bore the signatures of over 150 of S.A.’s
leading producing firms.
One of the loud and persistent assertions
of theN.S. W. anti-Bill ious orators was that thecom-
bined “ armies ” of S. A., Westralia, and Tasmania
numbered only 70 men, therefore the absurdity of
N.S.W. federating with these provinces was quite
obvious. A day or two before the poll Major-
General French wrote to the papers pointing out
that the three “ armies ” were not 70 but 4390
strong. So, apparently, it was only another cram.
The literature of the honorable anti-Billious
gentlemen was mostly lies.
About the last wild cry of L. F. Heydon
before his provincial gang was licked by 5000
votes on Friday was reported as follows by his
admiring organ, the Telegraph :
If the progress continued at the same rate as duringthe
last four years, N.S.W. would, within a hundred years,
have a population of 56 million people, as compared with
14 million in all the other federating colonies. Why,
then, &c., &c. ?
Look at that, now ! In the last four years the
“ other federating colonies ” advanced from
1,740,384 to I,B72,9oB—increase 132,524. And
N.S.W. advanced from 1,223,370 to 1,323,400-
increase 100,030. And, if progress keeps on for a
century on the basis of these numbers N.S.W. will
have 3,824,150 people against the other provinces’
5,053,484. If it keeps increasing at the percentage
of the last four years, another century will see
Westralia with more people than all the other pro-
vincesputtogether. Which isanotherof the reasons
why The Bulletin regards Heydon as a highly-
respectable but grossly-ignorant bigot who talks
most awful rot through his hat.
W. J. Ryott- Maughan, the audacious
young man who lately captured for Labor the
Boodle wraith seat of Burnett (Q.), is in many
respects , a remarkable juvenile. During the
campaign he had to face a combination of obstacles
that would have dispirited many a strong Iran.
Although running in the Labor interest he was
vehemently opposed by the Worker, A.L.F.,
and Labor-leader Glassey; his opponent was
squatter-agent Dick Newton—an able man in
more ways than one. Maughan was a complete
stranger in the electorate, totally ignorant of its
riquirements, and probably—until recently—of its
geographical position ; then a well-meaning Inde-
pendent candidate of avowed advanced views
complicated matters. On top of all a writ for
.£450 was issued against Maughan the day after the
nomination ! This would have flattened out
most men, but it does not seem to have ruffled the
hyphenated one, who went straight ahead and
topped the poll. Whether the member will crush
the writ, or the writ the member, remains to be
seen. He deserves luck, anyhow.
The S.A. Ministers have induced their
contribution to the Govt. Whip’s salary from £52
a year to £35 a year each—now that it haa
become an understood thing that that official
shall step into the first Cabinet vacancy.
For years
S.A. Education
Minister Cock-
burn tried to in-
duce his col-
leagues to abol-
ish the fees
charged to State
school children
who have passed
the compulsory
standard but
have not reach-
ed the age limit.
By the irony of
fate the reform
has been adopt-
ed a few weeks
after his ap-
pointment to the
Agent-General-
ship, and his suc-
cessor (Butler)
gets the credit
of it, although
personally op-
posed to the re-
mission.
When a jCT.S.
Wales cleric de-
clared the other
day that “it is
the mission of
highly Christian
and civilised na-
tions to absorb
or destroy an
effete or degrad-
ed nation,” he
forgot that it
was the assump-
tion for herself
of precisely such
a status and
“mission” that
has left Spain
to-day a subject
for the cheap
contenipt of
every obscure
little gospeller
who seeks to
point his smug
evangelical mor-
al. Cath o 1 i o
Spain was great
in her way, as
Puritan Eng-
land was great
in hers but
canting, ped-
dlmg, snuffling', huckstering British Little Beth-
r never have risen high enough to
tall, ihe man who takes by nature to the con-
venticle may have ever Love and the New Dispen-
sation upon his tongue, but, with all the fibres of
his sordid, beefy soul, heelings to the Slaughter-
God of the Old Testament.
During the recent electoral campaign in
the Burnett (Q.) the bigotry business was worked
for J 1 ] 1 it was worth. Ryott-Maughan, Labor
candidate, was denounced as having written a
bitter anti-Irish article in the now-defunct Bris-
bane Chronicle. On the other hand, Newton
(Govt, candidate) was assailed bv a priest who
fulminated against him from the altar. The latter
circumstance may account for T. J. Byrnes's re-
cent public protest at Townsville against “ eccle-
siastical coercion.’’ “ Ecclesiastical coercion " is,
of course, a fitting phrase when priestly influence
is wielded against the Govt, nominee, but when
sacerdotal lips bless the Ministerial candidate (as
they nearly always do in Bananaland) it is, of
course, a very different matter.
I\vo recent extracts from Sydney Tele-
graph
It is only by means of coddling in this fashion tnat the
inferior coal of Gippsland hns become a competitor with
the high-class product of our own mines in the Victorian
market. It is only at the expense of the Vic. public that
oar output has been diminished so seviously .
That was the Telegraph when it was telling
stupendous “fakes” about the effect of Vic.
bounties on the N.S.W. coal-trade in order to
boom the anti-Billious cause. This is the same
IELKGRAPH when it was showing how N.S.W.
prospered under Foreign-trade, and how that
blessed policy made its coal industry, and all its
other industries, unassailable :
As a final, the Minister for Mines pointed out that the
°f coal was 3,278,328 tons in 1893, as against
4,383,591 tons in 1897. The recital of these figures was
greeted with cheers from a representative company.
In 1897 N.S.W. had, according to these figures, a
coal output of 340,000 tons more than any pre-
vious year’s record. If the pointing out of this
discrepancy is equivalent to calling any paper an
unscrupulous perverter of the truth it isn’t The
Bulletin’s fault.


How history does repeat itself ! A
leaky ecal-laden barque, from the inevitable
Newcastle (N.S.W.), has, it is cabled, put into
Whangaroa (M.L.), the crew having refused to
proceed on the voyage. The Bulletin hopes
that, in the interests of Proputty and Lawnorder,
these mutinous ruffians will expiate their crimes
in gaol. As the ship didn’t sink at her anchorage
in Whangaroa she was clearly fit to proceed to
San Francisco.
The old “wooden wall,” Nelson, lately
bought by a Sydneyite for .£2400 and now in Port
Jackson, was for years head quarters of the Vic.
naval forces. When launched in 1814 she was the
largest war-ship ever built in England, but in ’Bl
Vic. Govt, had her cut down to a single-decker.
The oak in the grand old hooker is said to be as
sound to-day as when she first swam.
If N.S.W. Premier Reid for once keeps
his word and opens new Federal negotiations with
the other provinces, he will probably be met with
a demand for a solid cash security (say, .£50,000)
that the N.S.W. Govt, will keep its promise this
time. When the other provinces went into the
last move mention N.S.W.’s invitation, they did
it on the written agreement, enacted by Parlia-
ment, and sanctioned by the Reid Govt., and en-
dorsed with the signature and the big red seal of
His Ex., that all that was wanted in N.S.W. was
50,000 votes and a majority. Then Reid and
Want and the rest of the political welshers repu-
diated that agreement as unscrupulously as any
gang of small bookmakers at a pony-trot. If
there are to be any more negotiations it will
probably be necessary that there must be a very
different kind of N.S.W. Government, or else
this one must find substantial bail. No other
Government is likely to take the mere promise of
the Reid Ministry again on any subject.
rpilE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY of
the U.S. is renowned for its liberality to its Airents,
and invites applications from gentlemen to repre-
sent the Society in Country Districts in A ete South
Wales and Queensland; also in Sydney and
Brisbane.
Liberal terms to those possessing experience in the
procuration of new business.
Credentials must be enclosed with applications.
Apply to MANAGER,
Equitable Building, Sydney.
uu '
%
%
m
%/
m
COpid’s Choice
it) Fige Shoes
Should be relied on, as he knows he makes
as many victims by a pretty foot, clad in a
dainty shoe, as by any other attractive
feature. Even Romeo praises Juliet’s foot:
“So light a foot ne’er hurts the trodden
flower.” Our new stock of Winter, Light,
Strong, Comfortable Shoes combines
Style, Beauty, and Durability, . .
. . . with Reasonable Prices.
John Hunter and Son, Ltd.
CITY BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY;
AND 75 BRANCHES IN CITY, SUBURBS, AND THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
Po Yo(i Want to Btiy
. . . ai) ASSISTANT?
We will sell you a metal assistant, who will stand in a prominent part of your
shop and hold up a sign in his hands, showing everyone what a customer has done
—whether he has paid cash, bought goods on credit, paid something on account,
received money, or had a bill changed. An assistant who will prevent anyone
from making mistakes, and give you a record of the entire day s business.
This assistant costs but a small sum a day foi’ the
first year, after that you own him. He draws no
salary, and is always on duty.
There are over 130,000 of these Metal Assistants
in use in retail shops all over the world. Give us an
opportunity to explain his good points to you.
Here he is
You will hear more about him by sending your
name and address to
5985&3E175
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO.,
Head Office for Australasia: 393 George Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
P.O. Box, 1035.
Tel ‘phone No. 2976.
This is not a torpedo!
IS
m
■ ! '
BUT
STILL
It plays havoc with all Records and Championships,
and strikes our imitators very hard, and with dire
results. The copyists of our goods are unable to
approach the perfection of our Tyres, which have been
the public’s favorite since 1888, and are to-day—and
we intend keeping them so by only supplying the
public with the best; and the BEST material, work-
manship method of attachment and detachment are
embodied in
MB
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. [td.,
and at Melbourne, Adelaide,
486 Kent Street, Sydney.
Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
The Undeserving Poor.
At a meeting of Sydney City Mission, a few
days ago, the subject of Old Age Pensions
incidentally cropped up, and His Excellency
Gov. Hampton went so far out of the beaten
gubernatorial path as to slate that he didn’t
cuss strongly at such things with limitations.
In his own words, he “ should not at all object,
no matter where he resided, to contribute
towards a fund for the creation of Old Age
Pensions, but it would be on the condition that
the pensions should be paid only to those who
deserved them.” To put it in another way,
Gov. Hampden, like every other Orthodox and
Respectable Personage, objects to the Un-
deserving Poor having pensions or any other
decent provision or consideration for their old
age. And when one remembers all that the
world owes to the Undeserving Poor, and how
deeply the Respectable and Orthodox section of
the community is indebted to them, and how
much Gov. Hampden himself is dependent
upon them, The Bulletin regards this as most
ungrateful. In short, it desires to put in a
word for the Undeserving Poor, as a class which
has never been sufficiently appreciated.
* • « •
To begin with, the Hampden attitude rests
on a false arithmetical basis. It is not sug-
gested that the Governor should be called upon
to pay for the Old Age Pensions of the Un-
deserving Poor. That large and little appre-
ciated class will pay for itself if it gets a fair
show. The pensions will come out of the State
revenue, and to that revenue the Undeserving
Poor contribute more largely, in relation to
their means and often without any relation to
their means, than any other class. If all
the other sections of the community paid in
like proportion, there would be plenty of
revenue to provide old-age pensions for every-
body, but the lavish revenue contributions of
the Undeserving Poop are so much swallowed
up in paying the share of the public expenses
which should fall on Governor Hampden and
other deserving persons that there is nothing
left. Considering the nature of the situation,
the conduct of Governor Hampden and his kind
in kicking their great aggregate benefactor, the
Undeserving Poor, is an even worse kind of
ingratitude than The Bulletin fully recog-
nised a minute ago, when it commented on the
ingratitude of these people in the preceding
paragraph.
* * * •
The Undeserving Poor mostly drink ; their
tendency that way is the most prominent
feature in their undeservingness. Drink supplies
the biggest single item of taxation in almost
every Anglo-Saxon community, and out of every
shilling spent in drink about five times as
large a proportion goes to the State as out of
a shilling spent in any other way—save, per-
haps, in tobacco. And the Undeserving Poor
almost all smoke. Between these two items,
the person who is poor and thoroughly unde-
serving often contributes ten times as much to
the State revenue as the moderately affluent
person of shining merit. In N.S. W. particu-
larly, a-perfectly good individual who doesn’t
drink or smoke or take opium or use sugar in
his tea ; who has no land ; and whose income
is only ,£240 a year, or who successfully con-
ceals the fact that it is more, can live without
contributing more than a few coppers a year to
the Stale revenue. The Undeserving Poor
the individual who is thoroughly undeserving
in (he orthodox sense is always poor, or else
becomes so—help very largely to pay this meri-
torious person’s share of the interest on the
public debt and his share of the railway deficit
and the cost of police and military protection,
to maintain law-courts to protect his property,
and almost everything else—even for the con-
veyance and delivery of his newspaper. If
everybody was thoroughly deserving after the
Y.M.C.A. pattern, it would be compulsory
either to lump huge taxes on the necessaries of
life, or to put up the income-tax to about ss.
in the £ or something equally drastic —and that
would break the hearts of Gov. Hampden’s class.
In a thoroughly deserving community so many
of the mellow and fruity vices which now yield
large revenues would cease to yield anything
that some such desperate course would have to
be resorted to.
* * * *
In N.S. W. the Undeserving Poor drink and
smoke all day—provided their means hold out
—in a heroic effort to pay Gov. Hampden’s
salary and to save him from having his income-
tax doubled, or multiplied by four or more.
In Britain they smoke and drink all they can to
prevent the British Government being com-
pelled to put a huge land-tax on the Governor’s
estate ami to double his British income-tax.
They enlist in the army, the rank-and-file of
which is mostly composed of the Undeserving,
and get shot at a miserably low wage of next
to nothing per annum, in order to save his life
am! property. If it were not for the Unde-
serving, Britain would probably be reduced to
filling its ranks by conscription, anil then Gov.
Hampden might have to take a turn at carry-
ing a rifle himself. The existence of the very
wealthy class to which Gov. Hampden and his
associates belong, is almost solely owing to the
existence of the Undeserving. There is not
enough money, even in wealthy Britain, to let
everybody be so much as moderately rich—the
total wealth of the country which has a mort-
gage on half the globe only runs to about
.£260 per head, including everything. If every
man was Deserving, didn’t drink or smoke,
worked hard, saved his money carefully, and
invested it safely, and acquired an education
so that he could learn to strike out for himself
instead of being all his life the Undeserving
bond-slave of an employer, Britain would be-
come a land ot innumerable small capitalists,
but the big capitalist would become much less
plentiful. Money always keeps circulating,
audit is just because the Undeserving Poor don’t
grab their share of it hard enough as it goes by
that the plutocrat gets it in the end.
* » * *
There are always exceptional individuals who
rise in the world from the smallest beginnings,
and whose portraits and biographies infest the
Sunday-school literature of this weary world
for generations afterwards. They mostly owe
their rise to the Undeserving Poor. If all the
poor neither draijk nor smoked, were indus-
trious, self-educated and intelligent (because
their brains weren’t muddled by lh|Uor), then
the exceptional person who now rises because
he is all these things, would simply remain
down. He gets up because he is an exception
to his class. If his class wasn’t so Un-
deserving he would only be one of the crowd.
The more Deserving the poor get the less show
there will be for that exceptional person who
rises from the ranks, and comes to great afflu-
ence, and is an ungrateful and insufferable
bounder for ever after. If they only became
Deserving enough a day might come when a
man would need to know three languages before
he could get a fair show' at a job digging post-
holes. There was a time when a man who
could read and write with reasonable facility
was such a marvel that he had a good chance to
be an archbishop or a chancellor. Now, owing
to the increased deservingness of the great
mass of humanity, and without any less desert
on his own part, he is hardly good enough to
be a policeman. The improvement of the masses
is good for the masses, but bad for the excep-
tional individual. If the Undeserving Poor
would only wade in unanimously for a few
general ions with a view to becoming in every
w'ay Deserving, then it would be very bad for
Lord Hampden and his kind.
• * • •
Anyhow, as the Undeserving Person has
mostly contributed more than his share to the
State revenue, his pension is a matter, not of
charity, but of right. Gov. Hampden isn’t called
upon to pay it ; he pays for it himself. He also
pays for the Governor to a great extent. But
supposing he doesn’t get his pension when he is
old and past active service, what does Hamp-
den propose to do with him ? He must either
live by casual charity, or by organised charity,
or be supported in gaol—all of which cost about
as much as the pension would ; or he must die
in the streets, which is wretchedly unpietur-
esque; or he must be poleaxed. Is Gov.
Hampden prepared to poleaxe him personally,
or does he intend doing it by deputy ? And, if
he gets his pension, he will probably spend
most of it in drink, which is a perfectly lawful
proceeding sanctioned by Act of Parliament.
If he does so, the State will get most of the
money back in drink duties, so he will be a
far cheaper pensioner than the Deserving per-
son. Also the drink will probably kill him
off, and he will draw his pension for a much
shorter period than the Deserving person. And
if Gov. Hampden, whose salary is largely de-
rived from the proceeds of his drinking, desires
to object, then the ingratitude of that poten-
tate is beastlv to the last degree.
m * • •
Speaking personally, the writer doesn’t like
the Undeserving class. But he recognises
these facts : If the community was all Unde-
serving, it would be a very awful wreck
of a community indeed. If it was all De-
serving in the wide and orthodox sense,
the present scribe would have to know
a lot more than he knows now to keep
his billet. There are any number of people
who would he much better fitted for the billet
than he is, were it not that some of them got
no education to start with from their Unde-
serving parents, and some inherited drinking
and other tendencies which made them forget
what education they ever had, and some
wrecked their nerves through drink and other
things, and some never inherited the nerves
they might otherwise have possessed owing to
the Undeservingness of their forefathers, and
a general want of respectability has landed
others in the gaol or lunatic asylum or ceme-
tery. And the Uudeservingness of these people
has made life so much easier for him that he
can’t curse the Undeserving Poor as he ought
to do. Gov. Hampden, if he w asn’t so thought-
less or so shockingly ungrateful, would feel the
same way.


TUESDAY, 21st JUNE.
BY AUCTION.
Tenham Cattle Station-
TO be SOLD pursuant to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Queensland, made in an
action, Hammond v. Hammond and Others, num-
bered 55 of 1897, with the approbation of the
Honorable Mr. Justice Cooper, by Messrs. B. D.
MO RE HEAD & CO., of Brisbane, Auctioneers,
in conjunction with Messrs. HILL, CLARK &
CO., of Sydney (the persons appointed by the said
Judge), at Mary-street, Brisbane, in the Colony of
Queensland, on the 21st Day of JUNE, 1898, at
Eleven O’Clock in the forenoon, in one lot,
TENHAM STATION
(Outside Tick-Infested Area),
Situated in Gregory South district of Queensland, con-
sisting of 276 square miles of country (more or less), of
which 190 square miles are Leasehold, having 17 years to
run from the Ist July, 1897, and 86 square miles qf country
held under Grazing Right, under “ Crown Lands Act of
1884.” Together with
6500 CATTLE (more or less), Fifty (50) HORSES (more
or less), STATION PLANT, STORES and IM-
PROVEMENTS thereon or belonging thereto.
The Country is situated on Cooper’s Creek and Kyabra
Creek, about 40 miles south of Windorah and about 230
miles west of Charleville railway station. It is very rich
fattening country for cattle, consisting of lightly timbered,
open, mulga country, with occasional black-soil plains,
abundance of salt-bush, blue-bush, cotton-bush, and other
edible shrubs. TENHAM is splendidly watered by the
main channel of the Cooper and its many branches, be-
sides springs. The Cattle are quiet, and have been well
worked. In the herd there are about 1000 head of Bul-
locks and Cows fit to start for market. The Improvements
are sufficient for the efficient working of the station.
Particulars and Conditions of Sale may be had gratis at
the office of Messrs. Macdonald-Paterson and Hawthorn,
Edward-street, Brisbane, Solicitors for the Plaintiff;
Messrs. J. F. Fitzgerald and Power, Queen-street, Brisbane,
Solicitors for the Defendants ; or at the offices of the said
B. D. Morehead .& Co., Brisbane ; Messrs. Hill, Clark &
Co., Sydney ; Messrs. Ryan, Hammond & Mates, Mel-
Doume ; and Messrs. Barker Bros., Adelaide, and at the
place of sale.
Dated this twenty-fifty day of April, 1898.
(L.s.) W. A. DOUGLAS,
Deputy Registrar.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
111111. (Il«nt it piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Laege White Marble Building),
■74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnbrokifif/ Branch:
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
EOR LARGE AMOUNTS, v
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head OfticeGEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total .. ... .. 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
.Tames Thomas Walker, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Auditors :
F. W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
axjtsvssuxmt
H
head office
Intersection Hunter,Busk and
Castlereagh
• SYDNEY •
/L. Established -1079. 4- <
Off,ceinAustr*v.i**
Annual Income and Invested
Funds Exceed JgOO,OOO ?/er/i/j°.
McGee’s
SHEFFIELD AND
SOLINGEN RAZORS.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for light beards, 3/6, 4/6.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for heavy beards, 6/-, 6/-, 7/6.
Solingen Razors, for light and heavy beards, 5/-, 6/6- B'6.
GENUINE BENGALL RAZORS, 3/6.
THISTLE RAZORS, 3 sizes, J, f, 3, 10/-, 12/6.
All Razors Set and Ready for Use.
Best Canvas and Leather Swing Strops, 2/6, 3/6, 6/-, 7/6.
Razors Set and Returned by Post, 1/- each.
All Post Free on receipt of postal note from Andrew
McGee, Hairdresser, &c., 6 Castlereagh-st, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, A> Agency
Company, Limited .
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company’s business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1897 . £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
E*q., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. ’ .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amountof Capilal payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital
£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid - w £2,974,801 lOs.
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Means, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry GvlesTurner, J.P.
Inspectors : Wra. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
11. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London. Office: 1 Jiishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £'2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and .
Gtiarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo>*' 7 n.
Fidelity Guarantees. Jimp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiev, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. llas. s at,l ; Perth, A. W.
Farqtthar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
MELBO IFRNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street :
or to
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
„ , (Queensland).
E. A. WEINBERG, E. M., General Manager.
David graham $ go.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
Winter Suitings Just Opened-
' —IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
LADIES’
AT REFORM
PRIC ES!
AT REFORM
TRICES !
TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham &Co.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LIME.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'!
GEELONG
PORTLAND {
WARRNAMBOOL J
Tyrian, Saturday, June 11, 2 p.m.
-Leura, Saturday, June 18, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., June 21, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
I Tyrian, Saturday, June 11, 2 p.m.
. Konoowarra, Tues., June 21, 5 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Konoowarra, Tues., June 21, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, June 11, 2 p.m.
Kelloe, Tuesday, June 14, 5 p.m.
Cargo only.
Tyrian, Saturday, June 18, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Barrabool, Friday, June 10, 12 Noon.
-Peregrine, Saturday, June 11, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, June 18, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Si Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUT IS).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
C
\ : i
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TvESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & 00., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Cable Address—Riemseil.
Code—Moreing & Neal, eto.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOOIILIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
V Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock, and Share Urokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. J^^lbotlfl)£.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burhidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 GreBham-street, London E.C.
Elliott's
INVESTORS’ SUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO:
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Thursday, June 9.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Saturday, June 11.
ALBANY, 'v
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to L
VASSE, DONGARRA, |
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Thursday, June 9.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Saturday, June 11.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Franklin, Saturday,
June 11.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G* S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching' at the usual Intermediate Ports.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, * 55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on/
favorab le terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydne3 r .
Huddart, Parker § go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HOBART,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE AIONEY, .1.25 to 1.70
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
IDlluiraith, (|)‘Eacharn i go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotal ions, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Lie'.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
11 ORTH GERMAN ~LLQYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO’
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA?
Aoouuni 1/IVJfVCia ixb
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co’s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U- S. INI- Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay’
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas. ’
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday - Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenffer Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


win
A cup of Van Houten’s Cocoa contains more digestible
nourishment than the finest beef tea.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED !
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
ZRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
T Jt* £l, £3 fc i- -O 11,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Poi table Railway
hocomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article —
A. Soycr’S BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article —guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Rates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiQitoi) N.SoGI &Co.,m’sp.s.,
150, 160, aiiel 200 Fitt-street, Sydney; and at
diurcli-street, Parramatta.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY-
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
sold annually.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Proprietors
tiixock &
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i/-, and a/- eacli.
GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO LEEOS, ENG,
Sole Airents for New South NVales.
sole A}. , IVKKI . O OI, STREETS, SYDNEY.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiimiiiimiimmimiii
■
U.OIS 3HJ. Nl o£ dOHO.
m
S*j*wwißwec tuaaasic
33kU SUVOIO
MICK SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY-
No Extortionate Prices .
We give Value for Money,
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Value
in N S.W.
T ■ ,<\ WREKTCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
WA
II
<*
9mt
w
v
s
£
L
F
F
£
E
D
I
N
a
FOR
COUNTER
USE.
Sole Agents for Australasia :
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, SydLney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
K Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
r 0
*
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYAEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno ? s ‘Fruit
Salt,’ wh : ch has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.”— A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARYELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
OF PIANOS IK
Tfje Fip?St ai}d Largest MCiSic WareljoGSe
imr AUSTRALIA..
<•♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦« '
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NINON PIANO, .£35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S, a “'"££
NOTICE TO TRAVELLERS.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
THIS FASHIONABLE PASTIME is now within the reach of all
as we supply the most PERFECT INSTRUMENTS with the
Simplest Mechanism, at prices to suit everybody. The Latest are—
The VICTOR MAGAZINE POCKET CAMERA, for Plates;
takes pictures 2J x 1| ; fitted with two View Finders, Time
and Instantaneous Shutter. Price, 215. ; parcel post, 6d:
The DUPIiEX, a Twin-Lens HAND CAMERA, with a full-
sized View-Finder, Time and Instantaneous Shutter; takes
plates 4iSin. x 3Jin. (ip.) Price, 255. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. 2d., other Colonies 2s. 2d.
The HAWKEYE, a HAND CAMERA, taking- Plates sin.
x 4in., and suitable for rough country travelling. It is fitted
with two View-Finders, Focussing Gauge, and Time and In-
stantaneous Shutter. Price, 70s. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. Bd., other Colonies, 3s. 2d.
HARRINGTON’S “ Amateur ” Developing and Printing
Outfit, suitable for any Camera up to sin. x 4in. Price
12s. 6d. Parcel post, N.S.W. 2s. 2d., to other Colonies 4s. 2d’
DRY PLATES.— “ VICTOR,” per packet of 2doz., Is. 3d. •
for “DUPLEX,” per packet ldoz., Is. 3d. ; for “HAWK-
EYE,” per packet ldoz., 2s.
Directions with each Camera. We guarantee purchasers against
failure if our simple instructions are carried out.
A
Snap-
Shot.
<4#
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.,
66 KIKTGt STREET
See Our Advertisement on Society Page.
SYDNEY.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
... MERCHANTS,
T
SUPPIELD CASE.
THEE
ous Case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of Alleged Outrage! Just Published.


The Melb. police make a unanimous guess
re the anarchist who planted his bomb. The Yio.
authorities somehow have always been very much
afraid of dynamite. An earnest student applied
at Melb. Public Library, not long: ago, for works
re the preparation of such explosives, but was
promptly fired out.
If Queen Victoria’s condolatory message
to Mrs. Gladstone was anything more than the
usual official second-hand sob, Her Gracious
didn't overload the old man’s memory with glory
when she referred to him as “ one of the most
distinguished statesmen of my reign.” This is
standing things on their heads with a vengeance ;
Victoria R. I. is a personage who happens to have
occupied the throne during Gladstone’s (intellectual)
reign.
Stock Owners N.S.W. and Queensland.—lt
is noticeable that in the year 1897 Messrs. Pitt,
Son and Badgery, Ltd., sold over 79,000 sheep
and over 5,000 cattle more than any other firm
through the Homebush Yards, so that any paper
professing to give a complete list of stock sales
without including the for going very important
operations must fall far short of giving the public
“complete information,” especially as this Com-
pany’s sales represent 30J, per cent, of the whole of
the sheep sold, and 20| per cent, of the whole of
the cattle sold in the year, and by 15 firms.*
Factory - Australian Branch - Rider.
That’s tho History of “ RED BIRD" Distribution.
NO MIDDLEMEN, Hence MANUFACTURER and RIDER are IN TOUCH.
THAT’S WHY
... RED BIRDS...
ARE ALWAYS A YEAR AHEAD.
THE (aOOLP BICYCLE CO., LIMITCP.
Australasian Branch —64 King Street, Sydney.
Cycling School —Waverlcy Road, Wollahra.
Agents Everywhere.
HUMBER CYCLES (AMERICA)
“ These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at the Beeston Works ;
the workmanship and materials are of the highest quality.”
Reduced
LADY’S
GENT’S
ft
10 10
01 0)
The Australian Cycle & Motor Co. Ltd., 45 York-street, SYDNEY ; and at 381 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“The champion Melbourne caligraphist, pony-
proprietor, and plunderer of Presbyterian parsons
(who hits still a long term of his original sentence
to serve in Pentridge), was visited last week by a
solicitor who announced to the gentleman the
decease of his grandfather and the gratifying fact
that the convict thereby inherits between £140,009
and .£45,000 sterling.
“ The unfortunate man whose insane wife re-
cently destroyed their three children and at-
tempted suicide, sold off his furniture and effects
by auction whilst the excitement over the affair
was strong, with the result that about 500 people,
principally women, attended and so overcrowded
the house that the auctioneer had to adjourn to a
waggonette outside, where a complete clearance
at big prices was effected. Some of the she-
ghouls were ready to tear each other’s eyes out
during the bidding.
“ Re the cruel surprise sprung on local spinsters
by the unlooked-for betrothal of that handsome
college-lecturer to a professedly love-proof heiress,
the latter hardly deserves all the blame of the
deception. Certainly she was aggressively pla-
tonic, but was that any more artful than osten-
tatiously pining and wearing willows, supposedly
for the sweet sake of Beryl Faber, otherwise
appropriated ?
“ Melbourne’s show bar-girl has at last met her
Waterloo. Hymen has captured her; and there
is great sorrow in the ranks of the monocle and
high-collar brigade.
“ The chances are that the Greek play to be
staged at the Melb. Town Hall, on ltith, will turn
out to be a hybrid mixture of Wagnerian music-
drama and the mildest form of Italian opera.
Marshall Hall has seized opportunity by the fore-
lock. For years past he has been trying to sur-
prise a Melb. audience with one of Wagner’s
operas. He doesn’t care an iota about Greek—
even if he knows any—but he’s going in for a big
musical sensation, and so “ Alcestis ” has come in
handy as an experiment. Turns out that the
chorus is to be hidden, like the concealed orches-
tra at Bayreuth. A Greek play without its chorus
to the front might just as well be Lohengrin. And
as if this were not anachronism enough, the
masterful Ormond Professor decrees that the
whole text is to be sung to Italian sounds, because
they go best with his music ; so there will be a
sort of “ Lucia di Lammermoor ’’ flavour about the
whole thing. The Greek play was lyric, and this
will be lyric—that will be about all the two things
will have in common. Dispirited Dr. Leeper, in
bedraggled raiment, fleeing before the imperious
demands of Marshall Hall, would fit in nicely as
a Greek episode, for what with one trial and
another the Doctor already looks as if he were
being homicided by the Fumenides.
“Stated in several papers that Madame Wie-
dermann must have found Professor Marshall
Hall’s death-scene music for ‘ Alcestis ’ very diffi-
cult to sing, but the lady herself says that she
found it not at all trying, although she sang it
with an intensity of dramatic passion the like of
which is not often seen on the concert platform.
The voice part was written with a view to the
possibilities of her register, and she ‘ threw it off
her chest’—literally—like the great singer she
really is. The Professor’s 1 Alcestis ’ death squall
is ‘ music ’ —as Gounod said of Weber’s —‘ that
one would not like to meet in the dark.’ It is
weird, creepy, haunting—like a peep into a black
abode of slimy reptiles.
“ At the Princess’, ‘ Thrums ’-folk—taking no
thought for their ‘ poor perishable bodies,’ beyond
a few parritch-and-whiskeys and their * Saw bath
blacks’ —seldom incite Pattie Browne to displays
of fine plumage. Masquerading as a gipsy lass,
she wears a skirt of hodden trey and faced red-
brown cloak and hood, with her small, smart feet
and ankles jimp and neat in white hose and high-
heeled leather shoon. Bright, saucy and crisp,
Miss Browne’s ‘ Babbie ’ is maybe rather a prosaic
edition of the will-o’-the-wisp ‘ Egyptian ’ enchan-
tress, weaver of spells for the sententious boy-
preacher. The same with Cecil Ward’s ‘Little
Minister.’ In the details of awkward arm-and-
leg-deportment, dowdy coat-tails, quaint high
hats and youthful pomposity, the stage version is
realistic. But ‘a man’s a man for a’that,’and Rev.
Gavin Disliart, prig though he be, besides being a
man (albeit a very young one), is a true knight and
something of a saint. Tosuitdramaticexigencies,
however, the clerical laddie is defrauded of his
naive enthusiasm, awe-struck consciousness of
sacred responsibilities, and bewildering blend of
sheepishness and grit. No ! The Little Minis-
ter, like Little Billee,- was never meant for the
boards.
“ Restored to the dignity of Lord Rintoul’s
daughter, the quondam Egyptian lays by some
of her youth with her skittish gipsy skirt, and
looms larger than aforetime in white brocade,
with a fillet of electric blue twisted round her
high-piled coiffure. En route , with unsuspecting
papa, to lasso the little minister on the grounds of
his ‘Scotch marriage,’she throws on an ermined
over all of apple-green moire and plumed, pink-
straw ‘lB3o’ bonnet. Thus arrayed, their new
shepherdess storms the hearts of the canny Auld
Licht congregation, exciting them to ‘ wail a por-
tion of joyous psalmody ” in their glee at the
inevitable jealousy of other kirks.
“ All sorts and conditions of Scottish accents
figure in stage ‘ Thrums,’ though Eloise Juno, as
old ‘ Nanny,’ boasts the most musical of the col-
lection.
“ Pa and ma Madden, two daughters and son-
in-law elect, helped to welcome back Pattie
Browne. Th& acting-Governor’s fourth daughter,
Leslie,. is to plunge into society next month, so
that wedding in September is, probably, as popu-
lar with the connection as are most similar
functions.
“ Any amount of fuzz and fizz at Wilson Barrett’s
farewell. They do say that W.B. wante I to
wind-up with ‘Virginius,’ as before, instead of
‘Othello,’ as requested this time. Probably
with an eye to farewell speeches, and so on, he
hankered after the old Roman’s white skirts and
silvery locks. Black face and woolly hair match
all right with frenzy of histrionic passion, but
they’re not so very appropriate to chastened real-
life adieux. Small blame, too, to Maud Jeffries
if she shied, as reported, at so many after-appear-
ances in Desdemona’s night-gown. Applaud as
they would, the audience coulcjn’t coax her on till
she’d thrown on her blue redingote. In his good-
bye speech W.B. somehow strayed into a belated
account of the Jubilee procession. ‘Horses
pranced, trumpets blared, cannon roared ’—here
the speaker jibbed uneasily, and changed the
subject just in time to save himself from ‘ women
screamed, dogs barked, children yelled.’
“lie a recent toney wedding, the bridegroom’s
kinsfolk, jointly and severally, possess all the
beauty-spots round about a favorite upland region.
A summer or two agone, so say truth-telling liill-
folk, the clan's widowed chieftain with 1 1 is one
fair daughter (since married) decided to shunt
house-keeping worries awhile by letting their
picturesque home for the summer and taking up
their own quarters with a married son, settled
thereabouts. When the news was broken to the
latter’s wife, she promptly put hubby up tofinding a
desirable tenant for their own woodland retreat. It
wasn’t the invaders themselves she objected to, so
site said, but the hordes of acquaintances bound
to follow in their wake. Anyhow, when both
abodes were snapped up in a hurry by unexcep-
tionable inmates, the evicted owners bore down
en masse on the hospitable halls of another brother,
a grass-widower, by the way, only to learn that, in
his loneliness, he, too, had successfully advertised
his little place ‘ to-let,’ confident of a warm corner
for himself in the home of Ins boyhood. In this
dilemma, the homeless band, bereft of furniture,
linen, and plate, along with their leased resi-
dences, put up a tent somewhere on the ancestral
acres, and had high times and lots of guests.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Cyprus the hurdler, who won again at Randwick
on Saturday, is a horse Sydney cannot afford to lose. He
registered a good performance in giving two and a-half
stone and a beating to a horse like Elisler, about whom
punters took even money. Cyprus has been sold for
Victoria, where all the good hurdle horses go.
* * * *
The steeplechase at Randwick last week was a
stirring race. Three third-class animals started, one of
which fell in the first half-mile, and was led in on three
legs. The jockeys on the other two rode leisurely round,
yarning to each other, until the last fence, where one
fell, leaving the other to canter in alone. Surely it would
pay to train a decent steeple horse in Sydney. The prizes
are good, and anything that can stand up generally wins.
* * ■* *•
Mr. Sam. Hordern has decided to keep on his
Randwick stables, for occupation by some youngsters
coming down from the stud-farm to be handled ; which
looks much as if his absence from “the turf ” will be but
temporary. Although it was understood that Mr. Hor-
dern's racing-stud was for sale without reserve, the pick
of the basket were not traded off, and it, could not have
broken their owner’s heart to part with those that did go.
* » * *
F. : At Blacktown (N.S.W.) races, on Queen’s
Birthda.v, saw the 13.3 handicap run—a miscellaneous
collection of gee-gees piloted through the treps by nonde-
script riders. One “ jock,” having 7.7 on the card against
his mount, jumped on the scales, and, finding himself
some lbs. short, stepped on to the railway-line, filled his
pockets with ballast from the track, returned to the scale,
and adjusted his “ ballast ” until the desired’weight was
reached. .Then buttoned up his coat, mounted his nag,
and rode a good race, though he didn’t win. Immediately
the weighing-out was got through, all hands crossed the
railway-line to the pub. opposite until time for the next
“ event."
* * * »
Owners of Sydney ponies now racing in Vic-
toria have just cause for grievance in the eleventh-hour
ruling of the V.R.C. committee against the iilliputians.
Aletallic and Aluminium have raced at Flemington more
than once without action being taken, and attention has
frequently been directed during the past year by the
press to the anomalous position of the governing body’,
with horses and owners, disqualified by the A.J.0.,
allowed to run on courses under its jurisdiction. Yet no
move was made till such time as the policy of drift
had lulled owners into a sense of security. Besides, with
the poor class of nags now racing on suburban courses,
Victoria would he benefited by the presence of some of
the smart Sydney “ fifteen-handers ’’—always providing
said ponies left their knowledge of betting tactics behind
them at the border.
* * * *
James Wilson, sen., just missed a nice stake, at
Flemington, on Queen's Birthday, through the boy aboard
Alabaculia being too weak to finish alongside Mo. Trahan,
on Cherry’. Several punters have been waiting for the
Queenseliff mare since one performance last year, when
the boy incautiously remarked, coming out of the weigh-
ing-room, “ I would ha’ won, sir, if she hadn’t stuinlljd at
the turn.” Judging by old Jimmy’s fiery look, that
youngster probably’ learned in due course" that a still
tongue doesn't make a sore head.
* » * *
Adelaide recently had another boom in tote
dividends. On Ala.v 23, second day of A.R.C. Birthday
meeting, lucky backers raked in £2B 175., £47 12s. and
£9 Is. in three out of the six races. These occasional big
divs. much strengthen the machine in popularity,
although they betoken a bad day for the generality of
backers.
* * • *
Racing matters are in a healthy condition in
Westrnlia, and good horses and men are continually being
drained from the other pro\ inces to supply the wants of
their younger rival. Thanks to the tote, the W.A.T.C.
has a “capital” balance of nearly £70,(100, and this
season, after paying all exes., its profits amount to over
£5OOO. The added money is co tinual y on the increase,
whilst cheeseparing tactics obtain in the Ikey Alo pro-
vinces.
* * • *
Westralian punters will rejoice to see First Mate
carrying Alec Forrest’s colors, for “ Bro. Alec,” though
credited with a two-handed grab-all policy in political
life, runs his horses straight. This is probably due as
much to his sporting qualities as to the ingrained Westra-
lian belief in the superiority of the “Forrest” article.
* » * *
As in N.S. Wales, where trotting-owners have
killed file game, so in Queensland ; the chief jockey club
has decided to leave trotting events off its programmes
in future. At the recent Canterbury (M.L.) trotting
meeting, the prize-money for eight races was 750sovs.
Had Sydney owners gone “straight,” they would now
have a trot for a good stake at each of the proprietary
courses. What a cut-throat game they played I
• * * ♦
Mr. Wonbobbie Buckland had quite a trium-
phal march with his trotters in Maoriland. Fritz, who
made buggy horses of their best, was cheered upon every
appearance, and on Friday last he had a go against
his Moonee Valley (Vic.) record of 2m. 14 4-ssec. He
trotted the mile in 2m. 14isec., creating a new Austral-
asian record. Good as Fritz undoubtedly’ is—in Aus-
tralia—his record shows how premature Dr. Slate was in
offering to back him against any trotter or pacer in
America. The doctor was perfectly safe in making the
offer, as it was not likely any inducement Australia
could hold out would persuade a Yankee owner to risk the
trip across with a crack horse. As for Fritz going to
America, if times goes for anything, horses able to beat,
the Australian champion are plentiful as blackberries. It
has been argued that our tracks are not conducive to a
horse showing at his best, but against this is the fact
that, as far hack as '93, a horse named Greenlander trotted
a mile in a skeleton waggon in 2m. I4Jsec.
• • • •
Wonbobbie Buckland’s Viva paid in Maoriland
one tote div. of £l7B 18s. Viva is full sister to Torrent,
with which Harry Knight won so jjpany trots about
Sydney.
* * * *
The appeal by Martin Taylor (M.L.) against
sentence of two months’gaol for “sporting-shop” keep-
ing is unique. Taylor had pleaded guilty, expecting a
fine, and, when convicted, appealed. Such an unheard-
of thing paralysed the lieak, who treated it as an excep-
tional case, and allowed leave to appeal. But he made
the security stiffer than the sentence —£1500.
* * * *
A Maoriland clergyman, struck with the “co-
incidence ” racing theory, gave a discreet member of his
fiock a fiver to hack a trotter bearing his name at a way-
side country show. The neddy paid the “ limit,’’ but
bookie disappeared. The saint and the sinner I
• » * •
The performances of Newhaven and Maluma at
'Oine should make Australian owners pause ere venturing
their cracks on such a long and expensive trip. Judici-
ously placed, our horses would pay exes, all right, but
patriotism or “.biff head ” makes owners fly at too big
game.
* * * *
All the best racing blood is gradually being
drained from Australia. Having secured Trenton, Car-
nage, Carbine and Aurum—the pick of the Musket strain—
attention is now being paid to Yattendon ; Patron (Grand
Flaneur—Olga), one of our stoutest and most sterling
stayers having lately been purchased for service at ’Ome.
This is a poor outlook for future racing.
* * * •
Told of a certain diminutive horse-charmer, that
on the day following a gathering where he had romped in
short-weighted he received a cardboard box per post.
There being a probability of pigeons or black duck therein
he paid the double postage dues. Contents—two saddle-
leads. Pasted on one was an account of the sinful one's
race, with press observations. The other displayed un-
musical language of “colonial” manufacture, and a
Scriptural quotation re shortness of life, shortness of
weight, or something.
• • » •
W. : “ Was yarning to-day to a tobacconist in
his shop near a Sydney pony course. Most of the cus-
tomers were jockeys, and the shopkeeper told me the
secret history of each. Eleven out of 17 mannikins were
then under disqualification-and several spoke exultingly
of their cronkness. Yet there are people who regularly
stake more than their pocket-money on ponies (and
jocks), but refuse to buy from (he local grocer because he
charges U)d. per lb. more for his butter than the leviathan
in town.”
* * • *
Harry Morant (“The Breaker ”) was last week
jumping his horse Cavalier over a 4ft. rail filling a gap in
the fence at the rear of the old Racecourse Hotel, Claren-
don (Windsor, N.S.VV. disl rict). The horse swerved and,
going too fast to stop, cleared the 7ft. palings! The
horse is a five-year-old gelding bred by Philip Charley,
by Freedom (imp.) out of Clara, an imported trotting
mare owned by the late Andrew Town, of Hobartville.
The jump was done in the presence of Mr. Kelly, of Clar-
en lon, and some half-dozen others ; and the measurement
is well-authenticated. The fence is a ti-tree stake one —
such as Chinamen usually erect to protect their gardens.
•» • * *
S. le W. : Speyed mares for racing could be
called speylings. To a layman in sport, a penalty of Ist.
extra would seem fairer than an allowance as to geldings.
There is no improvement in the breed of horses (the
original motif) to be gained by speying. The same does
not hold good with adding horses to the list. No one
thinks of starting a stud with equal numbers of stallions
arid mares. To hippophagists, however, the ovolithotomy-
is good.
» * • •
Randwick versus Wallaroo was the chief Sydney
football match on Saturday last, some 2000 people putting
in an appearance at the Agricultural Grounds. Play was
fast, and if anything the Wallaroos had the best of the
deal; but there was nothing in it, neither side scored, and
the game ended in a draw. Sydney and University played
a remarkably fine game, which also ended in a draw, each
side scoring 9 points. Pirates and Paddington, as antici-
pated, was a one-sided game, Pirates simply running over
their opponents with a score of 3(5 to 8. Casualties :
Bratind, a dislocated knee ; Duggan, a broken head;
Lane, a gashed cheek ; and Miller, a broken finger, all in
the Randvvick-Wallaroo set-to.
* » * •
Vic. lacrosse-players threatened to knock foot-
ball on the head this winter in the matter of public
patronage, hut, so far, public patronage has evinced a
steadfast resolution to abstain from “ patronizing” either
game. The lacrosse men have themselves to blame, for
public apathy has been encouraged by apathetic lacrosse
players. The game is clever, fast, spectacular enough to
appeal to most amusement-seekers, but has been ruined
so far by the spruce bank-clerk who scorns to remove his
picturesque figure and gorgeous costume from a position
of Vantage near the ladies’ stand. Let the ball come
within that radius and he performs wondrous pick-ups,
throws, dodging, &c., but under no circumstances will he
get out of range of Mabel's admii ing eyes.
* * »■ *
Lacrosse is struggling for a footing on the Wes-
tralian fields. But it has far to go yet to overtake foot-
ball. Even in Adelaide, where it is strongest, the
attendance at the big matches has not averaged one-sixth
of that at the big football matches on the same days. In
a few northern S.A. towns, though, it has practically
displaced football.
» • * *
Affiliation by the M.L. amateur A. A. with the
Cyclists’Alliance has proved an unprofitable partnership
for the pedestrian body, who think of quashing the agree-
ment. As pure and undefiled cycling is at a low ebb in
ALL., and an the Alliance is too high-toned to affiliate
with the cash-men, their future prospects are gloomy.
The M.L. A.A. has to programme events for the tin-pot
people in the different centres, but paucity of entries has
led to grumbling.
After the luncheon adjournment, a not-out bats-
man, indulging in a preliminary strike before resuming
his innings, complained that he saw three balls instead
of one ; whereupon a bowler, who had evidently been in
the same street, informed him that the middle hall was
the ball. Thus enlightened, the batsman went in, and
was clean-howled first hall. “ Why the devil didn’t you
go for the O’litre hall?'’ asked the howler. “So I did,
old man, but I got on to it with the outside hat" 1
* * * *
Probable that the proposal to send a Maoriland
cricket-team to Australia will bear fruit. Melb. C.O.
offers '-300 towards exes. Matches—Hobart, one ; Melb.,
two; Sydney, one; and a possibility of one in S.A. or Q.
The popularity of the game rapidly grows in the Land of
Scuffle and Scrum.
» * » e
A small yacht built by the English designer,
Linton Hope, has carried all before her in Germany. Mr.
Sam. Hordern’s 22-footer Bronzewing was also designed
by Linton Hope. Yet she proved a rank failure.
* » * •
The much-boomed Mdlle. Serpolette was rather
a frost, in Adelaide. The League officials refused to allow
her to scorch round the track in costume, and a cycle-
motor which she was advertised to ride broke down at the
last moment. It is beginning to be suspected that
Mdlle.’s Australian tour was projected at least partly in
the interests of certain brands of cycling costume.
» * » *
lie a ladies’ hike-race at Wellington, on Easter
Monday, a Maoriland paper writes : “It was the funniest
thing ever seen on the track. Only two starters, and one
of them was winning by about 100yds. As she neared the
post, the crowd began to applaud, so, thinking it was all
over, she turned off the track about 10yds. from home,
dismounted, and began to walk away ! An official drew
her attention to (he fact that she had not finished the
course, and led her back to the track. She attempted to
mount, turned the hike round the wrong way, rode
several figure B’s, and finally fell off ! Meanwhile, the
other damsel, urged on by the cries of the crowd, put on
a pound, and came toil'ng onward to the goal, but a kind-
hearted cavalier threw the leading lady on to her machine,
and a tangled mass of bike, skirt and iady forged past the
post a brilliant winner by four good inches.”
* »‘ * •
The downright lying in press advts. concerning
the unparalleled utility of worthless and unsafe low-grade
bikes is receiving attention in ’Murka. Liability to
criminal prosecution is suggested—a good idea that
should be extended to every-day commodities.
» * * •
Pedestrian Gilbert’s arrival in Melb. last week
was not the triumphal entry his friends had expected. A
small crowd of gaping office-boys and newspaper-sellers
followed him down Collins-street to a hair-dressing shop,
where the traveller sought refuge with a compatriot.
Gilbert is an undersized man of slight physique, whose
long red beard is in perfect harmony with his soiled suit
of khaki. Whatever be the opinions on the reported
£lO,OOO wager, or the methods of appealing to the hos-
pitable side of Australians by these pedestrians, it is un-
fair to insinuate doubts as to the loiia-fidcs of Gilbert’s
actual walking. His cheeks are abundant (a duplicate of
each being sent to Paris); and writer has testimony of
mounted trooper and linesman at Esperance (W. A.) as to
the Gaul having covered the distance from Bremer Bay
to Eucia per foot—as nasty a stretch to tramp solus as
could be covered by an 3' whaler.
* ♦ * *
The tremendous output of the Dunlop Co.,
Coventry (Eng.), may be gathered when it is stated that
1000 finished tyres are being turned out daily, or 300,000
tyres a year—from one factory alone. This should give
the lay mind a fair idea of the gigantic development of
the cycling industry in England.*
* • • »
Swift Walne’s photos, are reported to be in
high demand amongst the fair sex, who naturally enough
admire and respect a consistent,, steady-living wheelman
when they catch sight of him. People do say that Robert
is rather worried in this respect, and that the proverbial
unmarried clergyman, who got five pairs of home-made
slippers and three chest-protectors a week, would be left
badly by the Queenslander if comparisons were estab-
lished.*


The new Commandant of the S.A. Army
left the post of Inspector of Distilleries to step
into the shoes of Col. Gordon. Some of the other
colonels feel so bad about the selection that they
threaten to resign. “Let ’em,” says Kingston—
who, as a full sergeant himself, knows all about
war.
Lady William Nevill, thus far, has visited
her delectable husband in gaol once a week regu-
larly, and, with the assistance of a recent legacy
(worth about £7OO a year), she puts a cheerful face
on her trouble.
The big German flyer, Kaiser Wilhelm der
Grosse, has again cut down the Atlantic record,
covering 3900 miles (3120 knots), Southampton to
New York, in 140 hours—an average of nearly 28
miles (22£ knots) per hour !
The economical side of the Melbourne
Bewerage system was casually revealed at last
weeks meeting of Met. Hospital committee.
Somebody threw up his hands in horror when it
me ntioiied that the cost of making the hospi-
tal decent in its sewage arrangements would be
*2OOO or thereabouts equal, at 5 per cent.,
to *lOO a year. Then the chairman reminded
the meeting that the City Council up to
now has charged the hospital .£4OO a year for
night-cartage ” of refuse that will presently be
washed away gratis. In fact, the management
V ... s^ ,ve ®bout £3OO a year for evermore by the
civilising of Smellbourne’s sanitary barbarism.
The Victorian Postal Department—the
most tired Postal Department in the Seven Pro-
vinces—decided that the work of fishing for the
mst mails that went down with the Manavvatu in
Port Phillip Bay, riy:ht at the Department’s back*
door, wasn t its funeral. The steamship co. said
that the work wasn’t its funeral either. The de-
partment neither sat up itself nor made the co.
Blt U 1 J ’ the mails were left in shallow water to
Out of 23 bags the kindly tide has, so far,
washed up eight. One containing 401 registered
letters, mostly addressed to “ Tattersall,” and
containing £lOOO or so, much of it in bank and
Postal notes, turned up lately along with the
placid dead dog, on the mud of Fisherman's
Bend, ihere are other valuable bags among the
lost mails, but the Vic. Postal Department isn’t
hustling after them. It is tired.
Solicitor Kennedy, leaving Scone (N.S.W.)
for fresh pastures, carries away with him an
illuminated valedictory, the ohief points of which
are that he is a sound lawyer, a zealous Sunday-
school teacher, an eloquent preacher and an adept
nigger minstrel. A good all-round man.
Baronet Arnott, the Cork millionaire, who
died lately leaving vast legacies to institutions
and persons in the south of Ireland, originated
vicariously, through marriage, Arnott House, the
well-known boarding establishment in Wynyard
Square, Sydney. One of the baronet s bequests
was J 240,000 to the staff of the Irish Times, a
newspaper he controlled for years.
S.A. rains are full of tricks. Lately they
have been dodging the Northern farms where
they were badly wanted, and have been pouring
themselves instead on the more Northern pastorai
country which has been abandoned in late years ;
so that it is proposed to shift farmers’ starving
stock to the country that has been thrown up »s
worthless.
Recently a junior clerkship examination,
in connection with Sydney Water arid Sewerage
Board, took place (says the local Telegraph;.
Amongst other things the candidates had to write
an essay. They were given three subjects to
choose from, one being “The pen is mightier than
the sword.” But one bright youth was un-
acquainted with this wise saying, and when tne
examiner called it out he wrote “ The pen ib
mightier than the saw.” Here is his essay :
A pen is mightier than the saw. A pen is much better
in every way than the saw ; the pen is much easier to use
than a saw. In the first place, for instance, a man sitting
in an office using his pen all day is by far better than a
man out in the sun and rain using a saw. The pen requires
much more art than the saw; a man with a saw has to
exert himself a great, deal. Is it not better to go to school
and learn to write than to stay about the streets and not
go to school. When it is time for a boy to go to worn,
then is the time that you are sorry you never went to
school ; he goes out to look for work, and he cannot
write, and he has to go and do hard work with the saw.
If you go into an office, and see a young fellow writing
you feel very disheartened that .you have to go out into
the rain and saw wood to build a house. The pen is a
very useful article. If you put the two together, the
pen and the saw, you find that the pen is by faY the
better. A man with a pen earns much more money than
a man with a saw. It requires much more brains and
care to use a pen than a saw. Therefore, for my part, l
think that the pen is a great deal better than the saw.
The Shield of a Great Name
Protects the Riders of the
Massey-Harris B'cycie.
i. • . They Run Easy and Keep Running Easy ....
MAESEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Bstabttshed
1847.
Australasian Branch: 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
BbakCH Depots: 245 Collins Street, Melbourne; 886 George Street, Sydney;
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
“DOWRIDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE. .
UJolf American High Art Cycles
.. AT ..
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. US' Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WA VERLEY
CRESCENT
WEAR WELL
0
31A CK LIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
203 CLARENCE STREET, SX&NEY.
Genuine i
keener [
UNS (and Rifles) J
For Pigeon and
Game Shooting.
These can now be obtained from all the principal
dealers throughout Australasia, and all bear W. \V.
GREEN Ell’S NAME and MARKS, proofs positive of quality
and workmanship. All prices from 10 to 80 Guineas.
Shooting unequaled in any country. Write to W. W.
GREENER, Uox 326 G.P.0., Sydney ; or to the Vic.
Ren.. 16 Curral-road, Elsternwick. Melbourne.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire,'there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE «'HEBCE\T,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“KIIV Kiitir-strcet < otter Palace*" situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
« T. F. McDermott,
Terms on
Application.
General Agent, for Australasia,
48 Clarence-street, SYDNEY - .
Here To-day!
and To-morrow !
TTrE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
'' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 18S4. 234 Pitt-street. SYDNEY.
K3T Agent for “ Naumann ” and “ Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
BUILT LIKE A WATCH.
Sterling Cycles!
After Two Years’ Experience STERLING riders
proclaim that the STERLING is the BEST wheel
built—no broken Forks, &e., &c. Why risk your
life on crocks V Westwood, or Wood, rims.
Hew Haven Cycles!
Country Buyers, where no agents are appointed,
supplied at WHOLESALE PRICES ; money
returned if not approved of.
Cycle Repairs a Specialty.
JOHN D. PATTISON,
Sterling Cycle Depot, 75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
20s.
in the £
Is what our Guarantee is
worth to all Cyclists.
SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
GIVEN WITH . .
“ Humber”
“ Singer”
. . AND
“ Ariel”
CYCLES
Fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,
391 (leorge-street, SYDNEY ;
o AT
MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
v H
i i
■yV:
Vi
i -•;
3
V v.
i -, t
wm
i
<v
STB
I ■ i
iHi
g
3»
3*
■
MISWW
am
■
H ■
s Ibcictn' tSuaraiitect' to be free Tremi irtf ■ imperfections uf «ateusl an?
lOc wstt nubc .toot ,« Mir Ulotfta at am; nine #ul«.n one
I
year from bate ef tmyelMOC am; ocfects.iiot cpfseti by .icctocnts. ton,if >isit,u\ or
neglect. HU wirtsis be retaencO to ira.tckrrteae;i>itl6):.fbr ramination, tooctnor
s-m
neglect. HU twit*'to be retarncO to iKucamitgc pmW-.fov t
witb tfre IMml-cr of the rtpiicbroe to\yi)icl> tfor befotte.
l '*' • •n‘.naf ,i ,N.
£ fwfOMa. I'etcne .. . ■ i’ll
H
SV
H vly greatest Cnrc ii» tajtcii tivt.i>c.i;efisctioM,4tfi > fttituo of suhiop "
foieufftatfa; wtSchwe e<treiHti|Vc<«'mitftub, into out gttanWtec’ums'coßa
currently with by. Cbc Sumtjjji pneumatic tyre S>Mnpag»*jLimtiesn
who simramee them for tx-welrc fttoiitte. jnfidSßa&SHt
fm
?iui’ iPnvel.'asc
limit of Guarantee
• 'mn r« t
■m
v:
tm
»•*
e- '■,
»
/toaiiiiijct
ifeifcsli
m
m.
KB


*
<s>
The best preparation for preserving,
restoring, and beautifying the hair is
Ayer’s ♦ ♦
Hair Vigor.
It keeps the scalp free from dandruff,
heals troublesome humors, and pre-
vents the hair from falling out. When
the hair becomes dry, thin, faded, or
gray, it restores the original color and
texture and promotes a new and vig-
orous growth. Wherever used, Ayer’s
Hair Vigor supplants all other dress-
ings, and becomes at once the favorite
with ladies and gentlemen alike.
Ayer's
Hair Vigor.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World's Chief Expositions.
(SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged els>~
vhere. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georee-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
• _ ■
wm
leaf
fcjEABl
VW “ Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
I Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent,
229 Colli ns-steeet, Melbourne.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/3 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2tlin. long, tJ<S. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
v worked up, 2/6 peroz.
we are the cheapestin Aus*
trail a for all Bair Work.
Send Color of Hair. "
W. H.’wigzell,'
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
Cable Tram will etop at Door..
Send stamps for full Prioe Ltofc.V
Prompt attention'given to Country Order*.
A Melbourne paper recalls a Grladstonian
story hailing from Clones, Vic, There was a
general election on, and two local celebrities, a
M‘Allister and a Murphy, fell out re the respective
merits of W. E. Gladstone and the R.C. candi-
date for Clunes. Murphy was made to smell
particular agony, and came up much battered out
of the mill. ‘‘Sure, I’m quoite convinced this
mahn Gladshtone is the bet.her man, but who the
divil is he, annyhow ? ” They told him that
Gladstone was the man who had been fighting all
Gehenna and over the way to secure Home Rule
for old Ireland. Then Murphy kicked himself,
and turned to his conqueror and wrung his hand.
“ It's meself that’s rale grateful to yez for the
father av a batin’ ye’ve given me ! ” he said.
At the little country church at Bugaboo,
the doorkeeper had long been annoyed by
cursory canines putting their noses inside the
sacred precincts during service. Armed himself
with a rock and waited. Shortly after, dog poked
in his nose and retreated, followed by a huge
gibber as he shot down the steps. . . . Door-
keeper, hearing strange noises, went out and found
local alderman desperately smitten in the abdo-
men, raising fearsome groans on the steps of the
temple, while a mangy cur peered curiously in
through the palings.
Particulars of qualifications and duties
required of the Assistant-Secretary (at =6300 a
year) for which Wellington (M.L.) Harbor Board
has been advertising in Sydney press. Must
state —
1. If surveyor’s, architect’s, or civil or mechanical en-
gineer's draughtsman. 2. Whether qualified as a L.S.
t If used to general office work and correspondence.
I. If can write shorthand and use typewriter. 5. Is he a
bookkeeper. 6. A Photographer. 7. If acquainted with
•seafaring matters. Duties : —Charge of Harbor Board’s
employees’ life assurance scheme. Checking monthly
v ouchers or payments. Charge of petty cash. Checking
and obliterating paid interest coupons. Charge of office
supplies. Checking customs payments to Board. Col-
lecting Sunday license-fees and rents, and preparation
and supervision of licenses (foreshores, watermen, hulks,
boats, etc.). Acting as draughtsman. Charge of plans.
Reproduction of plans by sun-printing. Checking of
specifications of new work. Attending to contractors.
Carrying out surveys, land and harbour. Taking levels
ind soundings. Laying out new works and checking
contractors’ books, etc. Successful applicant must also
take out an endowment policy to mature at 60, and also a
fidelity guarantee.
And they call this the age of the division of labor!
“ Mourambi,” to The Bulletin :
Re Kennedy platform exhibitions, alleged to have been
declared by medical men due to genuine hypnotic influ-
ence. I was present when, in ’95, Kennedy gave a gratis
exhibition, “ for medical men only,” at Sydney Criterion,
the bill of fare not materially differing from the stuff
usually dished-up to the public by Kennedy. The “ pro-
fessor’s ” victims may have been under mesmeric influ-
ence, hut, on the other hand, there was not one single
trick which might not possibly have been a barefaced im-
position managed simply by paying the subjects for
what they underwent. The one emphatic exception,
so far as my judgment goes, was the evidently genuine
cataleptic state into which the showman sent one of his
staff ; the same man who, in the Schools of Arts, nightly
had to sing his little song, “ Strolling round,” &c. Also,
it is true that on this occasion a few medical men
mounted the stage and attempted some feeble jokes of
their own; beyond which they contented themselves
with assuring the public that it was real kerosene which
one of the subjects was swallowing, and that it was
genuine castor-oil which another had eagerly accepted as
a present for his sister. The great majority of the audi-
ence, nevertheless, left in disappointment and disgust,
which, however, nobody made a point of publicly expres-
sing—a neglect of which the showman was of course
not slow in making capital. As for your statement
that even among practised hypnotists a swapping
“of subjects is seldom a satisfactory deal,” my
experience is that a real hypnotist deals best with an
entirely strange set of subjects at every performance.
Up till about a year before I witnessed Kennedy’s doings,
I had been a firm disbeliever in hypnotism, but I became
convinced of my error at a German University town
where, when the exhibitor called for subjects from the
audience, the stage was rushed by about 20 theological
students eager to expose the unholy fraud. The per-
former picked about half the number, and, although he
was dealing with subjects about whose hostility there
could be no possible doubt, he had them all helplessly
under his influence in 15 minutes —doing literally what
he liked with them. One hopped like a frog, another, on
all fours, barked like a dog, while his next neighbor
fended the dangerous animal off with a chair, and so on.
Hard to conceive anything more grotesque than the
sight of these 10 solemn men thus capering in their
priestly garments. Next night the stage was taken by
students of the free-and-easy beer-drinking sort, with
exactly the same result. One of the number required
two strong men to pull him off an imaginary' insulter,
whom he was striving to assassinate with a leaden
dagger. All the subjects were willing to give their word
of honor that they' found themselves absolutely compelled
to act as they did.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Loekyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
A contemporary refers to a law-suit, going
on in Switzerland about
“ the 520 fish out of the Sempach Lake driven
to the monks every year for the deliverance from
purgatory of the souls of the Austrian soldiers who were
slain in the Battle of Sempach. Those ecclesiastics have
eaten 254,800 of those fish, and they have been saying
masses for those souls for nearly 500 years, and yet the
wretched Austrians must be in purgatory still. And if in
Mexico they can get a soul out of purgatory in a
moment’s notice by the winning ticket in a raffle, how
comes it that in Switzerland five centuries of their inter-
cessions have not yet prevailed ?
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
a
THE CELEBRATED
LOUIS
VELVETEEN.
LUSTROUS BLUE
AND
JET BLACK,
AND
EVERY CONCEIV-
ABLE SHADE FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
“LOUIS” Velve-
teen is essentially a
Ladies’ material, and
surpasses all Fabrics
for the adornment of
women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME
I FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
NOTE WELL. —Each yard of genuine “ LOUIS'*
Velveteen bears the name, and is stamped with r.
guarantee of wear.
Ladies shCj'd re'ect all Substitutes.
m
1 :• •' I
i i -
K - s
- . "., ■ VI, ,_
"i-sS
.-
3S»*
m
m
-
v
rsk ssc&SSSS
guikea-goldcigarettes
DA.PT©
(LIMITED),
(Lake Illawarra), near
SYDIffEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PJFtODXJCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW AURA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES’. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to The
Manager, Smelting
Company of Australii
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
t, Ltd., Mutual Life Buildings, Martin-place, Sydney.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
I ins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Herr Rassm/Ussen, Celebrated Herbalist.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE
Hlfaline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS EOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE“ CURE
is found in taking the
Alfa line Herbal
Remedies.
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging 1 to
Business,
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
... *— ' ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th ■ Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills, which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING p°r box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which keeps
them indoors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sun
shine, they espy _ .
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh ana
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
r # (9}
S>
HERR RASSMUSS€N’S Medical Pag?.
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches -well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very ijictnre of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER FELT BETTER in their lives.
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALPALINE
Blood Pills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
\\
‘HOW GAMES T THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfa’ine
Tat-Reilucing - Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE ; packets, 6s.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those su ff er ing
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twitch-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Bassmns-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
m
MA
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
COHN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything:
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every little
disappointment or trifle,
their complexion suffer-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Fills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
h
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert,and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cne in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassxnussen’s Alfaline Vitality JPills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
How to Obtain Free Book.
£=T When desiring- FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FREE.
A WORD OF WARNING-.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
wr i ,g can onl y be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no ag-ents.
m.
—■
/Sr-
j'JM'
y
7JzM
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WES')
HAVK FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN'S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a jruaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. ahd
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a HOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. Cd. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 68. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An Instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s, and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne— lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane— l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade ;
Adelaide —ls 4 Rundle Street ;
N.Z.— 9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A. :
Perth— Hay Street;
Coolgardie— Bailey Street ;
Kalgoorlie— Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With. Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important,
ADVICE
FREE.
IST" ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
IIERR RASSMUSSEN, (• o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it,, |o his
Head Office : 547 George Street*
Sydney.
Or simply ad'lressyour Letters l.lnisforprivncy sake—2
“PROPRIETOR, Box 20S, Qbnkual Post Okkicb;
SYDNEY.” ’
REGISTER ALL I.EtTERS CONTAINING
MONEY, WjTHOCT ) At .


FULLNESS OF BODY
is a desirable thing when applied to whisky, and
that is one of the characteristics o f “D.0.L.,”a
fine, well-matured, mellow blend of the finest
Highland Whiskies—ask for the “D.C.L.”
(Black Bottle).*
The 250,000 copies of the Federation Bill
circulated by the Austral Cycle Agency forms a
happy precedent for the Southern Cress wheel-
trade generally.*
In a Melb. witness-box, the other day, one
F. J. Minty stated that he had said of a certain
alleged misdemeanant, “It’s a monty he goes up,”
and Judge Hodges wanted to know what Minty
meant by “monty.” Counsel explained that a
“monty ’’meant a certainty. And “goes up? ”
asked his Honor. That means “ goes down, or
otherwise that he goes to gaol,” replied the lawyer.
“ Oh,” said J edge Hodges, “ then ‘ it’s a monty lie
goes up ’ means ‘ it’s a certainty he goes down,’ ”
and the His Honor entered the translation
among his notes.
The “ Delivery Charge ” on Wool. Under this
name a charge of ffad. per lb. is made by the Associated
Brokers of Sydney to the Wool-Boyers. Averag-
ing the number of Bales sold in the Sydney
markets at 3361b5., this %(\. is represented by
no less a sum than £75,0110. The CO-OPERA-
TIVE WOOL AND PRODUCE CO. LTD. is the
only firm in Sydney which makes no charge
whatever to the Wool - Buyers. The only com-
mission on Wool made by the Company is 3
per cent, to the Grower on large and small accounts
alike.*
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
MELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. jjciP" All tastes and pockets suited.
Il'rife for Card of Tariff*.
JJjJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE'S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE e.AQ.
THE GRAND CENTRAL,
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
H E STOYE,
Manauiu.
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
At Narrabri (N.S.W.) bye-election, las
week, the Labor candidate (Ross) got in with 382
votes. The Protectionists mustered 555 votes,
but split them between two candidates, and were
left, though their foremost man was only 25 behind
the leader. The two Freetraders gathered in
227 between them. So the winner represents only
382 votes out of 1164 recorded ! When is the
second ballot coming along?
Pitman’s Reporting
Style thoroughly
taught by post.
21 lessons (whole
system), 215., by three instalments. F. W.
JONSON, 20 years’ Certificated Teacher (of River-
view S.J. College, Ashfield and Petersham Govern-
ment Technical Schools). Sydney Shorthand and
Typewriting School, 21 Elizabeth-st. Telephone,
3015. Typrtrs. lent, bought, sold. MSS. copied.
1 Silver UJatch Free.
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Gases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
hut to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with-
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Potosi Sjlver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
PNONOfSRAPN TO P.
Latest American Novelty!
The most FASCINATING NOVELTY ever produced.
You can play ANY TUNE.
Sent on Receipt of 2 - to any Colony Post Free.
12 of the Latest Cinematographe Books, post paid, 4/.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.,
IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
WHY PAY
FOR A WATCH?
CAN YOU READ THTS ?
In order to Introduce our Business into Every House-
hold in Australia we undertake and guarantee to give
away one of our
World-famed £2 10s. Solid Silver Watches,
Ladies or Gentleman’s to every Reader who sends the
Correct Reading of the above Puzzle.
CONDITIONS. —That your answer to the Puzzle is
correct, and that you further undertake, if correct, to
purchase one of our SOLID SILVER CHAINS. Send
Stamped Addressed Envelope for reply.
Address-THE MANAGER, THE GLOBE WATCH
COMPANY, Ltd., 105 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Mining Notice.
The mount [yell mining..
$ Railway Company
LMITED.
Re FURTHER ISSUE of SHARES.
Sir,—
As shareholders were informed at the half-yearly gene-
ral meeting of the company, held on the 27th inst., the
hoard of directors intend to make a further issue of 25,000
shares out of the present unissued shares in the capital of
the company, for the purposes explained at the general
meeting.
The new issue will consist of 25,000 shares, which will be
offered in the first instance at a premium of £3 per share
(that is to say, £6 a share) to all persons who are regis-
tered as members of the company on ttie 15th day of June
next, in the proportion of one share for every ten shares
then held by each member. For the purpose of ascertain-
ing the number of shares which each member will be en-
titled to apply for, the transfer-books of the company will
be closed from the 15th to the 17th of June.
Payment for the new shares will be required as follows :
£3 (being the premium) with the application, on or
before the 12th July next.
£1 on or before the 12th September next.
. £1 on or before the 12th October next.
£1 on or before the 12th November next.
In all cases where, by reason of the number of shares
held by any members, and application is made by them
as herein mentioned, such members shall be entitled to
fractional portions of shares, your directors have decided
to issue, in respect of such fractional portions of shares,
fractional certificates for each one-tenth part of a new
share to which members will be entitled ; these certifi-
cates to be transferable by delivery.
As soon as possible after the i7th day of June next a
form of application will be sent to each person who is
then a member, and a notice specifying the number of
fractional portions of shares which such member is
entitled to apply for. Such application form must be
duly filled in, signed, and returned to the company, to-
gether with the premium on all shares and fractional por-
tions of shares applied for, on or before the date to be
named in such notice ; otherwise such member will be
taken to decline to avail himself of any such offer as afore-
said in respect of sucli further issue. All shares and
fractional portions of shares not applied for will be dis-
posed of in such manner as to the directors may seem fit.
The directors, in deciding to issue fractional certificates,
are doing so in the interests of shareholders, as it is
thought that it will be more satisfactory if the power of
realising these fractious is left with the shareholders
themselves.
It will be one of the conditions attached to fractional
certificates that, on presentation at the office of the com-
pany of ten of these certificates at any time prior to the
twelfth day of December next, such ten certificates can
be exchanged for one full share (provided, of course, that
payment of the whole amount of £6 per share, as men-
tioned above, has been made in respect of the same).
Any shareholders desiring to realise their fractional por-
tions of shares without trouble may return them to the
’office of the company, when they will be placed in the
hands of the company’s brokers for disposal, and the net
proceeds transmitted to the vendors.
Unless these fractional certificates are presented at the
office of the company before the 12th day of December
next they will be regarded as void.
The company pays a dividend on the Ist October next,
and shareholders who shall have then paid the premium
of £3 a share and the first instalment of £l, payable on
or before the 12th September, as above stated, will re-
ceive one-third of the dividend, and those who shall then
have paid the premium of £3 and the first and second
instalments of £1 each will receive two-thirds thereof.
Shareholders have the option of paying up before the
12th September the whole amount of £(5 a share in
respect of their new shares, in which event they will be
entitled to receive payment of the full October dividend
thereon.
Scrip certificates for shares and fractional certificates
will he issued after the 12th of July next on payment of
the full amounts respectively due for shares or fractional
portions of shares.
By order of the board.
ALFRED MELLOR, Secretary.
39 Queen-street, Melbourne, 28th May, 1898.
QUI BELL’S Dipped Wool trumpets its own fame
Realised top price, 12Jd., for N.S.W. wools at
Sydney; aud top price, 154 d., Louden, ’9a—both greasy.
A Silver Watcb
&3T GIVEN AWAY. *«
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
N*V*R B* W*T*o*T A W T*H.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our floods.
Sir.—Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which .you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when 1 opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 189 S.
Address—THE MANAGER,
The English Watch & Jewellery
Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney.
Anmsomc « is.
■rp O THOSE IT CONCERNS.
ALFRED DAM PIER
Holds the AUSTRALIAN RIGHTS of Producing the
Copyright Plays of the late Charles Reade, by
arrangement with the Executor, “Mrs. C. L. Reade,’’
including—
“ Never Too Late to Mend,” “ Drink,” “ The
Scuttled Ship," “Griffith Gaunt,” “Love and
Money," “ Double Marriage,” “ Two Loves and a
Life,” <be., (be., <be.
TJOVAL STANDARD THEATRE, SYDNEY
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereagh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
85th \
M’JSKK f
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
83th
WEEK
FUN ON THE BRISTOL.
Wed., N. Sydney; Thurs., Waverlev; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
H" KR M A.I ESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgro’ve.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday), 26th MAY, at 7.45, and .Every
Evening until Further Notice,
THE SICN OF THE CROSS.
MARCUS SUPERBUS .. Mr. JULIUS KMIGHT.
MERCIA Miss ADA FERRAR.
Plan, Nicholson’s. ESF” PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
YCEUM TH EA i’KH, 'SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Messrs. J. & C. MacMahen.
YET ANOTHER GREAT LYCEUM SUCCESS !
YET ANOTHER GREAT LYCEUM SUCCESS !
The Latest and One of the Greatest London Dramas
of the Day,
flfhe H oroner and the <Jfoiner6’fJang.
READ THE PAPERS.
Always the Unique Lyceum Tariff—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d.
WJI II EAT It E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
THIS and EVERY EVENING! until further notice,
BLAND HOLT’S
Third : Great : Spectacular : Enterprise,
STRAIGHT FROM THE HEART!
Written by Messrs. Sutton Vane and Arthur Siiirlev.
A Romantic and Picturesque Rranco-Algerian
Melodrama.
Prices—3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day tickets at Gunther’s Hotel Cigar Store, King-street.
A LVA-VERNE Concert Tour of Australia
•**- (Under the Management of John Lemtnon6)
Madame Alva, Prima Donna Royal Italian Opera
Covent Garden; La Scala, Milan ; Opera, Naples; Doni-
zetti Festival, Bergamo; London Philarmonic Society, &c.
Miss Adela Verne, Solo-pianiste, St. James’ Hall
“Pops ” ; Queen’s Hall Orchestral Concerts, &c. Samuel
Masters, Principal Tenor Ballad Concerts, Queen’s
Hall; St. James' Hall, &c. John Lemmone, Solo
Flautist. Miss Matilda Verne, Accompaniste.
adwtho wrcii-r I Melbourne, Saturday, 25th June.
OPENING NIGHT | Sydney) Saturday> ieth j uly .
TI VOLI TIIEAT It E, SYDN E Y.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Miss FEG&Y FRYDE
JOHN COLEMAN.
FOREMAN and ; MICHAEL
FANNAN. : NOLAN.
Miss MARIAN AINSWORTH.
AGNES HAZEL, WALLACE KING, and OUR GRAND
DOUBLE COMPANY.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
TLe Kelli no Family.
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
J. W. WINTON. Mr. AUSTIN RUDD.
Miss ALICE SIMMONS. WILL WHITBURN.
FOLTJS K X BROS.
And Our Great Double Company.
IST PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
T
OWN HALL,
MELBOURNE.
11th June.
SATnunAY
SATUIiDAV
SHILLING
“ POPS.”
“ POPS.”
NB WB URY- SPA BA CO Y.
GIGANTIC POPULAR PROGRAMMES.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
SECOND WEEK AND CONTINUED ENTHUSIASM OF
The Thrilling Adelphi Drama,
Sball We Forgive Her?
MR. geo. titheradge
AND FULL STRENGTH OF POWERFUL COMPANY.
POPULAR PRICES ! Box Plan at Allan’s.
jjLIOU THEATRE, MEL BOURN R
Last 2 Nights of the HILARIOUS FARCICAL COMEDY,
“DR. BILL.”
Saturday, June 11, the Delightful Musical Comedy,
The A_lha.rn.l3ra Grirl.
MISS MYRA KEMBLE.
fW AND THE SPARKLING COMEDY COY.
POPULAR PRICES ! ... Box Plan at Glen’s.
PrTNCESS’S the at be, “me lbo urne.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
THIS and EVERY EVENING at 8 p.m.
Will be repeated by arrangement with Messrs. Harrison
and Maude, of the Hayinarket Theatre, London,
•3J|fhc -Ijgittle
Characters by Miss PATTIE BROWNE and Mr. Rickards'
Specially Seleoted Dramatic Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s and Monties
“ Is it possible,” asks a Bulletin correspondent, “ that
they are going to break up the old wooden warship Nel-
son, without giving the Sydney public a chance of in-
specting her? The Nelson is built of oak, most of which
is as sound as when it was in the tree. What furniture
and house-fittings it will make ! ”
Ugo Biondi, Rickards’ coming engagement, is exceed-
ingly’ clever. He is of the school of Fregoli. One of his
best things is an imitation of a man entering a theatre,
saluting his friends watching a comedy (evidently a very
risqudone); then a very sad tragedy, which makes him
cry (he really cries). All this in pantomime. Again he
has a ladder fixed from the stage to the orchestra and
makes'up as different conductors-Donizetti, Sullivan,
Masoagni, Gounod, Liszt, Rubinstein, &c., conducting a
short selection from the works of each composer. The
changes are done with marvellous celerity, as Biondi only
puts down his head and up again. It is quite a new and
a very good “ turn.”
Not many would guess the agile Rickards’s
age as 62.
The Clitherows have had luck lately’. Firstly’, Mrs.
Clitherow and child went to England, with good pro-
spects ; then the two boys followed with Madame Albani ;
finally', W. F. Clitherow and daughter, Jessie, have gone,
under engagement to Wilson Barrett. All expenses are
paid, and little Jessie is to have a salary of 3us. a week
when not acting; £2 when acting.
“ T.D.” :Re Newbury and Orlando Harley. For years
I have been accustomed to hearing Harley cited against
the ex-Maorilanderas the best, tenor heard in Australia.
Yet, five or six years after his first visit he comes with a
voice still sweet and remarkably cultured, hut quite un-
reliable. These disheartening vocal failures help to drive
home the truth that singing voices, save the most
phenomenal, are only made to stand some 15 or 20 years’
wear. Then comes the vocalist’s chance to coin money by
teaching, but he lingers about the platform until
audiences no longer wish to hear him. The people who
can teach won’t teach, and those who can’t teach make a
tolerable living out of it.
“ Melb.” : In a Collins-street window is a Gladstone
photo., with an axe, draped in crape. Recalls the chorus
in “Tambour Major,” at London Alhambra, all wearing
crape on their arms when the news came of Offenbach's
death. A criticaster, “ Why not legs ? "
Two snappy lines from the latest Yankee song—“ When
a widow weeps : keep off the grass.”
“Theorbo”: Regina Nagel is in Paris, whereto
Bishopess Goe sent her, and recommended her to a sort
of Protestant conventual institution for board and lodg-
ings. Thus did Empress Eugenie shadow Patti. Regina
goes to Marchesi, with a special injunction to Madame
not to swear.
The Entr'acte, a little London weekly of the music-
hall persuasion, gets this sort of thing from its Australian
correspondent “Miss Maude Jefferys is almost as popu-
lar as is Mr. Barrett, which, considering how familiar a
Melb. audience is with the performance of Sarah Bern-
hardt, and other leading actresses, is say ing a great deal.
. . . Harry Rickards has scored a big success with
Charles Cartwright and ‘The Squire of Dames’ at Melb.
Bijou, and is in grave danger of becoming a bloated
millionaire.” To properly appreciate the truthfulness of
any’ Hinglish theatrical gossip in Australian papers one
must read what goes to Hingland from this side.
In one wet-k during the Adelaide season of the “French
Maid ” Ada Reeve sprained tier ankle, Bert Gilbert fell off
a wheel and so injured his face that he could not sing,
Carrie Moore was thrown from a horse and disabled, and
Alyce Leitoh was so ill from lung-inflammation that she
hail to “ &-ta.v home.” Yet the show went on, although
the house, followed the example of the two cycling princi-
pal and “ fell off.”
The m?ntal level of a Shakespearian audience does not
seem much in advance of a music-hall one. In the
“Hamlet” revival at Melb. Princess’s, Wilson Barrett’s
announcement “For England, for England!” in the
third act was solemnly swallowed by the great amphi-
theatre as a gag having reference to the “war-cloud,’
and a little patriotic demonstration was at once started
by a score of enthusiasts.
“No reference to the Jews or the Jewish people must
be made by the artists of this co.” Notice by Rickards in
the green-room of Melb. Opera House.
Newbury has endowed Melb. Town Hall with a new
name. It is now the “ Pop ’’-shop.
“It arrive that I go to Melbourne on Thursday.”
“ During that I am here I will buy it the note papair.”
“ Nevaire I have seen something like to eat.” Who can
locate these expressions, which recall a man now sadly
missed from Sydney art-circles?
Fitzgerald Brothers have some very strong admirers in
Maoriland. Some partisans were once discussing the
circus firm in the town of Ngatiwhackaruahoa, when one
said dogmatically, “Yes, they are undoubtedly the Bar-
nums of Australia.” “ Ga’ long.” said another enthu-
siast, “ Barnumsare the Fitzgerald Brothers of America !”
Ed. Bulletin. — Re Prof. Marshall Hall’s statement con-
cerning German musicians. On my asking Warwick
Williams, musical adviser to London County Council, how
his band of picked London musicians was so successful in
Germany during its extended tour, lie told me that there
are very few good bands in the Fatherland, that medi-
ocrity prevails— vide samples in the London streets.
Hence the success of the London band.— Ben Fuller,
Christchurch, M.L. 17/6/98.
Coppin's pageant of Melbourne old-time worthies at the
Old Colonists’ Carnival, the other day, included Miss
Louisa Swannell, and people asked who she was. Miss
Swannell, termed “ the Australian Nightingale,” and
aged 16, made a sensation at the concerts given in the
vestibule of Melb. Royal before the theatre was ready
in ’55.
This outting from a recent American programme shows
that the non-success of Nat Goodwin in Australia still
rankles in his heart:—
NAT C. GOODWIN.
“ An American Citizen,” the “ David Garrick ” of
the nineteenth century, who has no “ Rivals,”
who was treated to “The Silent System” by the
“Gilded Fools” of Australia, hut who “Turned
Up” with “ Nathan Hale” in America to find a
“ Gold Mine.”
Fitzgerald Bros.’ circus was to have visited Gisborne (of
M.L. massacre celebrity), but Wragge sent along a gale,
and the steamer had to put back to Auckland. Now,
most shows visiting Gisborne, instead of sending an ad-
vance, drop a parcel of printing to one Billy Miller, of
that town, who, in return, booms them for all they are
worth —and sometimes more—hut, if they are any good
at all, they do great biz. under his auspices. The Fitzs.’
were trumpeted for miles round, the whole district was
plastered with lions and tigers, and the Maoris came in
droves from all directions, and, when they found no
circus, proceeded to interview Billy. The spokesman—a
16 stoner, and well-moistened —to Miller : “ I shav, what
for no shircus? I link you te humbug. I come Kisborne,
I spend fi poun’ te pubricouse ; 1 lose ’em all te time,”
then, suddenly, “ Oh, Got tarn te shircus ! Cummanava-
trink ! ”
“ Mr. Wilson Barrett is frankly melodramatic in his
realisation of the r6le,” said Melb. Argus, the first time
he disappointed Melbourne with his Wilfred Denver. As
a matter of fact, Barrett doesn't realise any young man s
character, and, when he affects to be drunk, he isn't in
the least melodramatic. A sober actor must get away
from himself before he can seem the worse for liquor.
Barrett hardly ever gets away from himself and his
measured e locution.
“ Some ballet and chorus girls receive 12s. weekly only,
and are compelled to put in sometimes three weeks re-
hearsing prior to the opening dace, for which advanoe
labor they receive nothing, and yet they are expected to
dress decently and pay their way and their washing-bills.
How are they to do it?” asks Maudie Montmorency’s
Brother. [Well, they might form a Trades Union, and
appeal to the Anti-Sweating League.—Ed.B.]
Dear Bulletin. —Again those angry mummers. Nobody
seems to have noticed that Wilson Barrett’s lofty inquiry,
“Who is this Archibald Nugent Robertson?” involved
the assumption that personal notoriety was essenl iat to
the right to criticise—upon which showing Jabez Balfour
or Jack the Ripper would lie well over even Barrett him-
self.-A. M.
A certain Yarra-bank agitator some time ago applied
for a billet as super, at a big theatre, but when his
identity became known he was “ choked off ” instanter.
He might have led to a revolt of the ballet.
The joke at London Lyceum is that Irving has 60 pairs
of specs, in use. He is always mislaying them. He has
to take them off every time he goes on ths stags.
The apparent stupidity of the Melb. police
as regards that bomb explosion grows less appa-
rent in the light of the suggestion that a thump-
ing reward should be offered for the capture of the
culprit.
Australian hospital-committees might profit
by the example of that of Hannelly, in Wales
(Britain). Over a weird dispute between matron,
head-nurses and house-doctors, the committee
divided ; and, finding sides equal and a big fight
in prospect, compromised, by each party sacri-
ficing its special proteges in the public interest.
The whole staff was therefore promptly sacked,
and replaced by another which knew nothing of
the dispute.
“ Here you are,” reproachfully exclaimed
Official Assignee Palmer to a bankrupt in Sydney
Court, “at the beginning of the year owing
.£l5O to money-lenders, and yet you go on
buying tobacco, cigars and cigarettes on credit ! ”
It was no doubt very wrong of that bankrupt to
behave as described, but how does it come that
the virtuous indignation of Court officials so seldom
assails the small luxuries of the bankrupt whose
schedule shows a deficit of £30,000 ?
Gladstone’s biographical bid for perpetual
fame ! —“ Mr. Gladstone’s papers are stored in a
fire-proof room, so carefully stored that he lately
without trouble picked out a letter received in ’43
from Card. Newman.” Disraeli left his life’s
history matter in a disordered jumble, as yet un-
tangled !


DELHI'S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
Strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of*all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Feckham, London, England.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
bv the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely wbat we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that vou
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Publications, etc.
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATION S, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
armaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 3s.——
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Supply Agency,
l Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies. Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Blinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Eriend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
i
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 12 Cuba, 9d.; 50 Spain (fine), 25.;
9 Porto Rico, 6d.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d.;
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. 6d.; 8 New Cale-
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, 6d.;
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets: 30 differ-
ent, (id. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d.; 150, ss. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., orstamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
. . BOOKS .. . BOOKS .. . BOOKS . .
New Up-to-Dath; Publications.
The Soiled Dove; Miss Skittles, or the Girl with Six
Husbands; Sappho, or Life and Love in Paris. These
books are very choice and selling rapidly, each (post free)
Is. 6d. The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes, Is.
post free. Maria Monk, Don Juan, Ovid’s Art of Love,
Is. 9d. post free. R. "W. SKINNER,
New and Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney. Telephone 3043.
Should you require any Books New or Second-hand
kindly advise.
lAMOIMD SONG BOOK
GOO SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National Songs
of every Country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC, COMIC,
SENTIMENT.!L, and other songs. Many old-time favour-
ites long since out of print, priceless on account of tender
memories, and cannot be had elsewhere. Complete list of
the Son"s for a Stamp. This wonderful book will be sent (post paid)
throughout Australasia for 2s. fid, from ANGLO AMERICAN
PUBLISHING CO., Commercial Chambers, Sussex Street. Sydney,
N S.W Stamps 2d. extra Agents wanted for this and other East
Smiing' Books. Mention this paper when writing.
lALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
T
PRICE Is.
per 1* Bd.
Once at an Australian Government House
reception some one remarked to the Governor s
wife that there seemed to be no winter at all this
year “No winter at a-r-11 is it . chipped m a
certain softgoodsman ‘‘What am Ito do
wid me shipment of blankets then, at a r 11, at
a-r-11 ? ”
“Ponte” on some tricks of the N.S.W.
licensed fisherman’s trade :
While the best of the men recognise that fish-con-
servation is to their own interests, there are others who
hold that laws are made to be broken, and who wait ana
watch for a week at a stretch for a chance of making a
haul in closed waters. A noted “ poacher,” having been
caught and fined, openly stated that he would haul there
again within a week. The inspector took up the overt
challenge, and a game of vigilance began. Within one
week the inspector, from his post of observation, saw tne
boat make for the prohibited waters, followed, watched
them “shoot” the net, and, just as he thought they were
about to “land” it, came up and took possession. He
found he had been tricked —there was no net—nothing
but the hauling-ropes. Meanwhile, the other hoat
had made a haul some little distance off, and got 30
baskets of fish. Another inspector could not understand
how it was he never caught the depredators, although
there was evidence that the thing was of common
occurrence. The men had a scout hidden in the in-
spector’s boatshed, and, as soon as the boat was launched,
he streaked off and flashed a signal to his mates. As the
inspector had to pull a mile or tw'o, there was ample tone
to get the net in and clear. The boy fell asleep one night
and so gave the game away. Another inspector was noted
for his alertness. He seemed to have the happy knack of
turning up at the right moment. An increase was
expected in his family, so the house was put under
espionage. One evening the scout reported that the
inspector had just ridden post-haste up the road. With
the whole night before them, the men took their time and
got more fish in one haul than they had done previ-
ouslv in a month.
‘ A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Premier Turner has ukased that no more
people are to be sent to gaol for being hungry and
cold and knocked-out in a public place. People
of this class, gathered in “on the vag.,” are to be
taken before a P.M., who is empowered to ha.nd
“ deserving cases ” over to a charitable institution
to which the Govt, will pay 10s. per week for four
weeks. Strange to say, Panton, P.M. (who is
personally a most kindly and benevolent man),
officially snorts fiercely about the new order, and
declares, less in sorrow than in anger, that practi-
cally there are no “deserving” cases, and all who
have been brought before him during his magis-
terial career hlive been more or less undeserving.
There’s the trouble. If the “ case ” has to be
deserving, as Mr. Panton interprets the term, it
will be cleanly-washed and combed (like Mr.
Panton), and newly-shaven (like Mr. Panton) and
will wear an air of chastened suffering and a well-
brushed bell-topper (like Mr. Panton); it will
sing a bar of “ God Save the Queen ” every five
minutes* and manifest the deepest reverence for
Panton, P.M., all the time ; in addition to this, it
will have an unblemished record, a teetotal (or,
anyhow, a “ colonial wine ”) badge, and a written
“character” signed by nine parsons and a
Fatman. It seems to be much easier to get into
Heaven than to please Mr. Panton, P.M.
The same issue of the Argus that contained
Mr. P.’s righteous snort recorded the case of the
gaunt Angus M'Kechie found clinging to a fence
in Carlton, helpless from starvation. A thought-
ful policeman removed him, not to the lock-up,
but to the hospital. M‘Kechie had eaten little for
weeks, and nothing at all for three days, had
“slept out ” through three of the bitterest nights
known in Melbourne for 12 months, and at the
hospital looked like a specimen Cuban sufferer or
an Indian-famine photograph. It was just a
chance that he did not fall into the hands of a
constable of another sort, and be run in for being
an eyesore, and an obstruction, and a public
nuisance with no obvious means of support, and
be lectured next morning by the P.M. for not
doing his starving in a gentlemanly and unob-
trusive manner as becomes a citizen of that
glorious empire, &c.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
“ I'll Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
to any part ot Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. Gil.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George-st-, Sydney
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind. JVEills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THE
ATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING
‘i-l Clarence St.,
Sydney.
TEE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAYAIS
PER BRAYAIS
'FER BRAYAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood,
and enabling the consti-
tution i o resist climatic
iniluences.
Invaluable in all cases of-
anaemia, Influenza and
general debility.
Highly recommended for
weak and debilitated chil-1
dren.
LANG lT ‘ A beautiful and interesting preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. “Jt has all\
the good effects of iron without producing consti-\
potion or disturbing the digestion , and it does not
blachen the teeth. ,
Sold by Chemists all the world over.
Moil&oiavi
N3V7>skjj^/|
*[
rnmvWi
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen ;
Ladies should always Knit with
BEE
HIVE'
KNITTING
Wools
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino,! Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softness and durability.
rSEi"TWS TRADE MARIC'j!
IS ON v'’
Trade Mark Registered.- •
Estab'ishedl7Bs.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Also “ Beehive ”
Hosiery&Under-
wear manufac-
tured from the
‘Beehive'Woois.
J.*J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
Colmane’s
Eucalypti
Extract"
For
Winter Couchs
Colds &
Chest Complaints
USED BY
earl JamY
LqrdCarrWcton
ETC
PURITY!
What’s in a name? Every-
thing' we reply. For the
last ten years Colemane
and Pure Eucalypte
have gone hand-in-hand,
and deservedly so. Instead
of trading on a name, and
supplying adulterated,
cheapened Eucalypte fas
many have done), they
have stuck to the genuine
article and that precious
’“‘PURITY!
Madame Albani uses
Colemane’s Euca-
lypte Lozenges, and
recommends them highly
for the'throat and voice.
Is. boxes everywhere.
proved ay /oo years use .
DRROBERTS’
SO/?
SK/tf DfSEASEf
DRROBERTS
AND WOUA/OS
OF E V£R Y
DESCRIPTIOIY
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
AND ALL DISORDERS OF THE
SYOMA CP £ LIVER .
OF ALL CHEM/STS //// X 2/<?£ACH
BEACH & BARN ICOTT L°- BRIDPQtyr.
MELBOURNE.
ffiffijE?
t>/ FREE v^
WATCHES-CLOCKS-JEVI/£LLERYB|RtHdAY«
Wedding i CHristeivliivlg Presents
fIjMEy7MA]>J-175C177-ELIZABETH St*
OPPOSITE C:P.O.
MELBOURNE.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
load of gold at iny feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life." So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatmen t that
has re-toted so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain maybe had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
R as v infor, . u y° ur refers that I have been
™', e Lm n bl i lty h y , a slm P ,e and inexpensive remedy,
suffers ? r V' ea ?, e : r * k< t se , nd the means of cure to all
sufferers, t do this entirely out of cratitude and nnke
to°Mr a \VIL,BFR KFTaddressed envelope
to Mr. \\ ILRER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Biding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
i and other Uniforms, Biding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included. -
1 I II
.
. '.'"•liiniiij®
Pljnjiil.ij.ii,,:,
SSilj > 'iffi
S!!.«!S
00=
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, <fcc., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of .
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
USE
Spooijcr’s
i! :RQYALNAVYBRESSINr ;
FOR
1 I BHOWN LEATHER
| BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
1 ii: direciions for use
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
U nrivalled IT mbrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
The Greatest Curative of the Age!
fcoimm
AFTER EIGHT YEARS’ TRIAL, PUBLIC OPINION
AFFIRMS that it has EFFECTED MORE CURES than
any Ointment or Embrocation in the World. For
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Aches & Pains
it is an INFALLIBLE REMEDY. For DISEASES in
HORSES, CATTLE, Ac.,
there is no equal to it extant. Purchase a Jar and
Test its Value.
Lumbago Cured.
Desicatin.tr Works, Flemington, 11th June, 1896.
Messrs. S. Cox & Co., 422 Bourkc St., Melbourne.
Dear Sirs,—l obtained a pot of Solomon Solution on re-
commendation, and applied it to the parts in which I was
affected with Lumbago, and have found it to he an abso-
lute cure. I removed that unpleasant disorder on a few
applications. I strongly recommend it to persons affected
with Lumbago, or any complaint of a simiiar nature.
Yours truly,
_____ F. HAIBE.
Wholesale Agents :
I ". It. CAVE A- CO., Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. LEA It MONTH >0 CO., Fremantle, W.A.
Sold l>n Chemist s, Saddlers, and Storekeepers.
If not obtainable in your locality, semi ,Is. to the
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
SOLOMON COX BNP CO.,
122 BO KKE ST., MELEOCIUIE.
OUIHKTjTj’S Fluid TUsinfr etanf, is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vijror, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Bnldhend. and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.


To Keep Influenza, Neuralgia, and Rheumatism at Bay,
ENRICH THE BLOOD AND TONE UP THE SYSTEM WITH
flr. Williams’ PlNK PILLS FOR PALE PEOPL
A SURE
CURE FOR
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, COUGHS and COLDS, ANiEMIA, INDIGESTION,
PALE and SALLOW COMPLEXIONS. INSOMNIA, etc., etc.
Rheumatism,
A YEAR IN BED.
MARVELLOUS RECOVERY OF A
SYDNEY RESIDENT.
The cold days of Winter are near at hand, if
not already here. The unhappy sufferer from
rheumatism and such ailments dreads the return
of his or her complaint. There is one way, how-
ever, by which rheumatism may be positively and
permanently cured. In proof of this we append
the following statement
A reporter recently visited Mr. Walter Tye, of
33 M Arthur-street, Ultimo, Sydney, whose mar-
vellous recovery from a most severe attack of
acute rheumatism has been the subject of much
comment in that neighbourhood. Mr. Tye readily
volunteered to give the following statement of his
illness and recovery :
<7
:
~ V
I am a milkman by trade, and ride on the
cart when distributing milk. We serve a very
long round. You can readily see that the very
nature of my occupation compels me to be out in
all sorts of weather, for whatever happens we
must not disappoint our customers. It is some
eighteen months ago that, after being out in very
inclement weather, I commenced to suffer from
aching agonies in limbs and body, and flying
pains and stiffness in the joints ; and I also ex-
perienced sudden chills, generally succeeded by
heavy sweats. The pain I suffered was so severe
that sleep was an impossibility, and should I dose
off I would be suddenly aroused by spasms in the
muscles of the joints in which the rheumatism was
worst. I had the best medical advice, and the
premises of a well-known chemist were fairly ran-
sacked in search of a specific that would tend to
alleviate my agony. To make a long story short,
I was laid up for 12 months.
“ Relief, however, at last arrived, and from an
unexpected quarter.
“Boiler-maker Jarvis and his wife are near
neighbors of ours, and I had read of his wonderful
recovery from locomotor-ataxia by the agency of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Thinking they might
possibly have a beneficial effect in my own case, I
determined to try them, and did so. It was not
until after, the third box that I experienced any
decided change for the better, but you must bear
in mind that mine was a case of "long standing,
and, it was feared, one that might become chronic.
My health then improved by leaps and bounds,
and I am now, as yoti can see, strong and hearty.
I took, in all, eight boxes.
“ The nature of my business calls for the display
of considerable activity, and I am pleased to state
that I have no return of my old symptoms, and
I can face the coming winter without any anxiety.”
“ Have we your permission to publish these par-
ticulars, Mr. Tye? ”
“ Certainly you have.”
Neuralgia.
MISS MILLIE FINKELSTEIN ABSO-
LUTELY CURED.
Miss Millie Finklestein, of 51 Victoria Parade,
Melbourne, who will probably be best known as
the young lady on whom devolved the honor of
delivering the opening ode of West Australia’s
first theatre, the Royal, at Perth, writes :—“ Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. Dear sirs,—l have
■*>
several times
been going to
drop you a
line to tell
you of the
debt of grati-
tude I owe
your Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink
Pills.
“During
the past 12
months I
have been so-
journing i n
West Austra-
1i a, accom-
panied by a
, . . _ , „ . , severe attack
of neuralgia. 1 need hardly inform you that this
was a source of great annoyance to me. I tried
various remedies, but without avail, when inci-
dentallya lady friend mentioned your Pink Pills
to me. As a forlorn hope I gave them a trial, and
was simply astonished at the beneficial results in-
stant relief following.
“ Should you care to make use of this testi-
monial you are at perfect liberty to do so.—Re-
spectfully yours, Miixie Finkblstein.”
Anaemia
A SYDNEY LADY’S GRATEFUL TESTI-
MONY.
my last j° urne y»” said Mrs. Johns, of
€0 Yurong-street, Sydney, “I began to feel very
low and depressed in spirits. I could scarcely eat
anything, and I became very thin, while my face
was ns yellow as if I had had a severe attack of
jaundice. An old friend, who met me in the
street, looked me straight in the face and passed
me by without recognition, and she was positively
shocked when I ran after her and told her who I
really was. I got from bad to worse; the least
exertion wearied me, and my ordinary housework
was too much for me. My gums grew quite white,
and my lips looked a blueish grew color. My
sleep was restless and disturbed, and I was so
tired in the mornings that I could hardly get out
of bed, and when I did I used to lay on the sofa. I
saw a doctor whosaid I needed a strong tonic, and I
had several bottles of physic from him, besides other
bottles of tonic; but I grew no better. I heard
from someone who had been cured by them about
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and I at once got some.
After taking a few I was agreeably surprised to
hnd a real and distinct change for'the better. I
got rid of that miserable depression of spirits, and
in a few days I was able to sleep the night through
without interruption. The pills, too, gave me a
good appetite, and I began slowly to get cheerful
and fat again. My color came back, and after
taking six boxes I was completely cured and as
strong as ever. I shall always remember my cure
with gratitude, and shall, you may be sure, re-
commend this wonderful medicine to any of my
friends who may have the bad fortune to suffer as
I did.’
Sciatica.
HE INTENDED GOING TO THE
HOSPITAL.
BUT DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS
EFFECTUALLY CURED HIM
Mr. George Hynds, a well-known resident of
Blayney, was recently interviewed by a Blayney
Advocate reporter about his serious illness and
remarkable cure. He obtained the following in-
Wb
U S
teresting narrative, which Mr. Hynds said he
would be glad to have published.
“ About two years ago I fell a victim to sciatica,
I was drawing wood at the time. The complaint
B€WAR€ OF IMITATIONS.
Facsimile of Only Genuine Packages:
r O”Vy/Z-L MATS’
TmiNK
ILLS
.-V-
-FOR
LE
D? WILLIAMS’
’vrm.iNK
ILLS
FOR
LE.
D? WILLIAMS
ILLS
FOR
LE
IMITATIONS are
USELESS, and
are FREQUENTLY
DANGEROUS.
Never Accept
Anything
which is said
to he
"JUST AS
GOOD.'
The
Existence
of
Imitations
Proves
The EXCELLENCE
Of Our Remedy.
BEAR THIS IN
MIND.
Pale and Sallow Girls.
HOW TO OBTAIN A HEALTHY COM-
PLEXION.
What can be more distressing than to see a girl
drooping and fading in the Springtime of youth ?
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and
an elastic step, there are dull eyes, pale, sallow or
greenish complexion, and a languidness of step
that bespeaks disease and an early death if proper
treatment is not promptly resorted to and per-
sisted in until the impoverished blood is enriched
and the functions of life become regular.
Upon parents and guardians rests a great re-
sponsibility at the time their daughters are
budding into womanhood. If your daughter is
pale, complains of weakness, is “ tired out ” upon
the slightest exertion; if she is troubled with
headache, backache, pain in the side, if her temper
is fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition
of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
Of the most dreaded of all diseases—Consumption
If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills Thev
will assist the patient to develop properly and re-
gularly ; they will enrich the blood and restore
health s roses to the cheeks ; bright <*yes and
lightness of step surely follow their use, and all
danger of consumption and premature death will
be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will insist
upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills upon the approach of the period of puberty
thus avoiding all chances of disease or early decay!
forced me every now and then to take a spell.
Ihe ailment kept getting worse, until at last I
could not even work, and had to go to bed
being unable to walk. It affected my right
leg from the hip to the ankle, the pain
being worse m my ankle; I also suffered
from terrible pains in my back. I was in bed
tor four months, during which time I suffered
excruciating pain. I had a doctor attending me
a! the time, but he gave me no relief. My ankle
felt just as if it were broken, and it was always as
cold as ice. I used to be led by my wife to the
hre, and there I would sit warming it. The
trousers I was wearing were all scorched by sitting
over the fire The doctor put about a dozen mus-
tard and fly-blisters on my leg, which left it in a
terrible state, and did not do me the least bit of
good. At last he told me that he could do no
more for me, and that the sciatica would have to
take its course. I then determined to go to the
bat hurst Hospital, but my medical adviser said
awu* thmk } W , ould & et an y benefit there.
After being completely bedridden for four months
and on the day before I was going to the hospital!
I met a friend and told him my intentions This
gentleman advised me to try Dr. Williams’ Pink
1 dls for Pale I eople. I took his advice and went
to Mr. 0. Ferguson’s store, and purchased the
last three boxes he had. After the first box I
could get about again, and I went to work again
drawmg m wheat for Mr. Robert Marsden.
When I had finished the second box I felt no pain
whatever, and considered I was cured. I then
took the third box at leisure, although there was
no occasion for it.”
Influenza.
HOW DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS
DRIVE THE SCOURGE AWAY.
The people of this country have good cause to
view with alarm an outbreak of influenza, as it
leaves behind it
more shattered
constitutions than
any other known
disease. Mr. Ed-
ward Botting, for
ten years a Coun-
cillor of the united ;
townships of Bed-
ford, Olden, and |
Palmerston, in
Frontenac Coun-
ty, is one who near-
ly fell a victim to
this scourge. To
a Whig correspon-
dent Mr. Botting
said : “ About two
years ago I had a
bad attack of in-
fluenza, and the
after-effects of that malignant trouble brought me
so low that my friends despaired of my recovery.
I was troubled with severe and constant pains in
the back, sensations of extreme dizziness and
weakness, and was, in fact, in a generally used up
xv”i 1 Tv >n * read frequently of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, and felt they must have some special
virtues, else they could not obtain such strong en-
dorsations in all parts of the country. I deter-
mined to try them, and I bless the day that I
came to that conclusion. Before the first box was
finished I felt benefited, and I continued their use
fin til I was as strong as ever. I consider Dr.
Williams Pink Pills the best medicine sold.
Woman at 45.
HOW TO AVOID ALL PAIN.
A LADY’S GRATEFUL TESTIMONY
What Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills will do for
women at the change of life is shown in a case
reported in the Dewsbury (Eng.) Chronicle. It
is that of Mrs. Benjamin Smith, who lives at
Hanover-street, Dewsbury. Tho change of life
had left her weak and miserable; with constant
pains, dizziness, and shortness of breath on the
slightest exertion, together with chronic-rheu-
matism in the head and eyes. The pain in her
head was too acute for words ; she got no sleep,
and her agony was at times so great that it took
two people to hold her in bed. A skilful doctor
was called in, but did no good. “My cheeks
would swell up as big as saucers,” says Mrs.
Smith ; “my eyes were as red as fire, and
there was no getting rid of the pains in the head.
I also suffei-ed from a sluggish liver and a weak
heart, and at times my eyesight was so bad that
objects before me seemed but dim shadows, and
there were none of my friends wh£ looked for my
restoration to health.
. '.I saw an account in a newspaper of a cure
similar to mine through the use of Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills, and my husband urged me
to _ try them. Before two boxes were used the
pams had disappeared as if by magic, and the
continued use of the Pills for a little more
than a month has left me enjoying as good
health as I ever had in my life. I consider Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills a blessing, and, as I know
there are thousands of women who suffer in
silence from troubles having the same origin
as mine, I am grateful enough for what they
have done for me to tell my story, in the hope
that some suffering sister may be similarly
helped.”
This wonderful remedy is offered to the public
with a full confidence that there is no disease
arising from a watery and impoverished condi-
tion of the blood, or shattered nervous forces,
which it will not cure if the directions are faith
fully followed and the treatment persisted in. ”
Remarkable Efficacy.
A remarkable efficacy in curing diseases arising
from an impoverished condition of the blood or an
impairment of the nervous system, such as rheu-
matism, neuralgia, partial paralysis, locomotor
ataxia, St. Vitus’ dance, nervous headache, ner-
vous prostration, and the tired feeling therefrom,
the after-effects of la grippe, influenza, dengue fever
and severe colds, diseases depending on humors
in the blood, such as scrofula, chronic erysipelas,
&0., is possessed by Dr. Williams’Pink Pills for
Pale People, which give a healthy glow to pale
and sallow complexions. They are a specific for
the troubles peculiar to the female system, and in
the case of men they effect a radical cure in all
cases arising from mental worry, over-work, and
excesses of any nature. The genuine Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills are sold only in wooden boxes,
about two inches in length, eaph of which is en-
circled by a blue warning label. The outside
wrapper has the full name, Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People, printed in red. In case of
doubt it is better to send direct to the Dr. Wil-
liams’ Medicine Company, Queen’s Place, Sydney,
enclosing the price, 2s. 9d. a box, or six boxes for
15s. 3d.
Caution : Strenuously Avoid Spurious Imitations.


A convict, who recently escaped from
Parkhurst prison, England, was seized by two
lusty milkmaids and detained until the pursuing
warders came up. “ Woman, whose soft restrain-
ing hand ! ”
James O’Connor, of Wilga Downs station,
Hermidale, N.S.W. (whose address was adver-
tised-for in Bulletin about 12 months ago) wishes
to know the present address of his sister, at one
time resident in Queensland.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
THE MOST REFRESHING, COObING> U HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE.
<w
T 1
Trade M&rk)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “ W® .counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice Whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a fa* more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
*OR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and caurecom-
mendit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveitatnal.
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS. ENG. „„„
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY.
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., Si II- each,
/
m
m
Sr.M) . l,k OkDHR TO-DAY.
We will more than please you.
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 los., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 los. Description: Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, fo inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual o! keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-toned neds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £lO. Refeience, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co.,
WASHINGTON, NJ.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
Iff.
WiUWsr
Corset
tjm MARK
WitwoWfliST CorSET
MARK
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN . ALWAYS WILL BE WORN
PERFECT in SHAPE.
LENGTHENS THE WA l ST.
SEA UTIFIES THE FIG UR E.
W'u»ovva>ST Corset
MARK
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
ASK FOR
WiuSwTAisr Corset
OF ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN BY
F. W. LEE, Camden Buildings.
216. GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Cooling.
Sp arltliixg.
Fresh.,
VELTEN LASER
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
THE GrJEJAMO PHONE
is the most recently - invented
“Talking- Machine.” and far
&
excels any other kind of instrument yet invented. Who-
ever buys a gramophone buys a box at the opera, rents
a pew in a city church, secures-permanent admission to
the best music halls in the country, can order out the
most dashing military band our army has at a moment’s
notice, can make the great piano-players of the day his
obedient and can do a great many other things
which would have put somebody in danger of being
roasted for witchcraft had they been attempted by our
forefathers.
PRICES
Gramophones with Six Records and
clock-work motion £lO 10 O'
Do. do. hand apparatus 7 10 o
Extra Records ... per dozen 2 8 o
A. P- SYKES, 227 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
SOUTH
WTffl
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
ICEWSgPiCTOIi
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with all
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park. Ken-
sington Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the midst of the Fashionable Quarter-
MODERATE TARIFF.
Queen's Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
HOTEL
Correggio Jones
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a recent Vic. Artists’ Society “smoke,” Dr. Springs
thorpe made some observations about local art which
paused his audience to writhe with suppressed rage. He
began by saying that Australians had inherited a nervous
temperament, which accounted for a predominance of
artistic feeling. In poetry, he said, there was a distinctly
Australian school, and the musical attainments of Aus-
tralians were wonderful in variety and excellence. Our
climatic conditions, which were largely those of Greece
and Borne (as though Australia were not a continent
containing all sorts of climatic conditions !) had much to
do with this. The art of painting, however, had lagged
behind, certainly in appreciation, possibly in performance
It required higher intelligence to appreciate music than
it did to appreciate painting. Here there were yells of
“No !” from the artists. The Aus. artist, continued Dr.
S., has.net yet struck a really Australian note. The key
of his color scheme was wrong. And so on. Which is all
true enough—in a way. But Dr. S. should know that he
who can merely diagnose a disease without suggesting a
remedy is a poor physician ; the doctor, no doubt, was all
the time fingering in his astral vest-pocket a visionary
box of Springthorpe’s Patent Color-Scheme Pills for Aus-
tralian Artists. . . . The trouble with the latter is that
they are too much dominated by the tyranny of the Old
World. In the matter of technique this despotism might
be called benevolent, but, in the matter of sentiment and
choice of subjects, it is maleficent.
Correggio Jones an artist was
Of pure Australian race,
But native subjects scorned because
They were too commonplace.
The Bush with all its secrets grim,
And solemn mystery,
No fascination had for him :
He had no eyes to see
The long sad spectral desert-march
Of brave Explorers dead,
Who perished—while the burning arch
Of blue laughed overhead;
The Solitary Man who stares
At the mirage so fair,
While Death steals on him unawares
And grasps him by the hair ;
The Lonely Tree that sadly stands,
With no green neighbor nigh,
And stretches forth its bleached, dead hands,
For pity, to the sky ;
The Grey Prospector, weird of dress,
And wearied overmuch,
Who dies amidst the wilderness —
With Fortune in his clutch ;
The figures of the heroes gone
Who stood forth undismayed,
And Freedom’s Flag shook forth upon
Eureka’s old stockade.
These subjects to Correggio Jones
No inspiration brought ;
He was an ass (in semi-tones)
And painted —as he thought.
“In all these things there’s no Romance,”
He muttered, with a sneer;
“ They’d never give C. Jones a chance
To make his genius clear ! ”
“ Grey gums,” he cried, “ and box-woods pale
They give my genius cramp —
But let me paint some Knights in Mail,
Or robbers in a camp.
“Now, look at those Old Masters-they
Had all the chances fine,
With churches dim, and ruins grey,
And castles on the Rhine,
“ And lady gay in minever,
And hairy-shirted saint,
And Doges in apparel fair —-
And things a man might paint!
“ And barons bold and pilgrims pale,
And battling Knight and King—
The blood-spots on their golden mail —•
And all that sort of thing !
“ Your Raphael and your Angelo
And Rubens, and such men, f
They simply had a splendid show.
Give me the same —and then ! ”
. . . • • *
So speaks Correggio Jones —yet sees,
When past is Night’s eclipse,
The Dawn come like Harpocrates,
A rose held to her lips.
The wondrous dawn that is so fair,
So young and bright and strong,
That e’en the rocks and stones to her
Sing a Memnonie song.
He will not see that our sky-hue
Old Italy’s outvies,
But still goes yearning for the blue
Of far Ausonian skies.
. . • . *
He yet is painting at full bat —
You’ll say, if him you see,
“ His body dwells on Gander Flat,”
His soul’s in Italy.
CREEVE ROE.
Katie.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was always her eyes I feared. They were of
that steely-grey color, and, when they turned upon
me, seemed to think for themselves, and to ever
point me out as a naked soul exposed—eyes that,
once wronged, stared at me for all time, in the
darkness and the day, reproachful, seeking retri-
bution, compelling remorse.
I had 3een the same eyes in my mother, and, in
the madcap sins of my youth, people told me that
something was breaking her heart. I laughed at
the time; but I foolishly looked into her eyes.
And ever since, two grey spectres that seem to
moan in their pain move ever before me.
“ Dear girl,” I had said, “ I love you ! ”
And she believed it; nor was it the acting that
deceived her, for I swear before God that I spoke
the truth. It was the fatality of the time. I was
too ardent a lover to remain true long, and, when
my first attempt proved such an easy conquest, I
looked around for other faces. I found them.
Then, I suppose, I went to the dogs. Whatever
it was, it was while it lasted very pleasant life.
But my first sweet love came again with all its
tender regrets and memories, and the expres-
sion in Katie’s eyes when I told her I must
leave her had been with me all the long years,
and they looked at me unchanged when I chanced
to meet her in Sydney one day.
How altered she was! Her pretty face was
sobered by the look upon it that spoke the old,
old story.
“Katie,” I said; and, holding my hand, she
answered, “Jim.”
I asked her where was the child, and her eyes
that seemed too much in pain, too stricken to
weep, went, I thought, a trifle greyer. I grew
alarmed.
“ Not not ”
“He might be now ; will you come with me
and see?”
I went. We walked silently. Her last words
had agitated me strangely. Heath ! I had not
thought of that.
We entered a house and were soon beside a bed,
on which lay a small, wasted form. The face was
wan and very white.
“ Jimmie,” she said gently.
I started. It sounded so familiar. She was
speaking to the child.
The boy did not move or answer, and when she
knelt on the floor and took his hand in hers, we
both knew that the child was dead.
Her head had sunk in the bedclothes, and her
arms were thrown over the bed.
“Katie,” I said gently, “don’t cry.”
She lifted her head slowly and looked at me.
Her eyes were very cold and grey, but quite dry.
Instinctively I felt that I resented the want of
feeling.
“Katie,” I said bitterly, “the boy is dead.
And yet you do not weep.”
“Tears ! ” she answered vaguely.
“Forgive me,” I said, “ I forgot.”
I thought of the pain in her eyes.
I tried to comfort her, but she repelled me, still
kneeling, with her face in the bed-clothes.
“ No, no,” she murmured ; “ not novv.”
I tried to raise her head, to look her in the face,
but she resisted. Then I grew angry. I felt the
old love that never had died mastering me again ;
and I must share her grief.
“ Katie,” I said, “the child is mine as well as
yours. Give me a kiss.”
“ No, no ; your kiss would kill me. ”
Maddened, I grasped her in my arms, and
fought with her for a kiss. My utmost strength
just sufficed, and I kissed her passionately.
“ Help, help ! ” she screamed.
I rushed from the room, and out of the house,
into the street, and hurried away, away, with the
fire of her lips burning into my brain. Love had
come again to me, and all the sins I ever did
laughed in my ears “ Too late ! ”
I could not rest. For two days I roamed aim-
lessly about the city. On the third day, I could
not resist the impulse that brought me back to the
home where the child had died.
I knocked. An old woman answered the call.
I made enquiries.
“ The poor thing has gone,” was the answer;
“ she buried her little one yesterday.”
Did she know where the lady could be found ?
“ No; she went away sudden-like, without a
word to anyone.”
I turned away. I had reached the roadway,
when a sudden impulse stirred me, and I retraced
my steps.
“ Was the lady weeping ? ” I asked.
“ Bitterly, bitterly, sir; just as though her heart
was broke.”
“ Thank you,” I said.
J. J. O’M.
One-eyed Dogs-
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Knocking round the country,” said Mitchell,
in a sentimental mood, “knocking round the
country these times, a man often sees things that
hurt his heart; but I think one of the most—the
most —what’s the word ? ”
“ Pathetic ? ”
“Yes, pathetic—one of the most pathetic
things in the bush is a good sheep-dog that has
lost one eye—a one-eyed dog -or a wall-eyed one
watching you for orders or a bit to eat. I remem-
ber, when I was bush-felling down in Maorilatid
there was half-a-dozen dogs belonging to the
Maoris we had in camp, and three of those dogs
had lost an eye apiece—pig-hunting in the awful
supple-jack and bush-lawyer scrub round there ;
and, at first, I couldn’t get used to those dogs
nohow. And they soon got to know it. They'd
sit round in front of me at meal time and watch
me with their one eyes, for I couldn’t refuse them
a bit now and then. I couldn’t get any comfort
out of my tucker, anyway, while those dogs were
around—at least, not till I got used to them and
the novelty wore off a bit.
“ If that there old dog of mine was to lose one of
his eyes, after all these years I’ve had him, I’d
have to get rid of him, for I couldn’t stand him
sitting in front of me and watching me with one
eye. I had an old dog once—he vyas that there
old dog’s mate, too —and hS lost his eye one day
in the scrub; and he’d sit in front of me, with one
side of his face so bright and intelligent, and the
other so blind and helpless—and the pathetic,
pitiful way he’d turn the poor blind side of his
head round out of the road would make me feel
like I did once when a girl I was gone on told me
she was very sorry but she was sure she hadn’t-
given me any encouragement.
“ That old dog had come away from home with
me, and followed me for close up six years. He
followed ’til his other eye got bad, and one leg
went wrong, and he’d have followed still, with his;
nose at my heels, blind and on three legs, andl
there’d have been a wag in his tail for me as long
as ever that held out, but I couldn’t stand it; I.
had to get a chap to shoot him.”
And here Mitchell retired into a cloud of tobacco 1
smoke and silence and thought, perhaps, of other
dogs that had had their days.
“ Ah,” reflected Mitchell’s mate after a rather
long pause. “ Reminds ine of a blind dog I had:
once that useter walk backwards and feel his way
with his tail ”
But Mitchell snorted viciously, and his mate
wisely discontinued.
HENRY LAWSON.


Gentlemen Our One Pound Winter Suits
are a puzzle to those who are judges of GOOD VALUE
®“? se sult f , )le suits for any occasion, the price
makes them cheap enough for everyday wear, the
style and value appeal for their better use on special
occasions. Send us a pound , note, Postal Note for one
pound, or P.O.O., and we will forward one of these
suits carriage free to any post-office in New South
Wales. Address your letters—HORDERN BROTHERS
Federal Clothiers, 203, 205, 207, 209 211 Pio
in" -6 *)' Sydney ‘ ( Menti °n your height when order-
m
m
i
m
i
w
Ss
¥
"/■/,
w
iW
€
ww/M
mm
ys>
/;////*
7///////m
'■V ■
00001
m
pears
Soap.
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion.”
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal Collie of Surgeons,
England:
“ PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
w,
agreeable balms for the skin.”
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others.”
Romance in the Market-place.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You stood beside the flowers,
Yourself a flower;
And on your face
The twilight stayed another hour,
It shone so pale ;
And all around men talked as in a market-
place.
I heard them talk, and felt
No interest stir
In what they said.
Roses were nigh you, and upon the air
The breath of love,
And all about the world moved on with
nervous tread.
I heard it not; far down
And round about
My soul you drew
The veils that shut the loud earth out,
And I and you
Were there alone, no one beside but I and
you !
What words were those we said ?
Old ones, perchance,
Pale with the pain
Of all who’ve kissed and talked romance,
And sighed farewell,
And mixed their tears and kissed, and sighed
farewell again.
We stood a sainted while,
And then your hand
Sought to be free,
And you were gone and all the land
Was under gloom,
And lamps were lit for other men, but none
for me.
I stood and watched you go,
And suddenly
The loud world grew,
Like some great-voiced, insetting sea;
And men went by,
Talking of trade and war and all but love and
you.
RODERIC QUINN.
Scotus : “ Notable that this year is the
jubilee of the memorable ’4B; in which year
icturning one day from school in Glasgow, I came
upon a confectioner’s stock scattered all about
the street. Further on was a jeweller’s stock in
the same plight, and close by a dray-load of flour
ripped from the bags and piled up in the middle
j This was the beginning of the
isread Riots, which it took the military three
days to quell. Similar riots occurred in various
other towns of Great Britain, and on the Continent
confusion was at its height in the French Revolu-
tion, while all over Europe Kings and Queens
were bolting, and thrones tottering. Is this year
of world-wide unrest to witness a repetition of
such scenes ? ”
On Our Selection.
THE OTHER WAY ABOUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It had been a dull, miserable day, and a cold
westerly was blowing. Dave and Joe were at the
barn finishing up for the day.
Dad was inside grunting and groaning with
toothache. He had had it a week, and was nearly
mad. For a while he sat by the fire, prodding
the tooth with his pocket-knife ; then he covered
his jaw with his hand and went out and walked
about the yard.
Joe asked him if he had seen the red heifer any-
where that day. He didn’t answer.
“Did y’ see the red heifer any place ter dav
Dad?” '
“ Damn the red heifer ! and Dad went inside
again.
He walked round and round the table and in
and out the back room till mother nearly cried
with pity. <
“Isn’t it any easier at all, father?” she said
coinmi serati ngly.
“ How the devil can it be easier ? . . Oh-h ! ”
The kangaroo-dog had coiled himself snugly' on
a a? be , fl ? re the tire ' Dad kicked him savagely
and told him to get out. The dog slunk sulkily
to the door, his tail between his legs, and his back
humped a,s if expecting another kick. He got it.
Dad sat in the ashes then, and groaned lament-
ably. Ihe dog walked in at the back door and
dropped on the bag again.
Joe came in to say that “ two coves out there
wanted somethink.”
Dad paid no attention.
The “ two coves a pressman, in new leggings,
and Canty, the storekeeper—came in. Mother
brought a light. Dad moaned, but didn’t look up.
Well, Mr. Ross,” the pressman commenced
L 6 “l’m from the
(something-or-other) office. I’m—er—after infor-
mation about the crops round here. I suppose—
Oh-h-h ! Dad groaned, opening his mouth
over the fire, and pressing the tooth hard with his
thumb.
The pressman stared at him for awhile ; then
grinned at the storekeeper, and made a derisive
face at Dad’s back. Then-“ What have you
got in this season, Mr. Ross ? Wheat ? ”
“ I don't know. .. . Oh-h—it’s awful! ”
Another silence.
“Didn’t think toothache so bad as that said
the man of news, airily, addressing mother.
.Never had it much myself, you see ! ”
He looked at Dad again ; then winked slyly at
and said to Dad, in an altered tone:
Whisky s a good thing for it, old man, if you’ve
got any.” ’ J
Nothing but a groan came from Dad, but
mother shook her head sadly in the negative.
Any oil of tar ? ”
Mother brightened up. “ There’s a little oil in
the house she said, “but I don’t know if we’ve
an J tar. Is there, Joe—in that old drum ? ”
Nurh.
The Press looked out the window. Dad com-
menced to butcher his gums with the pocket-knife
and threatened to put the fire out with blood and
Let s Have a look at the tooth, old man,” the
pressman said,- approaching Dad.
Dad submitted.
Pooh ! —lll take that out in one act!” .. .
io>Joe “ Got a good, strong piece of string ? ”
Joe couldn’t find a piece of string, but produced
a kangaroo-tail sinew that had been tied round a
calf s neck.
The pressman was enthusiastic. He buzzed
about and talked dentistry in a most learned
manner. Then he had another squint at Dad’s
tooth.
kit on the floor, here,” he said, “ and I won’t
be a second. You’ll feel next to no pain.”
Dad complied like a lamb.
Hold the light down here, missis—a little
lower. You gentlemen (to Canty and Dave) look
atter his legs and arms. Now, let your head come
back right back, and open your mouth —wide as
you can. ’ Dad obeyed, groaning the whole time,
i • V^ a r\ a bottom-tooth, and the dentist stood be-
hind Dad and bent over him to fasten the sinew
T 0 1” u r^^len > twisting it on his wrist, he began
to hang on ” with both hands. Dad struggled
and groaned—then broke into a bellow and roared
like a wild beast. But the dentist only said,
.Keep him down! ” and the others kept him
down.
. Dad’s neck was stretching like a gander’s, and
it looked as if his head would come off. The den-
tist threw his shoulders into it like a crack
oarsman—there was a crack, a rip, a tear, and,
like a young tree leaving the ground, two huge,
ugly old teeth left Dad’s jaw on the end of that
sinew.
Holy! ” cried the dentist, surprised, and we
stared. Little Bill made for the teeth ; so did
Joe, and there was a fight under the table.
Dad sat in a lump on the floor propping himself
up with his hands ; his head dropped forward and
he spat feebly on the floor.
The pressman laughed and slapped Dad on the
back, and asked how he felt—“ old boy ! ” Dad
shook his head and spat and spat. But presently
he wiped his eyes with his shirt-sleeve and looked
up. Ihe pressman told mother she ought to be
proud of Dad. Dad struggled to his feet then,
Pt < ? p u t smiling. The pressman shook hands
with him, and in no time Dad was laughing and
joking over the operation. A pleased look was in
mother s face; happiness filled the home again,
and we grew quite fond of that pressman—he was
so jolly and affable, and made himself so much at
home, mother said.
‘‘Now, sit over, and we’ll have supper,” said
Dad, proud of having some, fried steak to offer the
visitors. We had killed a cow the evening before
—one that was always getting bogged in the dam
and taking up much of Dad’s time dragging her
out and cutting greenstuff to keep her alive. The
visitors enjoyed her. The pressman wanted salt
None was on the table. Dad told Joe to run and
get some—to be quick. Joe went out, but in a
while returned. He stood at the door with the
hammer m his hand and said
a .‘ -Did you shift the r-r-r-oek-salt from wher S-S-
-kilky was lickin' it this evenin’, Dave ? ”
Dave reached for the bread.
“Don’t bother—don’t bother about it,” said
the pressman. “ Sit down, youngster, and finish
your supper.”
“No bother at all,” Dad said; but Joe sat
down, and Dad scowled at him.
Then Dad got talking about wheat and walla-
xi a f ? nce > t^ie P ressi ban gave a jump
that rattled the things on the table.
“ Oh-h-h !. . . ; I’ve got it now! ”he said,
Q.
dropping his knife and fork and clapping his
hands over his mouth. “ Ooh ! ”
We looked at him. li Got what ? ” Dad asked,
a gleam of satisfaction appearing in his eyes.
“ The toothache ! —the d d toothache !. . ,
Oh-h ! ”
“Ha ! ha ! Hoo ! hoo ! hoo ! ” Dad roared.
we roared —all but the pressman.
Oh-h ! ” he said, and went to the fire. Dad
laughed some more.
We ate on. The pressman continued to moan.
Dad turned on his seat. “ What paper, mister,
do you say you come from ? ”
‘‘Oh-h ! . . . Oh-h, Lord !”
“Well, let me see; I’ll have in altogether, I
daresay, this year, about 25 acres of wheat —
I suppose as good a wheat ”
“ Damn the wheat! . . . Ooh ! ”
Lh! ” said Dad, “ why, I never thought
toothache was thet bad ! You reminds me of this
ir v° vv - we ea ti n ’- She moaned just like thet
all the time she were layin’ in the gully, afore I
knocked ’er on the head.”
Canty, the storekeeper, looked up quickly, and
the pressman looked round slowly—both at Dad.
Here,” continued Dad—“let’s have a look at
yer tooth, old man."
Ihe pressman rose. His face was flushed and
wild-looking. “ Come on out of this—for God’s
sake ! he said to Canty— 4< if you’re ready.”
What, said Dad, hospitably, “y’re notgoing
surely ! ” But they were. “ Well, then-25 acres
ot wheat, I have," and (putting his head out the
door and calling after them) “next year— next
year, all being well, please God, I’ll have fifty! ”
STEELE RUDD.
From a paper read by the Rev. A. Rivett
at the half-yearly meeting of the Victorian Con-
gregational Union
The church was not making-headway. The income of
the union was but one-third of what it was 10 years ago,
while the churches and mission stations were fewer in
number. The college, the new church sites fund, and
other projects were but memories. Some new church
polity was urgently needed to rescue the church. There
were but three courses open—Slow but decorous extinc-
birth’ amalganlatl0n with some other church ; or a new
Same wail with all the sectaries. The world is
obviously getting one eye open.
From “ In Memoriam ” columns of a Vic.
provincial paper :—
Many a lonely hour,
Many a sleepless night,
I think of you, my husband,
In the sad and lonely night.
I linger in my lonely home,
And think of former days,
Of all his kindly deeds and words,
And his many various ways.
And as before me seems to rise
His manly form and brow,
I grieve because what once was life
Is only memory now.
—Inserted by his sorrowing wife.


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
mwm
DOR l>il ■•us and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
' OidUiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold ChiHs, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep. and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will he acknowledged to he “ WORTH &
GUI ML’A A BOX.”
BE ECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach,'lmpaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
CORNERED.
Nell: “Why did you accept him?”
Bell : “He pressed me so, I couldn’t refuse ! ”
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OXJTSIISEJ WJR APPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGO ill, SON, & CHAPMAN: and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
FOR
23 Years
Owbridge’s Lung tonic
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
' a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
' Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
ftoftridge’s
UjQmgTonic
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottlts, at Is. lsd., 2s. 9 d., 4s. 6 d.,
and Us., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
COPT RIGHT.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
J3T- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not jeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., Loudon. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 528 Oxford-street, London, they are
Bpurious
WHEN YOU BUY 7 !" ' _
j Eudalyjttns Oil or Extract,
' BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
BOOKS by ‘Bulletin’ Writers,
forwarded from ‘ Bulletin ’ office post-
free to any address for postal notes to
prices named —
“The Banjo’s” “Man from Snowy River”
Verses, ss. (id.
Henry Lawson’s Verses, ss. 6d.
~ ~ Sketches and Stories, 3s. and 4s.
Dyson’s “ Rhymes from the Mines,” ss. 6d.
Barcroft Boake’s “Where the Dead Men Lie”
Verses, ss. fid.
Visitors to
—Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
TbeStiffieldCas?.
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING: FULL
EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OF SCENE of
alleged Outrage. Price Sixpence.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George-st., Sydney.
Stop tliat Cough. !
Don’t Delay.
TAKE . . .
irisu moss
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s. Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu.
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Box.


i« b-j iigqu. *
Or Elder, Glycerine and Honey Jelly.
For allaying Irritation caused by Heat. Chafing through
Cycling, Riding, Rowing ; Exposure to the Sun at Seaside,
Fishing, Cricket, &c.; Sun Blisters, &c. Delightfully Cooling
and Refreshing. In Metallic Tubes, 1/-
“NAFATHA SOAP,”/?#
A DISINFECTANT SOAP, specially prepared for Tender
Feet, &c. Most Useful to Travellers for arresting Gnat,
Mosq ito, and Insect Bite Irritation. Recommended by the
Medical Profession. Wrapped Tablets, 6d.
The above sold by Cfiemists and Stores. Sole Manufacturers :
OSBORNE, BAUER & CHEESEMAN,
Perfumeis to the Queen ,
19, Golden Square, Regent St., London, W. J
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Quean Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
NOTICE.
Reader* of The Bulletin, where-
ever sil rated, mill greatly oblige by
ht, for rainy the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
Lo procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
SPOOXfS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<s>HE JjfBBOT
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
WJARfV. .
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE! BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortljiogtoi) P6ri)pii}g Eogipc Corppaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) BlmpSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
Agencies :
Victoria : WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia : AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
_ ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCAREE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand : E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
YEARS DYEIMGr
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- ZEILIDIEiIIDGKKJ & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
What is Health?
heumatiam, Sciatica,
Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PARKFR, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
M
OLEI
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd. P.L.S., Botanist to
H.R.H. the Erinoe of Wales
.Permanent Cure, Self Applied,
3oz. Jars 2/6 By post 3/-
OLEfIC”
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.. LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Pactory System
of‘ Butter-making (which has done so much, for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Befrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135
is
O
OF
;EST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
I
&
0
$
&
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Pans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
Batho’s n »Li««
Baking p ow( | erii
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
$ Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK : -
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machinos and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s (id each, complete.
5 Double-bariei Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, ehoke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 10 Ills, reduced £8 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel B ksech-loading Guns, enginc-i urned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bone, right-band barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduoed £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid liar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ment*, unequal for quality, with cartridge maehinesandcleaners complete. Usual price i 21, reduced £7losea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-1, ending Guns at tl lid per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Orders must he made payable to Weadon, Thomas & Co.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and 'CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent Spokes (all Niokle, Perry's, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (1 id. gross),
Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.). Brakes (complete, (1 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 (i, Brooke's
Saddles 66, Bleuiuel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90 -. Send for trndr 111 wit rot,><\ Prit-e
List, Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-tvre BICYCLES,
up to date, £7, £B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. 435 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
BLAKE’S
Steam Pumps
Are the Best.
We have them in Stock :
SINGLE and DUPLEX,
up to
50,000 Gallons Imp. per Hour.
SEND FOR CIRCULARS & CATALOGUES.
Piping, Valves, Boilers, Hose,
nud every other description of PUMP SUPPLIES
in Stock.
