

The Bulletin
Vol 19- —No. 968.]
[Saturday, September 3, 1898,
r egistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsmoer.
McE WAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
*
“ The Standard
of [Jio-hest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
Sydney,
107 Kent street,
—FOB—
§ift tractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill machinery, Minin? Requisites
j~> - I.LPEIvS asp GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
KTorth. QueenslaudL.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the 01.,08 HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
FOREIGN STAMPS
SETS of 12 Cuba, 9d.; 50 Spain (fine), 2s.
9 Porto Rico, 6d.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d.
9 U.B.A. (Columbus), Is. 6a.; 8 New Cale
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, od.; 8 Egypt, 6d.
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d.
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets :30 differ
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d. ; 150, ss.
postage, 2d. Remit P.O. 0., P.N., or stamps
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. AOKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., L+.d.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Poverty Pointers!
Tour Cue it—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Aooommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEI*
Timber-cutting Machinery.
BAND OR CIRCULAR SAWS FOR OF LOGS.
-to-rjat© & millliiis Machinery, Engines & BoUers, Steel windmills.
— : MUJs Jjreoted and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
aent on application
to
William Fleming,
24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
268
Prize
Medals.
21,200
Steam
Engines
Sold.
SEND POE PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
AiNd^a^jmmw
jyob/r
IMfiPWi
M7A V 1
SHVOIO
Off
Is
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° as pm street, SYDNEY.
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED AND SEMI-FIXED
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Huston, Proctor & c°- t
ENGLES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
ECCBIVTRIC THRASHIKT® MA.CHEIKTES, 9AW BBNTOHBS, &0 ., &o.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Metting*.
aee that you get ±-fc.
PROOF
bpj rY
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices -Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works-Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
PROOF
THORNE'S
A 1 WHISKY.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE'S GEORGE HOTEL. opposite
Kilda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest He
Accommodation in Viotoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
On
*/£
u
A
oo
leather
v<v,
The heading Belt of Australia.
IT ntiii«v,. i
U TJBedexcln a for i »nd Cheapness,
exclusively by theN.S.W. Government
PnC6s and Samples Free to any address.
_£ffi!2 C jAJON, LTD,
WBh2“W STREET. SYDNEY. '
tralia ; fi " eens,and 1 Penh, W. Aus
— — —™ b !!!l Tasman 'a ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
» o. Ausirana.
should »ote°thatM^ NS * N * QUEENSLAND
b un Buri>a * J m ,perial Hotel
and sLijSaSS^" 4 ' convenience - Spaolou.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
Joslma Brothers’ Australian
erang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
Uigh.esb Awards wiierever 32325: rjLilai-fceel.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ecliswan - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN - -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthiest
Imitations.
ffi EDISON” s m
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps : NEW AUSTRALIAN
►ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.


THE RED PAGE .
In 6th-August Bulletin “ P. Luftig ” printed
some verses titled “Mortmain an invocation of
the “protoplasmic primordial atomic globule ” of
an ancestor whose instincts and emotions we in-
herit and perpetuate. With familiar coincidence,
these verses by Edmund Gosse (in Saturday Review
of June 25) were timed to reach Australia just
as “Mortmain” had been printed.
. A NIGHT IN TIME OF WAR,
The clouds are up to sweep and tune
That inharmonious harp, the moon ;
The north wind blows a harsh bassoon.
An old astrologer might say,
By signs, by portents whirled this way,
That earth was nearing her decay.
All apprehensions stir to-night
Witli fluttering issues infinite,
Conjunctions, phantoms, famine, blight;
The woodland shakes its agfed bones
And shrieks ; beyond, in deeper tones
The ceremonial oypress groans;
And I, a microcosm of all, *
Quake, shuddering, underneath the pall
Of nature’s hurrying funeral.
Yes ! tho' my sceptic brain rejects
My sires’ chain'd causes and effects,
The nerves retain their deep defects ;
And still my heart, leaps in my side, —
A fluctuant ark upon its tide,—
With throbs and throes unsanctified,
And knows not how to brave the stir
Of sounds that beckon and shout to her
Of sins that clouds and winds aver.
I shall not sleep to-night, for dread
Of spectral lights obscurely shed
About my plum’d and shadowy bed.
Faint, faint, these mildew’d chords that twang
So feebly, where the music rang,
Deep organ-notes when Homer sang !
Ah ! strange to find the quivering crests
Of long-laid faiths, forgotten guests,
Rise up at memory’s dim behests !
Ah 1 strange to feel the soul resume
Its cast-off heritage of gloom,
The savage turning in his tomb 1
» . » •
George Moore’s “Evelyn Innes”—the master-
piece of a strong and painstaking craftsman; a
book in the first rank of contemporary fiction—
bases its inevitability on the same idea of insis-
tent, persistent, unesoapable heredity. It is a
novel built as an engineer builds a bridge—with a
calculation of the strength of materials under
strain, of the shocks to be encountered, avoided,
resisted—with a nice adjustment of efforts to ends
and conditions. Only Moore’s book is not a bridge
—it is an overhanging pinnacle, a causeway pro-
jected into the unknown gulf. If it be well built,
foundations will spring to meet it: the agreement
of a reader’s mind will fashion buttresses from the
impalpable fabric of air ; if ill, the first critic’s
shoulder-shrug can topple it into the abyss.
» » • *
It is the best of Moore’s art that the web of cir-
cumstance which folds Evelyn Innes seems a most
natural garmenture, though she has to be draped
as deliberately as a statue. Of the forces which
moulded her little is directly suggested and nothing
exactly said: given Evelyn and her father, the
dead mother must be inferred: she is the
cardinal force in the story, yet to define her would
spoil all. The fascination is in disentanglement
of the problem—with the key-move hidden. Mrs.
Innes has been a singer, even a great singer ; her
husband is a rare and absorbed musician ; both
are of the Catholic religion. Evelyn inherits her
mother’s voice with a difference : her singing is
less pure, more ardent, fuller of sex and passion.
Her whole character is similarly divided, with the
father’s warp shot through the mother’s woof :
her life fluctuates between the opposing motives—
action, calm ; struggle, renunciation ; the world
and men, the cloister and God.
* * • *
When the story begins Evelyn is caught by the
first wave of womanhood : it seizes her, tosses her,
recedes and leaves her flushed and panting. With
she knows not what disquiet she recognises in her-
self something which herself dreads and trembles
at. She “makes a retreat ” of a week in a
friendly convent, and is calmed and restored. But
another wave comes with higher tumult, over-
powers her and carries her away, feebly resist-
ing. She is so tired of the quiet life of an
organist’s daughter : the world calls her : she has
no more reasoned principle than the average
woman, merely her inherited superstition ;
and for a time a stronger instinct sways her.
After what shie feels to be an almost imper-
sonal struggle . . . she goes to France with a
man of the world, Sir Owen Asher, cultured,
musical, wealthy, and a good fellow. Some years
pass : her voice is trained, and she returns to Lon-
don to sing triumphantly in grand opera. She
has really loved Owen, but the flower of her pas-
sion has faded. Her desires have been sated ; her
mother in her, always qualming, re-takes the
mastery ; and after balancing caprice has left
her a moment in the arms of Ulick Dean, a mys-
tic Celt whose nature seems a sort of half-way
house between sex- and religion, Evelyn returns
to the convent for a week. She has renounced
her lovers; she has determined on a life of
chastity ; but the time is not yet. The book
leaves her standing once more on the threshold of
the world.
* • • •
“Evelyn Innes” is a boomerang’s flight-; the
return is to be “ Sister Teresa. ” But even if
Moore had not foreshadowed his climax it would
be plain that the climax must be convent. Unless
her course is altered by some violent and extra-
ordinary influence, Evelyn Innes cannot but return
to the Destiny-hand which has thrown her. Her
mother controls it-may-be two-tliirds of her : while
the power of sex is strong her weaker father domi-
nates : as it wanes the majority-vote of her nature
returns him to his proper subjection. Sometimes,
as a gay procession passes the cloister-walls, she
will have regrets, promptings, longings: these
will grow always rarer.
The banners flashing through the trees
Make their blood dance and chain their eyes}
The bugle-music on the breeze
Arrests them with a charm’d surprise . . .
—Pass, banners, pass, and bugles, cease ;
And leave our desert to its peace 1 ”
It will be a pleasant, Poesque exercise for Red-
Page readers to anticipate George Moore. Will
Evelyn'return to Owen Asher? Will she return
to Ulick Deane? Will she return to the stage?
Will she take a new lover? What will he be like,
and how much remorse will he cost her ? Will
the death of her father symbolise the breaking of
the last link with the flesh and the devil ? Read-
able synopses are invited ; and the measure of any-
body’s success in writing “ Sister Teresa ” before
“ Sister Teresa ” is written will be the measure of
sis capacity and George Moore’s art—or of the
reverse. •
• * * •
For a Giotto’s-0 of Moore’s workmanship, take
a simple sentence like this —
The practice of singing in church proceeds from the
idea that, in the exaltation of prayer, the soul, having
reached the last limit obtainable by mere words, demands
an extended expression, and finds it in song.
It may surprise the ordinary reader to be told
that doubtfully one writer in a hundred thousand
can think as clearly as that, and express his
thought as clearly, as simply, as adequately.
Perhaps the “last” and the “mere” might be
wished away; but, with or without them, the
attainment of that sentence might be a tradesman’s
pride. Eor rhetoric Moore cares little, even if he
could reach it. Occasionally the thought lifts his
style to a strength which is almost eloquent: as
in this passage—
Like all good talkers, he knew how to delude his
listeners into the belief that they were taking an import-
ant part in the conversation. He allowed them to speak,
he solicited their opinions, and listened as if they
awakened the keenest interest in him ; he developed
what they had vaguely suggested. He paused before
their remarks, he tempted his listener into personal
appreciations and sudden revelations of character. He
addressed an intimate vanity and became the inspiration
of every choice, and in a mysterious reticulation of
emotions, tastes and ideas, life itself seemed to converge
to his ultimate authority. And having induced recogni-
tion of the wisdom of his wishes, he knew how to make
his yoke agreeable to bear ; it never galled the back that
bore it, it lay upon it soft as a silken gown. Evelyn en-
joyed the gentle imposition of his will. Obedience be-
came a delight, and in its intellectual sloth life floated
as in an opium .dream without end, dissolving as the sun-
set dissolves in various modulations. Obedience is a
divine sensualism ; it is the sensualism of the saints ; its
lassitudes are animated with deep pauses and thrills of
love and worship. We lift our eyes, and a great joy fills
our hearts, and we sink away into blisses of remote con-
sciousness The delights of obedience are the highest
felicities of love, and these Evelyn had begun to experi-
ence. She had ascended already into this happy no-
where. She was aware of him, and a little of the brilliant
goal whither he was leading her. She was the instru-
ment, he was the hand that played upon it, and all that
had happened from hour to hour in their mutual exist-
ence revealed in some new and unexpected way his
mastery over life.
And this is not an example of Moore’s most
pregnant vein. He abounds in sex-statements, in
man-of-the-world theories and crumbs of know-
ledge : like—
When man ceased to oapture women . . . man
invented art whereby he might win them. The first
melody blown through a reed pipe was surely intended
for woman’s ears. The first verses were composed in a
like intention. Afterwards man began to take an inter-
est in art for its own sake. . . . Women, having no
necessity for art, have not been artists.
Or,
The advent of the priest had moved her in the depths
of her being, and her mind was thick with lees of ancient
sentiment, and wrecks of belief had floated up and
hung in mid memory. She knew that the beauty of
the ritual, the eternal psalms, the divine sacrifice, the
very ring of the bell, the antiquity of the language, lifted
her out of herself, and into a higher, a. more intense
ecstasy than the low medium of this world’s desires.
And in the saying that style is good, and matter is
good, not half is said. For the ideas and informa-
tion are sufficient to furnish-three ordinary decent
novels of the period ; and the episodes are so
subtly and harmoniously woven into the main idea
that Moore often betters his master Balzac. He
cannot, of course, rival Balzac at his best; he cannot
glow with the radiant white heat of that greatest
brain; but it is a great deal to-be even a second-
rate Balzac, and hitherto Moore has only been a
second-rate Zola. There is still to add that
as a study of a woman—a pagan, aboriginal
woman—“ Evelyn Innes” shows in a thousand
touches the hand of the master ; that the analysis
of Early Music, and of Wagner, is wonderfully
well done; and that the whole is a Book with
Brains which can yield new interest even at the
third reading. In a word, George Moore now
stands level with Hardy; and if he can continue
his accomplishment he may stand level with
Meredith. Naturally enough, the disapproval of
the British Moralist is shown iii the exclusion of
“ Evelyn Innes ” from the indignant Smith book-
stalls.
+
Of Stephen Phillips’ “Marpessa” Chris. Bren-
nan writes :
The ancient myths develop with the ages and speak to
every generation its newer thought and emotion. But the
essential condition to a new interpretation is, that one
drop their anecdotal character and insist on their larger
features. We are no longer orudely anthropomorphic;
our pleasure is to feel the mythical figure as a creature
of dream, moving in an atmosphere of abstraction, symbol
of some idea inexpressible, with fitting charm, in any
barer fashion. When Coventry Patmore rehandles the
fable of Eros and Psyche, he oasts aside all but the cen-
tral idea—or fact—of godhead joined in love with
humanity : beneath each word we feel the personal ex-
perience of one who knew that God was the love of
the soul, of one to whom the nuptial image was
the highest—nay, the only one. Eros is divine
love—nought else Psyche is humanity, the soul
in its beauty, womanlike ; ourselves—at least while
we read.
But. in Stephen Phillips' Marpessa the figures
are not sufficiently thought out; not general enough
to bear a new message, not special enough to be
just a picture of old fable. Or rather one is general,
purely human ; Marpessa, as humanity rejeoting a share
in divinity—the other would be general and special at the
same time. Apollo is a god in human guise, whose
delight is to be with the daughters of men—therefore, as
personified, subject to certain laws and limitations of art;
hut—and here’s the rub—his humanity is not anecdotal,
but a metaphor, symbol of a natural force, the sun. Now
to him, personage of tale, standing there, placid,
individual, human, in the rays of the sun hung over
him, are addressed the words 0 gradual rose of
the dim Universe (p. 18); words, whioh might fitly
begin some prayer of one who felt in or behind
the sunlight a presence never to he defined. But to utter
them to that bland wooer with golden locks ! Him,
too, Marpessa will expect by the western ray, him Sun-
god going to his setting, him husband home-coming like
any other, somewhat chill’d and dull after years of
marriage and daily work—the trivial detail is Phillips’
own. Daphne, we know, was also a metaphor: and her
story may be doubly enjoyed ; she and Apollo inmates of
Faerie, she and Apollo symbol. But to Marpessa, purely
human, should be opposed, not this special sungod,
shorthand for day, symptom of a disease of language,
but a purely divine Apollo.
But will Apollo do at all? A single letter on page 28 —
One must go first, ah god—
a single small g, betrays the discord between the author’s
conception of his theme and the highly modern feeling
which he would extract from it as his special variation.
Ah God!— so we hear it after all the Rossetti-like in-
tensity of Idas, after all the Maeterlinckian pessimisms
pur of Marpessa— Ah God is a ory with Night about it, a
cry vibrating away to something divined as akin to the
human, so near that a cry will reach it, so far that one
must ory to it. But in such a climax of emotion the too
special Apollo would disappear ; the infinity that broods
upon Marpessa (p. 16) would whelm him—so the author
weakly slips out the capital G and we read ah god— ah,
you there, you oalled god as another is called king or
captain—how the chord fails to thrill 1 The Greek figure
is perfect, but by limits and within them ; break the
limits, disturb the outline —it vanishes.
“Geolay” affirms that the lines, “Three little
j'ohnnie cakes ” were written by Overbury, known as
“ the bush poet,” in the latter fifties:- O’s brother edited
a paper at Oreswick (Vic.) about the same time.
“ C.” : In Ecuador, South America, the unit of
the currency is a sucre (dollar). Is the colloquial sugar,
meaning money, any derivative or relative of the Ecua-
dor coin ? [Probably a coincidence only. Sugar, as
money, is likely derived from the E. American phrase
to sugar off, applied to maple-sugar boiling. The sugar-
content of the boiling was the equivalent of money for
farmers’ store-purchases. Barrbre and Leland quote
from Harper's Bazaar —“ Josh Billings comes of a
wealthy family,Shaws of Lanesborough, in Massachusetts,
and it is estimated that his estate would sugar off, as
they say in Vermont, about $200,000.” Cf. Alter, and
AuB. pan out, an alluvial digger’s phrase often applied to
money— e.g., “How will his estate pan out?”]
. r f ush ’ Romany for “pleasant”
“agreeable, is derived no doubt from the Hindu ?., ■
“kfcusfc"- pleasant; “ khushi," “ satisfaftorV
Much flash talk can be run back through the .mv'V.
patter to the Urdu or Hindi. Bloody i- found in
earlier edition of “ Robinson Crusoe "-profusely i.lu
Mr. Will Atkins ; also in all Defoe's complete works
■Flanders ”in especial) and in Fielding and Smollett. Pm
it first came into use in the navy as a valuable convert
tional adjunct. < - rha '
“A Voice from the Bush”: Publishers and
authors complain that libraries and lending curiaii JiZ.
and profits. Bill Nye ends his “ History of the United
States.” by asking the reader not to lend. As a reader T
try to do my duty by the author, bv quoting enough of a
work to whet a stranger’s appetite, and then refusing to
lend. Further, lam unable to enjqv a borrowed book
therefore I buy what I want. But the present book’
making tendency being towards ungainly bulk mi,,
fully-large lettering, and a desert-like expanse of mire
waste margin, I fancy that publishers have me
by the wool. Are 80 per cent, of readers-weak-sighted
that such large type should be necessary? Have 80 Per
cent, of buyers got salaries which will permit of an ex-
penditure of 6s. (and postage in proportion to weight) for
less than two hours’ reading- as in "Trooper llalkett”
and kindred publications ? Publisher Methuen owes me
7s. Gd., that being the price of a good razor spoilt in
cutting 1J inches of margin off Kipling’s “ Seven Seas " to
make it portable. In the “good old' days” one could
obtain a hook with over 20 hours’ reading in it, in pocket-
able form. Many classics are thus sold now; but one
wants new hooks, the newest books, occasionally. There
is an Authors’Society. What is wanted is a “ Readers’
Defensive Alliance.”
LOVE LAYE SOE STILLE.
Love laye soe stille upon the snowe
I thoughle him dead and turned to goe,
Sighynge that I was free from care,
That many thynges I nowe eolde dare;
Henceforthe no follie wolde I knowe, —
To Art alone my life wolde vowe,
And to the chillie worlde wolde showe
That all in vain a mayde was fayre,—
Love laye soe stille !
But o’er the whyte breste of the snowe
She came with careiesse step and slowe.
Her swayinge shadowe brushed his hair ;
He scarcely stirred . . and yet ... I sweare
That he was only sleepynge, though
Love laye soe stille.
ELIZBETH DIKE LEWIS.
"DY APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. ROME.
Hart’s American History, 10s, post 10s 6d ; Gibbs’
Ltghtmg- by Acetylene, 7s Gd, post 8s; Oroker’s Real
Lady Hilda, 2s, post 2s Gd ; Thomson's Lady Asenath,
2s Gd and 3s Gd, post 3s and 4s ; Green’s Lost Man’s Lane,
2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Crouch’s For the Rebel
c i l ,? 6 ’ 6d and 3s Gd, post 3s and 4s ; Crane’s Pictures
of War, 2s 6d and 3s Ocl, post 3s and 4s ; Barker’s Mars
2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Carey’s Queenie’s Whim!
3s <3d, post 4s.
Just received :
1200 MILES ON THE RIVER MURRAY,
, By A. S. Murray,
With fac-simile illustration in Colors by the Author.
Oblong- gilt edges, cloth 425.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.’S COLONIAL
LIBRARY.
Cr., Wrapper, 2s Gd, post 3s ; Cloth, 3s Gd, post 4s.
ABISHAG THE SHUNAMITE,
A Tal# of the Days of Solomon, King of Israel, and
Sesonchis, King of Egypt.
By Francis Myers (“ Teleinaohus”).
IS FEDERATION OUR TRUE POLICY? or,
THE POLITICIAN REVEALED TO HIMSELF.
10s Gd. Post, 11s 3d.
Just Published.
A HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL CYANIDE
OPERATIONS.
By Wm. FI. Gaze, M.D., F.R.S. Cr. Bvo. 7s Gd, post St.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Books by Post.
The Bulletin Book Exchange.
Send stamps of any Australasian province,
or postal notes, or postal order, to “The
Bulletin,” 214 George-stveet, Sydney, and
books will be forwarded by return mail
POST FREE at prices given.
At Dawn and Dusk; Poems, by Viotob J.
Daley ; ss.
The Triumph of Death, by Gabriels
D’Annunzio. Paper, Ss.; cloth, 4s. This is
the most powerful and interesting novel pub-
lished for years. Vide Red Page notice.
Evelyn Innes, by George Moore. Paper, 35.;
cloth, 4s. Moore’s new book, and his best.
The Dead Leman and Other Stories
from the French. Boards, 2s. 6d. Excellent
short stories, admirably translated.
Way-Back People far from bock stores may
order any book desired by sending pub-
lisher’s price and postage (which may he
calculated at 2d. in the shilling). Infor-
mation as to price, &c., sent for a 2d.
stamp. Address The Bulletin Book
Exchange, 214 George St., Sydney.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
, George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable Loudon publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference: The Editor, The Bulletin.
READY.
Anthony Hope’s Great Novel,
“RUPERT OF NENTZRU."
Sequel to
“THE PRISONER OF ZENDA.”
Paper Covers, 35.; Cloth, 4s. Post Frs*.
W. W. PEARSON, Bookseller, 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
MEASLES OR INFLUENZA?
t Thanks -we surround ourselves with an environment of pure air
and sanitary conditions, by smoking
Cameo Cigarettes!
and dety both Microbes and Measles.


RS
'■mi-
Wt
f: . SjS l * s'■'
. _ ■ _
' *
a
V - "vf?,-*
Sydney’s Leading Specialists,
—WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
f
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
iptito tc A stj-rtoilS MATTER —A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
„,™ hShfbi™ f ™“io„ or abuse that unfit bin, fo, nearly ,11 the walks of
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now the experience of 20,000 men
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly encmsfi - 11 ifamt-i
Drs.
a
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbuu
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough, heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the remarkable treatment
which has made both fame and fortune for _>rs. FREEMAJN &
WALLACE.
i single man,
In the Laboratory
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble?
Do you feel shaky?
Can you walk without halting?
Are you melancholy ?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Nervous_Debility.
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired ?
Have you no manly vigor ?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches ?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat.
Has'the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
m
stator
All Trams stop at the Door.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thankstothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have riot the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
5^
5> 7 i P e. n
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
Rescued at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 1G colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer—m fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs.;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l,
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYJ3KTEY.
Ph ase mention this Paper ivhen writing.] Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYUiIEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of _
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST TREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dk. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS —Daily,
’lo till 5; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring VIOOM and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Fee, £l —which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer—in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
TH E HEW F REACH RE&S ED Y
TRADE
T HERA PI 0 N
■xavitt
This successful and highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Rieord.
Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others,combines all the
desiderata to be sought in a medicine of tiie kind,
and surpasses rv> willing hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
in a teiv days only removes all dnehaiges liom the
urinary organs, effectually super sfding injections, the
use. of which does irreparable harm by laying the
foundation of stricture ami other t-erlm.- diseases.
THERAPiON No. 2
for impurity of toe blood, scurvy, pimples, spota,
blotches, pains and swellings of the joints, secondary
symptoms, disease of the bones, sore throat, and all
diseases for which it has been too much a fashion to
employ mercury, sarsaparilla, &c., to the destruction
of the sufferer’s teeth and ruin of health This
preparation purifies the whole system through the
blood, and thoroughly eliminates every poisonous
matter from the body.
THERAPiON No. 3
lor nervou- exhaustion, waste ot \ ilaltty, hat asking
dreams, and all the distressing consequences arising
from early error, excess, residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, Ac It posessses surprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION
mav be procured
__ at 2/9 & 4/6 per
package, of the principal Chemists and Merchants
throughout the World. In ordering, the purchaser
should state ■which of the three numbers is required,
and observe above Trade Mark, which is a fac-simile
of the word ‘‘Tiierapion” as it appears on the Govern
ment Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed
to every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing' how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
anv earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH/ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPYHE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
VARIC
o
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANG-STOU, M.8.C.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
rATROPHY in Men^
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit, Marital Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address —
w J. HINTON-WILLIS, A
ps Cor. Bourke <fc Liverpool Sts., Melbourne. Jtk
RUPTURE.
If ruptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-
lief from pain; security from Strangulatedl
Hernia, and a permanent cure if possible, i
Please investigate “ Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic/
' Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at/
r what you will learn. This Truss positively/
'does tile work, and is worth £lOOO to any/
1 ruptured man or woman. If you want the/
' BEST, call or send 2d. in stamps for f ree'
Pamphlet No. 1. It contains full information. NAGNETIO
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. 11.
SOUL & CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address— S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.


TAT
•• • ]
ERSALLS
lister Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
DEMONSTRATION 11. October 3.
25,000 Sulb scrita era at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name,
Address
Caulfield C.
100,000
To TATTERS ALL
Please allot me .
October 15.
SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
—Shares in the above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
shares in the above.
Address
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C. 100,000 at 5.
SPECIAL CONSULTATION.
To be Drawn at 10 a.m. on the Day of the Race.
Clients will kindly Note this when applying for tickets.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Priee Reducers
‘Friends of the Family’
-AND-
Up-to-date fflerehants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYO'IEY.
1 ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
QjLi £
CLtulaa^*^
exttXC^^C
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Datulriff, Prevents
Hair Palling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i/-, 2/6 and 4 16 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARIGOPAS CO., LTD.,
16, Bevis Murks, Bondon, England.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE. —Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Aoe of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhiil, Victoria.”
“After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold hy chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Love and Life.
i.
As some faint wisp of fragrance, floating wide—
A pennant-perfume on the evening air—
From a walled garden, flower-filled and fair,
To drape a sudden beauty long denied
Upon life’s highway desolate and dried —
So come you to me, as I, unaware,
Bend my strict eyes upon my pathway bare ;
But at your presence straight I turn aside,
And passing in the garden see uncurled
The heart of hidden beauty in the world,
And love as life’s one blossom is revealed !
My backward glance your floating tresses blind,
About my struggling hopes your white arms wind,
And I have yielded —but how sweet to yield 1
n.
But, in the prison of the garden bound,
The sluggish perfumes o’er my spirit fall,
And I lie languid in their sweetness’ thrall,
Beneath the fragrance of much beauty drowned :
When through the fountain’s murmur —10, a sound
Insistent and reproachful. O’er the wall
Drops a faint echo of the Earth’s deep call,
And I leap upright from the rose-strewn ground.
Outside the bracing wind sings, clean and chill;
Outside are tasks to do, blows to be struck ;
And I must toil the dreary highway till
It broadens to the fields of death ! Yet, ere
I leave for aye your perfumed close, I pluck
A shrivelled blossom that I kiss and wear !
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Where Willow-trees Fringe a Fairyland.
When the sky was the softest shade of grays,
Save eastward —where glowered one fire-edged
cloud—
I watched in the dawning the brown hills raise
Their wood-clad crests from a misty shroud ;
And I waiting stood
At the skirt of the wood,
Where the river has wound through its waste of
sand,
And its broad tide slips
By the thirsty tips
Of the willowrtrees fringing Fairyland !
And you came !—as the morning sunbeams came—
And the whole of this fair world waxed more
bright;
Whilst the sunlight shone upon fields aflame,
Till the valley was flooded with yellow light.
We dallied that day
Till the skies grew gray,
And the gloaming yielded to dusky night;
For the short hours fled
With a hasty tread,
As though Night were jealous of Day’s delight.
Years come, and go ! but they cannot efface
What are memories now —of Fairyland !
Your innocent eyes and your girlish grace
And the soft, warm clasp of your little hand.
Now I stand alone
Where the sunlight’s thrown
On the willow boughs, ere the day is done—
When their drooping fringe
Just borrows a tinge
Of fiery light from the fading sun.
And a quiet broods o’er the rugged hill,
And the birds which sang in the morn are dumb ;
Whilst here by the willows I wait until
That other—and longer—night shall come.
There’s a faint, faint plash
And a silvery flash
Where the waters swirl round the willow stems,
And the darkling sky
Unrolls on high
Its banner spangled with starry gems.
N.S.W.
THE BREAKER.
Charybdis.
A toiler, worn and weary of his days ;
A swimmer, spent with adverse waves, slow-
sinking ;
A traveller, lost, stained with the miry clays
Of ways unknown that he was set, unthinking ;
As such am I, am I! these grimy hands,
Hardened and scarred with toil, have nought of
feeling,
Callous and numb, I scorn the heaviest blow,
Yet in my heart of hearts there is no healing.
Once was I pure. I once breathed God’s sweet air;
This thraldom and this hate were not upon me.
From those far heights I never wished to stray,
But now a world of sorrow presses on me ;
And, smothered deep, those sullen fires still glow
That sudden burst to flame there is no quelling ;
That closer bind this curse of bitter woe.
And often I am heedless, unrebelling.
Sometimes this mantling gloom rolls swift away,
A saviour comes this heart of stone soft-
thrilling ;
A child’s sweet smile, and every sin is gone,
This hate and fierce resentment gently stilling ;
And Heaven’s gates are wider thrown, its gleam
Burns into gold what I, as dross, was spurning ;
Draws fast the stubborn tears from dimming eyes
And fills my soul with many a purer yearning.
Ah, blessed light, for thee I live again !
My face is set towards a pathway firmer ;
Hands touch mine, and are gone again ; the song
That round its spell enwrapped is but a mur-
mur ;
Dies in the deepening gloom the starry glow ;
I strive to rise again, and follow after ;
But hands, a thousand, press me to my doom !
To my wild cry there echoes mocking laughter.
Deep thunder shakes the night, the torrents fall,
Space unto space resounds, with hellish utter-
ings ;
Cruel the blinding blast, the threat’ning drear
Whirls closer round, and far, in fiendish mutter-
ings;
Yet, through the blackened flood, a distant gleam
Meets these sad anguished eyes with radiance
holy,
And stays my feet when hope is spent and dead,
And saves from that dim vortex, circling slowly.
* * * *
What of the past! still do the joyous fields
Spread all around their fullest wealth, unending;
Glad sing the birds, the streamlet flashes free,
The clouds float softly o’er, the trees are bending:
I toil, and w’ait, and, until that I seek
Comes to emancipate with strength supernal,
Shall, ever striving, sink to deeper depths,
And, ever seeking rest, find storm eternal.
SELDON RAY
a . I Established 1849.
Ttastrahao Wttial p r<W jdpnt Society.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established *
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors '—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER Esq. ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.,F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. .. Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,000.
Head. Office : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
R.ORT R f! AMF.RON. SECRETARY.
m*
m
m
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
&3T Send for Price List. “SSI
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shalt Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
ED WARDS'
WORLD-RENOWNED
:ciir Producer & Beatorer
THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLBNE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of the Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, eto., also
for
Restoring Grey Hair
to its original color.
|ST" It is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
of any Metallic or other injurious Ingredients.
] /., g/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle-from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.
trn
Photographic Merchants,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
and 64 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CINEMATOGRAPHS.
Harrington’s Exhibition Cinematograph
(imported). .Absolutely the best
machine in the market, and is com-
plete for taking and projecting animated photographs. Edison Standard Guage, price complete, .£3O.
The above machine for taking photographs only £22 10s.
Harrington’s Drawing-Room Cinematograph
(imported) may be used in con-
junction with any ordinary
magic lantern for showing animated pictures in drawing-rooms and small halls. The instrument is of
the Edison Standard Guage, price complete, i3B Bs.
Although sold at a cheap price, this machine is in every way a reliable article of the best work-
manship.
FILMS, latest subjects, 40s. each..
CAMERAS:
The PREMO V. HAND CAMERA,
The DUPLEX
The POCKET VICTOR „
The POCKET KODAK „
J -plate, 255. 5
-plate, 255. I
for plates, 21s. |
for films, 21s. J
Send for Descriptive
Pamphlets.
A Large Stock of all kinds CAMERAS from 3s. 6d. to «£5O.
Send for NEW COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 7, Now Ready,
Post Free on Application.
Telephone, 26 KOGARAH— connected with Sydney;
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing- Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Sail will accommodate 500 persons. Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
\\ ater Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating;
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation. TERMS MODERATE.
THE
Plum’
Y£Jp*
THE
‘Plum
ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, \\ e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“ Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leathtr'fease, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
(.Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITK.EN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
LOOK: A.T OUR PRICES !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
Note Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send for Our Iliu.stra.ted Ca.ta.losrwe.


T
WASHINGTON H SOUL & C?
T
9
?irrsr
EVERY NOVELTY -1
>4>/rp
• J>Hai l.
Brushes 1
ISOYERS BAKING
IoI.LET * : r
• A/SD
HOTEL -
AUSTRALIA.
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
Trams, &c. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night—advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES : 12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
P&B Buberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
Pc
fifß
MriK
Pm
When purchasing P & B Rllberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., O’Connell-street, Sydney.
A erents ? v V
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Sandfoed & Co., Adelaide.
Geo. Ross, Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
J
THE MARBLE BAR,
. . PITT STREET, SYDNEY . .
In the heart
of the city.
ONE OF
THE SIGHTS
OF AUSTRALIA!
Within 100 yards or less
of four leading theatres and G.P.O.
Massive Marble Columns.
Superb Oil Painting's.
Handsome Decorations.
Illumined by Electricity.
Every Visitor says : « Do not miss The Marble Bar.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.)
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
HHHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
- 1 - with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means o Pvidr/ework.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note —We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address-
es Kiing-st., Sydney
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
• Telephone 2615.
Ladies.- can and
see our OH HAP
M A OH INKS, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc.
! s. ROWLEY Sc CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
CHWH
MPAN
LI Ml
IIHBU
£DiH
m
Trade
Mark
<s°sl w
w
«Distillers Company L?
P" EDINBURGH.
vn.om
* "Ml “H-fhS'igt'.rlfyjM ! o>;%U'>,
w 'Mw/w/a/ j-uiofiJ.* /bun
fit t ///1» £ /lu IL/ /nfu All fa jfufiSai
JL-fo f'rrw/ut
a Ai.
Drink
IDoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for the stomach’s sake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
>nd you can then afford
> drink the very best
u can get. “ D.C.L.”
cotch is the best. One
;lass at meals, diluted
i ther with aerated or
(lain water, assists di-
gestion, and is. thus
medically recommended
is a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
O.L/
THE LAST OP SIX.
PRICE Is.;
per Post Is. 3d.
Sydney Lager and Bock Bier.
BEST
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
last N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all coiners.
CHEAPEST « Costs LESS than
any other Lager in the market.
BOCK
BIER
a Perfect
Winter Lager,
Quality.
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney, in
his analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol.
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour - - Try it - -
Brewed and Obtainable in draught or bottle at all leading hotels.
Bottled by Bottled Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld., Moore Paik, Sydney.
Manager, Aug, J. Metzleb. Sec., T. H. .Jackson.
- i iw| ny
*s mpm *4 ,
■
> Mi jyL
»•• isjfV* > v. •"'••: "
'
v - ■•• ■ ,
•' :
. ■ •' * .: ■ '■' *\ ; . ;•■ '
, ? 4'vx . v ; p '" ~
H
K V
» -
Sr
..<■• -
•\ .
Bi
r~ ~ ?WW^
l fc.sik a W^kti
CCw4«&& i \ 4
•V -i-
Mi
oIHC^WOKfftSOF
USTRALIA


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 968.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1898.
Price, 6d.
CARTOONLETS.
±45%
%tk
f
l .
>
o>) % */
/
”) sx w /
4
%
Wig
/A
v/& ..
\ >
Is
<^Ae /■ W Ze/* Sfrst's'y
c/esc a s cfoc/fe .
V"<? j y &a/Ye /asns <zsz</ sy>zz i
f'/'O'rr //re Aa/icf "
\ .
LONDON, Saturday. Among the dis-
tinguished scientists attending the Zoological
Conference at Cambridge is, Professor
Haeckel, whose researches with regard to
natural development and evolution have
been of great value
At the sitting of the conference yesterday,
Professor Haeckel referred to the import-
ance attaching to the discoveries of fossils
in lava during recent years, and said that
it was no longer a hypothesis that man
belonged to the primal order of lemur.
Conclusive proof--’had been afforded that
'monkeys and men were descended- from a
common stem.
Z/~ /J Cerf&'/t f/~/$ fija.t' 'S'ostjC
A><? o/>/e f/yff 7'<?fa./*r f'ctcf//?? ?nfary •
’ • 'Hl'’"' Ai. ✓
r a Tf>^
as/c fine* /ie z Ar*m*r*f * A
JfS WM* ***■ J
1/sftkS
S7At7-*Ffj>rxAL ''■#/,
JPa/rr cA/catjo *S /brpjp/z/- aff/Yluaff’ A# tret ref /A? 'lj
/y~ 5• }V ffy>os/f7an may As Su/rr/vp*/ t*A> &J aAvr?^/' o j&


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bu letin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
JPer Annum ... ... ' ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... • <' ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to. The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence" column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other A rt ides,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, ,“1000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut. we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
Other topical drawings in line or Wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-dr awn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 23 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith <ft Co.
Fiji .—Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland .
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is,
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l%d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Quee?island wilt be £1 6s. Od. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1898.
Federal Bocks to Split On.
Last week Premier Reid submitted to N.S.
Wales Legislative Assembly the resolutions
which he proposes should form a new basis
for Federation. Consideration of every
Federal act of Premier Reid's must start from
his personal data : from the facts that he is
alien, not Australian ; that he is only in
official sympathy with national aspirations
—if he is in any sympathy—and would
be quite content to see the creation
of the Commonwealth postponed for 50
years ; that he is only engaged in the
Federal movement, and nominally employed
in advancing the Federal cause, because cir-
cumstances seem to make such an attitude
necessary if he is to remain Premier. Given
an artful, insincere opportunist in these con-
ditions, and Premier Reid's Federal resolu-
tions follow agreeably enough. In form
they are studiously mild and conciliatory.
Even Barton seems to have cherished a
suspicion that they would breathe war and
defiance ; but war and defiance are no part
of Premier Reid’s policy. He will never
attempt to kill Federation corain publico
with heavy artillery while there is a
chance of administering arsenic in the
Federal broth. Some can smile and
murder while they smile ; and Premier
Reid can vote and support, and murder
while he votes and supports. Not that he
will—if he gets his own way, is recognised
as the leader of the Federal movement vice
Barton, and has a seven-to-one chance of
becoming first Premier of the Commonwealth.
The question is simply : not how can Pre-
mier Reid benefit Federation, but how can
Federation benefit Premier Reid ? At this
momentPremierßEiD isstruggling with all his
might to recover the ground lost at the general
elections. He has secured his rear by ap-
pointing “amenable ” Ministers to his three
vacancies, while endeavoring to placate un-
successful claimants with promises; he has
strengthened his right flank by retaining the
£3 duty on sugar, regardless of his doctrines,
professions, pledges ; his left flank is based
on the Labor-party, publicly eager for 1 ‘ ad-
vanced legislation,” and privately hungering
for the sweet morsels of Ministerial patron-
age ; and in front the Federal resolutions
are thrown out cautiously as skirmishers.
* * * *
To get a locus standi for Parliamentary
interference with the Convention Bill Pre-
mier Reid begins with a sheer misstatement
—that “ the Bill is not acceptable to the
electors of this colony in its present shape.”
No possible Bill can be acceptable to all the
electors of New South Wales ; but the Con-
vention Bill was acceptable to a clear
majority of New South Wales electors who
voted at a straight-out poll, and—so far as
the Parliamentary elections proved anything
—they proved that the electors remained of
the same mind, seeing that another substan-
tial majority of votes was cast against Pre-
mier Reid and the anti-Billites. Having
provided a false basis for argument, Premier
Reid states the alterations which his elec-
toral minority requires. These are, briefly—
1. A simple majority to replace the three-fifths majority
now required at a joint sitting ; or else the joint sitting
to he replaced by a Referendum.
2. Excision of “ the Braddon Blot.”
3. Capital to be in New South Wales.
4. Provision against altering a State’s boundaries with-
out its consent.
5. Rivers to be more definitely controlled for irrigation
purposes.
6. The Senate —which at present does not amend Taxa-
tion and Appropriation Bills—is not to amend any
money Bill.
7. Appeal to Privy Council or Federal Supreipy Court,
but not to both.
In respect to the foregoing, Premier Reid
desires New South Wales Parliament to say
that it wants reconsideration, with a view to
amendment. Reconsideration of all the
financial clauses is also urged, but is not to
be so directly insisted on. The Bulletin
considers, as it has considered all along, that
not one of the points mentioned is worth
further debate, it that debate is to imperil
Federation. The Convention delegates, after
a protracted wrangle, made the best compro-
mise they could all round. There does not
seem to be any hope of a better compromise
now than then. And the Parliament of
New South Wales, if it authorises Premier
Reid to insist on the discussion and approval
of his new platform by the other provinces,
may find that the wreck of Federation lies
once more on the mother-province’s sand-
bank.
* * * *
Or, to make matters clearer, The Bulletin
would not violently object to any one of
Premier Reid’s alterations had it been em-
bodied in the original Bill. The suggestion
of a referendum every time the Houses dis-
agree is stupid because, as has here been
pointed out at great length, the Houses may
disagree once a week ; and if they only dis-
agree once a month, or once in six months,
the vast machinery of a national referendum
will still be used with unnecessary frequency.
A general simultaneous vote all over Aus-
tralia would involve enormous trouble and
expense ; and the power should be kept for
use on distinctly national questions, at
times when a national opinion was dis-
tinctly needed. The referendum-elephant
is a costly and unwieldy animal; but it pays
to keep it for heaving up timbers in the edi-
fice of government which can satisfactorily
be heaved in no other way. It does not pay
to keep it for picking up chips to boil the
national billy at every meal or thereabouts.
But, barring the referendum idea, the simple-
majority idea is good enough to accept—if
the small States w r ill accept it. If they won’t,
then The Bulletin reckons that the three-
fifths majority idea is also good , enough to
accept. Better that than no Federation.
Similarly, “ the Braddon blot ” is practically
meaningless, anyw’ay ; and if Premier Reid
can get it wiped off he is welcome. But
better the Braddon blot than no Federation.
The capital in New South Wales ought not
to be demanded ; it is an attempt on the part
of New South Wales to rule Australia. The
representatives of Australia—not the Par-
liament of New South Wales—are the
persons best fitted to decide where the
Australian capital should be ; and decision
must be left with them. If Premier Reid
presses this point, it will be clear evidence
of treachery to the Federal cause. Better
the capital out of New South Wales than no
F ederation.
» • * *
The new idea that a State’s boundaries
are not to be altered without its consent
appears to The Bulletin essentially wrong;
seeing that it is highly unlikely that a
State’s boundaries will ever be altered with
its consent. But it is not a contentious
alteration ; and better pass it than have no
Federation. The re-opening of the rivers
question is contentious ; and there seems
little likelihood of getting a better agreement
than the Convention attained. Better let
the rivers stay as they are than have
no Federation. The alternative appeal to
Privy Council or Federal Supreme Court is a
flaw in the Bill, and all appeals should end
with the Federal Court ; but the question is
comparatively unimportant. The suggestion
that the Senate’s powers with regard to
money bills should be still further restricted
merely carries further the stupidity of the
original restriction. As the Senate is con-
stituted by popular vote, with each province
voting as one constituency, it will be just as
Democratic as the House of Representatives,
and is likely to be more intelligent. The
larger the electorate, the better the chance
of suppressing the road-and-bridge member,
the clique representative, and the popular
provider of cricket-club cups and football
trophies. The Federal Senate is at present
being confounded with the nominee Legis-
lative Councils, and credited with all the
Councils’ delinquencies and incapacities ; and
the confusion does no credit to the mental
state of those who make it. In any case,
better leave the Senate as it is than have no
Federation.
* * * *
The nett effect of the series of amend-
ments is to leave Premier Reid’s bad
Federal faith as prominent as ever. Since
he now proposes that, at any future electoral
test, a simple majority shall decide whether
New South Wales is for or against the Bill,
he could have easily ascertained whether or
not his representations as to the state of
electoral feeling in regard to the present Bill
are well founded. By repealing the 80,000
minimum and taking the New South Wales
vote over again, the matter would have been
settled—and settled on precisely the same
terms which Premier Reid proposes to
apply to any fresh measure. But New
South Wales Assembly has no electoral
authority to tinker or amend the Bill. Its
members were elected on a hundred grounds
of which Federation was only one, and not
always the most influential. Still less has
the nominee Council any right to interfere
with a measure passed by the people's
specially-accredited representatives, and ap-
proved in every province by a special
popular vote. Premier Reid’s action in
suggesting such interference, and the
action of every person who supports him,
is a deliberate defiance of the popular
mandate. And the fact that a member of
New South Wales Assembly has been elec-
ted by 500, or 1000, or 2000 votes to repre-
sent a given constituency, no more warrants
him in meddling with the result of a refer-
endum than it warrants him in marching off
with Treasurer Reid’s alleged surplus.
Parliament has no business to sit in judg-
ment on the decision of the people, and to
tamper with it, and to alter it, and to suggest
to the other provinces to alter it. Having
ascertained that a New South Wales majority
approved the Convention Bill, Premier Reid
should have given the majority’s approval
effect by procuring Parliamentary removal of
the Parliament-made restriction on the majo-
rity’s will. If he doubted whether that will
was really voiced, he could have made sure
by taking the vote over again without a
minimum-clause. He has chosen to arrogate
to a Parliament in which his own party
represents an electoral minority the right of
re versing a Bill approved by specially-elected
popular delegates and by a specially-voting
popular majority ; and at every step his
course will become more unconstitutional
and more undemocratic. And if the good
ship Commonwealth is finally wrecked on
Premier Reid’s rocks, The Bulletin hopes
that the wrecker will get his deserts at the
bar of popular justice.
Mostly About Women.
Turning over a file of Red Pages recently, I came
across a reply by the local dogmatist to some com-
plaints of correspondents with reference to the
alleged preponderance of the Sex Element in Bul-
letin stories. The mental attitude of these people
amused me, and, as the subject is one that can
never prove stale until the race reverts to crypto-
gamy, a few of my own views with regard to it
may, possibly, be found wurth printing.
* » * *
I begin by asking anybody who thinks he has a
gift of imagination to try to picture to himself
what Literature would be like with the Sex Ele-
ment left out. He might make a start with the
“Illiad” and eliminate Helen, and then take
Dido out of the “AEneid,” and Brunhild and
Chrainhild out of the “Niebelungen Lied,” and
Guinevere and the two Ysolts out of the Ar-
thurian ballad-cycle. What would then remain
might make excellent reading for eunuchs —
though even that is doubtful- —but it would have
little attraction for full-blooded men and women.
Fancy a novel or a play in which woman was not
wanted on the voyage ! It would, possibly, suit a
community of misogynists or Trappist monks, but
would have a very limited vogue with the ordinary
r ed-corpuscled celibate public.
* * * *
Woman is to man the most interesting fact of
existence. All other facts whatsoever, when placed
in the scale against her, are found to have no
weight worth mentioning. Moreover, she is like
Imperial Rome in that all roads lead to her—ex-
cepting only the lonesome, narrow road of Asceti-
cism, upon which two may not walk abreast, and
which leads, through a chill, grey land, to cold
and barren Death. She is the goal of all ambi-
tions —the prize-giver and the prize. And even
the Ascetic cannot ignore her without reducing
his body by fasting and self-castigation to a state
of debility, in which he is, in spite of himself,
haunted by dreams and visions that never trouble
the healthy, natural man. The famous experience
of the anchorite Anthony is a case in point. He
was haunted in his cell by the Devil in the shape
of a beautiful, nude woman. How did he find out
she was the Devil ? Simply by muttering the
formula of exorcism, when she immediately de-
veloped horns, and a tail, and a cloven foot.
Similar transformations, though brought about by
other means, happen to this day. It is not wise
to be too curious.
* * * *
How different to these pale phantoms of men
was bull-necked old Martin Luther, who, in the
third year of his hymn-writing and reformation-
ising, could find it in his heart to sing—
Who loves not Woman, Wine, and Song,
Remains a Fool his whole life long.
And what was the name of that other fine old
fellow who “always thanked God when he saw a
pretty woman?” Never mind his name. He
was, at any rate, a man who could give a better
reason than most men for his piety. Happily this
feeling comes to all of us at least once in our lives.
For my own part, it seems to me almost incredible
that it should ever leave the most miserable son of
Adam.
* * * »
I know what the shocked persons who object to
The Bulletin stories mean by their complaints
about the Sex Elements in the latter. They dis-
like to see Woman written about as a being with
desires and passions, and a ripe, beautifully-curved
body. They would like to Bowdlerize the familiar
verse of Omar Khayyan into such form as the
following:—
A Book of Sermons underneath the Bough,
A Bag of Buns, some ginger-ale, and Thou
Preaching beside me in the wilderness —
The wilderness were Paradisee now !
These are the sort of people who take pleasure in
reading wishy-washy twaddle and Songs of the
Affections —a hateful word which always makes
me think «f weak, lukewarm tea, and thin gruel,
and stale lemonade, and cold boiled-fish, and simi-
lar gruesome insipidities. They (the people re-
ferred to) look upon Nature uncovered as indecent.
At the last Melbourne Exhibition —’88-9—l was
standing before a picture of a Burne-Jonesish girl,
nude and tall and thin with ruddy hair, who was
gazing into a crystal pool. The picture was en-
titled “La Fee auxPerles.” A lady was standing
in front of me. Behind me was a long, gaunt
man who said, loud enough for-everybody to hear
him—“ Very indecent! Such pictures should not
be exhibited.” The lady turned around slowly—
she was a handsome, cultured-looking woman of
the apparent age, the trente• ans, Balzac admired
—and, raising her gold pince-nez, observed—“ The
indecency is in the remark.” The man walked
away with a look upon his face reminding me of
what Voltaire said of one of his enemies—that he
had gone to Egypt to conduct an intrigue with,
goats.
* * * *
The genesis of this prurient puritanism would
make a rather fine study for a writer who had an
inclination to deal with such things. For in-
stance, it was only in the early part of this present
century that women were, compelled to move
through the pages of fiction and poetry with
‘ ‘ lower limbs. ” Like a one-time Infanta of Spain,
they had no legs. Now and again such literary
giants as Thackeray and Dickens would venture
to hint that women had legs. But it may be
noted that they dared to make this assertion.only
when they were writing about females in menial
positions. It is only within the last decade or so
that women have walked boldly and unashamed
' into literature with real legs of their own. Pre-
viously there appeared to be a conspiracy amongst
writers to keep dark this demoralising, bifurcated
secret.
* * * *
The fact is that to Woman herself is largely due
the tendency of recent writers—Bulletin scribes
included —to deal with her as a charming human
female instead of a creature half-divine. Since she
took to writing she has done all she could to disil-
lusionise Man, who would so willingly go on be-
lieving her to be an angel. She has painted her-
self as a real being of flesh and blood, with appe-
tites, and passions, and throbbing veins, and a
secret hankering after wickedness. Yet when
men writers take her at her own valuation, and
use her own given data in making pictures of her,
the fish-blooded ascetic—who usually has a large,
weak-eyed, white-haired, knock-kneed family of
his own—takes up his pen and writes virulent
letters denouncing the pictures and calling them
immoral and indecent and calculated to under-
mine Religion and wreck the British Constitu-
tion ! It is all so silly. Woman demands to be
treated henceforth as the Female of her Species,
and not all the wispy-bearded little white-cor-
puscled men on earth will prevent her from
achieving her desire. The present writer, after
giving the subject some attention, believes that at
least nine women out of ten, after they have
reached the age of, say, 20, heartily admire the
taste of Byron, who preferred—
A woman ripe and real
To all the nonsense of your stone ideal.
» * * *
Modern woman, in a word, refuses to be idealised.
She has of her own free-will come down from her
pedestal and out of her shrine. This is not the
fault of Man. Far from it. To the Boy at the
dawn of Manhood what is, if he love her, an even
tolerably pretty girl ? She is an alchemist. She
transmutes by the glance of her eyes the clouds of
the grayest day into glorious pinnaces sailing to
the City of Golden Love. The slightest touch of
her hand, the brush of her skirts against him, the
happy accident of her hair lightly kissing his
cheek, the delicate aroma (which the outspoken
Italians call odor di femmina) of her body are to
him evidence sufficient of the fact that there
is something near him that is the breath
of his being, the soul of his soul. To him, her
eyes are the stars, and, conversely, the stars are
her eyes, and, in a word, she embraces all Nature,
and by all Nature is embraced.
» * * *
I have never yet heard of a woman who could
read a passionate love-poem describing the beauties
of her own body, or typical body, without yawn-
ing. She takes no interest in such things. Of
course, and quite naturally. And when she does
essay to describe herself and lift the veil from the
Sex Mystery which is like —nay, not like, but is —
Isis seven-fold veiled, she is almost pathetically
ineffective. She imagines that she is laying bare
her springs of action and scientifically analysing
the character of her sex. And in her very
attempts to do she betrays in every second sen-
tence the insincerity which is the charm of that
same character. A female Rousseau is an impos-
sibility.
* * * *
To end. Take the flush out of the dawn, or the
red out of the rose, and the immortal thrill from
the song of the nightingale—and that is what
Literature would be without Woman, even though
Literature should paint her as naked as Mother
Eve. Nevertheless, when one thinks, there is
this to be said: No woman is heroine to other
women. And when she falls into trouble it
means : “It is the first step that costs.”
CREEVE ROE.
A Bogus Freetrader.
All his political life Premier Reid has thriven
on Freetrade. It was the faith he was born in ;
the faith he lived in and got the Cobden Club
medal for professing; the faith he asseverated,
time and again, he meant to die in. As long as
it paid him. When Freetrade does not pay,
Premier Reid turns his coat with as much grace
as anybody 56 inches round the waist could
possibly exhibit, and becomes a pronounced
Protectionist. In the last Parliament Premier
Reid was a Strong Man, with a stiff upper lip
and a servile majority ; and this is the way he
talked to a deputation of Clarence River cane-
growers on 28tii May, 1895 :
Mr. Reid said : When he heard all that was said as to
the disasters that would follow the abolition of the sui;ar
duties, he could not help rememberin'.’- what was saicMn
England when it was uronosed to institute Freetrade


there Among other disasters were sure to happen, the
mercantile marine of the country would be hopelessly
destroyed, and England would go to the wall. . . .
lie objected altogether to this tariff, for he
all industries that lived on a duty became A regular
crawler, mid could not live and compete in the open. . . .
In his opinion, it was a melancholy thing for any human
being to have his property, his industry, and the welfare
of Ins family dependent upon a thing called a tariff, with
which politicians could play. ... , . .
Thev"did not want to go into competition with black-
labor’industries. It was the laying on of duties that
brought us into competition with other men, and that
was the way we got into these difficulties. . . .
He had thought the matter out, with the best advice he
could «'et, and he had done the best he could for them . . .
The had introduced the kanaka into Queensland,
and what'was to prevent them coming here ?. . .
An industry which could not flourish except oil co ored
labor or by laying contributions on their white fellow's,
was an industry that he did not wish to get big.— S.D.
Telegraph, May 29, 1895. *
This was the fashion in which Premier Reid
talked to the canegrowers in 1895, when they
came pleading to him to retain the sugar-duties
triumphantly wiped out by bis famous I ree-
ti-ade policy. And that great Freetrade organ,
the Sydney Daily Telegraph, warmly ap-
proved and pointed out what an iniquitous
thing the sugar-planters were asking for
Briefly, what the deputation asked Mr. Reid to do was
to commit a breach of trust for the benefit of a section
of the people who have already had hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds of the public money, and now want
more. It has to he seen whether his proposals as they are
do not fail to go far enough. Certainly it would be fatal
to attempt to back down. It would involve the aban-
donment of his whole Freetrade policy, for the con-
cessions made to the sugar-growers might, with at least
equal justice, be demanded by the representatives of every
other vested interest that has sprung up under the existing
duties. Indeed, there is scarcely one which could not put
forward a more tenable claim. Sugar, to begin with, is
a necessity of life which the poorest, as well as the
richest, have to purchase. All are, therefore, constant
and compulsory contributors to the subvention which the
"•rowers and manufacturers enjoy. In the case of articles
of luxury this is not so. Sugar, again, enters largely
into other manufactures, and to the extent that it is pro-
tected they are penalised. Back of all that, it has
already received more protection than any of the articles
on the Dibbs tariff, consequently the industry should be
in a better position to stand on its own merits. Tele-
graph leading article, May 29, 1895.
And even that protest was not sufficient for
the noble Telegraph. June 3rd it returned
to the charge :
There is no doubt in any unprejudiced mind that Mr.
Reid’s proposal to abolish the sugar duties is strongly
approved of by a big majority of the voters of N.S. Wales.
If public feeling is at variance with the suggestions of the
Govt, it is probably because the removal of the duties will
not be accoinj li hedso quickly ns the people have a right
to expect. . . . Before Federation can de attained the
sugar and grain duties must go. . . . It is now clearly
seen by the public to what an extent the local sugar-pro-
ducing interest has been subsidised out of their pockets,
and how a dozen other industries, largely dependent on
sugar, have suffered through the duty. That duty is
seen to be one which, equally with the duty on grain,
must be abolished.
The other day Premier Reid —whose upper
lip now wobbles like the rest of him, and who
is touting for all the support he can get since
the elections so sadly reduced his political
stature—announced that, in deference to the
representations of those engaged in a great
industry which the country could not afford
to lose, he would retain the protective duty
of £3 per ton on sugar ; and The Bulletin has
been waiting ever since to read the Telegraph’s
denunciation of this shameless backsliding,
which, according to the Telegraph, involves
“the abandonment of bis whole Freetrade
policy.” But there has been never a denounce
—the Freetrade Telegraph has not one word
to say when the whole Freetrade policy
goes by the board. The Telegraph is even
silent with regard to the bearing of the
duty on Federation ; though there is no
doubt that, as the Telegraph pointed out,
“before Federation is attained the sugar
and grain duties must go.” One would
have expected such a strong Federalist paper
as the Telegraph to suggest that Premier
Reid’s action—coming at this precise juncture
—might be another piece of Federal treachery ;
but the Telegraph is singularly silent on this
point also. The Bulletin sees nothing better
than to lift the whole situation bodily and dump
it down on the doorstep of the Cobden Club ;
and solemnly does so hereby.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Dukes and Democrats.
“ De Vere Tillett ” to The Bulletin :
Dear Bulletin. —You are difficult to please in the
matter of dukes. In last week’s “ Woman’s Letter” one
finds sneerful remarks on the new Duke of Manchester,
who, like the old duke before him, “ shows an utter lack
of the indescribable something; which is supposed to dif-
ferentiate the aristocracy from the common plebs.” If
an exalted new-chum puts on indescribably-something
airs, you snort at him. If he cultivates a commonplace
appearance and manner, you don’t seem satisfied. A
duke, according; to the democratic dogma, is no better, as
a specimen of humanity, than a dustman. Being, indeed,
an enfeebled representative ol a worn-out race—or some-
thing to that effect—he is not up to average dustman
standard in body or mind. Then why not be silently
sorry for the poor creature? For my part, I don’t want
to think that one man is as good as another, and
better than a duke. It suits my democratic convic-
tions to suppose I would be superior to my present self
if I had enjoyed a duke’s advantages in life ; yet I object
to the order of things by which these advantages are
secured to a few mortals on the strength of their “ noble
birth.” Any social arrangement for starting all new-born
babies on equal terms would have my vote and influence,
but seeing that such an arrangement is “ not within the
sphere of practical politics” I take the dukes as they
come (and wish I were one of them), instead of refusing
to admit that there ought to be a distinct difference
between us. Nor do I find the difference indescribable.
The duke is the more highly-trained animal ; a number
of little physical accomplishments have been thrust
upon him ; his intellect, whatever it may amount to,
has been carefully cultivated for him up to a cer-
tain point, &c., &c., &e. He is the product of cir-
cumstances over which the aristocracy have special
control, whilst I am the product of ordinary circum-
stances. It is a difference with a distinction—and the
dook has the distinction. To feel this and not to give
the man any personal credit for the advantage he enjoys
is to be a Democrat. To attribute all the difference to
the man’s parentage is to be a snob. To deny that any
such difference exists is to be a conceited ass. Dukes
vary, although they all get every chance to distinguish
themselves equally—wherein they are luckier than ordi-
nary folk. We have dull, medium and bright dukes.
But a dull duke, I reckon, is shinier than a dull journalist
at most points. He gets polished, whether he like it or
not. He is even placed in a superior position for saving
his immortal soul, for he is spared many of the ordinary
temptations to get oneself d—d.
The gentleman’s argument is fallacious. A
duke is undoubtedly brought up in a different
way from the descendant of a saveloy-seller ;
but it does not follow that the difference makes
the duke a better man, or more essentially
distinguished. It may ; or it may not. Edu-
cation may make a duke courteous and
cultured, may give him an air of breeding
and refinement, may improve his looks and
his legs. Or it may make him snobbish and
supercilious, greedy of flattery and looking
greedy of flattery, may dwarf his mind to
a microscope for contemplating his illustrious
self, or he powerless to rid his limbs from the
rickets or scrofula of degenerated ancestors.
You can’t generalise. Happy accident may
make the sausage-seller’s son look like the
traditional duke ; unhappy accident may handi-
cap the duke with the appearance of the con-
ventional sausage seller. But, while the popular
notion persists that a duke must necessarily be
a distinguished gentleman six-feet high, with
the charm of a Chesterfield and the elegance
of a fashion-plate, The Bulletin conceives it
to be its duty to set the popular notion right at
every opportunity—by pointing out how' far
the exalted superstition (as in the Manchester
case) is from the commonplace fact.
The Matter with Madden.
Frank Madden’s statement that 322 regis-
tered racing clubs flourish in Victoria was
taken from the books of the V.R.C., it appears.
The fiction boils down to the fact that 322
various men, or bodies of men, have formed, at
one time or other, “ clubs,” which they duly
registered last season, not necessarily for
racing purposes during last season, but in
order to he qualified to hold a meeting if they
wanted one. Anyway, Frank Madden’s
triumphant reassertion of the existence of 322
clubs is a strong argument for the very
Totalisator Bill which he attacks. He has
been assuring Vic. Assembly —whose members
are assumed to be guileless innocents, thirsting
for information re the “gambling evil”—that
rural districts don’t gamble nowadays, but
would begin to back horses with ruinous
enthusiasm if racing clubs were to spring up in
their midst. The local tote, says Madden,
would provide the necessary funds for such
clubs, and he would be grieved to see the
agriculturists drifting into bad habits. In his
desperate endeavor to preserve bookmakers to
this suffering country Mr. Madden is getting his
arguments hopelessly entangled. He opposes
the tote because it would breed race-meetings
in the backblooks and encourage betting in
bush townships. At the same time he points
to the registration of 322 clubs as evidence that
the country is honeycombed with places where
men indulge their craving for betting. He
defends the bookmakers, because lie considers
them necessary supports of high-class horse-
racing; but he doesn’t explain how Ikey Mo is
to lay large sums of money, at liberal odds,
against horses, for the benefit of their owners,
unless the public put thousands of pounds into
Ikey’s bag. Obviously the public must provide
the cash ; therefore, Madden’s anxiety to dis-
courage betting in the rural districts forces
him to favor betting in the big towns.
He advocates a few large gambling - centres
in the interests of high-class sport and rich
stakes. Now, if Frank Madden were a clear-
headed man and sincere in his protestations, he
would frame a Totalisator Bill himself, a Bill
limiting the use of the machine to clubs that
gave substantial stakes, and arranged for a fair
proportion of long-distance races in their
programmes. He is well satisfied with the
existing Ikey Mo-ish state of things in Victoria.
He would get more satisfaction from improved
arrangements on the lines indicated. If the
Tote encourages gambling among the people at
large, why not have the Tote adapted to Mad-
den’s requirements ? Ikey Mo is the necessary
go-between for owners and the public in Vic-
toria, where “ good ” racing is maintained, says
Madden. The bookmaker can only pay away
to some people the coin he has received from
others, and a lot of the money sticks to his
fingers. The Tote, by encouraging gambling
(vide Madden’s speeches) would receive a
larger amount of money for paying away to
owners. Also, less money would stick to the
fingers of this silent go-between, and a portion
of the profit would help to fatten the stakes
that Madden wishes to enlarge. Let Madden
devise a Tote Bill for the improvement of rac-
ing. If he says that it would fail in its pur-
pose, and soon tend to destroy racing clubs,
the pietists couldn’t oppose it.
♦
Three years’ Parliamentary pickings and earn-
ings of some N.S.W. politicians, as disclosed by
a recent return :
Salary.
| Railway
1 Pass.
Works Com-
mittee Fees
and Ex-
penses,
Total.
T. Ewing, M.L.A.
£900
£300
£2,469
£3,669
H. Clark, M.L.A.
900
300
1,749
2,949
C. A. Lee, M.L.A.
900
300
1,752
2,952
J. L. Fegan, M.L.A.
900
300
1,988
3,188
T. H. Hassail, M.L.A. ...
900
300
1,981
3,181
George Black, M.L.A. ...
900
300
1,856
3,056
F. A. Wright, M.L.A. ...
900
300
1,190
2,390
F. T. Hninpherv, M.L.C.
—
300
1,664
1,904
J. Hoskins, M.L.C.
—
300
1,174
1,474
C. J. Roberts, M.L.C. ...
—
300
1,739
2,039
W. J. Trickett, M.L.C.,
and S.S. Island Poet...
—
300
1,608
1,908
D. O’Connor ...
—
300
1,544
1,844
Total cost of one dozen
politicians (as far as
£20,714
known)
£6,300
£3,600
£30,614
£30,614 for one dozen—and think of the others !
Polities is still the best kind of mining specula-
tion—for the right kind of speculator.
■+
Bulletin said last week that if Griffith,
M. was thoroughly in earnest he could do
good work for Thomas Suffield in the new
N. Parliament. It now takes leave to
very considerably doubt whether he is
thoroughly in earnest. His motion reads—
That, in view of the refusals of successive Ministers of
Justice to grant an inquiry into the case of Thomas
Suffield under the provisions of the Criminal Law
Amendment Act, this House is of opinion that, with the
object of enabling him to clear away the stain which
rests upon his name, a Royal Commission to inquire into
the circumstances connected with his trial should be
appointed—when ?—as soon as practicable after the expiry
of Suffield’s sentence in October next.
The time to move in Suffield’s interest
is now— while he is still in gaol. If his
sentence is unjust, every day that he
serves is a stigma on the community.
The Bulletin thinks itself justified in regard-
ing this as possibly a motion to shelve the
matter. The powerful forces that have burked
Suffield’s appeal for an enquiry during the
last seven years will do their utmost to burke
it once he is out of gaol. “ Bygones are
bygones,” will be the cry; “the man is
free now what’s the use of enquiring.
The Bulletin hopes that Mr. Lee, the new
Minister of Justice, will look into the Suffield
case at once. And if Mr. Griffith, M.L.A.,
is reallv the friend of Suffield that he w'ishes
to be considered, he will bring the matter to a
head, and not defer it to the limbo which, as
Parliament very well knows, is reserved for
Claims Made Too Late.
-
Significant of the chilled-steel.cheek of Vic.
Leg. Council that it has postponed the con-
sideration of the Plural Voting and Womans
Suffrage Bills until after the alleged elections
of one third of that body have taken place.
Victorians are so used to the ways of the beast
that one scarcely hears a comment on the fact.
What would be said if the same course were
pursued in the Assembly ? It serves one pur-
pose, however, viz., to indicate that retiring
councillors are just a little bit afraid of the
effect of a wanton slaughter of popular measures
upon their chances of re-election.
♦
“Scotty the Wrinkler” on N.S.W. State-
school fees :
There are many people who, in the off seasons, simply
cannot raise the three or four three-penoes per week for
school-fees, and who still have a horror of signing' the
declaration of pauperdom. With a large family
of small children and only one pair of hands for their
support, the main cheque is at shearing or harvest
time. Casual sums of smaller amount but greater im-
portance come in from time to time by day-labor, washing
or sewing, all of which are gone before earned. In
Narandera, lately, there was a heap of summonses, many
served, si me blocked by sacrifice of a horse or other pro-
perty, and some satisfied by borrowing and thus rendering
the parent a dead-horse rider. There is no free education
in N.S. Wales, and the collection of the school-fees is a
dirty, disagreeable job for the teachers, an annoyance
even to such parents as are able and willing to afford
them, and lastly—what do you think ?—has bred a new
desperado, the child bushranger or footpad, who am-
bushes Sonny and Sissy on Monday morning. If you
doubt me, 1 11 send extract of police-reports in confirma-
tion of my statements; and the word “confirmation”
puts me in mind that white dresses are necessary for that
ceremony, even though the parents can’t pay the school-
fees and the confirmees spell like old John Davies and
are guiltless of nine times seven.
Let The Bulletin say it again: There is no
“ free ” education in N.S. Wales ; but there is
free newspaper-postage, in order that the politi-
cal party-organs, which rule the land and main-
tain the bloatedness of Sydney city, may
become fatter and fatter. The (State can’t
afford to be just and make free that which is
compulsory, but it can afford to run gratis
daily “press” trains, and distribute free
by the million trade-circulars in the guise
of newspapers. The laborer earning 30s. a
week, when in work, has to declare himself a
pauper in order that the big Sydney newspaper
may be given a free train d lily, and that it may
be enabled, at general-election time, to dump
into the post-office at one swoop 200,000 or
3)0,000 newspapers full of lies.
The decision of Vic. Full Court that a man
cannot be convicted of supplying drugs with
inicnt to procure abortion unless there is an
actual woman ip the case, is to be welcomed
on one ground at least. One of the most laud-
able feu i ure's of Brit ish jurisprudence and Eng-
lish character is a resentment against undue
police interference and an antipathy to the
spy methods and traps of the Continental police
systems. To the British mind, the policeman
who bails a trap lias always appeared some-
thing like an accessory before the fact. And
it is so easy, and so tempting when promotion
may eventuate, to bait an illegal-operation
trap when one hasn’t even to induce a woman
to be a parly to the scheme. The decision is a
knock-out to a growing type of detective.
Re assertion that the purchaser is responsible
for sweating by demanding cheap goods : as a
matter of fact, if all consumers were to refuse
to take cheap articles, the price would rise to
accommodate them, but sweating would con-
tinue. But it is doubtful if the public cares
enough about cheapness to bring the price of
matches, for example, dow'n to its present
foolishly low figure, though of course when
offered two boxes for a penny instead of one it ac-
cepts the ,50 per cent, reduction, being sure that
the worker would not get the difference in price
if only one box was taken. Sweating is the
necessary outcomeof free competition. Whether
it be merely the necessary breaking of eggs for
the production of an omelet, or not, is the
question. While human society remains a pyra-
mid the base thereof will be subject to extreme
pressure.
4.
The gentle Jap. who recently came down the
coast, per Yamashiro Maru, despite Q. Govt.’s
prohibition, to the number of 150, is essentially
a far-seeing individual. Numbers of him
brought down six months’ provisions among
their belongings—no casual kanaka fare for the
little brown heathen. So he won’t consume Q.
goods if he can help it; he won’t travel in a Q.
steamer if there’s a Jap. craft anywhere ; and,
lastly, he won’t spend one pitiful farthing of
his wages in the land of his temporary adoption.
By the way, it might be also mentioned that
the Mossman district, in which the docile aliens
are settling, already contains 500 Chinese and
300 kanakas —not a bad muster for a new, raw
district in the sultry North. And the planters
are howling for Papuan labor into the bargain.
Your nigger-driving sugar-king is the genuine
horse-leech, waxing fat and swollen on alien
blood, and yet ever crying aloud “More—
more ! ”
4
E. W. O’Sullivan’s attempt to strike a
patriotically heroic attitude over Premier
Reid’s incursion into Queanbevan electorate in
the late campaign is beautifully O’Sullivan-
esque. His motion condemning a Grown
Minister for endeavoring to influence votes by
promises of culverts, dams, and other hayseed
needs condemns himself and bis whole class of
department-trotting legislators. If O’Sulli-
vans are to be allowed to influence votes by
promising to run their arms into the public
purse, a fig for the high crime involved in the
doing of it by a Minister of the Crow’n ! And
if private members are to continue to be allowed
to thus cadge for Hayseed’s suffrage the incur-
sion of Ministers to beat them at their own
game is 1.0 he devoutly desired, for thereby the
end of the corruption will all the sooner be
reached. What is wanted is not a motion con-
demning Reid for out-promising O’Sullivan,
but one condemning both for degrading State
politics to the level of the township pump.
4.
The adjournment at a critical juncture of Syd-
ney Municipal Council business last week on
account of the death of an alderman, evoked a
justifiable protest from Aid. John Norton.
The postponement of important public business
by public bodies on such pretexts is not in
reality a tribute of honorable respect to the
dead, but of bumptious self-glorification to the
living officials. The death of a member is
made the occasion for surviving members to im-
print on the public mind by a stoppage of
necessary business an advertisement of their
special self-importance. Some public bodies
have hired and paid for out of taxes the hearse
and mourning-carriages used in the ceremony.
U.S. Congress carried a Bill, happily but sel-
dom availed of, whereunder dead members of
that body are to be embalmed, “ waked,” and
carried to sepulture, all at public expense.
Other bodies and corporations have indulged
in similar grotesquely-conceived demonstra-
tions, hoping that the public eye will rise from
contemplation of the corpse to the living great
fellows in its late official’s robes.
4.
“ Whose fault is it that Cairns takes off its hat
to the Chow ? ” Under present conditions, it
is no one’s fault. Given the free competition
of two races with radically different standards
of life, and the hat will necessarily come off to
the one with the lower standard. John is not
to blame in taking what was held out to him ;
to do oiherwise would be imbecility. If anyone
ever has been to blame it has been the working
man, who w'as too lazy to polish his fruit on his
own pants, and too indifferent to care whether
his mate’s widow or a Chinky got the job of
washing clothes. The Chinese question is not
one of morality. That you have never caught
your John successfully courting your wife does
not prove that he will not wash clothes at a
rate of pay that precludes the successful com-
petition of anyone who keeps up the European
ideas of decent living.
4
A valuable insight into electioneering methods
in Australia would be made available were it
compulsory on members who take their seats in
Parliament to present a certified return show-
ing the expenses incurred by r them in the
canvass. This is the law in England, both for
Parliamentary and municipal elections, and
heavy penalties are recoverable if a member of
either body takes his seat before the return
has been sent in. In the late N.S.W. elections
several members spent only a few pounds, but
twice as many are alleged to have cashed out
to the extent of a whole year’s Parliamentary
salary, and a few are said to have exceeded
that. Anyway, such returns would indicate in
a rough way the character of a constituency
and the sort of weapons the candidate relied
on. As what Parliamentarians know as “cor-
rupt practices” are always a possibility, the
returns would, furthermore, serve as evidence
of high public value.
Legislation of the pattern of Dr. Cullen’s
“Mangles and Machines” Bill now before
N.S.W. Leg. Council produces evil as well as
good. The particularising in the statutes of
certain articles as tools of trade, and exempting
them from distraint for rent, encourages land-
lords to levy on numbers of other articles not
thus particularised, but nevertheless really
tools of trade also. It is because certain articles
have been particularised heretofore as tools of
trade that, for years past, landlords have been
levying on mangles and sewing machines, their
argument being that as these latter were not
so particularised they could not be exempted.
To test such an argument would involve more
money than owners of mangles and sewing
machines are ordinarily able to provide, and
hence the evil has gone on. But what is needed
instead of further partieularisation is a legisla-
tive extension of the meaning of “ tools of
trade,” so that a debtor could be protected in
all the implements or properties directly con-
cerned in producing his living. Every step in
the abolition of credit is to be welcomed.
♦
A deputation of Licensed Victuallers ap-
proached the Q. Home Secretary last week re
the Sunday closing business. All pled guilty
with charming unanimity to breaking the law,
and the Home Secretary, in place of calling
in the police, had to listen patiently to their
woeful story. It was urged, in brief, that the
public was out of sympathy with the law, and
would persist in Sunday trading, boycotting
the .publican who refused to serve customers.
Also (it was alleged) various clubs were allowed
to do the very business forbidden to the pub-
lican —a most unfair distinction. In holy
Ipswich Local Option closed a pub. A week
or two after the closing, the hotel was re-
opened as a club and immediately did a roaring
business, to the scandal of the godly. . . .
And so the law-maker had to listen to the
confession of the law-breakers, then go home,
forget all about it, and pretend he hadn’t
heard it at all. It’s the old story—the futility
of passing laws and foisting statutes on an
unsympathetic public to gratify a fad-ridden
faction.
♦
Victoria’s most pretentious mine-disaster fund,
established for the relief of the widows and
children of the Oreswick victims, is in much
the same position as the Bulli fund in N.S.W.
There is now .£20,980 to the good, the annual
revenue reaches about £9OO, and the ordinary
expenditure does not pass £7OO. Gradually
the widow’s take to themselves second com-
forters, on which occasions the trustees baud
over £lOO and a blessing, and year by year
children pass beyond the benefit-receiving age-
limit. Here, if it could be managed, is a
splendid nucleus of a fund to help the widow
of plain John Brown, upon whom an ordinary
stone drops in such an ordinary way that it is
only wortli a two-line par. in the papers, so that
relief-funds aren’t thought of; whereupon Mrs.
B. probably regrets, for a moment, that a dozen
other women were not widowed at the same
time, and then hurries off to buy a mangle on
time-payment.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “One of the Best.”
Her, Majesty’s “The Mikado.”
Royal Standard Henry’s Dramatic Co.
Lyceum “ A Lion’s Heart.”
Tivoli. .• Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ The Harbor Lights.”
Theatre Royal “ Round the World in 80 Days.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Bijou “ the Bristol.”
On Monday night the Royal Comic Opera
co. repeated ‘ ‘ Dorothy ” with all the success pos-
sible to a very mild brand of pastoral drama, with
a twaddly ‘ ‘ book ” and a flimsy musical setting.
11l acted and sung, “Dorothy” would mean
extremely cold weather in the treasury, but,
fortunate as it is in these respects with the
present cast, it sent an overflowing house
home apparently well - satisfied with value re-
ceived. The two maidens of high degree
—disguised in the good old orthodox way as
blushful young rustics—got a sprightly-enough
rendering from Mabelle Darley and Dorothy
Vane, vocal honors going to the former lady, and
histrionic, in a very marked degree, to the latter.
The “’Fore George!” and “ Stap-my-vitals ! ”
pair of young bloods who make free-and-easy
love to the aforesaid, were decently acted
and much more than decently sung by Charles
Kenningham and William Pauli. Good old
Howard Vernon’s Squire left a good deal to be
resquired, and Mrs. Henry Bracy’s Mrs. Privett
had little in it of—perhaps no scope for—the afore-
time magnetic Clara Thompson. George Lauri’s
end of the business was, as usual, held up even
unto the splitting of sides, and a more utterly dis-
reputable and amazingly funny rascal never came
near to being immolated by an infuriated (stage)
populace. The chorus-work was notably strong
throughout—the “Tally-Ho!” outbreak being
appropriately suggestive of beef-and-beer —and the
dancing was artistic and abundant.
** * *
At Sydney Royal, on Saturday, Bland
Holt revived “ One of the Best,” which is a mili-
tary drama with the actual war omitted, and the
cannon booming faintly behind the scenes as it
were. In this way much offensive smoke and
blare is avoided, while the characters are still able
to be picturesque in uniform regardless of gold
lace. The four acts turn round the alleged steal-
ing of plans by a gallant Dreyfus who is unjustly
accused and disgraced, and meanders through a
large portion of the play with the air of a parrot
who has been fighting and lost his top-knot.
Eventually all comes right, and the top-knot is
restored, and the parrot brightens up and makes
an effective figure in front of his glorious old
regiment, with a pretty girl pinning his top-knot
on tight. Mr. and Mrs. Bland and Walter Baker
and some others in the company are seen to advan-
tage ; and Elizabeth Watson, who is in love with
the villain and vainly implores him to marry her,
acts uncommonly well before she disappears
broken-hearted in a haze of pathos. “ One of the
Best ” is to run for 12 nights.
** * *
Madame Amy Sherwin commences a con-
cert season at Sydney Town Hall on Saturday
evening, with excellent support.
** * *
This week is to witness Peggy Pryde’s
farewell at Sydney Tivoli, and next week the great
Biondi arrives from Melbourne and proceeds to
impersonate musical conductors at the rate of
three a minute or thereabouts. So that the
theatre is in a state of unrest, and it takes all the
distinguished efforts of the Govett sisters, and the
Poluski’s, and George H. Wood, the somewhat
different comedian, and the rest of the Tivoli
stars, to subdue the nervous agitation of habitues.
** * *
The Macmahons have now kept Sydney
Lyceum open for eleven months and a bit
on their unassisted own : and the occasion
of entering the twelfth month on Saturday
evening was Memorable. The new piece, “A
Lion’s Heart,” gets as close to Australia as New
Caledonia ; and when Diver, in impersonating his
15,432nd villain who is the same old villain,
always different knocks up against New Cale-
donia, the concussion makes sparks fly from every
eye in the gallery. For the rest, there was Miss
Roland Watts-Phillips and a painstaking company,
which galloped furiously through an adventurous
three hours amid great excitement; and “A Lion’s
Heart ” will be displayed till countermanded.
* * *- *
“ Dear old Daddy Halle well,” as his pupils
delight to term him, after some 18 years’ labor in
service of the especial muse who looks after vocal
creative effort, has decided to warble on English
shores. There is poetic justice in this. The
singers of the Old World come to us, in perfunc-
tory fashion, after wasting somewhat of sweetness
and originality erst where. “Daddy’’has, on the
contrary, sung his Swan’s song and his Swanhilda’s
canticle here, in the Sydney treasured on the
palimpsest folds of the good old Bohemian singer’s
brain. At the valedictory concert which shortly
takes place Halle well will sing a song of farewell
and thanksgiving written for him by that past-
master of sweetness—Victor J. Daley.
** * *
Little Fraulein Elly Fuchs, brilliant vio-
linist and insouciant artiste, had a fairly-pleasant
experience last Saturday night at Sydney German
Club. The president, Herr Ernest Wunderlich,
true to traditions that rule in Teuton-land, organ-
ised a roll-up, and invited the inevitable Colonel
Bell to make a speech—which, of course, he did ;
th« U.S. Consul can’t stand too much persuasion
in this direction. Anyhow, the musicians and
music-lovers of Sydney got together something
like 50 guineas, and presented them to the youth-
ful genius. She responded very prettily to the
magnificent Colonel by kissing him on his weather-
beaten and speeoh-buffetted cheek ; then she
mounted the platform of the club’s artistic dining-
room and played like a disembodied fay-f©rm
born of Paganini’s brain.
.** * *
Mesmerist Kennedy, who, by-the-way,
opens at Sydney Criterion on Saturday with an
entirely new exposition of hypnotic horrors and
absurdities, relates that the recently-slain Woolf
Joel so utterly disbelieved in hypnotic power that at
a Kimberley symposium once, even when he found
himself unaccountably standing on his head in a
corner, he maintained that he was doing it to
please himself. K. —so he says —then put the
sceptic under influence again, and got him, before
witnesses, to sign and hand over a cheque for
£20,000. “That knocked him,” says K., “and in
token of his conversion he presented me with a
valuable diamond, and asked to put upon him the
suggestion that he could never be thus hypnotised
by anybody else.” Sounds pretty—but, after all,
Joel is “the man who’s dead.”
*# * *
In an odour of fresh paint the new, and
palpably unpractised, management at Melbourne
Royal started business on Saturday night with a
show that suffered firstly from its title. “ The
Trip Round the World in 80 Days ”is a long title
without any backbone. The drama is built that
way. It is adapted from Jules Verne’s story,
which was written for the world of 30 years ago,
and has ceased to be up-to-date. One Fogg, an
uninteresting figure, undertakes to get round this
planet within the time mentioned, for a wager of
a million francs. Fogg’s companions on the
journey are a cheerful male-servant ; also
a monotonous young man who originally
intends to slaughter the said Fogg, and after-
wards helps him to win his wager ; likewise a pre-
posterous stage detective bent upon arresting Fogg
m mistake for somebody else. The expedition
picks up a couple of unreal ladies as it goes along,
and one of the incidental recruits is vaguely un-
derstood to grow fond of Fogg, whilst the other
loses her heart to the monotonous young man.
* * * *
The plot, such as it is, consists of these
people’s disconnected adventures in divers places,
where they severally and jointly escape from arti-
ficial perils, and bring the curtain down upon situ-
ations. For all the personal interest they awaken,
the hero and his fellow travellers might as well be
stuffed with straw. Several characters in the
drama ar,e stuffed. There’s a gigantic “pro-
perty ” elephant, containing human beings in its
legs, and a number of large toy snakes, and a slop-
made imposition that purports to be a dead pasha
on a wood-stack.
• * * *
The Bulletin feels sorry for the rather
costly panorama at the Royal. It could have
been a successful extravaganza or pantomime.
Apart from the sham corpse and the bogus zoo-
logical exhibits, its intentions are strictly honor-
able. Even now an experienced stage-manager
might step in and get many good effects from the
material at command, and, anyway, the first-night
faults of Charles Maurice’s management are not
likely to be repeated in their pristine absurdity.
On Saturday it was necessary for Maurice to
detach a bit of bounding ocean from the scrag
end of his shipwreck ; also, stage-carpenters
walked between the billows like children of Israel
crossing the Red Sea, and the railway train
got stuck in the wings, and a terrible gunpowder
explosion went off with a faint splutter at the
wrong moment. These mishaps may be avoided
in the future, but the fact remains that the new
firm made a rather ludicrous beginning, owing to
raw young management. As an actor Maurice
fills his part of the French body-servant very well.
He is a spry little man with a large head and
a natural accent, and a splendid endowment
of self-assurance. Other characters are taken
by King Hedley, Wilson Forbes, J. G. Patten,
Hans Phillips, Miss Ethel Appleton, Ada
Lawrence, Lily Titheradge, Clare Manifield,
&c., &c., the etcetera including people who do
nothing in particular beyond appearing on the
bill. A lot of new scenery, some of it bright and
pretty, has been painted for the occasion by Hen-
nings and Grist ; the orchestra is considerable,
Red Indians and soldiers are sufficiently numer-
ous, and, although the ballet girls seem wanting
in leg-culture, their new dresses help to adorn the
tale.
efc *
The Argus had some sensible remarks to
pass upon Lemmone’s non-success with the Alva-
Verne co. “There is in Melbourne no building
perfectly adapted for concert-giving. The Town
Hall is not the proper shape for a concert-room.
An audience ‘ cruelly planted in pews,’row behind
row, condemned to sit in silence for a couple of
hours, is not having a good time, and knows it.
The back seats, which are usually filled with the
really musical people—for culture and wealth do
not go hand in hand in Melbourne—(this from the
journal which demands extra votes for Proputty !)
—are so remote from the platform that the occu-
pants are out of touch with the tiny, solitary figure
emitting faint sounds at the other end of the long
vista. That magnetism between performer and
listener, without which any artist, however meri-
torious, is but as a tinkling cymbal, is dispersed in
the vast parallelogram . . . but there remains the
sense of the impossibility of getting out without
calling down indignant ejaculations of ‘Hush!’
from everybody around.” And, for concert pur-
poses, Sydney is not better equipped than Mel-
bourne.
** * *
Much-travelled Smythe, who has himself
led the public by the nose on one or two occasions,
seems to feel “narked” at the Firm’s successful
handling of the great Albani delusion. In a
letter to the Argus, re Lemmone’s grievance, the
old showman remarks that the flautist, “even
with his brief experience as a manager, should
have known that after the Albani furore there
was sure to be a slump in high-priced concerts,
and that it was a hazardous experiment to induce
four high-priced artistes, with names unfamiliar
to the general public, to come out while people
were still gnashing their teeth over their extrava-
gance in spending so much money on a very dis-
tinguished vocalist whom the Queen had delighted
to honor.” Smythe apparently reckons that he
holds the Australian patent for catchpenny devices
of the higher class, therefore he regards Albani’s
precious cable messages from the Queen as an
infringement of his rights. All tricks of that
sort should be worked under the management of
the Much-Travelled.
** * *
At Melb. Princess’s the superiority of
British mariners (mostly “Dutchmen”) to all
other mariners is being sung with much energy by
Bert Gilbert, and large audiences come away from
“ The Harbour Lights ” laughing their European
foes to scorn, as suggested by this warlike ballad.
The pretentious foreigners, remarks 8.G., con-
tinue to build ships, under the impression that
they “know the game, ” but they fail ignominiously
—they are all at sea, so to speak, in their attempts
to “build boys of the bulldog breed who
made old England’s name.” The sentiment earns
a double encore, and “Harbour Lights ” is draw-
ing Melbourne closer to the Bulldog’s lair. One
night last week a naval-brigadier appeared upon
the deck of H.M.S. Britannic in a state of partial
unsteadiness. He was so full of Hingland’s glory,
or something, that, after wobbling through the
cutlass-drill with his dauntless comrades, be
started to do it again on his gallant own.
*# * *
Saturday’s revival of “ Fun on the
Bristol,” at Melb. Bijou, was an interesting
event, all things considered. The present manage-
ment returned to the theatre under somewhat
adverse circumstances, judging from the hopeless
character of the orchestra and the general air of
depression last Saturday night. Robert Brough
will be tenanting the Bijou again next month,
therefore anything which affects the prestige of
the house in the meantime is a matter for comment
in theatrical circles. “ Fun on the Bristol” gets
very fair treatment from William Cosgrove, John
Forde, and other people in the first act. Also,
Coleman looms large in the second act, but even
Coleman can’t hide the awful deficiencies in the
orchestra, or conceal the fact that the crew of the
Bristol consists of one ruminating girl at the
wheel.
** * *
The coming event at Melb. Opera House
is Peggy Pryde, who will duly transpire on Satur-
day. Biondi doses his boomsome season to-night
(Thursday), leaving Ada Reeve to try conclusions
with the new attraction.
*# # *
It is one thing to be a fascinating song-
and-dance lady in a musical-comedy part, and
another thing to give the same songs and dances
as “variety” turns for a Rickards’ show. Ada
Reeve is very chic, but how small she seems—
figure, voice, style—when she comes to provide
entertainment “on her own” at Melb. Opera
House ! Her songs are quite sufficiently spicy,
and she makes all her points, but as compared
with—well, an Alice Leamar, let us say —Ada
Reeve is ineffective. There’s a want of humor
and animal force in the performance. Dainty,
graceful, intelligent and tricky—but not heartistic.
A good bit of nomenclature in Frankfort
Moore’s last novel is “ Lord Ballyseedy.”
The estate of Mrs. It. F. Hannay, the
recently-deceased daughter of the late South Aus-
tralian millionaire, George Fife Angas, has been
realised at <£2,000,000.
The recent fatal cycle-accident to the only
son of N.S.W. Lands Minister Carruthers has
evoked general sympathy for the parents—more
especially as the unfortunate lad—who met his
death by colliding with a vehicle—was of great
promise both intellectually and physically. More
than fifteen-hundred people followed the remains
to the grave on foot.
A canvass of the Yictorian Federal dele-
gates 14 hours after the publication of Reid’s
federal proposals in Victoria elicited the fact that
no less than three out of the ten had not even
read them. Further these three gentlemen didn’t
even seem to know that Reid intended to make
any proposals.
If the French Mining-Syndicate, which
has been haunting Melb. law-courts for the last
three years, had not closed rather suddenly last
week, Chief Justice Madden and lawyer Higgins
would have fallen out badly. On the day that
evidence closed the witnesses were roughly
handled by both Mr. Higgins and the C. J., owing
to the excessive irritability of both those per-
sonages. Higgins’s frequent objections and
niceties of law caused the Chief to lose his temper
once, and he told Higgins plainly that his argu-
ments were nonsense. This got-up the back of
Higgins, who retorted with his nastiest smile that
nonsense was merely a matter of judgment, which
hit the C. J. on the raw, seeing that his judgment
is generally reversed by the Full Court.
That popular auctioneer, Walter Bradley,
comes right to the front with a sale on 6th, Bth,
9th, and 10th Sept., of all the furniture and
works of art at Cranbrook, Rose Bay, Sydney, in
the estate, of the late Mrs. Scott, formerly widow
of the late Hon. Jas. White, M.L.C. Every-
thing will be sold—all the luxurious furniture,
rich carpets, costly suites, bronzes, sculptures,
paintings, sterling silver, choice glass, carriages,
harness, hot-house and green-house plants, as-
sorted wines—in short, all that a connoisseur
like the late Hon. Jas. White could collect from
all parts of the world in the interest of the useful
and beautiful in his home. Even the one emu
that gazes through the wires of the tennis-court
will be knocked down by Walter Bradley, with
a loud bang of the hammer, to the highest
bidder.*
At Poverty Point.
M H.” : Fay, inventor of the Davenport Brothers’ busi-
ness, is familiar in Melbourne. He never intended it as
spiritualistic, but only as a jugglin'.' trick. Henry Irving,
when a young actor, joined with Fred Maccabe, our
well-known entertainer, in exposing the Davenports at
Liverpool.
The Bulletin is glad to notice that the public, or some
of it, wants to knew what’s the matter with a Dampier
Shakespearian season at Sydney, just to take the taste of
eternal melodrama out of its mouth.
“ Haresfoot ” : Not exactly re Melb. Shakespeare ball,
but near enough. Everyone of the plays from Shake-
speare's undivided hand has been acted in Australasia,,
except “Troilus and Cressida” and “All’s Well that
Ends Well.” Henry Edwards acted “ Timon of Athens ”
in Sydney, or, at all events, in N.S.W. “ Love’s Labor
Lost ” was played at Melb. Royal with Brooke, Fawcett
Rowe and Julia Mathews. Also, Brooke and Ellen
Mortyn appeared in the “ Two Gentlemen of Verona.”
“The Tempest” has twice been produced in Mel-
bourne—by Brooke and by Rignold. The first production
there of “ Midsummer Night's Dream ” was at the old
Princess’s with Jefferson, and the latest was Itignold’s
worthy spectacle. Brooke and Anderson acted “Corio-
lanus” in Australia. Avonia Jones performed here in
“Measure for Measure.’’ “The Comedy of Errors,”
with Hoskins to the fore, is well-remembered by old play-
goers.
A copy of the Java-Bode to hand, from Edwin Geach,
indicates that Carl Hertz has been “ overvolle zalen en
groot succes” in the Dutch Indies. Java-Bode para-
graphs are awful things to unravel, neither do the advts.
come easy to Australian understanding; but, reading
between the few lines which can be translated without
the aid of a Dutch dictionary, one remembers that Java
is a sultry spot where the sun shines haid. The booking-
office for Hertz’s show closed at 10 in the morning (from
“7 tot 10 uur v.m.”), and the special afternoon perform-
ance for children didn’t start before 5 n.m. The Wizard,
as this journal is shocked to learn, gave a performance
on Sunday, and soldiers below the rank of onderojjieier
were admitted to the balcony at half-price.
On the whole, Julius Knight’s nautical rig is a disap-
pointment. A girl gazing at “Harbor Lights” photo, in
Allan's window, t’other day, voiced, perhaps, the true
reason. “ What a pity,” she sighed, “he can’t show his
lovely legs ! ” For all that, the play draws, as does every
show undertaken by this “ Mascotte ” co., asJ.C.VV.
terms the Knight-Ferrar-Page syndicate.
Melb. Punch wails over the sinfulness or Biondi in
taking off that hoary old alms-gatherer, General Booth.
Why, Biondi might be burlesquing the acting-Gov. next,
or even Fitzgibbon !
The entrepreneur’s daily prayer: “ Lord, save us from
evil stars.” It has crept out that, immediately upon the
arrival of one co. in Australia, a lady-member wired
that she would not appear in public unless she was
starred, and her name used in designating the co.
Manager modestly withdrew his own name, and called it
(say) “ the Smith-Jones co.” Lady still dissatisfied, hence
another change—to the “ Smith co.” But even that did
not end the trouble, and the desperate manager resorted
to the expedient of placing a rival’s name on the pro-
grammes, to frighten the star—so that The Bulletin
concludes that each lady has since been heard at her very
best.
Dear Bulletin, — Re Coleman and his belittlers. Four
very persistent correspondent, “5.5.,” told you in the
first place that the Scarecrow Dance was a favorite item
in the repertoire of one Ashcroft, “ the Solid Man,” more
than 20 years ago. Coleman contradicts this and claims
that he got the dance from a drunken man in the Bowery,
New York. “ S.S.” returns to the attack, saying, “It is,
so far, merely a matter of assertion against assertion.”
In other words, he is still advancing his second-hand
assertion against Coleman’s denial of its truth. Now,
without pretending to have ever heard of Ashcroft, Cole-
man, or the Scarecrow Dance previous to its first produc-
tion in Australia, I will maintain that the “ case for the
prosecution ”is weak on the face of things. Ashcroft is
admitted by both sides to have been a successful
Irish comedian —so successful, seemingly, that he
made money and developed into a music-hall pro-
prietor. Coleman, in his youth, was acquainted
with Ashcroft’s stage “business,” and “S.S.” men-
tions this as though it were an important point. Well,
everybody in the “purfesh ” knows as much as is worth
knowing of many' other people’s “biz,” and cribs bits
thereof whenever he or she thinks them worth cribbing.
The hard fact that we didn’t know the Scarecrow Dance
in Australia until recently is evidence against the allega-
tion that Ashcroft danced it throughout the United
Kingdom 20 years ago. Our theatrical people—managers
and others —have, to my knowledge, regarded it as a
novelty. I saw the veterans Harry Paulton and Alma
Stanley shaking their sides at it, and applauding Coleman
vehemently. Evidently it was anew “ turn,” a humorous
revelation to those experienced mummers. The allega-
tion against Coleman is met by negative evidence in favor
of the comedian’s statement. Now’, as to the origin of the
allegation. It is easily discovered, and when discovered it
—to my way of thinking—weakens the case for the prosecu-
tion. Coleman s preface to the Scarecrow Dance was a
trivial song concerning John M‘Gee, the “ Solid man."
This song is conspicuously unsuitable to the dance that
follows. There is no historic connection between solid
men and scarecrows, anyhow. I assume that Coleman
borrowed the inane ditty from Ashcroft aforesaid, the
Irish comedian, who travelled around Binglarid as “the
Solid man.” It may be exactly’ the same nonsense which
Ashcroft warbled of yore, or a variation of it. What has
the song to do with the dance ? Nothing. Any other
words would have served Coleman’s turn. Had the
grotesque dance been copied from Ashcroft, would Cole-
man have rubbed it into the recollection of his present
detractors by singing the old meaningless stuff that was
associated w’ith Ashcroft’s business? —E.F.
Rickards is arranging a big benefit for the sick “ Little
Minister,” Leslie Thompson. By the way, Cecil Ward
plays the part in the clothes that were made for Thomp-
son, in London. He literally stepped into Thompson’s
shoes.
At a ball held in an orderl.y-room near Melb. (Vie.) a
short time back an elevated platform was erected for the
orchestra, the members of which had to go up a ladder,
thence through a square hole on to the platform. The
double-bass player, whose plumpness is well-known to
Melbourneites, was too much of a round peg for the
square hole, and, getting stuck there, he was net re-
leased until the aperture had been sawn a size larger.
(Continued on page 18.)
The Best Company to Insure in is the Company that does the 3lost
Good for its Policy-Holders.
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY of NEW YORK
was established in the year 1843 as a purely Mutual Life Insurance Company, having neither stockholders nor pre-
ferential policy-holders. In this respect it is the sole noble exemplar of mutuality in life insurance transacting
busiuess in Australasia. From establishment in 1843 to December 31st, 1897, this Company has paid to its Policy-
Holders or their representatives over Ninety-five Million Pounds Sterling. This sum is double the amount paid to its
Policy-Holders by any other Company in the world, and demonstrates beyond cavil or doubt that the best Company
to insure m is not the Company that accumulates the largest surplus beyond its needs—for the benefit, perhaps, of its
stock-holders—but the Company that does the MOST GOOD FOR ITS POLICY-HOLDERS.
By the report of the Government Superintendent of Insurance for the State of New York for the year 189 S it is
certified that the MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW YORK, at the close of business on December
31st, 1897, held
<( Total Admitted Assets, $253,780,137.66.”
Converting this into sterling, at §4.87 to the £, it amounts to
£52,112,225 7s. IOdL.,
AND EVERY PENNY of this MAGNIFICENT ACCUMULATION BELONGS to its POLICY-HOLDERS.
Any person desirous of becoming a partner in this very lfve and going concern is invited to communicate with the
Manager at either of its Branches in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, or Hobart.
Don’t confuse the name of this Company with any other Company of apparently similar name but of less
magnitude.
Z. C. HENNIE, General Manager for Australasia.
Company’s Building, MABTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
The members of a Yic. Ministry, when
ousted from office, always stick to their morocco
portfolios, so that the first thing the fresh incum-
bents have to do is to order a fresh set.
The anti-Federalist game in N.S.W. is to
foment trouble between Barton and Lyne in re-
spect to the Opposition leadership, held by Lyne
owing to Barton’s absence from the Assembly.
This game is now being played for all it is worth
by Sydney D yily Telegkaph and anti-Federalist
ex-Premier Bibbs, who, the other day, seized an
opportunity to extol Lyne as the tried and tru: ty
Opposition leader, and to warn the party against
having anything to do with the Federalist leader.
Lyne and bibbs are irreclaimable provincial-party
men, who regard N.S. Wales as a place instituted
for the express and sole purpose of providing
them with political office.
The Bulletin hardly needs to apologise
for directing attention in another column to
Hoyle’s prints advertisement. Every—or nearly
every—-lady purchaser of print goods knows that
Hoyle’s is one of the largest firms of calico
printers in the world. It has been established
over 100 years. Hoyle’s prints, so long famed for
their quality and guaranteed fast colors, can be
procured at all drapers in the colonies.*
LLEWELLIN & CO.,
GEM MERCHANTS, .. .
.. . LAPIDARIES, Etc.,
177 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Deal Largely in Opal. Cub or repair any Stones.
Buykr—A. BERTHOLD.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Vic. Chamber of Mines has issued a report
without a balance-sheet. It has also taken upon itself to
issue certificates of competency to lode and alluvial
mining managers, also certificates of service to miners,
and sets out the enormous advantages to be derived by
miners and managers if they get through examination's
by the Chamber’s examiners—Murray, ex-Govt. Geolo-
gist ; Begelhole, ex-manager of Bayley’s mine, Cool-
gardie ; and Cairnes, whose name is more or less familiar
in connection with the Vic. Mt. Morgan. The Chamber
impudently attempts to usurp functions which should
appertain only to the Mines Dept. Most emphatically no
examiner should in any way be connected with mining
co. promotion. “ Regret is felt at the existence of two
institutions in Melbourne having aims and objects in
common.” Looking at the list of men controlling the
destinies of the Vic. Chamber, the writer would be sorry
t see any amalgamation with the Melb. Chamber of
Mines. Imagine any such institution taking pride in the
fact that it welcomed to Victoria Somers Vine and Lowles,
the Papuan land-grabbers who “ requested that the’
Chamber’s list of registrations of mining-managers
should be supplied to the London Chamber.” It would
have been more to the point to have recorded that these
gentry came here in sheep’s clothing, and that many
people were humbugged into welcoming as disinterested
patriots a couple of disguised grabster-boomsters
* * * *
Captain’s Flat, N.S. W. “ During the past
few days the outgoing coaches have been loaded with
miners and others leaving for the Gundagai fields. A
number of teams and horses and carts have also left for
there, and private advices say there is already a large
surplus of labor at Gundagai. This sounds like the begin-
ning of the end of the Lake George mines, which are at
Captain s Hat. No doubt most of the men are making
for Adelong, which is in Gundagai district. If so, it is a
bad look-out for the Gibraltar strikers. The management
offered to let the men keep on at the old rate till the
beginning of October, thereby admitting that the notice
of reduction of wages was rather short. The men de-
clined this offer, and ’tis said they also declined to take
Bs. a day. If so they were fools. The mines at Gun-
dagai, writer learns, are only paying the Bendigo rate,
7s. 6d., and the threatened early closing-down of Lake
George mines will throw hundreds of men out of work :
the extract given indicates that a lot of Lake George men
are already making a bee-line for the strikers’ places.
* * * *
The awful collapse of Lake George Mines is
likely to give copper-mining in N.S.W. a nasty set-back.
Until this happened the outlook was rather bright. The
fact that these shares fell from pounds to a less number of
shillings has naturally caused people to think hard, and a
few to curse mining generally. Lake George was always
known to be low-grade, but recent sampling and smelting
have proved beyond a doubt that the general ore-body
will not average more than 1} per cent, copper, with
about the same or a little less value in gold and silver. It
has been mined and smelted perhaps cheaper than any
other like ore in any part of the world, but dirt of that
grade cannot be made to pay with 30 miles road haulage
for coke in and matte out. Will it drop out of remem-
brance like a hundred other mining failures, or will the
disgusted holders want to know a little more ?
* * * *
At North Nymagee (a copper-mine somewhere
in N.S.W.) half-yearly meeting : “ The existence has been
proved of a lode of sulphide ore which, at the 200 ft. level,
was 15ft. wide, and which was estimated would carry 5
per cent, copper. The lode had the appearance of per-
manence, and would no doubt improve in depth.” Of
course. Why not? But, anyhow, what is the matter
with a 5 per cent, ore-body 15ft. thick ? Alas ! sometimes
it is easier to estimate 15 per cent, than to get out 6 per
cent. r
* * * *
At Dudley (N.S.W.) colliery disaster enquiry
witness after reputable witness declares the cause to be a
gaseous mine and a naked light. Why on earth can’t the
Govt, inspectors enforce safety-lanips before the ex-
plosion?
* * * *
Printed that the Anchor (Tas.) was once
thought almost illimitable as a tin-mine. Old-fashioned
boring-rods were used to test the deposit at a depth.
Several feet of stuff near the surface was so rich that the
knocking of the rods easily dislodged specimens there-
from ; said specimens fell down the drill-hole, and, of
course, a good show of tin appeared in the scrapings
from any depth bored. The clever division got out at
high prices. Subsequent developments cut the old bore-
holes at various depths, but below the two or three feet
of rich deposit was nothing but barren rock.
* » » *
A big Vic. syndicate mooted for properly pro-
specting the Mathinna field (Tas.). Thanks to the
Golden Gate, this locality, though worked for many years
m a go^-you-please style, owes the world remarkably
little.
* * * *
New Golden Gate (Tas.) directors lately refused
a cash offer of £320,000 for the mine. Value of gold
raised since inception of co., £430,818. Average yield for
last half-year a fraction over an ounce per ton. Manager
reports: “It will take some years to work out what is in
sight, and everything indicates that the gold lives down-
wards.” Very likely, but the cost of mining increased by
2s. per ton in last half-year, and now equals £1 13s. Bd.
• * * *
Bowes Kelly’s mana is considered good enough
tor numerous small-fry speckers in Tassy to go nap on.
Because the Mt. Lyell magnate bought some G.O.M.
shares, the other day, prices hardened by several shil-
lings right off. Of course this magnate is more or less a
magnet.
* • * •
Two more syndicate railway-grabs are now
before Tas. Assembly, and one of them stands a good
show of going through. Braddon swears by syndicates
because of the poverty of the Govt.—even wants a syndi-
cate to remove the Macquarie Harbor sand-bar! So,
with a small House containing a majority of the small
roads-and-bridges person, the way of the syndicator is
made easy in the Land of Many Sorrows.
* * * *
Tas. West Coasters aver that the Mt. Lyell
slump happened because the directors of that show con-
sidered it inadvisable to encourage the rival Kelly Basin
railway scheme too much. Certainly, continued Mt.
Lyell prosperity was eminently conducive to the progress
of the Kelly Basin scheme, but this paper prefers to think
that the numerous bites investors have received from the
Lyell pups makes them nervous about trusting the parent
too implicitly.
The Tasmania G.M. 00. during the just-ended
half-year crushed 11,700 tons quartz for 10,4420 z. 6d\vt.
12gr.—an average of 17dwt. 17 4-sgr. to the ton. The
G.O.M. has now turned out 429,3380 z. 17gr. gold from
362,392 tons quartz—average, loz. 3dwt. 16|gr. to the ton ;
value, £1,557,338 10s. 2d. ; paid in divs., £667,161. S.
* * * *
A Tas. paper recently announced : “ Lost, some-
where between Glenora and a big black stump, the Great
Western Railway.” Hobart fondly clings to hope in the
matter of the flotation of the co. in London, but Premier
Braddon, who is supposed to know something, hints that
there is very little foundation for that hope.
* * * »
It’s a dead certainty that within a year an-
ndicate-owned railway will have a footing in Q.
The Normanton-Oloncurry line covers some of the finest
land, mineral and pastoral, in the North. It is going for
good this time. Although the scheme is just mooted, one
co. has its plans so far forward that it could start in a
month. They know.
* * * •
Some Q. mining items :—Gympie : IS Great
Eastern, 290 tons, 9480 z. C. Towers': Brilliant Block, 683
tons, s°7°z. ; Papuan, 473 tons, 6200 z., 3d. div. ; Good
Old \ictoria, 265 tons, 5200 z., 6d. div. ; Band of Hope,
393 tons, 4040 z., 6d. div. ; Kelly’s, 256 tons, 6500 z., 6d.
div. ; Queen’s Cross, 130 tons, 17Soz.—a bit sick ; Brilliant
and St. George, 1130 tons, 17670 z., Is. div. (shares have
crawled up to 605.). Mt. Morgans have reached £5 buyers,
• s \ se hers. Q. Menzies, the only Q.-owned W.A.
mine that was worth a straw, has tumbled down to Bs.
sellers. They have again changed their manager, and
latest crushing—9s tons, 339 oz.—doesn’t pan-out a div.
The retiring manager predicts a still lower deep.
3 * » *
Dear Bulletin.—“ Copper-headed Juggins ”
asks what the price of silver has to do with the future of
Chillagoe, and I answer—nothing. But “ 0.11. J.” knows
that the comparison of silver prices was only made to
answer his prophecy of a fall in copper-values, and the
consequent collapse of Chillagoe. Evidently “ C.H.J.” is
an old woman who wants to have the last‘word, and he
may have it. All his statements show an absolute ignor-
ance of the field, and its conditions prove him either a
person who wilfully disregards facts or an utter fool
Main Shaft.
* * * *
C.W.”: Rumored that Chillagoe Proprietary
co. is surveying a line from the Chillagoe trunk line to
Mt. Garnet via Montalbion. The line will certainly pav,
but it is not likely to do the Chillagoe Proprietary much
good in its initial stages. The Chillagoe Proprietary has
already bitten off all it can chew, and further diffusion of
energy will be bad policy. Besides, there is a better
route to Mt. Garnet from Mareeba, but the distance is
either too great or the difficulties are so exaggerated that
a Mareeba-Gamet line seems out of practicability.
* * * *
“ Old Miner ” : Re Mr. Bedford’s par. on Mt.
Garnet asking if 10 per cent, ore is low grade. No—if it’s
an average sample. I had scores of samples of Mt. Gar-
net ore assayed, and found the average less than 5 per
cent. This long before the mine was taken up. As for
his yarn that there are 20,000 tons of smelting ore in sight
on Girofia lode, it is sheer nonsense and unworthy of
notice. He asserts, too, that the Mount Garnet lode
looks like going down to the kingdom of the father of
lies. Possibly he is better able to judge these matters
than I am.
* * * *
Croydon items: Golden Gate Consols, a locai
co. blocking off No. 7 North Golden Gate, struck good
prospects recently ; splendid coarse gold struck in No. 3
and 4 North Golden Gate. No. 5 South Golden Gate
crushed 85 tons for 2330 z. lldwt.—Waratah co. (a Bull
concern) have 30 head stampers now ready to work the
immense quarries of low-grade ores at Tabletop ; more
battery power going up. Reported several English cos.
intend erecting powerful machinery to test deep ground
in their respective properties. -No. 1 North Golden
Gate (Rogers’ mine) continues output and result ; sale to
Bull and co. not yet confirmed.—A ton of splendid
stone, estimated to produce 50oz. gold, was recently
broken down in No. 7 North Golden Gate for exhibition in
London and Paris. A cake weighing 2000 oz. from stone
averaging lOoz. per ton will also be sent from same mine.
* * * *
A book dealing with Westralia, written by
Trant Chambers and published by the authority of the
Forrest Govt., is entitled “ The Land of Promise.” Well
and truly named. Here’s a fair averag-e sample : The
Golden Cliffs mine, away north of Coolgardie, was floated
in London—capital, £200,000, of which vendors took
£50,000 in cash and £105,000 in fully-paid shares. It was
a mine of great promise : “ an abnormal gold-bearing
mass of stone, sufficient to supply any number of stamps
... all the water-supply that can possibly be required.”
Fitzgerald Moore, now dead, said : “ Taking the lode at
the very lowest average (say Joz. to the ton), she would
then be worth millions of money.” A very promising
letter was sent out by the City of London Exploration co”
with the prospectus: “ Assays of stone showing no gold
gave 12dwt., stone showing gold IOOOoz. . . . Taking a
net profit of only sdwt. per ton brought out that on the
48 acres there are in sight 750,0000 z. of gold—equal to
about £3,000,000. Since then we have a cable telling us
that a lot of assays average 27dwt. per ton. Take this at
loz. net, it would show £12,000,000 on our 48 acres. Fitz-
gerald Moore writes us that he thinks there are 20,000,000
tons in sight.” At an early meeting of shareholders a
letter was read advising that the work of exca-
vating for a battery be taken in hand at once, as
there were “ thousands of tons of gold-bearing ore lying
on the surface ready for crushing, sufficient to keep a
number of stamps going for years.” The above is a very
small part of the promise. The mine had no performance,
but all the shareholders have been honored with a letter :
—“ Dear Sir, I regret to inform you that the reports to
hand are so unfavorable that the company’s leases have
turned out valueless. Accounts are being made out and
will be duly sent to all shareholders.—Yours truly, The
Golden Cliffs Limited.” A liquidator has been appointed
and the poor shareholders are, probably, asking them-
selves in London if it is really worth while to find out who
got the £50,000, how much of the statements was fur-
nished by vendors, and if £1421 for directors’ fees and only
£825 for general mining expenses is not too much of the
monkey. But the chances are they will find themselves
too tired.
* * * •
The goldfields storekeeper is manifesting him-
self in the West. One created a minor rush near Kal-
goorlie racecourse recently, with sdwt. introduced into a
dish of dirt “ for a lark,” and subsequently got “ plugged ”
by an ugly miner. “ Salt ” and battery.
* * * *
“ M.” : Going Kalgoorliewards to-day I passed
through the almost-deserted township which sprung up a
few years back under the shadow of the Gordon alleged
mine. Two buildings in the main street were still
tenanted, and at one, the local pub., I sought some infor-
mation from the proprietor. I wanted to post a letter—
where was the post-office? “Here; right here, sir.”
“ Good. Now I want some meat; is there a butcher
about?” “Yes, I’m the baker, too.” Likewise, I learnt,
he was the Board of Health, the Progress Committee,
sanitary inspector, and various other things as well.
• * * •
For the sins of the boom Westralia is suffering
the agonies of wholesale exposure of frauds, on which
many of its prominent men have fattened. The Econo-
mist (a London financial journal of high-standing) has
furnished a list of mines, in the floating and working of
which wholesale deception and downright robbery have
been practised. This business, it declares, has been
fostered by the Press and encouraged by high politicians,
and affirms that the dishonesty of the Transvaal boom is
incomparable with that of Australia. Responsible criti-
cism had never been levelled at it, and the shareholders
in England now learn that they had been kept absolutely
in dark as to hundreds of “ wild cat” ventures into which
they bought, and which they had from time to time been
led to believe were sound mines. The rottenness of the
Whole thing had spread to London, where shareholders
had been misled as to the value of their mines, and had
been induced to put up tens of thousands for the recon-
struction of mines that never should have been pegged
out. Seeing that so much manipulation had taken place in
high quarters, it was not surprising t 6 find that the miners
themselves became infected by the general tendency.
Present writer remembers saying most of these things
three and four years ago, and urged the Forrest Govt, to
warn the British public by cable that the mines offered
were mostly bogus. And it was for doing so that the
writer was often invited over there to be shot. It was a
villainous business, in which nearly everybody joined.
But the bigger the drunk the larger the sore head and the
longer the recovery, and even the finding of the richest
lode field in the world, and the turning-out of the biggest
monthly gold-yield of the Australias, have not acted as a
pick-me-up on VVestralia.
• * * •
The appendices to the Budget speech of the
S.A. Treasurer tell a terrible tale of the effect of recent
droughts on the export of breadstuffs and wool. Thus in
1898-7 the breadstuffs sent out of the province weighed
but 27,075 tons, and in 1897-8 the quantity was only 22,530
tons, whereas the lowest weight exported in the previous
eight years was 116,543 tons, and the highest 304,818 tons.
Then wool in 1897-8 was down to 35,126,6431 b., as against
53,563,6121 b. in ’95-5.
* * * *
Premier Kingston’s enemies are hilarious at the
proposal, as the result of recent severe criticism, to pro-
vide t'2so a year for legal advice to insolvents. As the
Harrold case has been jogging along at the rate of £BOOO
a year in law-costs, the question arises whether there is an
Adelaide legal shark who wouldn’t turn up his nose at the
job.
• * • *
There must be some ultimate fun somewhere in
being prime mover in winding up a deceased bank. The
petitions around the carcase of the Standard Bank are
thick as blow-flies in the trenches at Santiago. The chase
for Judges before whom to present the petitions was
amusing. One barrister cornered Justice Holro.vd in a
passage as he was leaving the building ; another had the
cheek to wedge himself into Criminal Court business in a
vain effort to catch Judge Williams ; hurrying off to catch
someone else, he advised a third petitioner to “try
Williams—he’ll do it.” He tried, and was left lamenting.
And another enterprising suppliant surprised Waxellency
Madden in his pyjamas at Govt. House, and found him
gracious. It recalled the furious race of solicitors’ clerks
to lodge garnishee orders when a well-known Melb. lydy
got a verdict for heavy damages against a gilded citizen a
few years ago.
* * * *
Interesting sample from the report of the
liquidators re the matters of the late Land Credit Bank,
Melbourne. This was the bank of Mr. Taylor, the pious
defaulter who never failed to give a tithe of his “ borrow-
ings ”to the Lord. The advance account:—
34 dead, owing .. .. .. £17,234
24 left the colony, owing ... 24,317
69 no trace, owing ... _. 2,867
98 no means, owing _. _. 49,124
38 insolvent, owing ... ... 20,892
4in gaol, owing .. .. ~ 102,825
They knew what “ advance Australia " meant in the boom
time.
* * * *
A meeting of the co. formed, three years ago, to
send to England the old Vic. prison-hulk Success, was
held at Melbourne the other day. The directors reported
that the old ship had been on exhibition at Paisley and
Rothesay, Scotland, during six months ended 31st July.
The balance showed a profit of £339, which would pan
out a sixpenny div. Cabled news shows that the old
“ hell upon earth ” had since boomed—the takings for
July amounted to £330, of which fully £250 was profit.
For one week in August, the takings were £l9O, which
would leave £7OO or £BOO to credit. Since the vessel was
sent to England she has returned the co. £1750 in divs.
besides clearing off all expenses.
• * * *
Queensland is now a large exporter of guano
(from the coastal island groups) to Japan and other ports.
Fancy the folly of a country importing kanakas, and at
the same time exporting guano 1 Surely the Q. planters
should see to this.
» * * *
Recent leasings of land near Maffra, where the
Vic. beet-sugar industry has been started, throw interest-
ing light on the questions of unearned increment and the
taxation of land-values. Three farms of 120 odd acres
each were leased by auction for the purpose of sugar-beet
cultivation, and were finally knocked down at 225. 6d.,
245., and 265. 6d. per acre per annum. Similar land in the
vicinity has been leased previously for years at from ss.
to 7s. per acre per annum for grazing and dairying pur-
poses. Thus, by the establishment of the State-subsidised
sugar-industry, the land-owner reaps an increased income
of over £lOO on each farm and pays nothing—beyond the
very moderate Vic. land-tax.
• * * *
Three Australian Israelites, in the clothing-line,
are having their partnership-accounts adjusted by the
local Supreme Court, and their allegations against each
other range from falsifying income-tax returns and cook-
ing accounts up to arson. As a “ schlenter ” education
for the Judge, the case is not without its uses.
* * * *
A Vic. civil servant proudly relates how he
beat the late David Henry for £lO and interest—which
means a lot to anybody who had dealings with David. His
bill was not due, but as he had arranged for “ conver-
sion ” to a lower rate, he called at the financier’s office
and asked for the exact amount owing. Henry went to
his safe, rummaged a portfolio, and produced a p.n., which
he handed to the signatory. A visitor called at that
moment, and, as the money-lender turned, the C.S.
folded a piece of blank paper to the same size, handed it
to Henry in the doorway, thanked him, and bade him
good-day, carrying off the real bill triumphantly. Any-
body who had dealings with Henry will find this yarn
rather hard to swallow.
* * * *
A well-known Melb. merchant lately placed a
big order for safety matches in the hands of a firm in
Japan. The employes got wind of the order and struck
for higher wages, with the result that the order is not yet
executed. A little more of that sort of thing, and Jappy
will be almost eligible as a man and a brother.
* * * *
Hobart has a waterfall capable of electrically-
lighting the city, running all the trams and whatever
machinery the village possesses, yet the Gas co. bosses
the situation at 7s. 6d. per 1000 ft. Most local aldermen
hold gas shares, and the Mayor advertises that he is a
candidate for the directorate of the ungodly monopoly.
♦ * * *
The success of De Bernardi’s Labor Exchanges
in the Western U.S. so alarms the orthodox-legal-tender
people that they are taking steps to check their growth.
There is, it appears, a national note-tax on bills and other
securities payable in money in the States, and the Attor-
ney-General has been asked by financial people whether
Labor Exchange certificates are not subject thereto. He
has been regretfully obliged to answer that, as the certifi-
cates are payable in goods, and not in gold, they are not
liable to the tax. The enthusiasts on the subject claim
that the Labor Exchange will dethrone capitalism and
solve the metallic controversy without the aid of the State.
* * * *
The unspeakable Albert P. Calvert is bankrupt;
and Sydney Telegraph’s London correspondent, who says
Calvert, started “his meteoric career” cashless, isn’t
surprised. Calvert estimates that he lost £14,000 on the
West Australian Review—a journal established to boom
his enterprises ; £lO,OOO on racehorses ; and £4OOO on the
W.A. exploring expedition—some of whose bills are un-
paid to this day. Out of all the co’s he was interested in,
only one paid a dividend. And thus passes away another
ignoble boomster.
Hess, of London Critic, having publicly branded
as a blackmailer the erstwhile boss of London financial
journalism, the local public is interestedly awaiting
developments. If the backsheesh prints can live through
it all, then indeed is Boodle king and Blackmail boss.
**. * *
London Stock Exchange has passed a rule which
will practically prevent dealing in vendors’ shares within
six months after public issues have been made. No doubt
this will work out all right in many cases, but the embargo
is sure to be remembered when options or contracts for
the sale of mines are being made.
* * * »
The London Commercial Court Judge recently
refused to order a jury unless all parties concerned agreed
that should the jury disagree he should decide the issues
of fact. Undub- accelerative of “ the Law’s delays 1 ”
• * * *
Ed. Bulletin.—You state the death of the
“heir at law” in Britain in the way you suppose him to
be also dead here. It is true that “ realty and personalty ”
have been amalgamated as property and go the same way
both here and there. But where and when there is no will
the property of a deceased goes to the heir at law all the
same if there be no one but such heir to take it. The
eldest son no longer takes all the land, it is true—such
being distributable equally amongst all the children same
as personalty; but if only one child then he or she is
“ heir at law,” and takes as such the same as before, and
that both here and there. —Lex.
* * * *
“H.M.”: Want to know whether payment-
receipts for club expenses require the 2d. stamp-duty, or
is it only the vulgar business person who is penalised
when caught doduing the tax 1
* * * *
A junior Vic. Public Works officer resigned and
went to Westralia, where some of his relatives held big
interests. He didn’t know quartz from diorite when he
left, but within 18 months he was reporting on properties
for English syndicates. He was in a Melb. office not long
ago and gave much advice on practical mining, waxing
eloquent on the mistakes people make “on this side.”
Going out, he picked up a piece of copper-sulphide from
Cobar. “Ah ! I see you’ve got some Mount Morgan stone
here ; it’s a very good specimen.” “ Yes,” said the boss,
“and, strange to say, you’re the very first man who has
placed it first pop.” The expert walked down street more
experty than ever.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Broken Hill is not the only
town where the pawnshop flourisheth not. One regular
“pop” is all this sleepy little city boasts of, but the
numerous second-hand shops do the same business—
evading the law as follows : They buy your article and tell
you that you may buy it back again in a certain time for
a certain price, the profit they ask being about equal to
“ pop-shop interest. Also the Hebrew does not flourish
m Tasmania at all. Is this a good sign, or otherwise ?
—Perth, W.A.
* * * •
“D.”: The nocturnal Sydney person who
wants to sell you, for “ the price of a bed,” a pawnticket
for a w-atch or other valuable, is usually jackal for some
pawnbroker who, wanting to get rid of worthless un-
redeemed stock, fills in pawntickets as for articles of
about four times the real value of the pledges ; whereafter
the tout disposes of the ticket for 6d. or 9d. to “ fly ” flats
who, when they gleefully call to redeem an article on
which, say, £1 is supposed to have been lent, find the
thing itself worth no more than a couple of shillings. Of
course the flat is not allowed a glimpse of the article till
he has planked the coin.
* • • •
Dear Bulletin. —Re “ Eko’s ” “ twopenny . . .
pledges.” I was with an Adelaide pawnbroker “under
false pretences ” some years ago. He had that sort of
client in abundance, being near Light Square. But the
“ twopenny pledges ” were his most profitable customers.
As “ Eko” says, they pawned every Monday morning and
took out every Saturday night. But my pawnbroker gave
them no duplicates, or papers, or anything. They had
to redeem every Saturday night. Consequently, he got
a month’s interest every week. He knew his customers,
too. I’ve known him lend half-a-crown on some gaudy
old rags that no sane person would give a shilling for.
The interest charge was, and is, Id. per shilling per month.
So, on half-a-crown he would get 3d. per week, hy weekly
redemptions. After ten weeks he had a sort of fatherly
interest in the duds. I think he knew exactly how much
each client had in rag-covering, and what things must be
redeemed on beer-night. Of the higher branches of
money-lending depicted interestingly by “Eko” I know
nothing practically.—Dipso.
* * * *
Now that the margarine-trouble is lifting up its
head in N.S.W.—there are two factories in Sydney capable
of producing 10 tons a week—it is suggested that the
stuff shall be colored in such a way as to render im-
possible its use as or with butter. The English provision
that margarine shall only be sold labelled as such does not
prevent its use in the way indicated, and in any case the
matter should be dealt with here before, as in England,
vested interests have become too strong to permit of
effective legislation.
* * • *
Coinages of the world for 1807: Gold,
£74,032,321; silver, £31,032,451 ; copper, £794,330 ; nickel,
£467,079. Russia did the biggest business in currency,
with a grand total of £37,000,000, of which £26,000,000
was gold. The U.S. came next with £20,000,000—15
millions gold. It is solemnly recorded that Chili coined
27 pieces, to the value of £lO.
* • * •
Maori notion of pakeha insolvency :—“ When a
pakeha wants to go insolvent (pakarapu) he gets a lot of
goods on credit, sells them, and puts away all the money
but £5. Then he goes to the Judge, and tells him that he
wants to be pakarapu. Then the Judge calls together
lawyers and the people the man owes money to, and says
—‘ This man is pakarapu. But he has £5, which he has
brought that it may be divided among you.’ And then
the Judge gives the lawyer £4 and the "creditors £l. And
the pakarapu goes home and is clean.” Clean-cut satire 1
whether meant or not.
* * * •
In some N.S.W. Govt. Departments, on “the
first,” Brown (Jones’ mate) generally interviews any
“ gentleman ” who wishes to see Jones. “ My name—ah—
Jones. What is youah business ? ” “ Mine gracious, den,
I vas mistaken. You vas not de Mr Jones I vant. He
vos owe me a little monish ! ” “ Well, sir, I’m the only
Jones in this establishment. Somebody must have been
—ah—making use of my name.” And the chances are
that Shenpershen retires, bluffed off for another month 1
* • * *
The Certificated Mining Engine-Drivers’ Asso-
ciation in W.A. now numbers some 600 members. The
body is well-officered, and in a strong financial position,
and, so far, has successfully resisted all attempts to cut
wages. The drivers recently have been vigorously pro-
testing against the wholesale granting of certificates for
winding-engines to inexperienced men which has recently
been going on throughout the fields.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
and particulars apply 80-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
R, BELL & CO.’S
- - British Vestas
(THE BEST.)
Obtainable Everywhere.
Aus. |
Reps, j
PHILIPS & PTKE, Equitable Buildings,
Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
“Tbc RCALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison «8s Attwood, Sole Proprietora.
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists; Office, 434 Collius-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
* * • •
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
assay ores, and treat samples up to 5 tons, by chlorina-
tion, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet or dry crushed.
Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp Batteries, Roast-
ing and Smelting Furnaces, and General Mining
Machinery.*
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MERCHANTS, 7
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining 1 Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
BLEACHING POWDER. 36/387.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharjre,
3 a IN V AO
guaranteed
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shaving’s, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery,
Hy. Markv/ald
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st,, Adel. ; Queen-st., Brisk.


Society
It was generally understood that, in con-
sideration of Mrs. Crotty’s abandonment of a
judicial attempt to upset the will of the rich and
holy husband who was jealous of her, she was to
receive .£lOOO a year out of the estate ; and, though
it is now rumored that an attempt is being made
to get her to accept 11300 per annum, The Bulle-
tin finds it hard to believe that, as a mere matter
of business in this world—to say nothing of the
next —the R.C. authorities could be so stupidly
short-sighted as to haggle miserably over a deal
which, in any case, puts a clear £lOO,OOO in the
Church’s pocket. To screw the widow down to
the last possible penny—besides being an outrage
upon the loftier traditions of R.C. policy—would
be a gross tactical mistake—-the sort of blunder
that is “worse than a crime.”
♦ * * •
Dear Bulletin, — James Crotty’s will
should be sustained —that man was never mad.—
Yours, &c., After Seeing Mrs. Crotty’s Photo.
* * * *
The Chinaman in Australia prizes a Euro-
pean wife —so everybody says—but he prizes a
Celestial spouse more highly still. A Chow near
Brisbane has a Chinese wife. Has also surrounded
his house with a tall galvanized-iron fence —gate
built in proportion. Never goes out without care-
fully locking his door and padlocking his gate.
Knowing how strongly he himself is attracted
by the European female, he naturally fancies
Europeans must be similarly drawn to Chowland
womankind. Hence these precautions.
* • * »
C.W.B. : Now, in face of the unspeakable
revelations as to the sort of tuberculosed pork
vended in Sydney, is the Fresh Food and Ice
Company’s opportunity—to start, in the city, a
big retail pork butchery whereat will be sold only
dairy-fed meat (pork, bacon and sausages, &c.)
guaranteed healthy by the company’s inspectors.
“ Beitsemer ” : The interview with Rabbi
Davis in a recent Bulletin is of especial interest
to the meat-eating Australian public, who are, as
a rule, unaware that the Christians consume all
the meat condemned as unfit for consumption by
the Chosen ; and it would astonish the average
Gentile to learn what a small proportion of the
beasts slaughtered are considered fit for use by the
representative of the synagogue. The weak point
of Jewish slaughtering* which must rank as one of
Moses’s mistakes, is that the animal is always
thrown on the ground before being killed. It is,
consequently, in a high state of fever when it dies,
instead of placidly chewing the cud, and never
knowing what hit it, as in the usual plan of
“pithing.”
* * * *
How’s this for missioning the outside
heathen ? N.S.W. country boy of 14 charged
with carnally knowing girl under 10—one previous
conviction. Chief witness, boy of eight. Didn’t
know what “ God ” meant ; didn’t go to school ;
never been taught any prayers ; didn’t know
whether he had been christened. Prosecutrix
told her tale quite graphically. Accused had pro-
mised her a penknife. “ What happened after-
wards?” queries the P.M. She —savagely—“ He
wouldn't qimme the knife! ”
* » *
Bendigo (Vic.) Law Court is a palatial edifice
with every comfort for Judge, juryand officials. But
the prisoners’ waiting-room ! Shade of Howard !
—loft. x 6ft., and the air-opening not half-an-inch
wide. In this room a dozen poor devils are kept
waiting trial, ten hours each day. Imagine it in
Bendigo in January or February ! Why still
drivel about Calcutta’s Black Hole?
* * * *
The whirligig of time ! At the recent
meeting of the Melb. Discharged Prisoners Aid
Society the only advocates of leniency towards
offenders were Zox, M.L.A., and his co-religionist,
Rabbi Abrahams. The “ Christians ” present
went in hard for the Mosaic “ eye for an eye and
tooth for a tooth ” doctrine. To be sure, Christ
was a Jew !
“Nurse” : They prosecute these women s
quacks for selling pills and such-like. Why, half
the patients in the Women’s Hospital are there
as the result of tampering with themselves.
* * * *
One of the excuses given by defendant in
a recent Vic. breach-of-promise case was that com-
plainant could not cook :
“ I love you, dear, with all my heart!”
Cried lovers once, with voice a-quiver.
But now the pair must surely part
Unless he loves with all his liver.
So Mary Jane and Sarah Ann
Must aim to please the inner-man.
“ Vilain” to The Bulletin:—
Says Sue in “Jude the Obscure”:
“Why do the old children come
from the young’ countries?”
Answer: Because the young
country, after the first
land-rush, is the country
of the small income,
and the small income
means the late mar-
riage, and the late
marriage the old
child. It would
answer in the long
run—a very long
run, perhaps—if ,
Government
paid people for
marrying at 20
and gave
them their
ticket-of-leave
some 10 or 12
years late. The old
child is often clever,
sometimes healthy, but never
by any chance mens sana. Its
morbidness takes the form of
questioning life in general.
Kelly, who suicided in Auck-
land lately, was “always won-
dering what it felt like to be
dead.” Kelly’s father was
probably 60. The child of
young parents shoots him-
self because he’s forged a
cheque or run off with some-
body’s wife. The child of old
parents does it out of mere curi-
osity. He generally leaves a
letter behind saying he is tired of
living. In reality he is tired of not
living.
Ed. Bulletin. —ln re the working of hos-
pitals, “Scotty W.” has struck the nail on the
liead. In a journalistic capacity, such things
have come under my notice in the provincial
towns, but, as a country-newspaper proprietor has
to pick his way, and be scrupulously careful of
what truths he tells, he is often forced to suppress
facts that cry aloud to Heaven. Quarrels are
frequently caused in country hospitals by the cal-
lous-heartedness of the matrons and nurses ; but
generally, before the public can be made aware of
the facts, tiie committee steps in and says, “ You
must not publish this inquiry. If you do, we will
withdraw our advertising patronage.” The paper-
man has to submit, and thus the evil goes on un-
checked. There has in several cases which
have come under my observation been some
racket between the president of the committee or
the medical officer and the matron. I particularly
remember one ease, in which patients were dying,
and the cheap nurse was left in entire charge
while the matron and the (married) medical officer
went to a ball.—7 x 7.
* * • *
Dear Bulletin. —“ Scotty the Wrinkler ’"
(20/8/’9B) “personally finds men far more tender
than woman as nurses ” —curses these latter’s
cooking, and denies the cleanliness of nurse-
managed hospitals! Well, my experience has
been just the reverse. 1 know of one large
country hospital (with an almost entirely female
staff) of which N.S.W. may be proud. Taking
ein by and long, the trained hospital-nurse is one
of the best types of her much-maligned sex ; and
a white-handed, low-voiced, neatly-attired nymph
flitting quietly about a convalescent’s bedside is,
to ray mind, infinitely preferable and more con-
ducive to recovery than the blotted presence of an
awkward, unshorn, unsympathetic wards Man.
Anyhow, the next time a horse comes down on
top of me, the Lord send me where the white
aprons and collars are. Had “ Scotty ” encoun-
tered the trim Samaritans who have erstwhile
nursed me back to health, he wou'd promptly
withdraw his unkind and untrue remarks, take off
his hat, and murmur “God bless her!” at the
mention of the trained hospital-nurse.—Breaker.
[But, if “Scotty W.’s” remarks represent his ex-
perience, they are neither unkind nor untrue.
Also, many men and nearly all women will back
“ Scotty’s ” version of the matter. The secret of
the wide divergence of assertion in this respect
has probably something to do with the age, per-
sonal appearance, and “interestingness,” or the
reverse, of the patient.—Ed. B.]
* * * *
Brisbane has just turned out another leper
—an.unfortunate employed as a laundryman at a
hospital. Has a wife and family who will be left
destitute by his enforced removal to quarantine.
Certain philanthropic souls are getting up
subscriptions to support them, but the policy is a
mistaken one. Let the State that sanctioned the
introduction of the leprous Asiatic bear the burden
of supporting the families of such Europeans as
fall victims to the scourge of Asiatic disease. A
tax levied on all employers of alien labor would
provide the wherewithal and perhaps inculcate a
valuable lesson into the bargain.
** l • *
Did anyone ever reflect on the suffering
inflicted on the relatives of a leper by the dis-
covery of the unfortunate man’s affliction?
Writer remembers a large Centralian drapery
establishment being boycotted by fashionable
ladies because the sister of a man under quaran-
tine as a leper was employed there. The em-
ployers, much against their will, had to get rid of
her. A month or two after, the leper-suspect
escaped his guardians, and turned up next year
perfectly clean and wholesome. Had never been
a leper at all.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— Be lepers. In Shanghai,
ten years ago, remember being out in rickshas
with a newly-arrived young doctor (of the Chinese
customs) when he, being in the Lad, stopped his
man and got out in a hurry. “ Leprosy ” was his
curt answer to my question. The Coolie was
minus upper lip and a finger or two. Same doctor
by now, probably, buys “cabbagee” from a man
many degrees worse. Such is the indifference
developed for the disease upon further acquaint-
ance with it out East. In a Borneo printing-office
I once worked with a leper compositor and circum-
stances compelled me to set up type he had dis-
tributed. I’m not dead yet. After the finding of
the Leprosy Commission (of which “Unlucky
HIS HONOR AND A LADY.
THOMAS: “ ’Ow’s the wife treatin' yer? ”
HENRY: “ Well, she earns enough to keep me, but
she ain’t got no regard for a man’s self-
respect. She don’t give me no money to
shout for me friends. ”
Brassey ” was a member) the North Borneo
lazarette was abolished, but the bay, on the shores
of which the buildings stood, was a favorite pic-nic
spot, and I have, like many others, frequently
camped for days in the building. The worst case,
so far as appearances went, I have seen was that
of a man I saw rolling along the road to the
Bamboo Fair at the Bubbling Well near Shanghai
—a mode of progression forced upon him by the
absence of both hands and feet ! In his teeth he
held the ends of a string, and when some pitying
passer flung him a cash, he wriggled towards it
and, loosening his hold on one end of the string,
sucked it through the hole in the coin. He told
me he had come ten miles to the fair and had, on
the way, collected 140 cash (3|d). I wondered
how he managed to eat without lips, and sleep
without eye-lids, but when I found there was no
opening to the sacking which he was tied in, I
carried my investigations no further. Yang
Anyut.
* * * *
Brisbane is turning out its weekly leper—
generally a white man now.
* * * *
There is no abatement in the stamp-col-
lecting lunacy. A row of N.S.W. Id. stamps
lately escaped the perforator, and the lucky buyer
immediately re-sold at 2s. 6d. a pair. Present
writer saw one couple on sale in a philatelist’s
window marked 205.!
♦ * * *
Judicial mercy is just about twice as deadly
as Legal severity. At a recent Adelaide criminal
sessions a bank-clerk admitted stealing ,£2OB, and
pleaded 22 years good service and the maintenance
of hi smother and sister for 13 years. The Judge, with
tear-dimmed eyes, took a lenient view of the case,
and sent the man up for just three years. Next
time this foolish person gets into a bank he should
remain honest unless he can steal half-a million,
and cause ten per cent, of the population to suicide
in despair. Then the Judge, terrible in his ven-
geance, will probably release him under the First
Offenders’ Act.
* * * *
“ Barrister, an interesting legal matter:
The criminal law, which everyone is presumed to know,
proved itself so elusive, the other day, in the Hyland
(Vic.) case, that three Judges said it was one thing and
three that it was the opposite thing, and the problem had
to be finally solved in toss-penny fashion by the casting-
vote of one. A propos, in countries where the Judicature
Act is in force the balance of power is given to the Chief
Justice or senior puisne Judge in the event of an equal
division of opinion on the bench. Such was done in the
Hyland sham-abortion case above alluded to. In the
English House of Lords (as, for instance, in the famous
Millis case, which decided that the presence of an English-
Church parson was necessary for an English marriage), in
the event of an equal division, the question passes in the
negative. This also seems to be the common-law rule.
In some of the old common-law Appeal Courts, however,
the practice prevailed, in such a case, of the junior Judge
withdrawing his opinion. The casting vote in judicial
matters appears to be a pure creature of statute law.
The dead hand of the Privy Council was visible in two of
the dissenting judgments in the Hyland case. Both
a'Beckett and Williams thought that the old English
cases on the subject were wrongly decided, but, in view
of the fact that the Privy Council had urged that English
decisions of the higher Courts should he respected by all
mere “colonials,” they felt compelled to hold that these
wrong decisions were good enough law for “ the colonies.”
* * * 9
N.S. Wales last month exported a thousand
kangaroo-tails to London.
THE LOVERS
Parting
| kV j
3 .(Wes sur\se!r w]\er\ "tke korqevibnl strolled
Of wkick -str)) 1 iVes arx of gold.
Ci ood -rvokt-' , 3;-— —~==^
: J V-u
1
uT noW tke Very hpS fcooixe'
'l[ek' t loatk to part 7 tke 10/ers lirxger oi\. A
1
«<L _ • . I
last' (Ite Woryj n\oor\ , ns,ei\ late
Fj spues FotF still Wlysp n at -1 fate)
c oocl -ry okj '
Tds later r\oW y'et'or\ they lii\<jer sttll;
! nSptFyihkS tfyuUiX) tl\ey r\e/er Wi IL.
ood-TNi6kr~
, _D borStferlll s^
4
d\| _
ORIENT .
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
Opposite 'j
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
The Famous French
Chocolate.
CHOCOMT IHEniER
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Win. Cameron & Co.,
24!) Ueorye-st., Sydney.
Wholesale
Agents:
photographic procsss (Jjork.
ZINOO, COPPER,
LINE and HALE-TONE.
Harrington« go. [td.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Carry a Stock of all Process Requisites, and are
Experts IN THE LINE.
Estimates given for Complete Up-to-Date Equip-
ments, and, if necessary, including instruction.
Advice Free. Correspondence Invited.
Melbourne Agents—Messrs. Craven & Co., 179 Collins'
street. Brisbane Branch—64 Queen-street.
CST” For PHOTOGRAPHIC NOVELTIES see our advf
on page 3. r 3


Dear Bulletin. —Prof. Marshall Hall may
fitly be bracketted with Marie Corelli. Like that
she-fanatic, he wages a war of bitter antagonism
against everything but his own little tin-god;
but, unlike M.C., M.H. retreats bleating under
criticism. When the critics bludgeoned M.C.’s
“Barrabbas” that vitriolic lady waited till the
uproar had ceased before she treated her critics to
a very pretty dose of their own medicine, never
giving way an inch, and making some of them eat
dirt at the point of the writ. This is rather
better than the conjuring up of a doleful picture
of a feeble, sick man crawling painfully into the
sunshine to soften hard religious hearts. Music—•
long Unown to have a morally degenerative effect
—has recently been proved to be also physically
relaxing. Tlie Greeks, who seldom made a mis-
take, represented Pan, the god of music, as half a
beast. Music in itself is a pleasant relaxation,
and, in simple ballad form, is inspiring, but it is
absurd for fanatics like Marshall Hall and his
devotees to elevate it to the rank of a God-inspired
ait—the art that is equally appreciated by a snake
and by Marshall Hall. Ye gods ! — Onlys.
[“Onlys” himself here credits the Greeks with
a mistake which they “didn’t make.” It was
only as an element of sensuous enjoyment that
music-was associated with Pan —the deity of rude
rural delights. Apollo the glorious was the god
of music in its loftier intellectual and spiritua
relations.]
* • * *
The deepest depth of municipal sweating :
MUNICIPALITY OF WILCANNIA, N.S.W.
APPLICATIONS are invited from persons willing
to undertake the duties of Council Clerk, Rate Col-
lecioj:, Inspector of Nuisances, Surveyor and Secre-
tary of the Commons Trustees, and anv other offices
in connection with the Council Clerkship of the above
Municipality, at a salary of £4 a week.
Applications (enclosing references), sealed, and
marked on envelope, “ Application for Council Clerk-
ship,” must be in the hands of the Mayor of Wil-
cannia not later than 6 o’clock p.m. on MONDAY,
the sth SEPTEMBER, 1898.
JOHN BURKE, Mayor.
“And any other offices.” Probably street-
sweeper, driver of water-cart, and pilgrim of the
night. Also, the lucky man will no doubt occupy
the spare time as Mayor’s orderly, doorkeeper and
porter.
* * * *
Times are now so bad in the Westralian
capital that the dailies are stuck for news and are
reduced to chronicling the results of pub. billiard-
matches. Signs of the better days to come
occasionally appear, such as “The new billiard-
table will arrive next week.” Recalls the sub.,
O LOVE, DEAR LOVE !
SHE: “I detest phonetic spelling. Artemus Ward spells love ‘luv’ — now,
there's no ‘u’ in love."
HE: “No, perhaps not; hut there’s many ex’s!"
stuck for a leading feature, who wired a corres-
pondent, “ Things dull here. Can you send us a
sensation based on facts,” to which came reply,
“No trouble about sensation. Send along the
facts. ”.
» » * *
When the Pitcairn Islanders were found
in possession of Norfolk Island 40 years ago, the
then Secretary of State, in a despatch to the
Governor of N.S. Wales, directed that they
should be left as much to themselves as possible,
that the laws and social customs they had invented
should not be interfered with, and that the Gover-
nor should refrain from imposing new restrictions
except where the general interests of humanity
might require. Had the Secretary of State of 40
years ago endeavored to develop the islanders into
a mushroom society with a Government House at
its head, and to set up a drastic system of taxa-
tion to keep the ornamental tomfoolery in victuals,
it is historically probable that he would have pro-
voked a mutiny like that of the Bounty, and not
merely, as Chamberlain and his N.S.W. satellites
now provoke, an appeal for legal help and deli-
verance.
* * * *
Fair damosels importuned the Brisbane
public, a short time ago, on behalf of the local
hospital. Usual manoeuvres, of course —flashing
of eyes, parting of cherry lips and gleaming of
pearly teeth—all for the good cause. Writer
watched several Chows run the feminine gauntlet,
and every pigtail parted up like a man. It’s
no use talking—John cannot resist the blandish
ments of “ fattee white gel ”
“ Raymond ” : By the intelligent listener,
quite a lot of valuable information about your
neighbors can be gathered from the loquacious
bottle-merchant. These men, v if they know their
business, develop a fine knack of dispensing
scandal in business terms: To the ifiiti-
ated, there is a world of curious infor-
mation in the following : “ My word,
the people next door are all right—
a dozen English beer bottles and
a dozen colonial every week ain’t
so bad. That there big house
down street is goin’ it pretty
strong—six whisky bottles and a
dozen wines, not to speak of soda-
water and beer bottles, ain't so
dusty, I can tell you, for three
people. The new people in the
big yaller ’ouse ain’t Scotch, my
bloomin’ oath. Why, I get a nip
out of all their whisky bottles, an
I’ve found as much as ’arf a bottle
o’ wine left ’’—and so on, indefin-
itely.
* * * *
“Dero” : A N.S.W. solicitor,
threatened with a prosecution for neg-
ligence in the conduct of a client’s
case, successfully beat the client off by
producing a judicial decision showing
that damages obtained in such a way
are not provable against a solicitor’s estate
if he turn bankrupt. The inference was clear,
and the client bowed to his first loss.”
* * * *
The right of a woman to refuse to cohabit
with her husband and still remain under his roof
as his wife is going to be decided at last by Vic.
Full Court, Judge Hood having referred Ihe case
of Simons v. Simons to that body. A Yic. Judge
and others elsewhere have already decided that a
man may be said to desert his wife in similar cir-
cumstance, even though he continues to live in
the same house with her. Sarah Grand and her
congeners should watch the Yic. case with some
interest.
* * * *
Westralian police begin to find work in
rounding-up deadbeats found sleeping out. In
several cases sheer inability to pay for the com-
monest lodging has been successfully pleaded by
men against whom the police could not allege
anything. And, at Koolgardie, battery-feeders
are being offered 50s. a week, as against £3 10s.
paid willingly a few months back.
* * * *
“ Auk ” : Recent-
ly came across a head-
stone, in a monumen-
tal-mason’s yard, with
the inscription, “In
loving memory of
, the beloved wife
over the date 1894.
Tragedy or romance ?
I happen to know that
the bereaved husband
is married again, and
surmise that funds
won’t allow of keeping
two wives supplied—
one with tombstones,
the other with bonnets.
Perhaps he is waiting
till he can : d 1 another
name, and so reduce
the cost by averaging.
Bury two birdies with
one stone!
At Hobart, a man
is liable to be fined £2
for spitting on the
pathway, but you can’t
do anything to the
corporation for run-
ning putrid drains
alongside that path -
way.
The report that a re-arrangement of the
jurisdictions of the N.S.W. Supreme Court
Judges was contemplated drew some reference
from Justice G. 15. Simpson sitting in divorce.
Whereupon one legal luminary after another
arose and said how sorry they all were at losing
his Honor. Then his Honor casually mentioned
that lie had heard that some of the legal fraternity
were rather glad, upon which the last sympathiser
stammered that there must have been some mis-
take, and then sat down abruptly.
* * * »
Yic. Mildura “temperance” settlement
exported last month 25,000 empty bottles, and
expects to reach same figure this month.
* * * *
From a recent Sydney D.T. :
A REMARKABLE AMPUTATION.
Melbourne, Friday.—Sir Thomas Fitzgerald and Dr.
Moore performed an operation to-day at the operating-
room, Melb. Hospital, which attracted great attention.
It was the amputation of the shoulder and arm, including'
the whole of the shoulder-blade and a great part of the
collar-bone, of a man who was injured three years ago by
the kick of a horse. The patient is doing well.
Clever, no doubt, but only equal to the bite of a
nervously-debilitated flea when compared with a
feat recounted in the following issue of the D.T.
aforesaid—-thus: —•
Just at that moment a gentleman from amongst the
crowd stepped forward, took a cigar from his mouth which
he threw overboard, and advanced to Colonel Nugent’s
side.
* • • *
Remarkable (writes a Bulletin correspon-
dent) how, in large Western towns, such as
Dubbo, golf is catching on. The real rank and
fashion—such as bank-clerks, &e.— are gradually
abandoning lawn-tennis to those of baser blood.
Too many commoners are now crowding into the
latter game. As a rule, none of them has ever
seen golf played when it is started, but they study
it from books. To play golf is a mark of “ tone ”
—as tennis was, years back. Any remittance-
man who can say “ Haw ” with the correct intona-
tion, and knows all about links and tecs, and
things, can find a good opening out West just
now. Noticeable too, in such towns, what queer
mistakes aspiring women make. They cherish
jealously all the poor little society shibboleths they
can pick up, and parade them on every possible
occasion. The result is much like a shearer in
PRESENCE OF MIND.
MR. CITYSIN (as Mrs. C. enters unexpectedly):
“M-m-my dear, this is the girl who scrubs
out the office !”
greasy moles .and tan-boots. They emphasise the
second syllable in “ Sunday ” and “ always,” but
they slouch into “ thrippence.” It’s really very
sad.
* * * *
Melb. Weekly Times contains a Young
Folks’ Page, and correspondence is invited to
“Our Letter Box.” The Bulletin is prepared
to make terms for supplying the Times aforesaid
with letters as per sample :
Dear Bulletin. —I do not know if you ever had a letter
from Norseman before or not. If you never had a letter
before from Norseman, this will be the first one ; if you
have had one letter before from Norseman, this Will be
the second one ; if you have had two letters before from
Norseman, this will be the third one.
Norseman is where they are going to build a railway to.
It contains Englishmen, public-houses, Japanese, Afghans
and camels. They came here on account of the gold, but
they are not looking for gold now. Everybody is marking
out in his back-yard just where the railway-station ought
to be. Any one that hasn’t got a back-yard is trying to
get a back-yard from some one that has one.
I have no back-yard, or railway, or pony, or camel, but
in Esperance I had fleas, and now I have a cold.
I was in an Afghan camp a few days ago where there
was an Afghan camel. My brother said “Ilooshta” to
the camel, and the camel chewed his hand and my
brother swore. I think camels are very intelligent, don’t
you ? There are many strange animals in this country.
Everyone reads The Bulletin in our family, even the
children. I was 28 years old last April. Don’t you think
I write well for my age? That is all 1 can think of about
Norseman. — Willie Smith.
* * * *
An interesting discussion took place in
Bananaland Parliament, t’other day, as to the
duties of a Governor’s A.D.C. A Minister of
the Crown volunteered the information that Capt.
T ’s duties were to receive guests. An irre-
verent Democrat averred he had heard the gentle-
man was employed principally in handing round
cups of tea. Another suggested that a small boy
be hired to'discharge aforesaid functions. Just
fancy a.superfine scion of aristocracy being flouted
and gibed at in this fashion !
* * * •
“ W.Y.” : Re “brewers’ jockeys.” Saw
about a dozen of them the other,day at the rear of
a large Melb. brewery, each with a jam-tin in his
hand, tilting up the returned beer-barrels for the
dregs !
A HEREDITARY
RIGHT.
1ST SCHOOLGIRL : “ I wonder how that little hoy
dare insult us like that.”
2ND DITTO: “ Hush! Didn't you know he teas the
policeman's son?"
Every few years the planet Yenus over-
takes Jupiter in the western sky, and many people
must have noticed the beautiful changes in the
position of these two bright stars every night the
week before last. Their nearest approach this
time was a few degrees ; but at last conjunction
they approached so closely that the eye could not
separate them, and the feelings of the star-gazers
at Sydney Observatory can be imagined when it is
told that though the night before and the night
after were beautifully clear, at the critical moment
the sky clouded over. Such another chance for
observation will not occur for 60 years.
» • * *
Be the C. 0. Funk, wrecked at daybreak,
the other morning, on Flinders Island, one of the
two survivors states that when the vessel was seen
to be doomed the captain said it would be better
for all hands to be drowned than for them to be
killed and eaten by the savages of those Islands !
Savages on Flinders Island ! Which recalls that
Sydney alderman 0. E. Jeanneret, the easy-going,
good-natured son of Dr. Jeanneret, who was civil
commandant on Flinders Island over 70 years
ago, died at Wyrallah, N.S.W., last week.
A few Furneaux Group wrecks since 1830 : The
George Marshall, barque Koh-i-noor, ship Cam-
bridgeshire, barque Stag, brig Robin Hood, brig
Alice Maud, schooner Boundary, ship City of
Foo-Choo, brigantine Indiana, ketch G.V.H.
King’s Island brings the Bass Straits tally of
disasters between 1830 and 1875 to 19 vessels
and 803 lives lost. In the wrecks of the Neva
(1830) and Calaraqui (1843) there were respectively
300 and 414 persons drowned. The loss of the
British Admiral (in 1874) involved 79 lives.
* * * *
From Ballarat Benevolent Asylum conies
the tale of a girl who had been in service at Elaine
“until her interesting condition rendered her
departure necessary.” She got to Ballarat, this
poor refugee, and found shelter at nights in cheap
lodging houses. Also, she “found food in the
broken victual-bins of neighboring hotels.” After
several days anticipation of maternal joy the un-
happy creature made her way to a tumble-down
shed at the back of an iron-foundry and gave
birth to her child. She spent about 40 hours in
the shed. There was some rain falling at the time
and, being thirsty and in need of nourishment the
patient contrived to crawl far enough to catch a
little rain water in her hands. When found she
was very weak, so, although her condition was no
longer interesting, they took mother and baby to
the maternity ward of the Asylum, where they
both did “as well as could be expected.” This is
a hard world for servant girls who commit sin.
The sin is sure to find them out, and if it happens
to find them out in a shed they can’t always
depend upon getting wet weather for a drink.
* * * *
A banquet to ex-Just-ice Gould is fixed
for to-morrow, 2nd, and Syd. Telegraph proudly
reports that it is the only paper invited ! Even
The Bulletin wasn’t asked.
'** * *
BUSINESS PRINCIPLES.
What cannot be cured must be insured.
No thrift is as good as a fire.
Honesty is sometimes policy.
Never put off till to-morrow the man you can
do to-day.
He should be a sharp man who plays cut-throat
A good business man has all the virtues of the
vulture, the serpent, the tiger, and the fox, and
few of their vices.
Competition is the soul of business —you must
beggar or beg.
* * * *
Pastor Turnbull (Melb.) asks if detective
abortive phizgiggery is not more improper than
Marshall-Hall.
* * * *
The affection with which some of the self-
appointed mothers regard the children entrusted
to them by the
State is extra-
ordinary. A
few months
back the head
o ffi o e of a
State child-
ren’s depart-
in ent was
startled by a
telegram from
a remote town
stating that a
boy often had
chased his fos-
ter-mother in-
to her house
with an axe,
where she was
bailed up in
fear of her
life. At some
trouble and
expense th e
departmen t
sent a force to
raise the siege,
but to the aston-
ishment of the emissary he was
met by an irate female indig-
nant at the idea of parting with
her boy—a brandished axe being
apparently quite inadequate to
sever the tie that bound the two
together.
Melbourne city letter-car-
riers do far less walking than the Sydney red-
coats. In Melb., each occupier of an upstairs office
must provide a box in the corridor for his corres-
pondence ; failing such he much call for it at near-
est P.O. Sydney city carriers spend hours tramp-
ing down corridors on upstairs-floors of buildings
which contain scores of offices.
cm
&
as
Forgotten
G-o West, young woman ! One Coolgardie
publican, who hasn’t been long in the business
has nevertheless already seen 22 of his young
lydies “married off the premises.”
YES OR NO. The Bulletin says Yes,
McLEAN BROS, and RIGG Ltd., of Elizabeth-
st., Melbourne, and George-st., Sydney, are un-
doubtedly the best people for Electro-plated
goods, Pocket Cutlery, Guns, Rifles, Revolvers,
and Ammunition. Sole Agents for Cannonite
Smokeless Powder. Write for our 1898 Stove
or Gun Catalogue. Posted free any address.*
J. F. McDermott, agent for the “ Im-
perial ” and “ Progress ” Cycles, has removed to
37 Market-st. #
A list of firms who have taken shops in the
new Queen Victoria Markets will be published
next issue.
■OOSE’S CELEBRATED
BYE LOTIOKT
STANDS jALONE „
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers per.
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. f3F~' Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/-- 'per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia..
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
tt h/t i i j 178 William-st., Melbourne;
Jtly. MaiKWala, 11 Pitt-street, Sydney;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 30, 1898.
Mt Dear Myee—
Why doesn’t somebody entice Madame Buhrow
SSt ,!: ack *?. stageland ? Piquant, fascinating
little woman that she is, to see her act once is to
want to see her act again and again. Her fragile
foreran mobiil;. more . enticin g- than the most
footed ainngmhim. As for magnetism, braini-
ness, _ go, Sydney isn’t often treated to the
three in one.
Th3S Worid of Boredom, ’’ played at the Palace
liuf r^ 1 ™ 1 } cha nty, last week, was ex-
cellent relief for these bright qualities. As
l) U f a h, ne ’ A - a l ;U “, e fl ashed and sparkled, and got
lookinTat 'ntn the hollow of her hand without
S "f D , at lk No languishmg glances at the d.c.
Is o loveiy smiles at the gods. Truly the charm of
an actress who doesnt use these wiles is bevond
rubies. A pigtail and a little white frock with
completed the saucy school-
H MrS< Mar tell, in black and
diamond, acted up to every sparkle on her
corsage, and laughed as if she were tickled.
J°t - a usual thmg, I tell you. Most amateurs
do it as if the pain were so awfully bad.
I hen there was pretty Mrs. Bennett hiding
her blue eyes under spectacles, and wearing red
velvet and pink chiffon with the stiffness due to
™ A , t a . combination. Yet another fair magnet
was Miss Laloa Roberts, gowned in a pink brocade
and wide sash.
For sheer prettiness, the feminine part of the
caste couldn t well have been bettered. But the
men were not quite all woman’s fancy will persist
m painting them. The professor who quickened
every schoolgirl’s heart in Paris, for instance,
didn t altogether account for the fascination. But
Mr. Bert Davies was a comely Roget, and Mr.
Gregan MacMahon’s Frenchman in the curtain-
raiser was a dashing bit of frogdom.
Pictures are the talk of the week. People come
and go all day, at the S.A’s exhibition, and the
hoary old criticism gets more airing than its years
can stand. I mean the one that begins, “I don’t
know anything about pictures, but I know what I
like, and that picture ...” and winds up with
loudest, surest, most pretentious exposition of
all the picture ought to be and isn’t. When any-
body says to you, “I don’t know anything about
pictures, but ’’—escape for your life.
r i°^ 1 I IJ ! anir)den visited the show on Saturday
and did the generous by Julian Ashton’s “Wreck
of the Hereward.” His Ex. also hinted that Sid.
Bongs ‘ Valley’’might hang on vice-regal walls.
Sales looked up smartly after this. In fact, this
section of the long-haired biz is flourishing much
more greenly than last year. Nearly' ,£3OO was
dropped during the first day.
Now for a few outside remarks about the pic-
tures m detail. Mr. Lambert’s little pencil head
of an invalid lady suggests fragility with a puzzling
subtlety. It lsn t a thin, white face with a drawn
mouth and hollow eyes; but it gets there all the
same. I fancy the languid eyes hold the secret
Young Howard Ashton (Julian’s son) has come on
with a gallop. The Art Gallery gives forty
guineas for his “Sunny Meadows,” not such
a long way after Streeton. But his lit-
tle things strike a more original note. Mrs
Frownmg’s poem suggested Sid. Long’s “Pan”
The Art Gallery offered him 100 guineas for this
and asked him to take 50 and to make up the dif-
ference with a returned picture of his that’s been
the Art Gallery these two years. A queer line
of business, but I hear it’s quite the thing in Paris
lhere they exchange an artist’s old work for his
new, deducting for the old and paying for the im-
provement m the new. An absence of “Roses”
marks the show agreeably. Miss Muskett’s pic-
ture, with a long Latin name, tosses a skull
amongst some gorgeous breathing blossoms, and
has been snapped up by the Art Gallery. Miss
Ethel btephens sends m her usual posy, but other
people have “kindly let the flowers alone.” The
elongated ladies of Miss Thco. Proctor’s posters
are rather fetching, with sweet faces and swan
necks, and just enough humor to strike the proper
Poster note. *
But there ! woman’s views on pictures don’t
count, She pursues a line of judgment no mere
man can follow. She looks at pictures, and thinks
how would that be in the corner by the window,
transports one from the show, and hangs it over
her bedroom mantel. Sets it against the yellow
walls of her bedroom. Tries it in her little blue
hall. If it doesn t mentally suit the rest of her
furniture, it s not a very good picture, after all.
These same long-haired ones broke into frivolity
and a fancy-dress ball last week. Aubrey Beards-
ley was the inspirer of the weirdest set of pictures
that ever escaped without hanging. Skirts—of
glazed lining, buckrammed right to the waist, were
scrolled all over with nightmare designs after
Beardsley s own heart. The hair, parted in the
middle, was turned under at the ends, and stood
out round the head in a puff that couldn’t be im-
proved on for unbecomingness. Hysterical hats
reared up from the puffs, and a few mad feathers
flew in opposite directions from crown and brim.
For distinctiveness, this set was triumphant. But
for beauty-—well, even pretty Inez Bensusan was
transformed into a harpy under these cruel sar-
torial conditions.
A few people kept to the originals, and went as
themselves. Ethel Turner, in pink and white
wa,s one of these. Artists Longstaff and Julian
Ashton also scorned the trappings of other times
and other manners. Mr. Sid. Long, looking like
a pocket edition of Phil May, was a verdant-
velvet Robert Emmet. Mr. Soutar was something
m the navy, and Mrs. Soutar was a bright star as
a Soutar lady. Then there was a Masher with
little thin legs that must have been made for the
part, and a neck that could go into a six-by-eight-
inch collar. For my part, I thought this being
was the triumph of the evening. It isn’t everyone
who can keep up a vacuous eye and a meaningless
smile from 8 till 12—I mean, on ginger-pop. For
that was the most dangerous beverage the supper-
rooms afforded.
Florence Schmidt sails for fame and Europe
next week in the Armand Behie. Her letters of
introduction include the French Ministry, Earl
and Countess of Warwick, and hosts of other
celebrities. Lady who writes to her
as “Dear little Fiorina,” has given her a generous
budget, and between Voice, benefit-concerts, and
introductions, the fair Florence ought to get to
her pinnacle with less difficulty than any other
Australian singer.
But why should stage and platform snare all the
benefit entertainments ? The country doesn’t raise
and send Home promising young painters. Why
not? You can’t beat these for lack of lucre. It
as if Australia’s only ambition is to make
vocal and instrumental noise abroad.
Mrs. Todd and Mr. Fitzgerald made a great
success of Miss Schmidt’s concert. The house held
a good round sum in its precincts, and the heroine
of the evening wore a simple green brocade* and
sang very near her best. For some reason or
other, she failed to fire the audience quite as sen-
sationally as she has fired it at other concerts, but
the liquid, thrilling voice was all there. Lord and
Lady Hampden heard her for the first time, and
were “simply delighted.” A new pianist, Mr.
M‘Mineman made his appearance—his first, I
should imagine. Mr. Woodhouse presented quite
a new song, “ Only a Rosebud,” not unlike “ Only
a Violet ” and “ Only a Pansy Blossom,” and all
the other Only’s. Herr Staedtgen chose a song of
Sydney Hoben’s, .“ Galway Bay,” in which “ God
saved all the herring-fleet, ” with a running accom-
paniment. Miss Ruby Reynolds, in a rose-pink
silk, carolled of the “False and True ” in a warm
contralto, but Mrs. Lance was a trifle chilly in
“Clear and Cold.” To-morrow (Wednesday)
Mayoress Harris presents Miss Schmidt witli the
benefit cheque and a little souvenir.
One more new singer ! Miss Chism, the latest,
is a Sydney girl, who went off to Paris some years
ago, and has just returned, after a long interval of
trilling and training under Parisian teachers. She
managed a charmingly-decorated platform for her
first recital, last week. Yellow, shading from
apricot to pale pink, shone softly under peach-
tinted lamp - shades. Every light was veiled,
and the stage was turned into a graceful
drawing-room. This sort of thing is a
tremendous help towards a successful recital.
The dark-haired warbler was in junk silk, with a
F renchy skirt, and wore a spray of roses over one
ear. Most of her songs were French, and, apart
from her nervousness, and the rather heavy de-
mand made on her by the programme, her voice
proved sweet and pleasing, without startling.
But it seems that music doesn’t strike everyone
with the same smite. You know our beautiful,
educative, high-art Pleyel. Quartette’-—last week
they received a letter asking their fee for playing
weekly at certain Newtown socials.
; “Daddy” Hallewell is the next on the benefit-
list. His concert is in preparation, under Sir
William Manning’s guidance.
From Nicholson and Co. comes a bundle of songs
stamped with . the London market’s approval.
Hope Temple indulges in some sad, sweet stuff
about the “Scent of the Mignonette,” which
doesn’t seem to differ much from an “ Old Garden, ”
“My Lady’s Bower,” and other Hope Temple
blossoms. The song is nicely harmonised, how-
ever, and any young thing of 50 could sing it in
the twilight with much advantage. Walter Wad-
ham’s emotional “Come to Me ” is a sweet little
effort for the contralto voice with tears in it.
“The Young Royalist,” by Stephen Adams—well,
we all know all about this sort of ballad. Before
we open it we realise that somebody “lieth dead ”
on the lowest note possible, and in other respects
the song is all it ought to be.
Music by local composers includes the “Valen-
tine Waltz,” by Louise Imray ; a pleasing effort
that is not quite like all other waltzes, yet isn’t
aggressively different. I heard this performed at
the Freemasons’ Ball, and can testify that it is an
easy waltz to trip to. From Mrs., Marcus Cl rke
comes a mournful little song by the gifted Marcus,
“ Those Vanished Years,” set to music by Alfred
Plumpton. Miss. May Pettifer sends me two
songs of her own inspiration, one of which, “ Star-
light,” is high above the average, and links
musicianly culture with feeling in a truly distinc-
tive union. The other, the “ Troubadour’s Seren-
ade,’’has nothing of the middle ages in its fresh
and simple melody, despite the title.
The new color “ periwinkle-blue,” which crops
up in latest sassiety gossip, reminds me that
“ underdone steak ” would be a good name for a
suitable shade of purple. And when is “stewed
pear ” coming into fashion ?
Every now and then an epidemic of outcries
against the theatre-hat goes round the world. But
something worse has arisen. Something that alto-
gether outshines the crude wickedness of the hat
trimmed with one ostrich and two daisy bushes.
The new crime falls down instead of standing up.
It is made of jet, and it dangles from the shoul-
ders, arms, waist, and sash of every theatre-goer
who respects herself. And as it dangles, it cackles.
When the wearer laughs, it jangles. When she
sighs, it makes a noise like an ungreased waggon-
axle. When she moves about, it chatters. And,
with every sound, the wearer beams on herself and
tells you,. “What I like about jet trimming is the
lovely noise it makes. ”
The question arises, would you rather see a play,
or hear it ? If the latter, choose the seat behind
the lady with the ostrich hat; if the former, the
lady in pendant pailettes will do well enough.
Talking of hats, a North Sydney church gravely
issues this order:—
To All Young People at the Holy Communion. —When
kneeling- at the altar rails, please <lo not lean over the
rails, and do not bend forward your head. It does not
look reverent at any time. And just now the style of hat
which is common makes the practice peculiarly incon-
venient, the hands of t he would-be communicant being
often hidden from view.
Which makes one wonder if pendant jet has
driven the theatre hat to church in search of fresh
prey.
The pretty Sydney girl who married a Mel-
bourne professor some years ago has gone to
New York. There she follows the family leaning,
and is said to be earning a sensational wage at
journalism.
Another Sydney lady, Miss Margie Windeyer,
is also living in the States for the time being. She
is studying library work, with a view to working
up the same in Australia later on.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Of the three society girls who had the courage
to don the hose and doublet of Rosalind at Melb.
Shakespeare ball, the one who wore ‘them’ with
greatest advantage was the young and pretty
original of Tom Roberts’s “Type of Australian
Beauty, ” which attracted so much attention a few
years back. After all, the courage to show in hose
is mostly born of a woman’s confidence in her
form.
“ As a spectacle, the Shakesperian ball was per-
haps a shade disappointing. Fancy-dress gather-
ing always will be patchy, I suppose, considering
how they lend themselves to the devices of the
garish, the tawdry and the shabby-smart. Then
there is that blot on the pageant, the woman who
snaps at every chance of letting down her hair and
cutting short her skirts. Maybe she lugs round a
sheaf of wilted garden-stuff and calls herself
‘ Flower-girl ’ or ‘Spring,’ or jangles beads gipsy-
wise, or bunches her hip-draperies A la Dolly
Varden, but so long as her curls and calves are
on view she doesn’t care tuppence. The aggravat-
ing part of it is that these giddy-girhes are gener-
ally thick-ankled, and instead of' hair, are thatched
with tangled fuzz, that looks as if from its
youth up it had been teazed the wrong way
with a curry-comb. Not that male masqueraders
need snigger at the mistakes of our sex, so over-
prone are they themselves to economise in nether-
clothing without sufficient leg-encouragement.
“However, there was plenty to admire at this
particular ball. A tall, dark-eyed nephew of Lady
Madden’s made a.beautiful Bassanio in blue satin
and pointed beard, until he doffed half his charm
with the latter. The youngest grown-up Miss
Madden, less pretty than one sister and not so
beaming as the other, sat at Ma’s elbow, powdered,
patched, and white - pelissed. Sister Daisie, also
m powder and patches, had the skirt of her
white silk frock festooned apron-wise with
lace. The flower of the flock, in shim-
mering black frock and gloomy tips in her
hair, looked the daintiest little damsel there-
abouts. Then there was Mayor M‘Eacharn,
baring a pair of, well—only so-so—legs to the
draughts, and so rotund of rear-kilt as to rouse
suspicions of artificial distention. Of course,
appearances must have been deceptive, as what
could have been the motive of such sartorial
policy V The Mayoress, as some Shakespearian
heroine or other, wore lashins of rose satin, with
jewelled splashes of pale blue and white, the
costliest costume in the room probably, and
especially designed for the occasion by Hugh
Paterson.
“Naturally a Shakespearian function was the
signal for a gathering of Neild clans, chieftained
by the Doctor himself as Adam (‘Asyou like it ’),
while son Joe did Rosalind in boy’s garb. Mrs.
Marcus Clarke and daughter Rose also took part
in Dr. _ Neild’s set as Shepherdess and Phoebe
respectively.
“Linda Raymond had all she could do to carry
off the Maiden Monarch’s auburn wig, ruffles, and
brocaded robes. Not that she couldn’t give points
to poor old Queen Bess in complexion and sich,
thanks, maybe, to modern improvements in facial
make-up. But, taken altogether, she failed to
stand out of the ruck like tall, stately Lady Mac-
beth, and, overweighted by Elizabethan finery,
couldn’t play her own powerful trump-card—that
delightful figure of hers, so popular with play-
goers, owing to the owner’s frank sartorial methods
m her r6le of frivolous ‘ Sign of the Cross ’ patri-
cienne. History repeats itself, and a devoted
Leicester, in the person of a large local haber-
dasher, twirled his moustache fiercely in Her
Majesty’s train all evening, not much to the satis-
faction one hears of fair belongings.
Ah well! Folks are finding out they know their way about
Those put-upon Amy Robsarts of to-day !
Biondi looked quite a pocket Adonis tripping
round in ‘ pink ’—a fair young thing in white with
golden hair a-lianging down her back on one side,
and a damsel in gauzy blank on t’other. Of
course heavy-weights elected to call themselves
‘flying-ants’ and ‘midgets,’ and so on. And
one couldn’t condone a Dutch-built dowager’s
rendering of a harem belle. No such wes-
tern abominations as corsets, mind you, but
various anatomical details sort of shown up by
explanatory though unnecessary patches of con-
trasting color. I call it - embarrassing ! Then
there were several stumpy male exponents of
minor Shakespearian parts. Soft felt hats, jer-
kins, jack-boots and tow-colored hair hanging
inanely round the face. Surgeon O’Hara, as
‘ Gentleman of Verona,’ wore, amongst other
things, a redded beard and white cap on beefeater
lines. Daughter Eily, in Carmen costume, sug-
gested a roguish colleen rather than a Romany
lass. Apparently the Nicest don’t set much store
by ‘ The Swan of Avon.’ That night their parrot
cry was, ‘ I don’t know anything about Shake-
speare, do you ?’
“ The latest version of a Red Sea catastrophe
sets forth that, as a side-issue of that cheerful
supper-party, a consequential little matron on
board locked up a certain potentate in his cabin,
remarking, ‘Now, you naughty old man, stop
there till you can behave.’ Whatever his fault,
the sinner’s punishment was greater than deserved
or intended, for by the time liis gaoler bethought
herself to let him out, the fat was in the fire with
a vengeance.
“ Lord William Neville has been relieved of
the ‘ hard labor ’ imposed by the Judge and is now
doing time on ‘ sick leave ’ in the prison infirmary.
When he was in Australia, 10 years ago, a certain
magnate ‘nursed’him assiduously and ultimately
made him a cash offer of £BO,OO0 —for a life-
interest in his title in the shape of a marriage
with his daughter. But, at the time, Neville was
a pale, ascetic youth with aspirations for the priest-
hood (he seems to have altered since), and de-
clined both cash and daughter. He afterwards
admitted that the girl wasn’t a bad sort, but the
old man, as a father-in-law, was absolutely ‘ im-
possible. ’ And yet that old man considers himself
one of the most select of the very Naicest.
“Gov. Brassey’schildren-in-lawand connections
. worry the old man more than enough. Earl de la
Warr, of the Hooley affair, is a Brassey daughter’s
husband,_ and scapegrace Neville, of that bygone
scandal, is brother-in-law to Brassey junior.
“Let it be counted to Gov. Brassey for righteous-
ness that he has signed the petition to London
County Council, asking that body to subsidise a
permanent Opera House in London. This is a
demand for a large and important measure of
municipal socialism in art. An Opera House sub-
sidised by the municipality would have to be fol-
lowed by a theatre similarly supported. Would
Brassey lend his aid to a similar movement in
Melbourne ? If so, what would the Akgus, Mur-
ray Smith, and the clique that regard the approach
of anything like Socialism as a dread spectre, have
to say ?
“ Be that bank official who suicided this week at
Sale (Vic.), deceased received his late appointment
when the then manager of the Sale branch killed
himself and children and severely wounded his
wife. The latter, who recovered and married
again, is a grand-daughter of old Anglican Parson
Buckle, just dead at the age of 98.
“Poor old Mr. Puckle ! Ages ago, when he
seemed just tottering on the ridge of ‘ the Great
Divide, ’ his congregation voted him a pension for
his brief remaining span. But he lived on and on,
while parochial finances dwindled and successive
incumbents brooded grudgingly over the ex-
shepherd’s allowance, and calculated what a
delightful difference its amount would make to
their own funds. They do say that a subsequent
parson’s worrited wife once said plainly to Mrs.
Puckle, on the latter’s at-home day, that it seemed
inconsistent in so saintly a man to cling thus
tenaciously to this wicked world. I wouldn’t put
it past some women to say anything. In a torrid
Northern town, for instance, an elderly magnate
died, leading a disconsolate widow. The latter,
bemoaning herself to a sympathetic friend, sug-
gested that her hearer’s husband, a much older
man, ought to have been taken instead of her own
‘ poor darling. ’
Curious how the comely Australian woman,
chastened in spirit but not broken, betakes her to
hospital-nursing, which thus becomes a sort of half-
way house to the old-fashioned nunnery. So the
fair Helen who lately led to some stabbing in a
city office, followed by a criminal prosecution and
much pother thereupon, is now one of the minis-
tering angels in a near-by private hospital.
“Of three new songs to hand from Ricordi
(London), ‘The Night has a Thousand Eyes,’
words by Francis Bourdillon, music by Walter
Head, has fine music, as well as the sentiment of
the verses in its 20 metrical notes. This song
deserves to be a favorite with any singer possessed
of even a little bit of soul. ‘A Vision of
Peace,’words and music by Alma Gabriel, is a
good composition of the devotional descriptive
order; also ‘ Parquita,’ Spanish Bolero song, words
by Percy Pinkerton, music by N. Yardo, has
plenty of the sun and color of the South in its
lively movement, and should presently get an
effective mezzo-soprano rendering in public.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
The Callaghan Comfort.
Those who have never worn a Callaghan
Boot or Shoe have no notion of what we really
do for foot comfort. Ask any of our cus-
tomers who were sufferers from tender feet
before they came to us. They will convince
you of the advantages of our expert know-
ledge.
Come to us for your Boots
or Shoes for the Summer
—the trying season for
tender feet.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-st., Sydney.
All Drapers Everywhere.
The Grirl Who Blushes.
Blushes are of several varieties. There’s the
modest blush, the -angry flush, the joyful blush,
and the shameful blush. Girls blush on all sorts
of occasions. Some of them are continually blush-
ing, while others never even so much as havo a
decent color. The girl that blushes is generally
very young, usually between 14 and 20, and she
is then passing through possibly the most critical
part of her career. The organs that compose her
womanhood are at that time assuming their proper
proportions, and beginning to fulfil their various
functions. During this period great care must be
taken as to the general health of the individual.
Pages upon pages have been written upon this
subject, and yet we see everywhere pale, pasty-
oomplexioned girls whose looks and languid
actions show plainly the weakness of their entire
system. At this critical period the digestive
organs must be kept in thorough working order,
and no waste matter must be allowed to remain in
the system. Probably three-fourths of the de-
rangements of the female organs from which so
many women suffer are caused by the clogging
through the presence of waste matter, of the ducts’,
or pipes, immediately surrounding or connecting
with the several organs. Bile Beans for Bilious-
ness are essentially a medicine for the regulating
of the whole digestive system ; they clear off all
waste and impure substances, invigorate the liver
purify the blood, and enliven the circulation!
Acting in this manner, they keep the delicate
organs of the body free from detrimental outside
influences, and consequently minimise the danger
'that besets a girl just budding into womanhood.*
I >#*v . !
GLOBE TEAS have mq E< i uaL
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
N.S.W. ex-Labor member George Black
is now editor of the Barrier Truth, a trades-union
organ at Broken Hill.
The Irish Independent taunts Gavan
Duffy with being an Englishman. Why not “a
colonial ”? He has been drawing a =£looo pension
from Victoria for Heaven only knows how many
years.
“ Bushrat The grave of Locliie M‘Bean,
whose death some years ago enriched so many,
lies unmarked, neglected, and uncared-for in
Deniliquin cemetery.
There are more N.S. Wales-born members
in Queensland Parliament than there are Queens-
land-born, the numbers being nine of the former
and eight of the latter.
“Banjo” Paterson’s Book of Bulletin
Verses, “The Man from Snowy River,” is now
in its 15th thousand. It is very rarely that the
world hears of any five-shilling book of verses
being in its fifteenth thousand.
Premier Turner is a much happier man
since his surgical operation relieved his body, and
a good surplus relieved his mind. He has become
his old beaming, genial self again, and his smile
illumines the Treasury bench.
The centenary of the birth of John Dun-
more Lang occurs on August 25 next year, when.
The Bulletin presumes, the Scots of N.S.W.
will enthuse with a big Bible in one hand and a
bottle of good Hielan’ dew in the other.
E. A. Wallace, ex-chess champion of Aus-
tralia, is just now recovering from measles, and
intends to pay a visit to Brisbane or Melbourne.
On his return he should be in a beautifully fit con-
dition to wipe out the survivor of the jacobsen-
Jonas match.
From 1794 to the present—a period of 104
years—St. John’s Church, Parramatta, has had
only four incumbents. Marsden, the first incum-
bent, held the post for 44 years, and Gunther, the
present occupant, now on leave of absence, has
ruled there since 1868.
S.A. still has two millionaires in R. Barr-
Smith, the late Thomas Elder’s brother-in-law
and partner, and Edward Spicer, who is nearly 80
and in failing health. Spicer was one of the
earliest S.A. pioneers and made his first start by
overlanding sheep in the forties.
Pa Pinnock, of Brisbane (Q.), in exedsis:
“ If I had the power I would certainly order any
man who used such language to be flogged.” The
amiable, yet irascible, Pinnock among the flagella-
tors ! “ A man with a ’eart,” too, for “cruelty
to animals.” Recipe: Liver pills.
In the person of T. Gonnly one more of
the sensationally-saved Gundagaiites of 46 years
ago has passed away. He was saved by his
brother, the present N.S. Wales M.P. Gundagai
was almost obliterated in the deluge of that date,
89 persons perishing in the flood waters.
Mat Battersby, the new teetotaller of Q.
Assembly: “I talk when I’m talking. (Grins.)
I mean I talk when I’m speaking. (Convulsions.)
No—er—l spalk when I’m teaking.” Andy Daw-
son: “You’re talking through your neck.” Mat:
“What else would I talk through ? ” Tea is con-
fusion to the clear intellect.
One Methodist clergyman, devoting all his
time last year to N.S.W. mission work, made an
income of =£s2, two others made £92 each, another
made £lOO, and another £lOB. All are married,
and three have families. Little wonder so many
of that religious brand try for seats in Parliament
or pass over to newspaper work.
Acting-Governor Madden’s tather-in-law,
attorney Frank Stephen, divided with Albert
Read the Melb. police-court practice 45 years ago.
Frank wrote to the Argus that the suburban
sticking-up yarns were absurdly exaggerated. A
correspondent retorted that the proceeds mainly
went (as fees, in defence) into Frank’s pocket.
Young Millais, the original of Millais’
soap-picture, “ Bubbles,” is at present in Corowa
district, staying with his uncle, Mr. Gray, of
Kentucky station. He is in his teens now, and is
middy on H.M.S. Royal Arthur. As a matter of
course, he is nick-named “Bubbles,” and at
Corowa show, the other day, was quite an interest-
ing exhibit.
N.S. Wales Supreme Court bench now
consists of two Irishmen (Darley and Owen), two
Englishmen (A. H. Simpson arid W. G. Walker),
and three Australians (M. H. Stephen, V.D.L. ;
G. B. Simpson, Parramatta ; and H. E. Cohen,
(Port Macquarie). All, excepting Judge Cohen,
who is proud of being a good Hebrew, are Angli-
can churchmen.
Editor Sam Winter, of Melb. ’Erald,
turned up again from Europe the other day, and
immediately got interviewed by his own little
journal re his opinions on the world at large.
Winter had not seen any country to equal Victoria
as regards climate, people, or opportunities for
making money easily. Which sounds a little bit
rough on the Herald.
At an Australian University recently one
of the professors, whilst calling the roll, asked “Is
Mr. Jones absent ? ” to which Mr. Jones himself
gave a negative. Nevertheless, when the marked
roll was read out, amongst the absentees was
Jones. “Oh, well,” said the absent-minded pun-
dit, when expostulated with, “I thought you told
me you were not here ! ”
The Marshall-Hall discussion is resusci-
tating many old controversies on the Nude in Art,
Literature and Theology. Swinburne’s reply to
those who charged him with “ immodesty and im-
fiety ” seems to be the favorite in Melbourne.
'erhaps the best thing ever done in this line was
O’Connor’s defence of Walt Whitman when the
latter got the sack from the Government for pub-
lishing “Leaves of Grass.” It is a masterpiece
of virulent invective, copious illustration and
chivalric comradeship. It is called “The Good
Gray Poet,” and is given in full in Bucke’s life of
Walt Whitman.
Gov. Madden’s position at the bar, in
early years, seemed so hopeless that he applied
for the poor billet of Melb. University librarian,
where he would probably have remained till now.
Madden and Purves sulked together at the junior
bar. Even then bald, Madden was thought
handicapped out, by taking the Academic title of
Doctor. As for Purves, it was said that his hang-
dog style, and ignorance of law, blocked him alto-
gether.
Apropos Marcus Clarke, it may be men-
tioned again that the novel of “ Long Odds,”
lately republished in London as his, includes com-
paratively little of his writing. About three-parts
was written by his friend, Walstab, now of
Melb. Herald, and formerly editor of Calcutta
Englishman, author of the novel “ Harcourt
Darrell” and others. Clarke began “Long Odds”
for the Colonial Monthly, Melb., and had not
gone far when he met with a hunting accident,
which long crippled him.
The heartiest laugh during S.A. Budget
speech was raised at the expense of Paddy Glynn.
Treas. Holder was stating that during last year
the bonded debt of the province had been reduced
from £6B 7s. 2d. to£67 15s. 7d. per head. “Oh,”
interjected Glynn thoughtlessly, “ that is because
of an increase of population.” Whereupon
Grainger: “ Yes, Glynn has got a baby.” That
little event had happened on the previous. Satur-
day, Glynn’s bachelorhood having been ended at
the time of Sydney Convention.
Mr. Justice G. B. Simpson (N.S. W.) rarely
omits a mild pleasantry when opportunity presents
itself. During the course of the argument of a spe-
cial case his colleague on the bench remarked that a
certain passage in a Privy Council decision was
the “ kernel ”of the whole decision. “At any
rate,” observed Simpson J., “it is the ‘major’
part of it.” Which little trifle having failed to
receive due recognition by the bar, when the court
rose his H nor gave instructions to have the
acoustic arrangements of the court seen to.
Perhaps the largest Chinese owner of
freehold estate in Australia is Ah Chee, a store-
keeper at Tumut, N.S. W. During the past few
months he has paid £10,860 for freeholds, includ-
ing the Westwood Estate near Tumut, and the
Club House Hotel at Gundagai. Ah Chee is the
father of t" o clever half-caste daughters, both of
whom hold Trinity College music certificates, and
one son, a youth who, at the Scots College, Wool-
lahra, last Xmas, secured the gold-medal for
being the most popular boj in the school, on the
votes of his school-mates.
Australian birthdays for Sept, include :
Judge Burnley (S.A.), 60 on Ist; Ex-Treas. John
Henry (Tas.), same day; Bishop Reunion, once
of Adelaide and now of Bath and Wells, 53 on
sth; Works Minister Jenkins (S.A.), 47 on Bth;
Spofforth, 43 on 9th ; Card. Moran, 68 on 16th;
Chief Justice Darley, 68 on 18th; Jones, the
bowler, 27 on 20th, and ex-Prc-mier Colton (S.A.)
75 on same day; Lord Hopetoun, 38 on 25th ;
Sheriff Booth by (S.A.), Father of Vote by
Ballot, 69 on 26th ; Symon, Q.C. (S.A.), on 27th,
and Speaker Abbott, 56 on 29th.
HAVING A GOOD TIME.
“Shay, Bill, where's the nearest pub now?”
If the politically - discredited Gould be
appointed N.S.W. Agent-General, it will be
because the office carries but a small (and utterly
disproportionate) salary, and Gould will be able
to subsidise it out of his money-bags. But why
should N.S.W. demean itself by thus loafing on a
gilded nonentity?
IF THE CALF DESERVED IT.
SHE: “ But wouldn't he kill the patted calf if you
went home? ”
THE PRODIGAL: “Perhaps; if it showed signs of
tuberculosis.”
Adela Verne, as somebody has remarked,
was not of the right sex to make a great Austra-
lian success. Pianoforte-players appeal to women
chiefly. All women have, at one time or other,
felt a desire to shine at the pianoforte, and they
are interested in the movements of the public per-
former’s hands even though they are not musical
in the artistic sense of the term. But they need
more than a mild interest to attract them in
crowds to a concert. They want the excitement
that comes from a man’s hands flying over the
keys. Then their nerves are the notes which
respond to the muscular touch. Mark Hambourg
was only a boy, but quite old enough to impart
thrills to the dear creatures. Adela Verne gave
them no more sensation than if she had kissed
them.
Because Macpherson, one-
time N.S. Wales M.P., rarely
made a speech without luring
in Pope’s line “The rest is
all but leather or prunella,”
he was known to reporters as
“Old Prunella.” A new re-
porter on the Empire was in
the gallery. “ Don’t trouble
to report old Prunella,” said
the leader of the staff. “Just
say he spoke, and go on with
the next.” And the following
day there appeared: “ Mr.
Prunella made a few observa-
tions in opposition to the Govt,
proposal.” But, when the green
hand had to explain, he did it
with such tact that old Prunella
asked him to dinner.
‘ ‘ Are our promising band
of Australian writers one-book
men?” writes “H.F.” to The
Bulletin. “ Becke has never
bettered ‘By Reef and Palm.’
‘ Robbery Under Arms ’ is
solitary. One doubts if Law-
son or Paterson will ever eaual
his first venture ; anyway, they
make no sign of profiting fur-
ther by the high flood of popu-
larity. Ethel Turner’s light
has grown no brighter by
burning. Is our genius frag-
mentary and effervescent, born
and passing with youth ? Or
is the exegesis of the short
story chiefly responsible; or is
purely-Australian material too
barren for continuous cultiva-
tion ? Our samples are good
enough. Where is the bulk ? ”
Basil Gray, recently killed when (aged
over 70) in the hunting-field in Victoria - the old
man, when expostulated with on the danger of
“straight” riding at his age, used to say “as
well die that way as any other”—was a son of
Major Gray, an old-time settler in Tasmania, and
came of a family of “ the right sort.” He had a
brother, Humphrey, and a sister, Fanny. The
latter was a bright girl, who rode splendidly,
drove four-in-hand, and had a merry wit. Once,
when she was dancing with a young subaltern of
the 96th Regt., just out from England, and green
as Christmas goose, the youth, making a tremen-
dous effort to open a conversation, asked her if
she wore flannel waistcoats. “To lie sure,” she
answered blithely, “ and petticoats too. And you?
How nice ! I’m sure we shall be friends, with
tastes in common.” And the boy fell in love with
her up to his neck.
The most audacious fictionist could not
venture to give a character such marvellous luck
as that of Corporal Laurie, of the Seaforth High-
landers, at the recent Soudan battle of Atbara.
“ I was struck,” he writes, “ but—
I have often been worse hurt in a football match. I
have been questioned by almost every officer in the
battalion and asked if I would mind letting a section fire
a few rounds at me to see if they could do me any harm.
After I entered the Zareba a bullet took off the toe of my
left shoe without hitting my foot, the shoe being a size
too big, for easy marching. Then my bayonet was struck
and bent at right angles. Then a shot went through my
sleeve, tearing two holes but not hurting myself. Then
my rifle was struck while I wasloading, the bullet.splinter-
ing the butt and being stopped by an iron bolt. This
bullet would certainly have gone right into my body but
for my rifle. Then a nigger in i trench let drive at me
with a spear, missed my ribs by an inch and slit up my
haversack. A bullet then grazed the back of my hand,
just enough to make it bleed. When I reached the river
bank, a shot from the bottom entered my right ammuni-
tion pouch, went into my right coat pocket, smashing a
penknife and two pencils, tore four holes in my shirt,
made a surface wound two or three inches long on my left
breast, and came out near my left shoulder through my
coat and ammunition poueii braces. This scratch has
never troubled me at all: in fact, it was a farce to put it
as a wound, and was done without my knowledge by the
color-sergeant.
" The “mighty dust’’ of Westminster Abbey
badly needs sub-editing. The interment of Glad-
stone calls attention to the fact that there is not
now room for more than 90 interments in the
Abbey ; total number of burials therein since 1600
having been about 3000.
Opinions of Vic. “ remandeds-for-sent-
ence,” as to characteristics of the various Judges.
Chief Justice Madden gives light sentences.
Ho d is a perfect terror ; Hodges is patient, but
very severe when he puts his foot down. But
it is quite pleasant to be sentenced by Casey, who
smiles at his victim all the time, till prisoner feels
he “ could do it on his head.”
Ominous rumors circulate in London re
the alleged untrustworthiness of the celebrated
torpedo, the invention of the Australian, Louis
Brennan. Brennan is talked of as a man of
hitherto phenomenal luck as distinct from special
merit. London Truth hints that his failures are
kept secret, and demands public investigation into
one or more mysterious “ accidents.”
Commenting on S’langdon BonythonA
total-abstinence, Sydney D.T.’s London corres-
pondent (apparently a South Australian) says
that, “ like most cultured Australians,” S’langdon
drinks chiefly tea. This is a lot more than the
culchawed Australian will ever be able to live up
to. As for the common brand of Kangaroorian,
he’s all there for the tea —and the “ booze.”
Hornsby, on the North Sydney line, a
village whose residents ask the Government to
change its name, was originally a grant of land
made to Sam Horn, for shooting and capturing
bushranger Macnamara and party, in 1829.
Thornleigh, a neighboring village, was so called
from having been a grant of land to one John
Thorn, for his participation in the same exploit.
“I’m supported by every class in the
community except one —the millionaires,” boasted
Premier Reid to a crowd of working-men in
his election fight for King Division. A week or
two later —after the election—he was being dined
and wined as the guest of the world’s sheep-king,
M‘Caughey, in Riverina. Reid ought to be
prosecuted for obtaining cheers under false pre-
tences.
Of the 36 members elected to the first
S.A. Leg. Assembly in 1857, the present survivors
are Messrs. Luther Scammell, John Harvey, G.
M. Waterhouse (afterwards Premier of Maori-
land), F. Krichauff and H. B. T. Strangways
(now in Eng.). The only survivor of the Leg.
Council elected on same date is Sam Davenport,
who received his earliest appointment to the old
nominee Council in ’46.
When Father Petre came to Campbelltown
(N.S.W.) parish he succeeded in roping in a cer-
tain theretofore incorrigible, wild Irishman, who,
however, when confession was suggested to him,
replied, “Look here, ver riverence, at the top of
the calendar of sins, yer riverence, stands murder.
Well, just cross that off, an’ I’ll answer ‘ yes ’ to
every sin that follows it, an’ you can start me
fresh wid a clane sheet.”
“Melb.”: Demise, ex-M.L.C. James
Graham, octogenarian, though he never got a
day older than 50. Happiest man in this city,
ever jaunty, plenty of money, best of health,
troops of friends, delicious home, and he only
dabbled in polities for fun. From the promenade
on the high roof of the Palace Hotel, Bourke-st.,
you look down on the east side and see the little
bluestone house where Graham lived nearly hnlf-
a-century ago. He is buried in the old cemetery,
and will be the last man in this place, now becom-
ing a plain razeed field with tombstones and
fences vanishing.
Prof. Marshall-Hall was always a musical
swashbuckler. In the days of the old Musical
Times in London he wrote slashing criticisms for
it, and was regarded as one of the coming men in
music. J. F. Runciman, the brilliant Saturday
Review critic, owes his introduction to journalism
to Marshall-Hall, and G. Bernard Shaw was a
friend of his in the days when that weird genius
wrote delightfully humorous musical criticisms
over the pen-name of “ Corno di Bassetto ” in the
Star. M.H. hardly gained financially by coming
to Melbourne, though he was advised to do so by
Sir George Grove and other friendly experts.
A distinguished Australian railway official
lately visited Krupp’s vast metal-works at Essen,
Prussia, and was lost in admiration of the arrange-
ments for the actual and prospective well-being of
the sixteen thousand employes. “ Why,” he said
to the director, “ this is Socialism —virtually com-
plete Socialism —and under a strictly monarchical
system of government ! As an enthusiastic
Socialist myself, I congratulate you ! ” Later on,
at luncheon, he was spreading himself about the
style required in travelling by a first-class mail
steamer from Australia. “ Such a lot of luggage
needed, you know beastly nuisance always
having to dress for dinner. Why, I had to bring
along about forty shirts myself.” “Himmel!”
said the director— “ a Zocialist mit forty shirds ! ”
King O'Malley, M.P., arose in S.A.
Assembly, t’other day, to make his annual
“speech.” Extracts: —
Variegated men made the laws for them, disposed of
their property, persons and children, and they had to
suffer it with a patient shrug until Democracy in seven-
leagued hobnailed boots went to their rescue, and those
hobnailed boots would kick the stuffing out of the blood-
less-veined, blossom-nosed bullies who attempted to sit
on their rights. ... He could not believe pulsating flesh
in the passionate form of woman should be forced to
suffer the pangs of deprivation, while the decomposing
cause of her misery wore a crown of glory fluttering
around the lit-gilt mountains of immortality.
O’Malley’s annual rhetorical effort is quite an in-
stitution in S.A.
The grandfather of our visitor, the present
Duke of Manchester, was an uncouth prototype
of the Lowles and Somers Vine exploiters of to-
day. He fastened hungry eyes on Australian
prairies nearly a generation ago, and, had he had
his way, he and Gen. Feilding—a valorous guinea-
pig and a brave and skilful soldier : he it was who
plotted out with Chanzy the campaign on the
Loire —would now have owned all Queensland at
the least. But Manchester did his preliminaries
on horseback and in flannels, and expressed his
intentions in bad English in wayside pubs, and
diggers’ camps, and his schemes consequently got
“blown on.” Palmer, who nearly fell under, at
last shook him off, for the old man began to treat
everyone as if he was already owner of his house
and home. Lowles and Vine played their game
differently, and have come nearer success. They
kept away from pubs, and common people, worked
the Secretary of State, a Governor or two and a
limp Premier, and went back and fired their bomb
from London.
People You Know.
NO. 2.-THE POSTMAN.
A rural postman writes : —“ I desire to add this
unsolicited testimony to the sterling qualities of
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa. I am a rural postman,
and exposed to all kinds of weathers. I have used
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa daily this last eleven
months, and I believe that I can do my work with
less fatigue since I have used it. I can honestly
recommend to my fellow postmen Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa for its sustaining qualities.”
Of late years many new manufactures, rejoicing
in a multiplicity of names, have been brought
before the public notice, but there are none which
have bounded into favor so readily as has Dr.
'Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa. Throughout the country its
sales have increased with great rapidity, and an
article which only a few years back w r as unheard-
of has now become one of the most popular bever-
ages of the people.
Merit, and merit alone, is what is claimed for
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and the Proprietors are pre-
pared to send to any reader who names The Bulle-
tin (a postcard will do) a dainty sample tin of Dr.
Tibbies’ Vi Cocoa free and post-paid. There is no
magic in all this. It is a plain, honest, straight-
forward offer. It is done to introduce the merits
of Vi-Cocoa into every home. Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-
Cocoa, as a concentrated form of nourishment, and
vitality, is invaluable ; nay, more than this, for
to all who wish to face the strife and battle of
life with greater endurance and more sustained
exertion, it is absolutely indispensable.
Dr. Tibbies’Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers, and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-st., Sydney.
SMIOKE
THREE CASTLES
ceSttcs
thru castles
CIGARETTES.
It’ YOU WANT TIIK BEST
WHISKY, DRINK ...
Williams’.
Tucker & O =>.,
Agents. SYDNEY.


Aboriginalities.
J.S. : The most dangerous class of
confidence-men, at whose mercy country visitors
are placed, are certain hotel-runners or touts—as
wrll be evident from the explanation given to me
by one when I asked how jewellery, oigars, fine
clothes, and other creature comforts were obtained
by him out of 255. per week and a commission of
. per v rder. Loq. : “My last haul was a
fellow come down to see the doctors—cancer I
recommended Dr.-—, and Dr. advised
his private hospital—lo guineas per week and
operating-fees. Ten weeks he put in, and then
died after paying a bill close on £2OO. I netted
£l5 for my cut. Good cigars? Rather 1 Blank,
the tobacconist down the street, keeps me in ’em!
It pays him, too, I tell you. You see all those
slop-clothing shops down street ? Well, I have an
arrangement with all of them, but none of the
plain-figure places are any good to me. I handle
anything and everything. I’ve brought it down
that hue that I know shops- wholesale and retail
in every line that you could mention that all
put a bit on for me ’ —for the recommendation
and introduction. But the doctors are the best.
My word, they can charge, and get it, too. Yes
one sick man is worth more than a dozen well
ones, if I can work him. But a good many know
the ropes, and won’t take me on, so I don’t waste
time on them and leave them to the publican.”
I hen 1 sniffed his cigar, looked at his swell suit
chain and diamond ring, and wondered no more
as ho went down street with a young* man from
wayback bent on buying a house of furniture.
* • • •
“ Cosmos ” . Comparing notes with a
traveller ” recently. He told me that walking
was a pleasure. Showed his feet ; both little toes
amputated ! Said he had often suffered when on
the track. So one big oheque-time went to the
metropolis, laid in a stock of tobacco and books,
and then paid a surgeon to remove the useless
absurdities. And the writer, remembering the
times he had been handicapped by the little toes
applauded the wisdom of that “ traveller.”
* • « *
Another Burrowa (N.S. W.) story. In the
fighting days of Burrowa, when the late John
Nagle Ryan was king, the rival parties used to
cart road-metal on to the local racecourse for days
before a public holiday, on which a glorious battle
would invariably start at daylight and wage furi-
ously, with due intermissions for drinks, until sun-
down, when the slain and wounded would be
swept up and forwarded to their various homes
for burial or repairs. On the day following one
of these battles, a Presbyterian parson, nearing
aforesaid township, met a battered and blood-
stained individual who looked as if he had just been
through a sausage-machine, staggering along the
road, and leaving a trail of gore behind him. The
good clergyman, of course, pulled up. “What’s
wrong, my man? Are you hurt?” “Och! not
at all,” gasped the wreck, painfully. “Shure,
we’ve just been havin’a bit of fun in town; there
was the Ryans and O’Connells and Murphys,
CAREFUL OF THE MOKE.
CABBY (suddenly): “ Say I mister , hold on a shake till I turn the horse round.
If he teas to see what he’s been pulling for a bob he’d die
Standin’ up ”
great to ™ e -” “But what w'. 11
your wife say to you when you go home in this
state? ” asked the amazed parson. “ Och, nothin’
at all,” answered the smashed warrior, and,
putting his hand in his pocket, he hauled out a
man sear. “ What the divil will his wife say to
him? he screeched, triumphantly waving it aloft,
* * • .
Brisbane (Q.) Street gives a verbatim
copy of a local Jay pee’s written decisions :
Ajorned until Munday No apperence and ajurned
Fine ten shillings cost court 3s. 6d. one wittiness ex-
pences ss. in deforlt seven days in prisonment.—Fine 10s.
cost court ss. Iod. one witness expences ss. Indefault 7
days in prisonment,—Fine 10s. in each case being one
pound 5s 4d. in each case also ss. wittiness expences in
one case Indefault 7 days in prisonment sentence to be
accermelative.—Ajurned.—Case dismist perfessonel one
guine one witterness ss. in default Levey an Distress, or
in default of no goods to Levey on 7 days in prisonment
No apperence.—Fine one pound Down 10s. per week
until paid £22 perfessnl cost, 15s. 3 wittiness cost court
Bs. Indefault one months in prisonroent.—Fine £1 pre-
lecenal kost £2 2s. cost oourt court 6s. 4d. three witti-
ness 16s. tobealowed 7 days to pay Indeforlt 7 days in
prison ment Case dismist Profectional cost one guine In-
aefault Leavy and Distress or insuffent goods 7 days In
pnsonment Adjurned.—Case Dismist no Eedence given.
• • • *
The sort of thing that happens to the
harmless, necessary editor. Letter received at
Bulletin office from small Vic, town out west :
Dear Sir, kindly permit me to contradict scandel cur-
rent with regard to dog scandel which took place on the
Murranbidgee river I have strong suspiction that they
were working up the dog scandel against me. it is need-
less for me to send details as I am sure you are aware of
the full particulas of said dog scandel will you kindly
Publish this statement in your Paper and oblige.
Yours truly J.
Verbatim slab from N.S.W. town-pro-
gress-committeeman’s oration:—
Gintlemen. Before yez depart O’i hev a motis to put
on the notion paper for nixt matein’. I contind to move
that the foive mile crick be damned as a manes to confis-
cate the wather in the lake, which is at present dhry,
but I hope the cost will not be too exhuberant as it might
establish a bad predeoend.
• * * *
“ V.K.’’: Over nearly the whole of Papua
occur the thick rough-barked vines that yield pure
drinking water. Not that water is ever really
wanted in a land where the tiniest rivulet keeps
running all the year round. But it comes in very
handy when a man is making inland on the back
of a high spur, and the nearest spring is some
5000 ft. below. 1 have seen this vine grow in a
mangrove swamp, out of the saltwater and briny
ooze, and yielding a pure and sweet drink. Not
satisfied with a profusion of creeks and rivers,
Nature has laid on special water-service pipes, as
it were, that you can tap whenever and where-
ever you like. And Papua is Australia’s neigh-
bor !
• • * *
At the aboriginal camp at La Perouse
there is a much-travelled old darkey of (he says)
86, who looks about 20 years younger. This man
is quite an interesting character, and gives one the
impression that the pessimism so characteristic of
Australian work must come out of the very soil
itself. The pessimism of this old man is a gentle
Eessimism and consists chiefly in his appearing to
e“too tired” to exaggerate. As for instance :
“And are you the oldest man in the camp?”
“Oh, no, there is someone a few months older.”
“ I suppose you have been in fights pretty often ? ”
“No, never been in battle, never fought at all.”
“Are you what they call king ? ” “Oh, no, no.
They have asked me often to be king. But to be
king over these ’’—with a contemptuous shrug, in-
dicating the squalid, hopeless little crowd of nigs.
—“ what’s the good ? ”
* * • »
Dear Bulletin. —“ Magnus ”is all astray
about derivation of “ ringer ” in Australian
slanguage. It is common in bush, when discus-
sing merits of horses or footrunners, to say that
one can “run rings ” round another and then win;
and the idea has simply been extended to the
speed competition between shearers. — C. Brooks.
Told of the
champion N. S.
W. porridge -
eater : —By the
oversight of the
promoter, he
was sold a ticket
in a late knife-
and-fork strug -
gle, and his pres-
ence was first
noted when he
had cleared off
two fowls, one
ham, and had
started on a leg
of mutton. The
promoter rushed
forward,excited-
ly: “ Here, Mr.
X. is your
money back
take it and a
couple of bottles
of beer, and go,
for God’s sake!”
“-What yer giv-
in’ us! I’ve
only just started.
Say a couple of
bottles of cham-
pagne and I’ll
think of it.” He
got the fizz. This
is the man who,
when someone
in his presence
offered to back
him to eat a
cow, sidled up
to the challeng-
er and w his -
pered : “ Don’t
say a cow I
mightn’t quite
do it —make it
a yearling heifer
and you’ve got a
sure thing.”
Some years ago a teamster, carting rations
-it- . ,
to Vlo ‘ border statlon > found a man lying dead
on bke track with his hand in a dog-trap. He had
very likely stooped to pick up a piece of paper,
used in setting the trap, lying exposed in the sand!
and so had been snapped. Weak-hearted, he pro-
. bably died from shock.
((v * „ * AT *
xarrum : A N.S.W. country bank-
-1^ ana ff e r recently caused great local surprise by
b “ e purchase of an ancient and worn-out horse,
and, knowing the man well, I called round, and
was informed that, as he was going' in for a
garden he wanted the “nedriv” for , “
Producer ” ™Vn n »1;Y i, << fV n
P ro TI° er " . \eu se f> sald he,, it would be
nomDl y mjra dig. to be trotting round the
sfcre ets after it ; and, besides, I know just what he
gets to eat, which is an important point.” The
manure expert is an ex-student at an agricultural
college. an agricultural
Swagger story
heard in a B amil-
ton, Vic., pub:
“ I’d bin travel-
lin’ all day with a
lump of a swag,
an’ was expectin’
to find water in
Biddy’s Creek,
but when I
reached it late in
the afternoon it
was as dry as a
bone, an’ a little
old fellow with a
small rag of a
swag was sittin’
on a stone right
in the bed of it.
‘ Day, mate ! ’ sez
I. 1 Day to you, ’
sez he quiet an’
grave. ‘Where
may you be bound
for?’ I asked.
‘ Hell,’ sez he in
the same quiet
way. ‘ I’m goin’
to drown myself,’
he sez. I laughed,
because why,
there wasn’t a
drop of water
nearer than Coop-
er’s, ten miles
on. ‘ Where’s
yer water ? ’ sez I,
grinnin’. ‘I can
wait,’ sez he,
solemn ez an owl.
I tried to per -
suade him to come
along with me,
but he wouldn’t
budge, so I went
on alone, thinkin
he was a bit down
in the mouth, an’
would be all right
after a spell. It
rained 1i k e the
deuce an’ ail two
days later, an’
Biddy’s Creek
was in flood the
night after it
started. Next mornin’ some feller along by Coop-
er’s found that little ole man’s body on a snag.
He’d waited.”
* * • *
“ W.H.T.”: The bunyip in Euroambah
(Q.) lagoon must be an aged beast by this time. I
was overseer on the station in the antediluvian
period— i.e., before the great flood of ’64, and the
existence of the mysterious creature in the lagoon
was a tradition from the eerie past even then.
The lagoon lies in an ana-branch of the Upper
Dawson at the head station, a black-looking, mud-
bottomed pool about a mile long and a quarter-
mile across at its widest. At shearing-time, when
I had become caked outside and inside with dust,
&c., yarding and penning sheep at the shed over-
night for next morning’s shearing, it was my prac-
tice to plunge into the lagoon after dark and swim
all over it. Wm. Cardew, super, for the proprietor,
his uncle, Pollet Cardew, encouraged me by inform-
ing me in tones of mystery that the former blacks
wouldn’t venture into that awful lagoon. The old
“ doctors ” scared them off with a tradition that
debbil-debbil sat down alonga lagoon. This in-
formation helped to chill the tepid water tor me.
It had before been rather a weird feeling to be
paddling under the stars, over an unknown depth,
in dead silence and solitude, the banks only indi-
cated by shades of gloom deeper than the black
water around. But after learning of the alleged
presence of debbil-debbil, or bunyip, it sent the
shivers along one’s spine to touch with a toe, when
swimming, some submerged stick or—anything.
It has often occurred to me since that, in the far-
back past, an alligator may have made its way up
from the Fitzroy and taken its quarters up in
Euroomba lagoon. According to Cardew’s cheer-
ful story, the blacks’ account was that the debbil-
debbil’s habit was to grab blackfellows who ven-
tured into that lagoon, and disappear with them.
There were no blacks on Euroomba in 1863-4, nor
anywhere on the Upper Dawson country. Eu-
roomba and Hornet Bank adjoined. More white
men had been killed on Euroomba, by ones and
twos, than in one dawning at the Hornet Bank
massacre. But the squatters there made up a
fund, and engaged someone to bring a lot of
N.S.W. blacks and “disperse” the Dawson
myalls. There were no blacks on the Upper
Dawson after that.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Karogi ” : Lake George had its bunyip
for years, until someone shot it, and found it to
be—a musk-duck, of unusual size. In ’Bl,
numerous accounts came to hand of a strange
animal seen near a S.A. salt-lake, and of which
beast the Border Watch wrote: “It stands
about 2ft. high, and is longer than a Newfound-
land dog. It has four legs, and leaves in soft
ground footprints with four toe marks. It makes
a noise like the roaring of a bull, which can be
heard at a considerable distance, and is, perhaps,
the solitary survivor of some species of Australian
animal, that will become extinct with it.”
* * * *
“T.” : The two half-caste girls found on
Frazer Island, Wide Bay, Q., referred to in a
recent Bulletin, with a speculation that they
may be connected with Mrs. Frazer, wife of Capt.
Frazer, of the Stirling Castle, wrecked on that
island, can’t possibly have had such origin. The
speculation is founded on the narrative of Mrs.
Frazer's lot among the aborigines, given in the
Picturesque Atlas. I wrote the Q. text in the
Atlas. The story re Mrs. Frazer there given was
told me by the late John Petrie, as related to him
by his father, Andrew Petrie, who arrived in Bris-
bane, as clerk of works, in ’37. Can’t lay hand on
my memoranda, bur Andrew Petrie was one of a
boat-party who visited Wide Bay, and heard of
Mrs. Frazer’s existence on Great Sandy Island.
She was got away from the myalls by’Graham,
an escaped convict, who had been living among
the blacks on the mainland for some years.
Part of the story was not told in the P. Atlas.
“ FIRSTLY, MY BELOVED BRETHREN
GENTLE SHEPHERD (netting down from coach at wayback way-side pub.) :
“ Got any good beer? Got any infanta to baptize? ”
(*rah a na> I have a recollection, was identical
with Bracefield, who figures in other episodes.
Cant remember how it was that, with the
rescued woman, he approached Brisbane by land.
But they reached the settlement through the bush
behind Wickham Terrace, coming out near the
Windmill, now the Observatory, and Mrs. Frazer
made statements to the effect that en route her
rescuer made too free with her. She was provided
with a passage to Fngland, and faint, far-away
rumors reached Andrew Petrie that she was a
show in the lower parts of London for some time
after her arrival. Mrs. Frazer was horribly used
by the blacks, but there was no mention of her
having had any children while among them. The
whole story is misty tradition now. lam giving
what I can recollect of what John Petrie could
recollect of what his father could recollect.
* * * «
“D.”: Schopenhauer was quite correct.
Have, when a kid, often cut bull-dog ants in two
to enjoy the head-r-tail battle. The tail is able
and ready to sting for a couple of hours after
being severed from the head.
* * • *
Dear Bulletin. —“ Snell ” (July 16) tells
us he has heard the lyre-bird making unearthly
noises at night. As a native of the Gippsland
scrub country, and knowing a good deal about
these birds, I can say that I never heard them
make any noise whatever at night. “Snell” must
have mistaken a young bear’s cry for a lyre-bird’s;
while, as for the bird’s power of mimicry, I have
often listened to them imitating parrots, magpies,
jackasses, and cockatoos. They also imitate the
sound of a falling axe ; while now and then they
will give a taste of their own musical note.—
Fkond.
* * » *
“Merino”: My dog got into a sheep-
paddock, and was thoroughly in his element,
rounding up and running down lambs and ewes.
He was observed, chased out, and traced
home, and a clear case made out to me—taking
out a long Sunday morning in bed reading The
Bulletin. Agreed to walk out in the evening and
hear full summary of damages when complete
search had been made for the lambs. Well, after
laying the information,” riding about all day,
making three men do likewise, talking for an hour
from all points of the compass and driving a hard
bargain, old “ Money-Grub ’’ actually refused a
cash settlement— because it was Sunday /
* » * *
Melville, Vic. M.L.A. : —“ln certain
townships of the Mallee the railway line runs
down the main street, and the train has been
known to stop at every pub. en route.”
• * * *
“ Long-’Un ” : Never met such hard cases
as on the S.A. Village Settlements. Government
still keeps the villagers going in togs and rations ;
each member being supplied individually . Domes-
tic picture : —Rare luxury in the shape of 21b. of
cheese each settler. Children wrestling with
their whack ; mother, father, and son gorging
huge junks ; pieces scattered all over place ;
next day no cheese. Same family : Youngest son
dymg of phthisis, father epileptic, another son
laid up with broken arm and collar-bone. Com-
passionate friend brings in four eggs, places on
table ; old man picks one up to ogle ; sick son
staggers across room and pushes old-’un away
with, ‘ Let the blanky things alone ! ” and a voice
from the cripple in next room—“ For Gawd’s sake,
don t make such a— — of a row ! ” Same lot
seated to meal with separate rations before each —
Wheezy son (in white heat) : “ Oo’s bin at my fig-
jam ? ” Mother : “ Oh, I only gave yer father a
little yesterday because he wasn’t well.” W.S. :
Well or no well, let ’iin eat ’is own jam ! ”
One woman sent word to the board (chairman
and one man, and former has casting vote) de-
manding immediate return of husband to nurse
AVOID HOUSES
THAT DO NOT SELL
WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS
TO TRAVELLERS.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is of inestimable value, and should be
procured as a medicinal provision for every journey in
which the water is likely to vary. It is an absolute cor-
rective of the injurious properties of impure water.
TO EVERYBODY,
It concerns all who appreciate good liquor. Wolfe’s
Schnapps is imitated, which is said to be " sincerest
flattery. But imitations are not Wolfe’s Schnapps. Ask
for and see that you get Wolfe’s—the only real Schnapps.
-cJ
F»«s METED COCSI.
Guaranteed Pure Cocoa and Extract of Malt


the baby, otherwise she required a hired nurße —
that’ll tell you ! A middle-aged settler went
down to a town and brought a buxom female back
with matrimonial intentions ; when the woman
arrived she found three weeks’ washing and seven
children on hand, so she “wasn’t taking-on any
widower.” Two other settlers threw dice for the
lady, and the winner took her, too 1
* • • •
“Fudge” : Can’t beat bush-whisky as an
imagination-stimulant. Came across a bushy one
day having a four-round “go ” with an inoffen-
sive sapling by the roadside. His hands were in
a regular mash, and when I pulled him away he
told me that his opponent had kicked him while
he was down.
• * * •
“ Curra Curra ’ : A Gulf incident. Some-
thing disturbed me and I awoke. The chilliness
in the air betokened morn, and I lay awake listen-
ing to the distant boom of breakers in the mouth
of the Gilbert River. In the meagre light of
the fire I could see the forms of my blaclcboys,
who were singing softly to the rythmic clicking of
a pair of boomerangs. Fancied they were one
short, and was counting them when a rifle was
fired closed by. I felt for my Snider, but it was
gone. The boys had stopped singing, and at my
approach their faces assumed an expression of
perfect bewilderment. “Where Tiger?” I de-
manded, for I saw that he was the missing one,
but they shook their heads, and I returned to my
blankets just in time to catch Tiger replacing my
rifle. “Youbintak ’em gun?” He scratched
his matted head and grinned apologetically,
“ Yowi, me bin shoot that old man father be-
longin’ to mine.” I was too horrified to knock
him down, and he took advantage of my remiss-
ness to slink away. Pulling a blanket over my
head I tried to sleep, but was frequently dis-
turbed by loud laughter. Tiger was recounting
the details of his father’s untimely end.
• • • •
“Whohoo”: On saltbush plains ducks
lay many miles from water, but very few know
how the young are got to water. I once saw a
duck bring a duckling to water in her bill, and
after swimming about with it for a minute, leave
it in a lignum, close to where a black-boy and I
were camping, and fly away for another, with
which she returned in about half-an-hour. I was
astonished, but the darkie said they always car-
ried the ducklings “ longa mouth.”
• • • •
“ Bai ” : He “Flabby Paul ” and the dyna-
mite. His yarn recalls what happened over here
(Maoriland) two years past. A M. L. trout-poacher
once watched local ranger to church, and started
out with retriever. Arrived at pool, man threw
in dynamite, with lighted fuse. Dog promptly
jumped in and retrieved it, whereupon master
fled, closely followed by dog and dynamite.
About 50yds. from pool was a drop of 15ft.,
masked by thorn edge 4ft. high. Man, mad with
fear, flew the hedge, followed by dog, but, luckily
for man, cartridge exploded in mid-air above him.
Auckland, Maoriland, is situ-
ated on a mere shell—a sort of petri-
fied volcanic bubble of scoria or lava.
Some day it will fall in and the regu-
lar over-sea boat will travel over the
place, and the usual board of fossils
will cancel the skipper’s ticket for
“ incompetence ” on the evidence of
the garrulous saloon-passenger. A re-
sident of Mount Roskil, an elevated
suburb of Auckland, while fixing up
his garden, came upon an inconveni-
ent boulder which he attacked with a
crowbar. The obstacle didn’t come
out but fell in, and after listening for
about ten minutes to hear the bump,
the resident threw some burning
trash into the hole. He watched till
that became as a star of the billionth
magnitude, but learned one thing—
i.e., the hole was a vault. Then he
trod gingerly back to the house and
cleared out, bag and baggage. After
this a bye-law was passed strictly pro-
hibiting jumping out of carts and
other violent shocks to the landscape,
and the Roskilians became conspicuous
by their dainty movements. Tradi-
tion asserts that when the Queen’s
Wharf was building several of the
piles were driven clean through the
bottom and the tide suddenly dropped
10ft., only being stayed by the rush
of debris blocking the holes. Some
say that instead of the piles support-
ing the wharf it is really the other
way. To think that the home of so
much piety and juvenile viciousness
should be so handy to Blazes !
* * * *
The ADCooey : What really
makes the bell-bird so dear to Aus-
tralians is that it is an infallible in-
dicator of spring water. Its silvery
notes never fool or disappoint the
thirst-parched bushman, in the wild
and rugged regions it inhabits.
During the greatest heats, and in
places the most unexpected and un-
likely, wherever bell-birds assemble
and sing, there will spring-water be
infallibly found. To say that the
notes of this bird are mournful and
monotonous is to grossly libel him.
One life, to my personal knowledge,
has been saved by his voice; and, to
the thirsty wanderer in waterless
mountain regions, the bell-bird con-
certs are always associated with grate-
ful myrtle or fig tree, and refreshing
draughts of cool water. The man who
recently asserted in The Bulletin
that bell-birds sing or “ bell ” at night
is probably a Johnny Raw whom some Cornstalk
has “soaped” by putting a horse-bell on, say, a
heifer, and then awakening Johnny at 1.40 a.m.
to listen to “ the Australian bell-bird.”
Ex-Stationxnaster’s Certificate.
Mr. C. A. Hood, ex-Station Master, Main Line
Rv., Westbury, Tas., says “ I have much
pleasure in stating that on many occasions I have
used Warner s Safe Cure with beneficial results,
and can confidently recommend it as a reliable
remedy for digestive disorders.”
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
F.W.O.D. : Will use as suggestion if you’ll
swear it is original Hokow : You are evidently a very
bad judge, both of drawing and writing Aloe : The old
is discharged before he becomes incompetent,
because the employer fears a claim might be established
on his gratitude Tempora: A similar “system ot
espionage ” is practised at fire-brigade stations, and at
large business houses everywhere. Where’s the new
comment? 00. : You surely can’t be serious in speak-
ing of Ellen Terry as a possible Cleopatra. She is a thin,
haggard-looking lady of grandmotherly age C.C. :
Artist can find no inspiration in it W.O. : The trouble
with that baritone was that as he amounted to exactly
the same thing as Sydney Deane, he was a rather super-
fluous importation ... Wee Wan : Your anecdote is the
oldest and silliest anecdote ever inflicted on us
Cosmos : Apropos the Bourgogne and similar disasters,
why should it be assumed that a larger number of pas-
sengers should be saved than of seamen ? [Simply because
the number on board is greater.] F.C. : Dreyfus
items stale C. : Not much in any of them. Might try
again .... Mia-Mia : Pretty allegory, well worked out, but
entirely off Bulletin track Nodrog: Returned .....
S.W. : Sorry can’t get anything usable out of education
screed Hairpins: Not up Eko : The staler your
idea the more brightly you must handle it Pickles :
It should all have gone in eight lines .... Moa : Stiff
26a: Good; but had to be re-written Banool : (Ques-
tion too technical for argument ; but your cerebral
physiology’s about 15 years behind. It’s quite clear that
even inherited power of reflex action —what you call in-
stinctive action—had very small beginnings, and was
gradually built up, evolved .... Maid M. : Amateurish
drivel A.M.C. : Glorious incapacity Old J. : Ballad,
alas! “goes” not Mars: Not good enough
W.J.P. : Declined A Yawn: 100 ... B.E. : “Wile”
thin for space Zara : Strictly daily-paper stuff, and
indifferent at that F.C. : Such actions are commoner
than cheap cynics would have us believe .... Chaput :
Neatly put together, but formal and forceless E.
Roslyn : Some power and promise. Sorry not quite up.
Pelax : Try it on your mother-in-law! J. L.
Buckland : Good style and dry humor, but falls away
woefully at end .... Fred W. : You’ve got it muddled
Cyril V. (Melb.): Comic item best, but none good
Rare : You are a bit underdone A. Fauron : Shouldn’t
advise you to persevere 7x7 : “ Half-a-Day,” photo-
graphic and prosy. “ Swagman ” fairly good ; . other
verse pretty bad Perce A.: “Bard” too trifling;
other, will consider Tyre : Too badly. punctured to
put so much side on ! ..W.P. : Crisp and pithy, but weak
in interest Mac : G. H. Reid was N.S.W. Minister of
Instruction from Jan., 1883, to March, 1884—once only
R. : To hand Box 617: Feeble Rouseabout:
But we can’t print it. C.W. : M'Culloch, at one
stretch in Victoria reigned 1775 days, or 5 years less 50
days Merolo : The illuminated address testimonial is
a cumbrous institution. Give him something portable—
and pawnable E.F.C. : Not good enough C.S. :
Tote rather too technical Nil : Neither quite up
L.M.D. : “Where are they” moves too languidly
W.R.L. : Kendall-and-water—a pint to a hogshead
J.M. : Bit flat Critic: Daley used “by and large”
quite correctly. When you sail “by and large” you keep
a vessel to the wind (within six points or so) and off it.
“Full and by” is sailing close-hauled to the wind
S. (Paraguay) : Nothing tangible . H.E.P. : “ Let
war be damned ! ” rings sonorously. But what are you
going to do when the other fellow insists on fighting?
SMITH AGAIN.— “ WHAT'S IN A NAME
“Don't you remember me — Smith—John Smith?"
“ Oh, I remember your name all right, but I can't think of
your face !”
R.V.L. : Ancient English items off Bulletin's track.
Other acceptable .... Don Quixote: One may serve as
suggestion for illustration Widgee : “Had! ’’ good style,
but little interest. Others nil K.M.L.: One will do.
6 x 8 : If you want a fair show, you’ll have to
write twice as large and with thrice the line-space.
Quis: Yes; said to have recently taken place
at a western (Q.) woolshed. Woman knocked man out in
four rounds .... Jimmie P.: Received ; will endeavour to
der.l with early .... Woolgar :To hand. A.J.B. (W.A.) :
But we won’t enlarge upon the subject .... J. (M.L.): That
would overdo the thing. Eumanbah : “ Rummy," in
sense of “ queer,” is pure Cockney Eremos . Believe
Eng. Bishop Magee originally expressed the idea that no
State which conducted its affairs on the lines of the
WILLIAM PAULL, as Harry Sherwood, in “ Dorothy .”
Photo., Greenham & Evans, Perth, W.A .
Sermon on the Mount could live for a week J. J. O’M. •'
“ Tottie ” wants more skill than you have at present
G. : Will use “ Deniehy.” Milky : Rondel not up ;
other bettered by cutting. F.M. : Cookery declined;
considering verse T. M‘L. : The one supernal loaf is
to lie in bed all Sunday, and do absolutely nothing—not
even think. Try it—and be blessed. Cock-sparrow:
Apparently written with your beak J.W.H. :
Whistling not injurious to voice itself, though pro-
bably to “ production.”. T. R. Miller : Nothing
decipherable but signature .J.M.A. : As many as
12 or 14; usually 8 or 10 .R.B. : Perhaps if you
got a larger hat, your head wouldn’t hurt you so
much True B. : Doubtless; but only a very religious
paper dare print it Kameruka: Some good items.
January : “ Zounds ! ” is the “ ’s-wounds ” of
old expletive “ God’s wounds! ’’ Your verse has the
little merit we should have expected from so dog-
matic a person. W.T. : You are a dirty varlet!
E.C. (Barrier) : But we can’t use any of them Robert
Hap : The soil in Shoalhaven district is so rich that a 10-
inch nail driven down at night develops into a crowbar
before morning. Have seen two men dig round a swede-
turnip for three days and then hitch on a team of bul-
locks to snap the tap-roots Eros: The man who
advocates the immigration of a few thousand Chinese
gardeners to grow vegetables at a reasonable
price forgets that their present dearness is because
the Chinese have been so long in unrestricted
competition with the whites, driving them out of the
business, with the result that, now more Chows are not
coming in, the supply of vegetables is restricted, and
prices are raised. If the Chinese are kept out, whites will
come into the business again as soon as prices are re-
munerative on the European scale, for, in a small way,
gardening needs little capital, and finds employment for
the unrobust. One of the greatest economic objections to
the Chinese is that they monopolise the occupations best
suited to the unskilled and indigent— e.g., scrub-cutting
and gardening for men and cooking and washing for
women Tin-lip : Swag yarns venerable chestnuts
Viator : But you don’t let us into the secret about that
civil servant Holly: Such cases are not uncommon.
Tho goanna will eat any flesh Lor : Disgusting is the
clergy slobber of Bismarck, merely because he had daubed
his systematic lying and fraud with a kind of piety
T.W.'D. (C.) : Send addressed envelope and we’ll give you
information Cosmos: The “disgrace” attaching to
unmarried motherhood has nothing to do with male
opinion ; it is wholly a creation of the “ respectable ’’ (in
many cases merely the undetected) woman’s imagination ;
and the remedy lies, not with the man in his legislative
capacity, but with woman in her social Tammus :
Have had enough pre-natal-influence stories Bolivar :
Pig-yarn climaxless ... Randolph : But where on earth is
there a man who can read your writing for sure ?
Jumbuck: Forget you; you should write name
and address on every MS Tarpot: To hand
H. W. ; One may serve Edwin P.F. : Too trivial Nil:
Will print Mai J.E. : Office microscope refuses to re-
veal your handwriting R.J.C. : All unavailable
Duttonville : Ditto V.S. : Most of them read like
already-printed items G.W. Mac. : Will illustrate
verses ... J.S.C.E. : You have missed the ’bus. Both
ancient Bob the Swagman : Illustration-idea accept-
able. Memo, posted Alkane :To hand Wallaroo :
“ Goanner,” fairly well-written, but humor rather forced.
The Rambler: You are; that’s just what’s the
matter! Taloofa : Suggestions too elaborate. “ Souf-
fle,” bit flat Romana : Some strength of style but
theme too well-worn .... Fitful : Capitally written but
spoilt by anti-climax . . Rollo : May use Noel M. :
Very tyroish Constance H. : Inadequate handling
P.T.F. : “Awakening,” printed; “Twofold,” will con-
sider Eko: Your version of “ Cherchez la femme!”
has no novelty to recommend it M. Miller : Pains
wasted. Women are as ambitious as men—but in different
directions Shurrup : No time for hen-scratchings
H.A.J. : Good skeleton but meatless Sigh : Your
handwriting made us groan Alley B. : “ Committee,”
not up Bernardino; “ Question,” too unequal. “ Home-
stead,” will consider. Story, neat but entirely undis-
tinguished work Onlys : “Convert,” too slight
Weeta W. : What was the name of it ? Beatrix M. :
Will look them up Ethel P. : Traces of power G.P.:
Fair share of humor, but not closely-woven enough
Yarunga : A pinch for stale news ! Bushy : Yes, he’s a
first-class man Sendo : The Bulletin is told that this
year, though the Nationalists hold the fort at Dublin
Town Hall, they have elected a Unionist Protestant as
Lord Mayor Corono : You send no proof that the man
has been in gaol; you do not even refer us to date of
newspaper reporting conviction. Therefore, cannot pub-
lish A.C. (S.A.): When you write that the men were
convicted, why not send news-clipping in verification ?
Ben Sun : Not of first water, but you are modest in call-
ing it doggerel. Your best verse—
“ Sing us of aught that has interest rife in it —
Sing of it harshly, or sweetly, or low ;
Sing us of aught that has warm blood and life in it—
Sing it—we’ll catch up the tune as you go.”
C. 8.5.: Will consider V. Marchant: May use
J.B.A. : Basket... T.Q.R. : Better stick to prose....J.E.C. :
Received F.H. : No chop V.K. : Sonnet form
cramps you Erica : Stiff Prospect: “River” bit
too rough.
William Pauli, the baritone of
the Firm’s Comic Opera co., is a
strong, somewhat handsome, athletic
Cornishman standing sft. lOin.
Alone, he is Mister Pauli; with men
he is Pauli ; with women he is Billy.
He inherits his singing gift from his
mother, a well-known vocalist. of her
day; and from her, too, came his early
voice-training. He inherits his nerve
and physique from his father. He
sleeps well ; lives well ; works well.
He has found for himself one of the
most airy and spacious hotel bedrooms
in Sydney ; facing the park and the
rising sun ; a lofty room where the
roar of the city traffic comes up with
a rumble as of the sea beneath a cliff.
Inside the apartment the visitor is
struck by the many photos, of girls ;
and the time occupied by Pauli in
looking through his trunks for the
accompanying photo, afforded. op-
portunity for a few observations.
Young girls, old girls, thin girl, fat
girls, little girls, big girls, sad girls,
laughing girls; the handsome, the
plain, the light, the dark—here they
are, each with her own tell-tale hand-
writing and autograph across her pho-
to. “Thine,” “To Billy, with much,”
“To little Billee Pauli,” “Ah, my
troubador ! if ” Observation is
stopped by Pauli finding his photo.
Asked if he had any distinct idea on
love, he answered : “No! I have no
distinct idea on love, but I have been
told that I should cultivate it. But
there is no doubt a pair of bright
eyes play more havoc than a sea of
faces.” Who wouldn’t be a baritone ?
Albani told him that if he took care
of his voice he might have the ball
at his feet some day soon. So he will
not go in for stage-dancing, because he
believes that would injure the precious
voice. But he now and then attends
balls, but not very often, because both
Mr. Pauli and Pauli believe that
Billy wants at least eight hours sleep
a night, besides an hour’s nap m the
afternoon. Pauli likes to wake in the
morning with a feeling of triumph,
to bound out of bed like a kangaroo,
and to practise his scales in the
bath.
The loss by W. F. Scliey Ot his N.S.W.
»oat rendered oppose »-
public recognition of his long and faithful services
to the cause of Protection. Ihe testimonial, it
has been decided, is to take the solid and sensible
f orm G f a “substantial purse of sovereigns,” con-
tribufcions towards which will be received and
XT CGnarf 19 qfi TTrskine-street
acknowledged by H. Stuart, SZ db Krskine street,
Sydney.
-r •. f virliciilnns that while the health
Is it not l ldicuious tnat, wnne tne neaxuii
of the factory-worker is so sedulously protectea
by law, he is, as regards air and floor-space m his
dwelling, entirely at the mercy of his landlord,
w h o is permitted to take rent for any kind of un-
who]esome den ? As the health of the community
wnoiesuiiie uti ~ .. i f
is actually the wealth of tne_nation, hy p
tect it by compelling a certain amount or grouna-
surface to each dwelling and subjecting the pro-
perty to inspection and condemnation if insani-
farv v
J " _
would be curious, indeed, if a bachelor-
premjer iik e Bvrnes (Q.) were to attempt to carry
the. female t^ouJr 1 However Tornjoe tart
taking any ball-programme just yet. As on other
subjects, he’s lurking. He has put the short-
haired vinegaresses off with a promise to take a
re f ere ndum (of the male-voter only) on that dis-
mal Ques tion, at next elections. But the New
H . ?.«.■. „„ j i,„ r with
Woman is satisfied, and -■ - - •
Kiss me, sister ; we re bound to LrOa is on
on our side. Let us mingle m prayer,
OMINOUS SIGNS.
1ST MISSIONARY : “ Brother, lam afraid this
island is barren soil for the seed. ”
2ND MIS. (with a low groan): “We must de-
part—the Devil has here planted his
cloven foot with too great am emphasis.”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOU.NTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SoftCaQtfaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30!- per through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. St.at e height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE IiIiOTHEItS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.


N.S.W., the querulous old-maid province, searches with mingled feelings of hope and fear for the Federation man-under-the-bed.


The "Charging Forward" Policy
S OE TB?
A P^ ea ja -aohe to e t oi . -^ecoih 69
sroto jc/
waSßar
n X
k |f
\ «fe2E\ 'P
J*c t &J),
SV ° f P'LrbJ**. <* a
LP\
ISIfiSIPPI*
k \ IJr
1 Wl->
AWoe i 3 V
Ibeje \fcp4»,l£ on jtje wW'SgwW.
Moc°ipetvrvim
isfcted 5005% /
steep /
| "/v6/er tyiyd
1 cfartosj f/re, fdriy)
I /Ve boiivfrta a>up7e
\ op chops fay
\Weluic7>et r Wrtlf
fbr Supper
apd dfey && 'Toqfafa
AJttiougb it uras known that the ;
Budget .was perfectly safe the. day.
after it was announced, a count of.
beads having been duly made, “the
“ new principle'’ it contains is by po
escaping criticism* The
criticism refers to tbe touch smafleii
*um of £500.000 which it is proposetjT
.to raise and to spend under peculipj:
kiircu instances. The works or votes,
«6 the Treasurer puts it. could not«pod-
-sibly. be placed in a loaD scliedujd.
They ought, he says, to be met out of
tbe revenue of the year. but. as he
cannot meet them out of the revenue,
he resorts to a ‘charging forward”
jpolicy He raises a loan ot £500.000,
antf future years are to contribute
£SJSSOO per annum, and interest alsoj
until tne sum is cleared off /
■tfheD Orel
rnphtf of the Turner was
tttftJteteotlouß beyond aompare. He Is no
even no>v. as a man covered with honor and
titles, aggressively bumptious in the faintest
degree. But last night he settled down
to° luxurious ease. and positively
occupied two chairs at the
of the Legislative Assembly ' Whilst
members were ‘ captiously criticising
bis financial proposals he sat od one chair,
rested his feet ergsswlse on another
looked serene?
tl ,
Mr
We
% «
Mh /T
'ffievpi eY. r fixfn<:Y. ,
%e Efoijomgfc^
" fr)
ctysfader
f C , f jJ If I
‘^ e ii x urio4.^
POftovtf
MOSTLY IN MELBOURNE.


Apropos curtain-raisers. The prompter at the Bruns-
wick Theatre was husband of the prima-donna, and pulled
up the curtain hastily during an entF acte, to show tha
Duke of Brunswick embracing the prima-donna. The
justly-infuriated Duke ran the impertinent rascal throug h
the body. The British fleet.was at Cadiz one time, and,
of course, the Opera House was full of sailors, while tl-e
middies got behind the scenes. The prompter made a
compositor-like mistake. He rapidly pulled up the cur-
tain just as a middy was making a grab at the flying foot
ofadanseuse. Quartermaster O’Flahertv, from the pit-
Agorra ! He’s shaking hands wid her big toe ! ”
Irving resolutely tramples down popular superstitions.
Awhile ago he organised a dinner with 13 guests, peacock
decorations, cross-eyed waiters, and everyone had to
walk under a ladder, the night being Friday. Of course
1 . ,°”° ws that Irving has his private superstition, more
ndiculous than any. He cannot bear anything new in
his dressing-room.
Dear Bulletin. —l note that one young contributor of
yours (of course, young) turns up his learned nose at
Shakespeare, and finds confirmation of the Baconian
theory that W. S„ “as a playwright, is a transparent
fraud.’ Makes even me sit up, though long accustomed
to regard with the toleration born of a sense of humor
the confidence of a cockerel’s crow. And let me ask if
this airy depreciation of Shakespeare’s stage-craft is not
due principally to decadence of modern taste and drama-
tic instinct? In Shakespeare’s time, hardly any acces-
sories were considered necessary, and scenery was mainly
represented by such inscriptions as “This is a wode,"
“ This a castel,” and so on, but the earnestness with
which the audiences entered into the spirit of the play
furnished them with mental pictures quite sufficient to
their needs. The Chinese are similarly satisfied at this
day—making one man represent an army of 10,000, and
so forth. And it seems to me that a play which can be
run so simply, and still command the intense interest of
an audience, must either have exceptional grit in it, or
the audience must be exceptionally perceptive and
imaginative. Anyway, the strong simplicity of genius
has always enabled Shakespeare to hold his own, until
there comes along the Young Iconoclast, who, like
Bernard Shaw, tells William he is a mere disher-
up of dull platitudes and faker of worn-out thoughts.
Shaw represents a class of cocksure little critics very com-
mon in Australia. And well that it should be so ; for the
fact points to the progressive movement, which, by com-
pleting a revolution, arrives at the point of departure.
Thus while taste in literature, art, ethics, and the rest,
may be remodelled under the iconoclastic impulse, the
standards upon which it is based remain immovable
because, as in Shakespeare’s case, they are rooted in the
essentials of human nature. In future, when, no doubt,
much that is fraudulent will have disappeared, old busts
will be returned to their pedestals, and many a vener-
able escutcheon, torn from the walls of tradition by the
hand of the Young Iconoclast, will be reverently re-
placed. And the Young Iconoclast, having married a
wife and abjured his freaks and fads, will wag a wiser
head and say—“ Lo 11 was an ass 1 The things I thought
so good belonged to an epoch of shoddy—and I, alas 1
was of them 1 ’’—Old Jack.
Sir Augustus Harris—he is an angel now—began (on
earth) with £5 7s. 6d., and ended (on earth) in 18 years
with £94,000. The following scene once occurred between
Sir Gus and his brother Charles : —Enter Sir Gus. in fury.
Charles, sitting in manager’s office, meets him with cold
obduracy. Sir Gus (log.) i: “Rotten fool! what in all
do you mean by ejecting Grocer? He gave you his
card!” Chas. (log.): “What! are you more mad than
usual? WHO is Grocer?” Sir Gus.: “Putrid idiot!
Grocer is—Grocer! Didn’t you in all your life of d d
idiocy ever hear of Grocer? He is proprietor of the
Western Daily News.” Chas. (in shrill cry): “Oh! is
he? Well, who ever heard of the d d paper?” Sir
Gus.: “ Insane blitherer ! it is the big paper of Ply-
mouth.” Chas. : “Then why didn’t the d d fool say
so? Am I to run about kissing the coat-tails of every
d d loafer who comes here with a card, and fall
down on my knees and ask him who and what is
his d d ” Sir Gus. (interrupting): “ Oh, shut
HOT PIES AND ART (IN MELB.).
CUSTOMER : “ Ah, could you trust me for a hot
pie and coffee !”
STALL-KEEPER : “ Well, I suppose so.”
CUSTOMER : “ You see, Pm principal lead in
the Garrick-Shakespeare Suburban Dra-
matic Co.”
STALL-KEEPER (angrily) : “ 'Ere, off yer go! I
thought yer was one of the blokes workin ’
on the sewer.”
your contaminated head! Send Mr. Grocer up some
champagne. I’ve put him in the Royal box.”
Sequel, some months later. Sir Gus. observes two
gentlemen sitting in stalls; r.Dt dressed as London
gentlemen, nor even as country gentlemen. He calls the
usher and inquires who they are. “ Passes, sir,” answers
the usher —“passed by Mr. Charles, sir.” “Call him
here,” says Sir Gus. Then this occurs. Sir Gus (pointing
with a scornful finger at the two gentlemen in stalls):
“Who are they?” Charles: “Rotten fool! don’t you
know who they are ? ” Sir Gus :“ I 1 ” ! Charles:
“ Yes, you d d fool—you! They are the editor of the
Times and the editor of the Standard. I was going to
put them in the Royal box and give them champagne—
here are their cards.” Sir Gus bolts and has the two
gentlemen brought before him, and promises to let them
go if they say who they are. They are a couple of
compositors.
“ Cockaigne ” : M. Modjeska posing as a purist is
multy. “Camille” was not tolerated in London till she
introduced it, as Heartsease, with Wilson Barrett as
Armand. And she was the original London Odette.
There’s a morality in the world 1 It’s all a stage, “ and
all the men and women merely players,” and Clement
Scott said (in “a time of great strain”) that actors can-
not be moral, if they try—or words to that effect. Two
heads are better than one !
The penalty of greatness ! A Sydney hand-barrow
bears the golden legend of “ Peggy Pryde ”on the front.
T’other day an unfeeling trap trundled Peggy and a load
of bananas to the lock-up.
A fact. The day before Woollahra elec-
tion : “ Mr. O’Dooley, I believe you are a mimber
of aldermhan’s Latimer’s commy tee ” —(a pause)
“ and, Mr. Cooey, I see that you are on Misther
Garland’s commy lee.” (A longer pause). “ Mr.
O’Dooley, let us pray to the Lord to give us all
strength to vote for Sir William Manning in the
mornin’.’’ And probably they did.
Printed that a Californian congregation
has sent its shepherd to Klondyke. If he sur-
vives, he is to return and liquidate the chronic
debt on the chapel. The elders agree to look after
the old man’s wife and family pro tern. Not
stated whether the idea originated with the parson
or the elders.
According to latest accounts, the mysteri-
ous “ veiled lady ” of the Dreyfus case was Du
Patey du Clam, thus metaphorically alluded to by
Esterhazy as the emissary who conveyed to that
slippery person, after return from his bolt out of
Prance, the Government’s written guarantee that,
in the face of any evidence, it would see him
through all right. A little bargain which reads
perfectly in between the lines of subsequent events.
About the worst-used man in Vic. had the
good fortune, the other day, to be found dead at
Kangaroo Plat, outside Bendigo. As a young
man he had troubles —too deep to be ever spoken
of. Thirty years ago, he was thrown from a horse,
and should have died, but he didn’t; he was only
bent almost double for the rest of his days.
Getting used to that, he fell into a chaff-cutter,
and came out with the stump of a right arm and
the stumps of three fingers on the left hand.
Later on (he lived a hermit’s life afterwards), he
was racked with pain in his head ; and, finally, a
merciful Providence sent along a fit, and dropped
the poor old battered wreck into the fireplace.
The preposterous balderdash which is the
principal stock-in-trade of the fool-bleeding “ oc-
cult” fraternity is well exemplified by an irate
“ palmist’s ” assertion in a Sydney paper that—
Pleasant thoughts and pleasing emotions create oxygen,
unpleasant thoughts and painful emotions create nitro-
gen, namely hatred, anger, envy, or jealousy. Thus our
very thoughts create the substance of which our body is
built. . . . And suppose that palmists have to lie without
ceasing, simply to live, are we not more to be pitied than
blamed? Why not attack the conditions that have
brought about this inequitable state of affairs?
Just so! —said conditions being, in the case of
this and event other class of charlatan, a lively
disinclination to work for the living that can more
comfortably be extracted from the pocket of igno-
rance and superstition.
The land-grabber ye have always with you.
In 1836 John Batman ( locum tenens for V.D.L.
Gov. Arthur), Gellibrand, Swanston, Robertson,
Connoly, Wedge, Cotterel, Solomon, Callecott,
Sams, Bannister, and Henry Arthur (the Go-
vernor’s nephew) formed a co. to acquire land from
the aboriginal proprietors in Port Philip. Thus
the Sydney Gazette, quoting a correspondent’s
letter:—
The natives dislike spirits, and have no relish for animal
food except kangaroo. They do not care for tobacco.
They have no idea of numbers, being unable to count be-
yond their fingers and toes. How they contrive to sell
the company 800,000 acres of land is puzzling. ... It is
proposed to take in 200,000 acres more, to divide among
four influential persons who will advocate the company’s
claims with the Home Govt.
But the Australian precedent for the Papuan grab
failed for the same reason that the New Guinea
plot may go under —it was overdone I
Straight-out advt. from Melb. Age :
"D ESPECTABLE intelligent gent., with brains and
energy, desires Lady Companion, willing to help
financially extend present business to advantage of
both. Faithful, Age.
But why should it be classed as a matrimonia
notice ? The gentleman wants a companion.
German business enterprise. The pro-
prietor of a private lunatic asylum at Kropp,
Germany, has offered to take any number of
pauper lunatics off the hands of the English poor-
law guardians at a cost of =£2s per annum each.
In Victoria, the proportion of prisoners
per 1000 of population for 1897 was 1.05, or 1.75
per 1000 males and 0.34 per 1000 females. The
daily average, 115 less than in ’96, a gradual
decrease having set in since ’B6. Total number
of confinees for year, 7264.
Habitual expressions of N.S.W. politicians
when speaking: See, “I speak advisedly”;
Brunker, “ This great and glorious country ”;
Cook, “With the Lord’s help”; Lyne, Ashton,
Affleck, Gormly, O’Sullivan, “I venture to
think ”; Neild, “ Haw.”
In the year 1840 the barque Glen Huntley
sailed into Port Phillip flying the yellow flag, and
was quarantined at the Red Bluff, where four of
the crew died and were buried. Now, as the
waters of the bay encroach on the Bluff, and the
graves are threatened with wash-away, leave to
remove the bodies for interment elsewhere has
been granted.
“ R.H.K.” on a subject of pastoral in-
terest :
Dear Bulletin.— You are not quite right about the
Desaillys. Frank and George certainly did spend much
money in Riverina making dams, &c., but they sold out
of Coree (a cattle-station and 7000 head), and then put
their energies and money into a large tract of land on
the Lachlan. It was then that drought overtook them.
But the banks showed them every consideration. George
D. was induced to go on the station himself, and if
Wragge had been in evidence then Desailly would pro-
bably have reaped the reward of his labors and anxieties;
because, only three days after giving up his interest the
deluge came. I don’t suppose N.S.W. Govt, has any idea
how much it owes George Desailly—a young Tasmanian
who, after travelling in California, came to N.S.W., and
recognised the possibilities of the “ salt and cotton bush ”
country if only water could be secured. He it was also
who started “ the Willandra cutting,” to let the Lachlan
overflow more liberally on to Mossgiel plains. The
Desailly you mention is no relative.—R.H.K.
Thrilling adventure related by an old lady
and printed in good faith by a Vic. journalistic
genius:
We were bound for Prince Edward Island when, one
day, in a dreadful storm, the brig “ turned turtle.” We
all climbed on to the bottom of the ship where,
being without food and water, we endured great hard-
ships. At last things got so bad we drew lots to see who
should die to save the rest. I was the unfortunate victim,
but a young sailor, who was a sweetheart of mine, volun-
teered to take my place, so he was killed and eaten.
Shortly after, we were picked up and taken to the Island,
where I met and married my present husband.
What a nerveful man “my present husband”
must have been ! Imagine the blushing bride
(who had been a tomb as well as a widow) leaning
on his breast, fresh from a gory banquet off the
body of the man who died for her ! One can hear
her gentle voice murmuring between kisses: “Yes,
I do love you—yum-yum ! —as well as I did love
Jack. He disagreed with me; he might have
made a—yum-yum ! —tender husband, but as a
lover he was tough and very underdone. ” Poor
Jack !
Sugar, pure Silver-plated, 22s 6d.
With covers, 30s.
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
16c. Gold „ „ 465.
??
TW-
Pure Silver-mounted Purses,
7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
New Style, Love Bird and Chain,
Gold, 8s 6d.
A. Saunders.
2-bar Gold Brooch, 3 Pearls, 12s.
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls, £8 6a
6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
A Saunders.
New Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
Bed, Blue and White Stones, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
16a Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2 los and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Send for Size Card.
18a Gold Band, Pure
Double Out Dia-
mond, £3; smaller
Diamond, £2, £2los,
fin. wide.
Send for Price List.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 16c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
18a Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamond, £5 6s;
Larger, £6 6s, £7loa,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
HUPEI
oc. Solid Gold Dia-
monds, 2 Red or Blue
Stones, 10s 6d.
18c. gold, 3 Sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Dia-
monds, £3; Double-
cut Diamonds, £3los
and £4. Send for
illustrations.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 255; 18c.,
265, 30s, 355, £2.
A. Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 5s 6d.
A. Saunders.
9c. Chased Links, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold, 40s. Silver, 4s 6cL
Other styles, 10/6,12/6,15/-, 20/■
A. Saunders,
S, nt s5 e /P isheB > P ure Silver-plate, on Hard White Nickel,
678 ou (4 pieces). Other houses charge £4 4s same articles,
WE SELL DIRECT FROM THE MAKF.RfI-
Highly Recommended.
The 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases,
£i 4s, 15 years’ guarantee; ditto, 14c. Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £3O watch.” Ladies’,
“beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
The Utmost Satisfaction.
WATCH
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
Old Jewellery
RE-MADE
to any Design.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £'3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
A. Saunders.
Sugar Scuttle, Pure Silver-plated,
16s 6d, 20s, 258.
A. Saunders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch.
13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Butterfly Brooch, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Iland-made Wedding Bings and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15a Gold
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s : extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
Quite New.
9c. Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond, and Redstone, 355.
Gold Baby Brooch, with Safety Pin, 5s 6d.
15c. Gold, larger, 12s 6d.
Send for our Complete Illustrated Price
Book of Watches, Clocks, Jewellery and
Silver-plate. POST FREE.
A. Saunders.
Quite New Gold Bird, White Pearls and
Amethyst Heart, 215.; 15c., £2.
A. Saunders.
Butter, Pure Silver-plate,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
AMV
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d; Extra Strong, 10s;
16c. Gold, 15s. ; 18c. Gold, 20s;
Silver, 3s 6d.
A. Saunders.
16c. Gold, Pure Diamonds, Rubies,
or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Dress Studs, 12s 6d.
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphires, other styles,
3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
Gold Heart
Locket,
Plain, 8s 6d.
Chased, 10s.
r
Child’s Cups, 10s 6a,
15s 6d, 20s. Pure Silver-
plated. 15s 6d and 20s
are in Silk Cases.
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, 815 George-street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY, N.S.W.


NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST
COMBINE IN PRAISING THE
VIRTUES OF
nu ieus nn huods
A Little Girl’s Life Saved.
BILE BEANS EFFECT A MARVELLOUS
CURE.
DOCTORS AND SPECIALISTS BAFFLED
WITH HER CASE.
Mrs. William Groves, of Queen’s - road, New
Lambton, recently wrote to the Bile Beans Manu-
facturing Company’s Sydney Office, giving an ac-
count of a cure
by the use of
he Beans In
the case of her
daughter, a*
school-girl of
10 years of
age. In the
face of the
brief facts
mentioned by
Mrs. Groves,
in her pure
spirit of grati-
tude, the com-
pany request-
ed that the
case should be
impartially
investigated.
Accordingly,
a representa-
tive of the
Newcastle
Herald wait-
ed upon Mrs.
Groves, who
is known in
the locality as
Mrs. Selina
~, ~ . , Groves, and
went thoroughly into the circumstances of the
case, proving this cure to be perhaps the most re-
markable of the many cures which have followed
the use of those wonderful Bile Beans. The girl’s
name is Ethel Rose Groves, now a regular attend-
ant at the Adamstown Public School. From the
time she was three months old, her mother says,
she had been troubled with liver complaint!
While teething, she was affected with con-
sumption of the bowels, congestion of the lungs,
and bronchitis, and, four years ago, she suffered
from a severe attack of typhoid fever and yellow
jaundice. Her kidneys have since been said
to be diseased, her urine becoming quite thick
when standing over night. Each winter the little
girl became a martyr to gathered ears, and her
troubles grew so bad that she could not sleep.
With the least bit of exertion her legs would ache
and she suffered acutely from pains in the shoul-
der. Young as she was, a continued languid
feeling came over her, until at last she never felt
inclined or able to do anything. Her appetite
almost completely left her, and her sight, conse-
quent upon liver and kidney troubles, became so
dim that when the little girl was able to go to
school the printed words seemed to run into one
mass of black type. She had to shut her eyes for
a second to decipher the words. Even-
tually, when the girl was takqn away from school
on account of her declining condition, Mrs. Groves
consulted several doctors, who gave prescriptions,
but the medicines afforded no permanent relief.
Then, when a well-known specialist was in New-
castle, the girl was taken to him. He said she
was suffering from an ulcerated liver, and would
die if not put under his treatment at a cost of .£l4
10s. Mrs. Groves was not prepared to pay this
amount, and the specialist then undertook to treat
the girl for three months for M, with the under-
standing that he would be paid the full amount if
he effected a complete cure. In the meantime, how-
ever, Mrs. Groves read several personal testimonies
regarding the action of Bile Beans on the liver, and
she tried them for her child in preference to the
specialist’s treatment, so she bought a box of the
Beans. This was four months ago, and after the
first two doses Mrs. Groves said she noticed her
daughter beginning to eat better. Then the child
began to improve in spirits, and seemed to take a
pleasure in doing little things about the house.
When night came on the girl was ready for bed,
and could sleep well. After a while her appetite
so far improved that she could eat with a relish in
the morning—a meal which she had seldom par-
taken of even when not at her worst, for many a
time the girl went to school with nothing but a
glass of water in her stomach. The improvement
went on and on until the girl is now apparently
sound and well, and is a picture of health, having
put on 141 b. in weight since commencing with the
Bile Beans four months ago. She is now again
attending the Adamstown Public School, and is
able to play about with the other children as if
nothing had been the matter. This is the result
of taking a short course of Bile Beans after a
patient has been practically given up by medical
men, for Mrs. Groves says the little girl has only
had a few boxes of the Beans in the four months.
Mrs. Groves very willingly gave these faots to
the reporter for publication. She says she will
never forget the debt of gratitude she is under to
the makers of Bile Beans for having saved the life
of her child.
Biliousness-
CAUSE AND CURE.
Biliousnees is an ailment caused by a surcharge
of bile becoming stagnant in the stomach. It is
generally accompanied by indigestion and consti-
pation, vomiting, and a yellow appearance of the
complexion. Dizziness and violent headaches are
usual symptoms. The bile is the natural purga-
tive of the body, and is secreted by the liver ; if it
fails to flow in its usual channels, or to perform its
usual duties, the liver is responsible.
A more annoying complaint than Biliousness it
is hard to And. It prohibits the sufferer from
doing work of any kind, holding a conversation,
or even. resting quietly ; not only this, but the
nausea. is most disagreeable, and the taste and
breath is exceedingly offensive. A remedy should
be applied at once that will act in an efficient
Constipation.
Everyone suffers at some time or other from this
most distressing and rather dangerous ailment. It
is an irregular and weak action of the bowels, and
in extreme cases the bowels may not act for weeks.
In a case of this sort the complaint is very dan-
gerous, and a proper remedy should be applied
immediately. Women suffer more from it
than men, and the frequent headaches suffered
by this sex can nearly always trace their origin
to constipation. It is caused in most cases by
carelessness and neglect, but in some cases is
brought about by a disordered condition of the
liver. It is, nevertheless, a fact that where
regularity of habit is practised, constipa-
tion is seldom found. The effects of constipa-
tion on the system are many and varied,
among the most common of which may be
mentioned piles, sick headaches, debility, sour
stomach, humors and intermittent fevers. Regu-
larity is the main thing to be observed in cases of
CORC
BILIOUSNESS,
INFLUENZA, INDIGESTION,
HEADACNE,
CONSTIPATION,
PILES,
FEMALE WEAKNESS.
manner, and the remedy to take is Bile Beans for
Biliousness, which are compounded expressly for
ailments of this sort. They are so prepared that
they act directly on the liver, helping it to help
itself, and enabling it to secrete enough bile to
flush the bowels thoroughly, and thus clear off all
waste and offensive matter from the system. This
remedy is well known, and is conceded the most
effective purgative medicine of the age. It does
not afford mere temporary relief, but an absolute
and lasting cure. It sells on its merits alone.
constipation, and, in conjunction with a short
course of Bile Beans, will prove very effective.
Bile Beans for Biliousness act on the liver,
enabling that organ to furnish the natural cathar-
tic for the bowels. They are gentle in their action,
thus avoiding the very harmful results brought
about by most laxative remedies of to-day, which
act in a violent manner.
The soundest stomach, lungs and heart will
falter in their work the moment the Liver goes
wrong.
—: BILE BEANS:—
Are an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous Headache, Indigestion, Constipation
Piles, Female Weakness, Pale-faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples, Blotches, Dizziness’
all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dyspepsia, Influenza, Colds, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and
Side, Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn, and that Tired Feeling. Bile Beans
are not an ordinary medicine. They are manufactured in one of the best-fitted and equipped labora-
tories in the world, at Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A., and they have been used throughout that country
by the best physicians for years, and the amount of time and labor expended in compounding them
would, even if someone had the formula, exclude them from selling them, as it is only on account of
the sales being in the millions annually that they can be sold at the low price, owing to the great cost
of the ingredients.
Bile Beans are obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers generally; Australian Dep6t of
the Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney ; Victorian agents, Rocke, Tompsitt and
Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne; S.A. agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., King William-st Adelaide-
W.A. agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., Perth ; Queensland agents, S. Hoffnune and Co., Brifbane ’
A Veteran’s Story.
CURED AFTER YEARS OF SUFFERING.
LTVER COMPLAINT AND LOSS OF
APPETITE.
A pressman, in his nsual news-gathering rounds,
recently came across one Benjamin Kirwan, who
took an active part in the Maori war, ’64-68.
Kirwan carried his life in his hands, as the saying
goes, and had many hair-breadth escapes from his
dusky foes. Mr. Kirwan, who is a native of
Melbourne, was born in ’47, and has seen a good
bit of the world during the past half-century. He
enjoyed excellent health till within the last few
m
7
years, when
those common
complaints,
biliousness and
liver troubles,
attacked him.
We shall let
him speak for
himself: —“I
was a sufferer
from liver af-
fection for
years. But my
main troubles
arose from the
state of my
liver brought
on by bilious-
ness. My ap-
petite once
good, almost
entirely failed
me. In fact,
I took a great
dislike to food
of any sort. This, for a man of my calling—
a carrier—was a severe affliction, for my
bodily strength naturally gave way from
loss of sustenance, and I found it next
to impossible to do a full day’s work. Of
course, I tried remedies of various sorts, but found
little, if any, relief. Indeed, the pills I took ap-
peared to increase rather than diminish my
malady. After taking a dose of these nostrums I
felt a burning sensation in my throat, and an un-
comfortable feeling generally, so I determined,
come what would, to discontinue taking what
purported to be a remedy, but which, in reality,
was an aggravation of my complaint. Seeing a
number of apparently genuine and disinterested
testimonials regarding the curative properties of
Bile Beans for Biliousness, I was resolved to try
it, and so obtained a box. Wonderful to relate, no
sooner had I begun to take these beans than the
distressing symptoms of my long-standingmalady
began to disappear. Formerly, I was a vic-
tim to insomnia; in fact, night was more
trying than day. ‘ Nature’s balmy restorer
sleep—was a stranger to me. However, thanks
to the truly marvellous effects of Bile Beans, I am
now able to enjoy a sound sleep nightly, a good
meal, or, rather, meals, and perform a full day’s
work. To speak plainly, I feel as strong and as
active as ever T did in my best days.” As a
natural consequence, Kirwan is full of gratitude
for the restoration of his health. Whilst he
speaks the truth regarding the inefficacy of all
other so-called cures from his own personal experi-
ence, he is very pronounced in his praise of Bile
Beans, and makes it a point to inform his friends
who may happen to be afflicted with biliousness,
liver complaint, dizziness, fulness after meals,
costiveness, headache, debility, influenza, colds or
like complaints, they can put their finger on a
sure and certain remedy in Bile Beans.
Influenza land Colds.
Influenza is not generally understood by the
greater part of those who suffer from it. It is in
reality an aggravated form of cold, supplemented
by a general weakness of the whole system. Ordi-
nary colds, it is well-known, are caused by the
congestion of the blood, which, as a rule, is most
prominent in the head or throat. Influenza can be
traced to the same cause, and irregular or insuf-
ficient liver action is, in most cases, responsible for
both. When the liver, through any derangement
of the digestive organism, ceases to act in the
proper manner, a certain amount of bile finds its
way into the blood, and, at the same time, the
blood created from food consumed is of a de-
cidedly poor quality. In this manner, the blood
becomes congested, the circulation sluggish, and
a cold results. The circulation of the blood now
being much slower than usual, the entire system
is affected. The nervous organism becomes un-
strung, the appetite poor, and the rest disturbed.
The body is extremely susceptible to chills, and the
slightest draught causes a violent attack of cough-
ing or sneezing. Many so-called cures for influ-
enza fail to get at the root of the trouble, and only
afford temporary relief. A medicine that will
keep the liver in thorough and regular working
order, and the digestion right, will, without
doubt, prove the most effective preventive and
cure for influenza and colds. This is what Bile
Beans for Biliousness will do, and we maintain
that no better remedy can be found for these
•ailments.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Turner, Seddon, Kingston and Reid are
twitted with more or less reason, each in his own
Parliament, with having an eye on the Agency-
L«-eneral of his province.
A Sydney daily, which vehemently de-
nounced the three-fifths majority in the Consti-
tution Bill, requires a three-fourths majority of
shareholders to alter its own constitution.
Rumor in Reidite circles renews the pro-
bability of ex-Premier Dibbs being invited to take
the office of N.S.W. Agent-General, pending a
fresh arrangement under Federal regime.
S.A.’s accumulated deficit is £906,000 ; it
has been reduced from .£1,461,750 during the five
years the Kingston Govt, has been in office. In
addition, £350,000 has been paid off the bonded
debt out of revenue in the same period.
It now transpires that the shameful agree-
ment made by Q. Premier Nelson with the Jap.
Govt, was secretly supplemented by a confidential
protocol, that did not appear amongst the printed
papers called for. Trust the Boodlewraith !
As the routine dailies only admit into
their columns correspondence which is to their
liking, it may be. asserted that Brisbane (Q.)
Courier is barracking for a State Religion to be
added to the curriculum of the Q. State schools.
South Melbourne municipal elections in-
dicate that Labor solidarity counts for little if
the “yaller dog” yelps. The “Party’s” three
nominees went down like ninepins to the tune of
“ Boyne Water,” and that in an aggressively
Labor suburb.
Ed. B.—Substituted rights were issued
here (Tenterfield) to Mr. Lee’s supporters on the
day of N.S.W. general election. No notice of
same was given to the public, consequently our
side was not allowed to get £hem. Is this fair
play ?—J. W. Frost.
S.A. public service is now the most poorly-
paid in Australasia. Excluding the Judges, only
four civil-servants receive four-figure salaries—
Agent-General Cockburn (£1500), Engineer Mon-
crieff (£1100), Audit-Commissioner Cooke and
P.M.-General Todd (£1000).
The cost of the casual alien. The 27
Chinamen who recently crossed the Q. border, vi&
Camooweal, had to be sent on, via Hughenden, to
Townsville, and lodged in Her Majesty’s gaol.
This little job will cost Q. Govt, nearly £2OOO
—to say nothing of subsequent prison expenses.
It was seriously argued, t’other day, by a
Bananaland legislator, that immigration from the
British islands was hardly sufficient to produce a
good breeding stock in Australia. “A few
Germans should be introduced,” the speaker
averred, “to keep up the stamina of the race.”
“COMPARISONS ARE ODIOUS.”
(Street sketch.)
The last official announcement of the in-
tentions of the Reid Govt, rc appointments to the
honorary magistracy was made in Oct., 1897.
Brunker to Affleck : “ The Govt, has no intention
of changing the method of appointing J’sP.”
With the shoal of scandalous appointments since
made before its eyes Parliament should delay no
longer in forcing Govt, to alter matters.
Political influence in State employment's
dead ! Just keep an eye on the loyal party poli-
ticians whom*N.S.W. electors recently unseated.
The Public Service Board doesn’t reach any billet
paid out of public moneys. Paris Exhibition
commissioners, commissioners to develop the Syd-
ney Exhibition scheme, secretaries to these and
other commissioners, are already attaining nebul-
ous existence.
Tas. Legislature is trying
to bring its education system
nearer to the f., 0., and s.
standard almost reached by the
other Australias. Which recalls
that no one ever thinks of
blaming the “ Godless system
of education ” for Tas. crime.
The Isle of Bad Dreams is still
hopelessly sky - pilot - ridden.
Coincidently, the pages of every
marriage-register in the place (a
recognised test) are disfigured
by an undue proportion of
tell-tale signs of the cross.
Similarly, gaol records show
that John Smith makes his
broad-arrow mark there quite
as often as he does in those
provinces where the State
schools are busy “ breeding
brigades for hell.”
A movement, started in
Maoriland by Premier Seddon,
aims at rescuing from the
clutches of the R.C., Angli-
can, and Wesleyan churches
large endowments of land set
apart nearly 50 years ago by
Gov. Grey to provide educa-
tion for children of “ poor and
destitute persons.” The per-
sons entrusted with these en-
dowments were proved by a
Commission to have applied
these trusts, in one case, to
the payment of private debts,
in another to purposes of the
denomination, and in another
to the establishment of a high-
school, where the sons of the
gilded get what was intended
for the poor. The Premier will
encounter desperate clerical
opposition, but he will carry
the people with him in his
effort to place these endow-
ments under popular control,
and to have the conditions of
the trusts fulfilled. An attempt
made in that direction 2(5 years
ago was defeated by clerical in-
fluence. The then Anglican
Bishop of Wellington charac-
terised the proposal as “ a gross
act of spoliation ”! To the
ordinary unsacred mind, the
boot appears to be entirely on the other leg.
Treas. Holder told S.A. Assembly in his
Budget-speech that it would cost <£lol,ooo annu-
ally to establish a free breakfast-table in the pro-
vince by removing the duties from tea, coffee,
cocoa, chocolate, and sugar. That would be ss.
Bfd. per head for every man, woman, and child of
the population.
“ E.S.” : The placing of a tin cock on a
weather-vane is simply in accordance with the
fact that all birds (ostriches and emus barred)
perch head-to-wind. How truly beautiful and
consistent are nature’s methods ! Tin-god Yes-
No Reid is a weather-cock, and, just now, he has
the wind slap in his teeth.
The China situation is one of Yankee
grab, with “ buying in ” allowed. That is to say,
when ties take place, the beaten players are
allowed another chance on contributing to the
pool a stake equal to the pool, divided by the
number of ties. John Bull takes his one chance,
and the Bear keeps “ buying in.”
Dr. Renwick, a staunch Protectionist and
erstwhile Oppositionist, moved the adoption of
the Address-in-Reply in N.S.W. Leg. Council
this session. The Knight’s motives are no doubt
perfectly correct, but the public can’t help remem-
bering that Premier Reid will probably be ap-
pointing a Commissioner to Paris Exhibition early
next year.
“ Armit,” of New Guinea, writes :—“The
Q. planters look to New Guinea labor.” Says
Brisbane Courier —“ And why not?” Certainly
—why not ? Probably Papuan manure will grow
as good sugar as the New Hebridean human com-
post does. And then there’s Bishop Webber with
his oleaginous compensations of Christianity.
Certainly—why not ?
The surprise of the present Q. session is
ie silence of Hoolan, of Burke. Pour weeks in
uhe House, never a speech, and only two mild in-
terjections ! Time was when “Hoolan is up! ”
would fill the galleries and floors in double quick
time. Now John Plumper does the Lone Fisher-
man, and he and Sims threaten a cave or worse.
Each has a bit up his political sleeve.
A fresh attempt will be made to pass a
Ministerial Elections Bill this session in N.S.W.
Ministers don’t go for re-election in S. Australia.
They don't go in South Africa or Maoriland.
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly has passed the Bill on a
couple of occasions, but the Upper House threw
it out. Hogue’s Bill of last year was rejected on
second reading, but in a small House.
Terry, the new member for Ryde, in
N.S.W. Assembly, promised on the hustings that
he would, if elected, spend the whole of his <£3oo
a year in one gigantic yearly picnic to his con-
stituents, which is a decidedly “ new way.”
Apropos, Mr. Terry was elected as an ardent
federalist, but he is already disputing the leader-
ship of the newjarf-and-’arf party in the House
with Messrs. Levien and M'Lauglilin, two avowed
anti-federalists.
There is much dissatisfaction in S.A.
labor ranks owing to the fact that present Ms.P.
are not to go before a plebiscite with other labor-
candidates before nomination for next year’s elec-
tions. Moreover, the expulsion of Wood, M.P.,
from the party, has caused further disruption.
Apart from these complications, the prospects of
the Labor-party, owing to its senseless attitude on
the Federation question, are not too bright.
Who is going to resign in order that Bar-
ton may have a seat in N.S.W. Assembly? The
rumor that that clever Parliamentarian, “Tom”
Ewing, thought of doing so is probably baseless,
as he seems absolutely wedded to politics R. G.
D. Fitzgerald, member for Robertson, has said he
would be quite willing to stand aside at any time
in favor of a strong man of his own way of think-
ing, and as he has plenty of business to engage his
attention outside the Assembly there are more
unlikely things than that he may give the cause
of Australian union a big lift by providing a seat
for the Federal leader.
WHILE WE LIVE WE LEARN.
BRIGHT EXPERT ( who has been watching man shovelling quartz
into stamper boxes) : “ What are you — er —doing [?]eah,
my man ?”
MINER: “ Feedin '!”
B. E.: “ Feeding! Feeding what? "
M. : “ Feedin' quartz.”
B. E. (suspiciously): “ Feeding quartz!”
M. : “ Yes; don't you see how hungry it looks!”
Mooted with some show of reason that
Australian Supreme Court Judges who are eligible
for life-pensions as soon as their state of health
unfits them for bench duties should be required,
as a preliminary to appointment, to furnish a
medical certificate as to general physical fitness.
A life-pension of <£lB2o presses upon the public
pocket with sufficient severity to justify a demand
for some guarantee that an adequate amount of
work will be performed.
Despite personal blandishments and Bul-
cock machinery, it may turn out at next elections
that Q. Premier Byrnes fooled away the chance of
his life by hanging on to the old crowd. He
could have gone to the country with a Democratic
programme which would have enlisted the sym-
pathy of every progressive elector, and cut the
ground from under his opponents’ feet. The new
Premier has Liberal leanings, but the gang will
make a second Jonah of him if he dares to leave
the rut —and such a rut!
It is well worthy of notice that Premier
Byrnes, even in his wildest democratic flights,
does not propose to exclude the Jap altogether.
Immigration is to be checked only the brown
alien is to come in under regulations. Premier
Byrnes has yet to learn that Australia doesn’t
want the Jap at all—neither restricted nor unre-
stricted. Q. election comes off in ’99. Will elec-
tors kindly note that already something like
600 subjects of the Mikado have been dropped
like vermin along the coast as mementoes of
this gladsome year of ’9B.
When Premier Reid offered a, portfolio
to Mr. Ashton, M.P. for Goulburn, that pushing
young politician tried to make terms-or, at any
rate, intimated that the Premier’s proposed
amendments in the Constitution Bill did not go
far enough. Whereupon Mr. Reid, no doubt
delightedly, let Mr. Ashton drop. For Mr.
Reid wanted a colleague who would feed out of
the hand. If Mr. Ashton had been two years
longer in Parliament he would probably not have
been so soft —he would have taken the portfolio
and made terms afterwards.
N.S.W. Department of Justice has often
been administered by laymen—by F. B. Suttor,
W. Clarke, “Jimmy” Gar van, and others —and
that, too, anterior to the Reid Govt, arrangement
whereby the Judges have been transferred to the
Attorney-General’s Department. C. A. Lee is
not, therefore, in this respect an experiment. In-
deed, considering the functions of the Justice
Department, with an Attorney-General’s Depart-
ment to-render assistance in case of need, the Par-
liamentary preference should be to fill the office
with a layman—who will stand between the
public and the lawyers.
“ Hawkesbury ” . The outcry against the
“ elector’s right ” finds no justification in my ex-
perience. As poll-clerk in a district where 2000
votes were recorded, I heard of but one case of
“ lost right,” and that arose from “ the old
woman” so carefully putting it away that she
could not find it. Some favorite lodgments—the
inside lining of the best hat, under the bed-mat-
tress, folded in The Word, under the bark roof
wrapped in newspaper, tacked inside the skirt of
the missis’s best dress, and stuffed in the sulky
cushion. One innovator is reported to have
simply filed his right, with other important
papers, and locked same in a box ; but the yarn
is doubtful on the face of it.
S.A. Govt, can make little headway with
its Pastoral Bill, the pastoralist Opposition hold-
ing out stubbornly for an almost absolute 42
years lease. They are urged to this by Peter
Waite, the province’s most successful dry-country
squatter —most likely, in fact, Australia’s most
successful. Waite, asked what things were re-
quired to make the pastoral industry boom again,
answered—“ First, tenure ; second, sure tenure:
third, more sure tenure.” And he added that
quite lately he jumped at a chance to forego for
the improvements on Mutooroo <£40,000, which
Govt, would have had to pay if he had aban-
doned that run as he then intended doing, in con-
sideration of the grant of a 42 years lease.
The Argus indulges in its regular snuffle
that the unopposed return of the usual batch of
Leg. Councillors shows the unanimous approval
by Vic. ratepayers of the reactionary methods and
Bill-slaughtering propensities of the Rich Land-
lords. It no more proves it than the unopposed
return of Wrixon for his province proves that the
Fatmen down his way are rampageously earnest
for a revolutionary reform of the Upper House on
Wrixon’s proposed Federal Senate lines.
The open defection from Q. Labor-party
has just begun. Carpentaria Sim has just set the
ball rolling, giving as reason his disagreement
with the party over the land-grant railway busi-
ness. Avows at the same time that he is a firm
believer in 99 planks of the Labor platform out of
a hundred. If every politician severed himself
from a party because he only believed in 99
hundredths of its policy, there would be as many
parties as there are politicians. Most of us are
very glad to support a party whose platform
meets our approbation to the extent of even a
poor three-fifths. Query—Does Sim intend hence-
forth to support a Govt., or not to oppose a
Govt., whose policy he disapproves of and con-
demns to the extent of 99 items out of every
hundred ?
Dear Bulletin. —You mention that Edwin
Lilley intends to run for Oxley (Q.) in the Demo-
cratic interest at next election. You should have
added that there has been in this electorate for the
past six years a Democratic Association, whose
approved candidate, Dr. Culpin, contested the last
two elections with Grimes, the sitting member—
the first time hopelessly, and the second time com-.
ing within 50 votes of success. Dr. Culpin is still
the approved candidate of the association, and, if
left to contest the seat unmolested, is regarded
(even by Grimes’s supporters), as certain to win at
next election. Lilley, knowing this, seems deter-
mined to step in and strengthen Grimes’s chances
of election. This while numbers of other elec-
torates around Brisbane are open to him with
better chances of success !— Democrat.
Recent attempts to unite Q. Labor and
Opposition parties have proved abortive. Labor-
leader Glassey’s devastating egotism has con-
quered. Drake, the ablest man in Q. Assembly
opposed to the Ministry, was willing to lead a
combined Constitutional Opposition on getting
reasonable assurances that he would not be de-
serted by his party at critical moments. Glassey,.
at the conference between the two parties, played
on the emotions of his weak-minded followers by
tearfully pleading that his compulsory resignation
of leadership would amount to personal “humilia-
tion.” Result: Laborites decide to let things
“ rip ” for the present and trust to Providence and
leather-lungs for the future. Probable effect:
Byrnes and co. will jeer at their disorganised foes
during the session and blot them out during the
approaching elections.
Premier Reid has appointed three Ministers
to fill the great gap left in his Cabinet by the
elections. Lee, of Tenterfield, becomes Minister
of Justice; J. A. Hogue, formerly Sydney
Evening News editor, is made Minister of Educa-
tion; and Varney Parkes, son of Old Parkes,
perpetuates the unnecessary office of Postmaster-
General. Good Joe Cook, former P.M.G., becomes
Minister of Mines and Agriculture. The changes
are on the whole distinctly for the better, but
from a Government point of view the chief re-
commendation of the new men is that they are
reliable Reidites, guaranteed to swallow Jolly-
and-Fab notions without a squirm. Reid has
Premier T. J. Byrnes says “no man’s political
education is complete without an acquaintance with.
Mr. Reid.”
evidently assimilated Parkes’ doctrine of a One-
Man-Ministry—as far as brains and independence
go his present crowd is one of the poorest N.S.W.
ever struck, bar the last Reid Cabinet. But they
all bark when the boss says bow-wow.
Applicants for employment to N.S.W.
Public Service Board who forward their applica-
tions unstamped or marked “ O.H.M.S.”—think-
ing that a benevolent, jolly-and-fat Ministry will
take pity on their poverty—are sadly disillusion-
ised. The charged envelope is returned from the
Board to G.P.0., which instructs the postmaster
nearest to applicant to collect the postage. One
postmaster had four journeys of half-a-mile each
trying to catch a billet-hunter at home, said
hunter having forwarded a weighty enclosure of
references to the Board on which the large sum of'
2d. had been charged. And this is the same pro-
vince where the Treasury clerks do the Prime
Minister’s electioneering circulars, where the
same gentleman’s electioneering telegrams went
0.H.M.5., and a special train, used to convey him
to Queanbeyan to fight for his party, was not paid
for until he was taunted in the House by the
member whom he had vainly endeavored to oust.
TIME ! ! ! TIME ! !!
WHAT TIME? HIGH TIME—to BUY the BEST!
BREAKFAST TIME—
GRANUMA, King of Porridge
Foods.
LUNCH TIME
GOLDENIA, Best Ceylon Tea in
the World.
DINNER TIME —A Wee Drap]' e o't
White Heather Whisky.
I’lire, Mellow, and Matured.
ALL THE TIME-
BILLY TEA is BEST!
JAMES INGLI3 & CO., Sydney & Brisbane,
Sole Agents and Proprietors. Wholesale Only.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lagei
Important Announcement to our City and Country.
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY > CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art A netioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the A net ion /looms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale-
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
W.u.TKK lilt v i >i.kv it Co., 324 George-st.


LATEST NOVELTIES IN RINGS.
QUALITY, FINISH, and DURABILITY GUARANTEED.
18c. Half-Hoop.
5 fine Diamonds, £7 10s.
Smaller stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 fine Diamonds, with
8 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, £6.
6 lovely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s.
18c. Engagement.
8 fine Diamonds, £5.
2 fine Diamonds,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal, or Pearl,
18c. I>a Parisienne.
2 fine Diamonds, £b.
1 fine Diamond,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal, or Pearl, £4.
18c. Gipsy.
8 fine Diamonds, £2 6s,
£3, £4.
1 fine Diamond, with
2 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls,
£llsa, £2 sa, £B,
Post Pre&
18c. Single Stone.
1 fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller stone,
£3 10s, £5 £7 10s.
15c. Little Gem.
Euby, Opal, or Sapphire,
21s.
Diamond, 85s.
18c. Single Stone.
1 fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller stone,
£3 10s, £5, £7 10s.
Curb Chain Ring.
9c., 15s, 20s.
15c., 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 27s 6d, 355.
18c. Marquise.
Set with 14 Diamonds
and 1 Ruby or
Sapphire, Emerald, or
Turquoise centre,
£4 4s.
ISo. Band Ring.
1 fine Diamond, 40s, 60s,
1008.
Ruby or Sapphire,
30s, 455, 60s.
Opal or Pearl, 255, 40s, 50s.
Any Name or Motto.
9c., 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
Raised Gold Letters 5s
extra.
Our Popular Pendant Kings.
Plain Band Ring.
9c., 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 208
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6<t
18c., 218, 258, 30s.
ISC
18c. Buckle.
1 fine Diamond, £2.
1 fine Sapphire,
Ruby, or Opal, £1 IBs.
Expanding-, 7a 6d,
8s 6d.
• WITH
AMETHYST,
TOPAZ,
MOONSTONE,
GARNET,
OPAL,
OR
LUCKY BELL
PENDANTS,
w
Any Initial, os, 10«.
£
Solid Band, 12b Cd.
18e. Two Heart.
1 fine Diamond, with
1 Ruby or Sapphire, 355.
2 fine Diamonds, 455.
18c. Tablet.
1 fine Diamond, with
2 Rubies or Sapphires, 27s 6d.
3 fine Diamonds, 50s.
18c. Carat.
5 Lovely Opals,
455, 50s, 60s.
3 Patterns.
9c. Band Ring.
Special Line, set with 1
Opal, Ruby, Sapphire, or
Turquoise, 17s 6d and 20s
Our Wedding Kings and Keepers
TO
AEE ADMITTED
BE THE BEST VALUE IN AUSTRALIA.
a r. a r,f RinKB >r? Stamped with the English Hall Mark.
15-carat ° W Rln^s and Keepers 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d each
18-carat ” ” 12s 6d 17 s 6d, 22s Od! 27s 6d each!
” , » Iss, 20s, 255, 32s 6d each.
Send Size of Finger by a Piece of Wire or a Hole in Cardboard
Please send for our Illustrated Slips of Latest Novelties.
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address —9Q KING STREET SYDNEY
NOT A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
First Bear : “ What’s your hurry, Jim ?’*
Second Bear : “ There’s a couple of men coming,
over there! ”
First Bear : “ Have they got guns
Second Bear : “ No ! Kodaks 1"
Australian Depots
—FOE—
KODAKS.
I IM\
Catalogues and Instructions Free.
BAKER * ROUSE
X PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
375 George St., Sydney;
AND AT
260 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE;
65 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE;
81 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
Keep YoGr BGSipcss iO YoGr Owi) Hapcls,
The ONLY TRUE and EFFECTIVE BUSINESS COUPON SYSTEM
IS THAT SUPPLIED BY THE USE OF
The Storekeepers’ Coupon
02 4 JAN-9
l. CONRAD
Butcher
and Meat Preserver
HINDICY STREET
Return £3 in Checks»
and Receive V.
H i 0. 0 0 A
Register.
IT CONCENTRATES your
CASH BUSINESS by giving
special inducements to your
Customers to regularly pur-
chase at your Store.
IT ISSUES a DATED and
NUMBERED PRINTED
COUPON with every trans-
action, which is a statement of
the transaction, a RECEIPT
for the MONEY PAID, and
which at the same time bears
your ad vertisement.
2 6 8 JUL I >
BAYNES BROTHERS.
late Graziers Botchers
BRANCHES IN ALL PARTS
CITY AND SUBURBS.
Return £1 In tickets
and receive M- In goads
DO. 1.2
REGISTER
COUPON VOUCHER.
Full Particulars on application to
REGISTER
COUPON VOUCHER.
THE NATIONAL CASH REGISTER COMPANY’S
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA:
393 GEORGE ST., SYDIXTEY.
Telephone No. 2976. W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager. P.O. BOX, 1035.
99
n
i
so
§5
** *
»
\\\#
*
ft
ft
ft
\vsi
E
t\v
6
£
MM
iU\i
I LN B €kj\ |R
iliS
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
NICHOLSON & CO.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE
AGENTS :
A WARNING.
We beg to inform
all intending purchasers of
that care wants to be exercised in seeing that
they get the genuine article. Our tyres are
now being imitated and a poor substitute sold
to a few unsuspecting purchasers, who do not
find out the imposition until too late. No doubt
it is extremely annoying to pay for cheap grade
tyres the same money as would have purchased
the best tyres manufactured ; but the matter is
in the purchasers’ hands, who can easily protect
themselves from imposition by specifying
“Dunlops,” and not accepting the tyres unless
they are embossed with our Trade Mark.
Dun iqp Tyres
First in
1888.
Foremost ever
since.
TRADE
MARK.
S£ND___AT__ONCE for a copy of our Artistic Booklet, “All about
Dunlop TyrGS for 98-9# The Booklet is worth the trouble
of calling or writing for a copy to
THE DUACOP POEOIMTIC TORE CO. ETD.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND AT
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. j|Pl|f^


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
.1.1. |l)ont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY * *
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawn bvo/zing Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
EOR LARGE AMOUNTS, v
v AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
Bank of Neiv South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital . ; 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. ... ... .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Richard Hill, Esq. , President.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Auditors :
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects' for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests monev on their behalf in
Public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
_ The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,010,000 0 0
.teserve Liability .. 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. H. E. KATER, M.L.C. ; Hon.’
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
Hon. F. J. Humphery, M.L.C., E. S. CArE, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. 0. B.Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
•SocuV^Sif
HEAD OFFICE
Intersection Hunter, Bligh AND
Castlereagh Streets,^
• SYDiy E Y .
fu t Esta BUSHED - 1379.
Office in AustrM-'* •
Annual Income ah d Invested
Funds. Exceed^2oo,oooSterling .
A Silver Watch
£T GIVEN AWAY.
150 D —GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s
(Lady's or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following' PUZZLE
T* E T* M * F* R E’E’Y*o*Y |
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods
“The Manager English Watch Co.—Miss
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and chain re"
ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
them. All Saints College, Bathurst, 19th July, 1897."
Address-THE MANAGER,
The English Watch & Jewellery
Company,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, €*€ctitorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
£150,000
£60,000
£45,198
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED ...
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVES and Undivided Profits used in the
company’s business ...
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1818 ... ...£6,073 603
I Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. li. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2 000 000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New ’
Zealand Government .. .. goo 000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500*000
Total Capital
£3,000,000
-THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital
Paid-up
£4,800,000
£2,9:4,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Curne, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornlev.
M.L.C.
General Manager l Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS.REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M’Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES’
SYDNEY - 273 GEOIIGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Baymarket, Gosford 'with agency at Wyong) New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, ’ South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
.TbeCASH BONUS, viz., .£B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney.
KELSO KING, Secretary.
"—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76.748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
cean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. TAd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, elc.
W M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiby, L. A. Jessop, Director Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall : Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting OompanyTltS
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites &c
.t or tariff, apply to
GEO. y. 3. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street •
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
livid jrahaur^Eo^
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
Spring Flirtings Just Opened.
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
AT REFORM
PRICES
LADIES’ - -
TAILORING
AT REFORM
PRICES !
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Agents for Cellular Clothing :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LIME.
TO
West&South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE',
GEELONG
PORTLAND J-
WARRNAMBOOL J
Tyrian, Friday, September 2, 5 p.m.
-Bunin.vong, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Sept. 10, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT Pill IE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong-, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 5 p m.
bunbury
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Steamer Early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 3, 2 p.m.
- Konocnvarra, Tuesday, Sept. 6, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 10, 2 p.m.
BUND ABET*'}
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 3, 2 p.m.
-Barrabool, Wednesday, Sept. 7,5 p.
Tyrian, Saturday. Sept. 10, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
lowest current i ti!i;s to am, ports.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Win. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
E
NGLAND
AMEEIO A
VIA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE!.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
Tbe steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under: -
aic .tvituauie unci! used, and Saloon
I assengers can break their 'ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Jrancisco, and any points cnvoute
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
* xTri er ln f° nna| io - n , apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable buildings, George Street
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street.
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
—VIA—
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TVESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
The Universal Land and Deposit
Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
Of tS I ITT STREKT, SYDNEY.
TYEBENTURES ISSUED, redeemable in three or five
years from date of issue. Interest; 3 years 6p.c.
per annum; and 5 years, 7 p.c. per annum—payable
quarterly or half-yearly at option. The holder of Deben-
ture Bonds has a security in the assets of the Company-
past, present, and future. Deposits to limited amounts
received at 5 p.c. per annum. THE UNIVERSAL LAND
AND DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED has never reconstructed
or suspended in any way since its formation in 1891
Advances made on Freehold Property, Bills Discounted
on deposit of Deeds. Business arising out of Real Estate
transacted in all AusU'alian colonies. Depositors in the
country can remit by cheque, personal attendance at
Sydney unnecessary. Correspondence invited. Fullest
information from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
Cable Address— Kiemseil. Telephone No. 095.
Code— Moit eing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarlue & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies .
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investor 3,
free on application.
msiito'fc'fc’s
INVESTORS’ SUIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Land, &c.
perthT
w UST AUSTRALIA.
£5 each BUILDING SITES, close to City, in a few
years will he very valuable. Easy Terms. Torrens Title.
Plans and all information from
Ernest (J. V. Broughton,
Valuator under R.P. Act. 250 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CK
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Wollowra, Friday, Sept 2.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, September 6.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Wollowra, Friday,
September 2.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Tuesday, September 6.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Satimlay,
September 3.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
September 10.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
~~ numnwill II HIMIIIIM i IlliiWl HH ill—
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Sfcei
be despatched as folio
of the above Company will
FOR MARSL . 3 AND LONDON,
louchmg at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission-to call at Brindisi.
Ana cnencetorward every alternate week. Kates of
: LONDON, Return Tickets, 165 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
estein Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
toSL vT for P assa ffes from England. EDWARD
IRKLAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker g CoTpne
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POR'l’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESS MARITIMES
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
t , e Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombav, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through ti,e Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
milivraith.fq^acharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotalions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
„ „ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYH
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
** ■•'*** lira, xveuurn UCKeIS to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the
colonies. J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. N. C
OY.
■ TD.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships* as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackav'
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday*’ Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WFBT
AUSTRALIA-Weekly. A
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY- Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE -A.U.S. N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street
FREMANTLE and PERTH— D. Hamilton
BRISBANE-British, India and Queensland Afrencv
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents. *


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Go
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
No. 196.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18s 6d;
(5-ct., £llss ;
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 137.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls,
No. 201. —Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 ss;
ib-ct., £2 os ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 139.
9ct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 198.
Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 16s 6d ;
16-ct., £l los ;
Silver, 4s.
No. E864.—9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted New Designs, 12s od.
No. 111. —New Bar Brooch,
Amethyst and 9-ct. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. 582. —16-ct. Gold Brooch, Horseshoe
and Whip, Ivy Leaves, £1 10s.
No. E550.—9-ct. Gold.
Pearl and Turquoise Brooch, assorted
pretty designs, 10s Gd.
No. E 1765. —9-ct. Gold Brooch.
Assorted Newest Designs, 9s 6d.
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d.
No. 162.
3 fine Diamonds,
18-ot. Gold, £4 17s 6d.
M
m
&sm£
No. 141.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, set Rubies and Pearls, £2.
No. 236.
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Diamond,
£ll2s 6d.
No. 142.—Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9-ct. Gold, £3 3s ; 15-ct. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller sizes in stock —9ct., 255, 355, 50s ; 15-ct., 655, 87s 6d.
!
No. 283.
15-ct.,
get Pearls,
15s 6d.
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18-ct. Gold,
No. 215.
9-ot. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
No. 136.
9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 6s.
No. 398. —Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork.
7in. long, 9s 6d.
No. 245.—Sterling Silver Oedar Pencil Case, 4s,
No. 396.—Elegant Electro-Silver Bread Fork, llin. long,
Pearl Handle, 14s 6d.
No. 286.—Finest Out Glass.
Silver-mounted Salts Bottle,
16s 6d.
Size larger, 18s 6d.
No. 416.—Handsome Clock, 7in. high.
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops, and two
Gilt and Leather Traces, £1 7s 6d.
No. 361. —Very Elegant fine Electro-Silver,
6-bottle Bamboo Dinner Cruet,
Wicker Handle, £3 ss. 4-bottle, £2 7s 6d.
ids'
No. 316.
Solid Silver Sweet Dish, 3iin. lonjr,
10s 6d.
No. 265.—Medal.
9-ct. Gold, £1 10s ; 15-ct., £2 15s.
Silver, 6s.
No. 388.
Clectro-Silver Plated Jam Spoon, 6in. long, 3s.
M
No. 386. —Electro-Silver Plated Butter Knife, Pearl Handle, 6in. long, 3s 6J,
No. 402. —Combination Revolving Soup and Entree
Dish, consisting of Electro-Silver Stand, Entree Dish,
Fish Drainer, and China Soup Dish. The Set of 4
most useful interchangeable articles complete, £5.
No. 400.
Electro-Silver Knife Rests, 3J4in. long-,
4s 6d per pair.
Solid Silver mounted Comb, from 10s 6d to J6l Is.
No. 414.—Elegant Clock.
6in. high, 17s 6d.
No. 417.
Elegant Gilt and Nickel Nau-
tical Olock, with Enamelled
Flags, B£in. high, £1 Is.
No. 369.
Elegant “ Queen Anne ” Electro-Silver Afternoon Tea
Service, 3 pieces, £2 10s.
BBBH
EPE
988
raoSs
EQHf!!
m
m
DCPI
UEDDB
ECM
EBqbe
ol
SBbbbl
lon
«s 8
No. 364.— Very Handsome Electro-Silver
Dinner Oruet.
6-bottle, £4 4s. 4-bottle, £3.
No. 84721.
Solid Silver Manicure Set, in case, £2,
NOTE.—The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may
forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet op Specialties (80 pages) Post Free.
i ely m the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will bo
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND. PERTH.


SPORTING NOTIONS.
The pony people thought they had a good thing
in Howlong for the Granville Stakes at Rosehill on Satur-
day last, and planked it down to such purpose that the
galloway started a hot 2to 1 favorite. The race was the
first since “ponies” went over to the horses under the
new ruling of the A.J.C., and the mistake of the handi-
capper in placing Howlong and Maria Jane at the same
weight was inexplicable ; for, allowing that he knew
nothing of the capabilities of the galloways, a glance at
past weights and performances of the respective “ ponies”
would have shown that Howlong should have conceded
the best part of a couple of stone to Maria Jane. The
backers of Howlong were just congratulating themselves
that it was all right, when Kirry, a stable-mate of Amber-
ite’s, came with a rush and beat the favorite by a neck.
Maria Jane finished a couple of lengths behind Howlong,
a pretty sure sign that the latter did not run up to his
form. Saturday’s running must convince the handicap-
pers that the “ponies” are not to be under-rated, and
the followers of the little ’uns missed a chance on Satur-
day they are not likely to get again.
* • * •
To-day (Sat.) the ancient “Oxberry ” club holds
a meeting at Clarendon. The Stewards’ Mile reads well
for Annadour or Eistern King, whilst Influenza or Rock
Rose may account, for the Clarendon Handicap. Tamarus
and Blanche Florence appear a likely couple for Park
Stakes, and Bathilda or P.N. may win the Spring Handi-
cap. Should Rock Rose fail to win the Clarendon Handi-
cap, its chance in the Pace Welter is not to be despised,
though Flower King should run well.
* * • •
Mr. Herbert Garrett, the well-known Sydney
racing-man, has just returned from a trip to England.
He saw the Derby, and says, amongst other things, that
the road was strewn with drunken men, lying under the
hedges and in the ditches. Writer has been going to
races on Randwick and Sydney suburban courses for the
past quarter-century, and cannot call to memory a single
instance of a really drunken man on the road or on the
course, even amongst the lowest scum of the pony-racing
fraternity.
• • • •
Some days ago a leading bookmaker received
a note from a certain parson, who explained that
he was getting up a bazaar in aid of the Stipend
Fund-or something and wanted to know where he
could obtain a roulette-table which could be so mani-
pulated that prizes might be awarded as the holy
man desired. In reply, the profane bookmaker indig-
nantly pointed out that the desired article was nothing
more or less than a “ magsman’s breakjoint,” and that in
his establishment only “square” sport was tolerated;
that, in fact, the very suspicion of “cronkness” would
blast the reputation on which his prosperity was built.
He was, however, willing to stretch a point for the cloth,
which he desired to keep on venerating, and referred the
would-be promoter of a pious fraud to the Y.M.O.A.
Fact.
* * • •
En route from ’Ome comes a new sire for the
Tocal stud, N.S.W. By St. Simon out of Lord Falmouth's
famous mare, Dutch Oven (Dutch Skater—Cantinibre),
the new-comer is well enough bred for anything, combin-
ing, as he does on both sides of the house, the famous
Blacklock blood, now so fashionable, hut erstwhile
“accursed.”
• * • •
The dead-heaters Dreamland and La Carbine, at
the recent V.R.C. meeting, were each treated to a stiff
dose of the “ real Mackay ” before the race, hence their
improved performances. At 'Ome, whisky or port is
often administered to a rogue to hearten him, and, given
in moderation, it has the desired effect. But too much
“queers” a horse, as Lord Hastings found to his cost,
when his Melton reeled, not from distress, but from
“ whuskey,” when called on for a final effort in the Cam-
bridgeshire of ’B6.
* * » *
Some fine Sunday there will be a gorgeous smash
on St. Kilda-road, Melb. Almost everyone who owns or
can raise a pony or horse drives out that way Sunday
afternoons, and between five and six they all return, at a
break neck pace—a la Coogee, only more so. The fast
pony shows off his paces, and the faster trotter passes
him, and so on ; and some day, just where three roads
merge into one comparatively narrow track, a couple of
loaded tram-cars will happen to be passing, and the in-
evitable will eventuate. Then people will wonder why
the authorities allow this sort of thing.
* * * •
Vale, of Vic. Alliance, has been talking again
about the Tote Bill. There are “ totes ’’ and Totes,
Beemingly. Vale’s enthusiasm for total abstinence from
strong drink doesn’t move him to advocate the temper-
ance principle in punting. The machine may be an im-
provement on Ikev Mo, he thinks, but still it is only a
little less vile, and when the State takes up a vile thing,
the thing degrades the State. The same Vale would
naturally oppose a State adoption of the Gothenburg
system in Victoria. Any Government which controls the
sale of good liquor, in preference to licensing the sale of
alcoholic poison, is degraded. The public gain is Moral-
ity’s loss. There is really no arguing with any sort of
pious creedists.
* • * *
It is practically impossible to “get at” the
Adelaide tote with faked tickets. Each ticket as issued
is stamped in similar manner to a railroad ticket, so that
the number of the horse is indented on the pasteboard.
But an ingenious battler, who would have wriggled
through the keyhole of Sheol if there were “mugs” on
the other side, got ahead of the machine several times,
though more for moral satisfaction than for any great
pecuniary benefit. As he elegantly phrased it, “ the
spirit of nark ” moved him. When No. 3on the card had
won a race it was his custom to collect No. 8 tickets. By
careful manipulation the 8 could be pressed into sem-
blance of a 3. Then he would stand outside the crowd
at the paying-window and politely request someone with
half-a-dozen winning tickets to “ collect one for me.”
Mixed in a number of genuine tickets the fake was rarely
noticed, though when the tote clerks balanced afterwards
there was trouble.
* * * *
The continued exodus of horses to England
from this side makes the future of the Australian race-
horse look serious. The crack M.L. colt, Gold Medallist,
has now been bought by an English buyer from Mr. Stead;
and Capt. Scott has withdrawn from the Kirkham sale
Abercorn, and sisters to Coil and Aemena, with the object
of shipping them to the old country. Raven’s Plume
also goes when her present lessee’s term runs out.
» * * •
The crack English jockeys do their best to dis-
credit the Australian starting-gate innovation.
• * • »
According to recently published statement of
S. A. commissioner of police, “no cases of embezzlement
had been traced to betting since the tote came into
force.” Nut for the parsons !
• * • •
Mat Dawson, the old Newmarket horse-trainer,
who died the other day, was chiefly famed for his suc-
cesses with Lord Falmouth’s comparatively small stud.
Lord Falmouth bred them, Dawson trained them, and
Fred Archer did the rest —it was the William, Bismarck
and Moltke trinity of the Turf. Archer married Mat
Dawson’s daughter, .and, the mother dying before the
father committed suicide, their only child (a girl) was left
the heiress of Fred’s considerable wealth.
* * * •
Recent decisions under the Gaming Act in
Maoriland ; Keeping a tote shop, two months’ gaol; keep-
ing a gambling-room, £5O or three months ; tote-betting,
£l5 (a week to pay); ditto, £lO and 14 days. It’s the
little and that knocks the tote-bettor.
* » • *
At Morago Hotel races, last New Year’s Day,
one event, ended in a close finish between two horses,
ridden respectively by a half-caste Chinaman and a ditto
aboriginal. The former won, and as they passed in to
scale, the darkie remarked, “ By Jove, we stirred up the
rice in you that time." “By Gar, yes ; and didn’t I stir
up the 'possum in you/” responded the semi-Celestial.
• • • •
Queensland footballers beat N.S.W. in the first
match at Brisbane on Saturday last by 14 points to 6.
The points were equal, 5 all, at half-time, but Q. ran over
the Cornstalks in the second, adding another 9 points to
their score. Interviewed after the match, the N.S.W.
manager is alleged to have said many things better left
unsaid. After remarking that Queensland’s form equals
Maoriland’s best, he complains about unfair refereeing,
and that the crowd were one-sided in their appreciation
of the locals, which looks much like taking his gruel
badly. As N.S.W. did not score at all in the second-half,
it might be asked where he expected the applause to
come in. The game must have been lamblike, for
N.S.W. casualties only amounted to Ellis’ ribs hurt, Fitz-
gerald’s shoulder ditto, and Shortland’s hand broken.
* * * »
At a Sydney suburban football dinner the other
evening, Rev. Geo. Hay expressed an opinion “ that the
Church was being gradually divorced from her most
promising members by the frigid attitude displayed
toward manly pastimes, which, after all, helped to mould
human character. Football especially helped to fit youths
for the pursuits of life. It made them manly and for-
bearing, and ensured temperate living, both in regard to
meat and drink. No successful athlete had yet been a
drinker to excess, and the daily exercise in training
courses was a guarantee that he would not live riotously,
and that he would seek his rest at the proper time.” One
great element of the “ grip” which the R.C. Church has
always maintained on its votaries lies in the fact that, in
matters of this kind, it has always wisely sided with
Nature, instead of, like blear-eyed Puritanism, against
her.
* • • •
They had nominated the rev. gentleman vice-
president of the local C.C., and he wrote to say he would
be delighted to accept, provided the club was composed
only of regular church-goers. Also, that no matches
should be played with “clubs not under the patronage of
some Christian church, or whose members swear, drink,
or gamble.” Nomination promptly cancelled—on ground
that the club was not run for parson-advertising pur-
poses.
* • • *
George Giffen, who contemplates big cricket
this year, and a possible English tour in March, has been
training hard all the winter.
* * • *
W. G. Grace, who was 50 on July 18, has made
more records than any other cricketer, but the only ones
still standing are his 485 for Hampstead against Stoics in
1886, which is the largest score ever made against odds;
his 217, in 1871, is the highest score ever made in a Gen-
tlemen v. Players’ match. Grace made 2739 runs in 1871,
which remained the record for 25 years, until Ranji came
along in 1896 with 2780. Grace has scored over 60,000
runs during his career, which commenced in 1864.
» » * *
The only new Hinglish cricketer of mark this
season is Rhodes, of Yorkshire, who has done wonders
with the ball against all and every kind of batsman. He
bowls a slow ball much like his fellow countryman, Peate,
who visited ’Stralia with Shaw’s 1881-2 team.
* » » *
Judging by Saturday’s game the fear of baseball
knocking out cricket will not cause the cricket authori-
ties many sleepless nights. As played in Sydney, base-
ball is mostly a bad imitation of the girlish game of
rounders, in which each side has about a dozen innings
and can only score ten or a dozen runs in the lot.
» * * *
Lacrosse quite dwarfs football in. Adelaide. At
a match between leading lacrosse teams on Aug. 20 a
crowd of nearly 3000 mustered, whilst a football encounter
affecting premiership only attracted about 1000. Lacrosse
players, nevertheless, are forced to play on outside
grounds.
* • * *
Sydney Tattersall’s billiard tournament this
year was won by that cool and consistent cueist,
Humphrey Oxenham, who fairly beat booky “ Bill ”
Lyons in the final.. Many a crack player would go down
before the aforesaid Humphrey, who mostly owes his
success to his coolness and to the fact that he never
knows when he is beaten.
* * * *
A widely-known and popular sport is “ Barney ”
Ford, who somewhat luckily beat James in the final
of the billiard-markers’ tournament t’other day. In the
days of his youth Barney was looked on as a coming
champion at ’Ome ; but he never did anything sensational,
and eventually drifted out here on the exhibition ticket.
The Australian town where Barney hasn’t exhibited at
some period of his existence has yet to be discovered.
* » ■ *
When the Guernsey team were winning the
Kolapore Oup, at Bisley, they had what seems to have
been the advantage of a girl “ coach ” to encourage them
—Miss Leale, the daughter of the team’s captain. They
were competing for the honor and glory of her best
smile. How would it answer to send home a girl to
coach the next crowd from Victoria, a nice, inspiring
spinster with some golden hair a-hanging down her back 1
• * • *
The Kolapore Cup scores show that the Guernsey
team won on their all-round merits, every member getting
a total of 90 points or more. The Mother Country had
seven or eight among the 90’s, whereas Victoria and
Canada had each of them two shooters who fell short of
90. The top score was 97. Victoria had a 97, a 96, and a
95 ; Mother Country had a 97 and two 95’s. One 95 was
the best individual record for Guernsey. The unsuccess-
ful Victorian, Grunnnett, with only 83 to his credit, was
the lowest scorer (bar one) in the six competing teams.
One of the India men got 82, and four of his mates made
87, or less.
* » * *
Recent Ireland v. Scotland athletic meeting at
Dublin was a big take-down for Sandy, who was beaten
in 9. events out of 11—including even the Caledonian
specialities of hammer-throwing and weight-putting.
* * * *
Hutchens, the English ped, who when properly
“labelled” was 14 years ago probably the fastest man in
the world, has taken on the English crack Downer in a
match over 200 yds., Hutchens to receive 7 yds. As
Downer is a veritable flyer he may be expected to cut out
the distance in a tick over 19 secs. Hutchens in ’B4 ran
300 yds. in even time.
• * * *
Cabled that the Medway (Eng.) Sailing Club is
building a 22-footer to match against the old Sydney boat,
Irex, in a series of races. The Irex, Mr. “Nick’’John-
son’s old champion, was taken to England by Mr. Mark
Foy. If a line can be taken from the hooker Mr. Sam
Hordern brought out here, the Irex should have no
trouble in more than holding her own, even though the
old boat may not be up to the latter-day Ettie. The
greatest difficulty would seem to be in raising a crew to
sail the boat as handled in Australia.
* * * *
The Melb. road-brigade of biking bobbies is
naturally unpopular with cyclists, but the scorchers got
sweet revenge the other Sunday. Two imposing females
were driving rapidly along St. Kilda-road, when a feather
boa slipped unnoticed from the trap. Several pedestrians
and a few' cyclists went to pick it up, but bobby on his
bike got there first. With a neat swoop he lifted it from
the road, then swept on to restore the dainty article.
But scarce 20yds. had been covered before the boa got
entangled in the chain and was tearing round the
sprocket, shedding feathers like a moulting hen ; and, ere
the constable could pull up, the road looked like a cock-
pi.t. Then the other cyclists dismounted, and everybody
within cooee came up to see what was “on,” and to
watch X 982 stand his machine on its head and uncoil the
remains of the boa. Also, they offered absurd suggestions
and made cutting remarks. Meanwhile, the lady was
returning in search of her lost neck-gear, and when it was
finally handed her in a dismantled and disreputable con-
dition she said things. But she didn’t say as many things
as the constable as he sadly and wisely retired. And the
scorchers whizzed down the road and laughed gaily.
Sydney Society of Artists’ Exhibition.
The show is good enough easily to be better. It
presents, with a single exception, a flat level of too
decent achievement. There is, with a single ex-
ception, nothing in the latest exhibition of the
efforts of the Society of Artists to bring the blush
of shame to the cheek of penury ; nothing at all.
But the exception is a great one. “ A Winter’s
Eve ” (No. 85), painted by Walter Withers, is a
picture this, present scribe would like to possess,
and hang in honorable company in one of his
many castles in Spain. Julian Ashton narrowly
escaped a “ big thing ” in his “ Sea Foam ” ;
but the lady’s feet suggest constabulary parentage.
Talking about parentage, J. Howard Ashton is
no artistic son of his father’s. He is, pictorially,
a scion of the house of Streeton. Ladies paint
roses, always roses—in the present show very con-
vincing roses—but one tires of flowers, and, like
Peggy, in Tom Hood’s Kilmansegg poem, e’en
hates the smell of roses. Miss Alice Muskett’s
flower-picture has, however, something delightful
about it. ’Tis the title, “ Ave ! Imperator, mori-
turi te salutant.” There is a lot of surcease of
sorrow in a phrase like that. In portraiture J. S.
Watkins comes an easy first. His No. Bis good ;
his No. 31, “J. L. Jacobson,’’ is somewhat better
than merely “good”—it is a portrait of a man
whom we know for such. The “ Blue, Gold,” &c.,
is a portrait also. The title makes one’s head ache.
“ Returning from the Outward Bound ” (Fred. H.
Green) has a certain dash and breeziness which
wafts from paint-surface a whiff of alleged ozone.
“Vecchietta” (which is, translated kindly and
catalogueically, Old Woman), painted by Dattilo
Rubbo, has just that sureness of characterisation
one would expect from a countryman of the sure-
handed Nerli. G. W. Lambert’s “ Serpent ”is
admirable. Why did he call it “ Serpent ”? She
is as sweet as innocence can make her.
Julian Ashton’s “Sea Foam” is this artist’s
best effort ; but there is a great feeling
of gloriousness in his “Sea’s Immense.” His
portrait of F. R. Irvine (not Irving, as the cata-
logue has it), is capital. “The Valley” (No. 26)
is probably Sid. Long’s best. I will not take his
“Pan” at any price. It isn’t Pan—the fellow’s
name is Doolan. Lambert’s “Old Joe” is worth
considerably more than five guineas ; and Miss
Alice Muskett’s “ Madrigal ” is worth a lot more
than three. A picture I should like to possess is
Hall Thorpe’s “ Study ” (No. 45). Mr. McCubbin
has missed it in “A Bush Idyll.” Brooke Hansen’s
work is fairly smooth, clean and unimaginative.
Garlick’s “ Darby and Joan” is not emphatically
inartistic. He infuses some human sentiment in
those horses of his. “ The End of the Furrow,”
too, has a distinct sympathy with equine types in
it. Not the least interesting side of the show is
the black-and-white section. Here Lambert holds
an easy “first.” Souter contributes a “poster ”
but it is a poster.
FRED J. BROOFIELD.
An examination of policemen aspiring to
better things was held in Melbourne,"the other
evening, but a day or two earlier it was found that
some enterprising peeler (presumably) had broken
into the Govt. Printing-office and taken a “ pull ”
off the typed list of questions for the exam. The
list was altered at the last moment, so that one
man, who should be an ornament to the higher
walks of his profession, is, in all probability,
destined to tramp his beat and snore in door-ways
indefinitely. It remained for a simple policeman
to hit upon the idea of burgling the Temple of
Fame.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S.W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
In the space-allotment for the coming Paris
Exhibition the Australasian provinces have been
given the absurdly small allowance of 11,000 ft.,
or about 4000 ft. less than would be needed for
effective display by N.S.W. Mines and Agricultu-
ral Department alone ! The Frenchman never
did know much about countries alleged to exist
outside France !
The stained-glass window in St. Mary’s
R.C. Church, Burwood, Sydney, lately completed,
was paid for by the cheque N.S.W. railway com-
missioners donated to the church in absence of any
claim for damages being sent in by the church
authorities on account of the death of Dean
M'Carthy through the Redfern railway collision
of a few years ago.
Victoria Gracious is not “ in it ” for coin
with any of the other leading European sove-
reigns. The King of Italy’s annual income (public
and private) is ill, 100,000, Kaiser Wilhelm has
<£1,730,000, Franz-Josef close on £2,000,000, the
Czar nearly £5,000,000, while the Sultan tops the
lot with a practically unlimited income and an
expenditure of over £6,000,000 per annum—
£l,ooo,ooo on his table alone !
A sweet thing in municipal election-dodges
was perpetrated at St. Kilda (Melb.). A man
travelled from house to house with envelopes in-
scribed “For the dear children —from Truelove,”
and each envelope contained half-a-dozen little bits
of white lolly-stick, marked in red, “ Vote for
So-and-So.” The dear children swallowed the in-
junction, but it seems to have made some of their
parents sick, for So-and-So was rejected by a large
majority.
YOU WOULDN’T CATCH
Us advertising “D.C.L.” Scotch Whisky so
largely unless we were prepared to convince the
public of its absolute purity, by supplying only an
article which they will ask for again and again,
and refuse all others.
A man was convicted at Sydney Quarter
Sessions the other day, and, on being brought up
for sentence, a list of five previous convictions
was read out against him. He indignantly denied
all these but one, and the other four were then
found to belong to other men of the same name.
He then stated that he was committed for trial a
few years ago in Victoria for robbery and imme-
diately proved that he was in Hobart when the
offence was committed. More extraordinary than
all, prisoner’s counsel thereupon proceeded to
prove that on the date when he was supposed to
have committed the offence for which he was tried
last week, prisoner was, on the Crorvn’s own show-
ing, in Pentridge Gaol, Melb. Whereupon the
Court collapsed and the Judge deferred action, as
he suspected that the convicted man, though
apparently in the dock before him, was about to
explain that he was really in Queensland. Ulti-
mately, the man got five years.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholme developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The hearing of the action, Cowlishaw v.
Bulletin, for alleged libel in connection with the
loss of plaintiff’s coal-ship Atacama and 13 lives
was begun on Tuesday at the Supreme Court,
Sydney, before Chief-Justice Darley and a jury
of 12. Mr. Pilcher, Q.C., and Mr. Gannon, in-
structed by Messrs. Sly and Russell, for plaintiff;
the Attorney-General (Mr. Want, Q.C.) and Mr.
Wise, instructed by Messrs. Laurence and M‘Lach-
lan, for defendant. The case will be a protracted
one, and will be watched with much interest.
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6<l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
W£- W£-
V
“Rsd Birds” Succeed
*
BECAUSE they are sold by the only direct Branch of an excellent Bicycle
Factory represented in Australia.
Were we to supply dealers who are not interested in any particular make of
Cycle, we could push the sale of those bicycles on which there is the largest
margin of profit, and when the reputation and standing of one machine has
gone we could fall back on another brand; but AS WE ARE THE FACTORY
we are directly INTERESTED IN ONE LINE OF CYCLES, which we MANU-
FACTURE, SELL, and GUARANTEE, and stand or fall by that one reputation.
We consider our record of producing the WORLD’S BEST BICYCLE for the
past 20 years is indicative of our ability to further produce Bicycles which will
maintain their high standard as the leaders of the high-grades.
SUCH BICYCLES ARE SAFE TO RIDE AND SAFE TO RIDE.
%
%
*
*
*
—IF—
“RED BIRD SPECIAL,” “RED BIRD No. 1”
and “BLACK BIRD” Cycles
ARB NOT PROPERLY REPRESENTED IN YOUR TOWN,
LET US KNOW.
J2©"' Our Agency is a Valuable One,
The Goold Bicycle Go., Limited, p
*
*
AUSTRALASIAN
64 KING ST., SYDNEY (Head Office).
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
BRANCHES
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
r3\
HAVE YOU FIVE MINUTES TO SPARE?
If so, you cannot employ it better than by inspecting our stock of celebrated ENGLISH CYCLES, comprising-
Premiers Simpsons Sparkbrooks
We have imperative instructions to clear these wheels—all ’97 stock—at about HALF-COST.
Country buyers write for particulars. Yon will never have such another opportunity.
Calcotts
St. Swithins Eurekas
STEELING CYCLE DEPOT, 75 EUzabeth-st., Sydney.


rj^ll HJtli AKE other GOOD BICYCLES, but
NONE so EASY BIDING and SEBVICE-
ABLE as
MASSEY-HARRIS.
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
JiSl ABI IMI |-D
1847.
Australasian Branch: 163-169 William.st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 245 Collins Street, Melbourne; 885 George Street Svdnev-
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin
Interesting Illustrated Catulcgue Posted Free upon Application.
trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M 0 Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees.
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—4s4 Collins st., corner William-st., Melbourne.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
The SYDNEY LAUGHING SEASON will
break loose on
Saturday Next, 3rd September,
T. A. KENNEDY
- HYPNOTIST -
King Laugh-maker of the World.
Doors Open, 7.15; Commence, 8.15.
PEOPLE’S OWN PRICES—3s., 25., Is. and SIXPENCE.
Seats may be reserved at Nicholson’s.
Fred Henninoiiam, Business Manager.
»pOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Madame J|my Sheruiin’s
. FAREWELL CONCERTS . .
Beginning SATURDAY EVENING, Septembers.
The Australian Nightingale
HENRY STOCKWELL, The New Zealand Tenor
MISS KITTY GRIND LAY, Contralto.
Mr. ARTHUR DEANE, The Australian Baritone.
Accompanist, Mr. J. E. SYKES.
Admission— 3s, 2s, and One Shilling.
Plan and Tickets at Paling’s.
P. A. HOWELLS, Manager.
POWN HALL, SYDNEY.
“ “ Grrand Concert
(By Invitation only) given by
Herr Josef Kretsdmaoo,
In honor of his pupil,
Miss RENEE LEES,
Monday, sth September,
At 7.3° pm. W" A limited number of Tickets may b<
obtained on application at PLEYEL’S, 325 George-street
Amusements.
■ROy AL STANDARD THEATRE, SYDNEY
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereasrh-st.)
bole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evening.
97 th )
WEEK f
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY.
97 th
WEEK
A New Play Every Week.
Wed., N. Sydney; Thurs., Waverley; Friday, Petersham.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
fJIHEATRB ROYAL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING '
BLAND HOLT’S
* Premier Combination #
In the Great Adelphi Military Spectacle,
“ONE OF THE BEST.”
Founded on the NOTORIOUS DREYFUS INCIDENT.
PRICES—3s., 25., and One Shilling-.
■piVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
*** Sole Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE POLUSKI BROS
THE SISTERS GOVELL.
Miss Nettie Waite Miss Addie Place
Mr. GEORGE BEAUCHAMP.
Mr. (j EO. H. WOOD. J. W. WINTON.
wlldfnrT Miss MARIAN A INS-
WORIH, WALLACE KING, JAMES MOONEY,
Miss ALICE SIMMONS, NEVA CARR GLYNN
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Miss ADA. REEVE.
JULEENE AND D’ALCORN.
THE SISTERS TERRY. D. H. CASTON
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. Mr. CHAS. FANING.
Foreman & Fannan.
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
"PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrovk.
Every Evening ! Saturday Matinee, at 2 1
“ THE HARBOR LI6NTS,”
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as LIEUT. KINGSLEY.
Miss ADA FERRAR as LINA NELSON.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Menz ies’.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Brilliant Inauguration of the Comic. Opera
Season.
THURSDAY, Ist Sept., and FRIDAY, 2nd Sept.,
“ POROTNy.”
SATURDAY NEXT, 3rd September—“ THE MIKADO.”
In Preparation—“ LA POUPEE.”
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
•JIOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAYS 10th, 17th, and 24th SEPTEMBER.
“ POPS.’
“ POPS.’
SHILLING
“ POPS.”
“POPS.”
NB WB Ult Y-SPA DA COY.
MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME.
Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Bateman and Maurice.
EVERY EVENING!
The Trip Round the World
In 80 Days.
PRONOUNCED AND SPONTANEOUS SUCCESS !
Enthusiastic Reception of Mr. Charles Maurice,
and the Brilliant Dramatic Company.
The Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES 35., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and SIXPENCE.
gRISBANE. THEATRE ROYAL.
Redecorated, New Scenery, Auditorium altered, Seated
for 1000. Population, 100,000. Times now prosperous.
Rent Low. Fares paid for good speculations.
Apply, Terms, etc., Mr. WALTER BENTLEY.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J. F. McDermott,
Terms on General Agent for Australasia,
Application. 37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Genuine )
KEENER [
UNS (and Rifles) J
For Pigeon and
Game Shooting.
These can now be obtained from all the principal
dealers throughout Australasia, and all bear W. VV.
GREENER’S NAME and MARKS, proofs positive of quality
and workmanship. All prices from 1(3 to 80 Guineas.
Shooting unequaled in any country. Write to W. W.
GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney ; or to the Vic.
Rep., 16 Curral-road, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE ORESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ell s’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 5C
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-day!
Yesterday!
and To-morrow !
"WE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’’ We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
&3T Agent for “Naumann” and “Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
UJolf American High flit Cycles
. . AT . .
HA.LF-FRIOI3 1
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English ijn American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
MACK LIN
HENLEY
GRiMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable,
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
The BEST
i
THE
V
Fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
Sole Agents :
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
DEPOT ADDRESSES:
391 George-street, Sydney; 139-141 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne;. 33 Rundle-street. Adelaide; Adelaide-street, Brisbane;
Hay-street, Perth ; Charles-street, Launceston ; Elizabeth-streeti Hobart ; Colombo-street, Christchurch ; George-street,
Dunedin; Lambton Qu n y Wellington.


WcaK and languid«
Little Appetite and no Energy.
These are symptoms that effect a
large number of people. Below we
give the testimonial of Mrs. A. Morgan,
of East Brisbane, Queensland, who
does not hesitate to tell you of just the
remedy that cured her.
i
“ The past season I had a severe at-
tack of dengue fever which left me
feeling very weak and languid with
little appetite and no energy. But I
im pleased to say
Oft. AVER’S
Sarsaparilla
cured me. As a blood purifier and
tonic for those who are affected by the
intense heat of the Queensland sum-
mer it is unequaled. lam pleased to
recommend it to all those who need
a reliable remedy.”
For constipation take Dr. Aver’s Pills Tlicv
and su T ely cure - T ake them
with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
gECOND-HAND
AND
TVTEW FURNITURE
“■* (Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
!P@" “Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where .medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
Icomfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians Write for hook. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent,
229 Collins-steeet, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS ami TAILS,
2t)in. long, ft/o. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the eheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigz^ll,
no Wilmam Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price List.
Prompt attention given to Country C:ds:B>
A certain “ big ” Australian Q.O. gleans
evidence for defensive purposes by a process of
physiological induction. A caustic spinster
attacked him recently in the fern-lined corridor
of Government House, re his philanderings with
an English actress. The volatile shark was dumb-
founded by the fury and truth of her impeach-
ment, and retired to get his second wind. His
most intimate legal pal joined him a moment
kiter. “What’s up?” inquired the pard. The
big lawyer wiped his reddening brow. “I’ve
been publicly attacked by a she-Voltaire— a
person whom I had never met before in my life.
Who is she, Jimmy ? ” Jimmy explained that he
had only met her that evening, but casually men-
tioned that she had a large brother. “ She’s got a
brother, eh?” The big man fairly leaped across
the terrace and cornered the caustic spinster under
the lee of a statue. She faced him angrily w.hile
the gentle Q.C. requested her, with aboriginal de-
licacy, to go home and reform her libertine
brother, whose name wasn’t fit to be mentioned
amongst Christian people. The Q.C. dropped his
voice to a loud whisper: “ Where was he last
Saturday night? Answer me, madam! Why
does he infest—well, the Narrabeen-road ? Who
is the person that accompanies him to the
Manly wharf ? Don’t attack me again, or,
by heaven, ma am, I’ll print his history and
paste it on every house-top ! ” A minute later
he pointed out a crumpled virgin totter-
ing over the lawn. His legal pard frowned.
Hut how do you know that her brother is such a
character when you don’t even know his name?”
The Q.C. dropped into a seat. “She never con-
tradicted me, therefore she practically admits my
charge against her brother. The facts are clear
enough she is 25, a mere bag of bones and spiri-
tual emotion. You declare that her brother is
big. I hat s all I wanted to know. Wien Nature
turns out a bit of ascetic acid like Miss r you
can bet your shirt that her brother has got all the
vim, and in nine cases out of ten he’s no better
than he should be. It isn’t accident, it’s law—
Nature compensates every time. Same with the
big girls. Look at their brothers—rats, every
man of ’em, not enough stamina in ’em to
start a Y.M.C.A. So, whenever six stone
of vitriol attacks you about your morals, Jimmy,
just rake a little muck over her big brother ; but
don’t let anybody hear you.” “Suppose she
hasn’t a brother ? ” “ Oh, well, you can nail the
old man, and if he happens to be a member of the
church, so much the better. She’ll listen, and
she’ll keep it dark until the day she dies.” “If
the old man happens to be dead, what then ? ”
The Q.C. bit into the heart of his cigar. “In
that case, Jimmy, you’ll have.to swear that you’ve
heard his spirit rapping at midnight at a married
woman’s door. Comenaveadrink.”
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
■ ■
MAN or
SPRAINS,
BRUISES
STIFFNESS
NEURALGIA I
LUMBAGO
RHEUMATISM I
ACHES. PAINS&c
OFTHE <<°^
AGE. CURES
HORSES of
SPRAINS, CURBS
CREASY HEELS
SPRUNG SINEWS
BRUISES, CUTS
BROKEN KNEES
SORE SHOULDERS
SORE BACKS
A SPECIALLY Effectual Remedy for ECZEMA. Has
always cured this troublesome disease when every
other treatment has failed. Ano! her one testifies
“ Egan’s Town, via Ihaylesford, Vic. Messrs. S. Cox and
Co., Melbourne. I, Walter James Quick, of Egan’s Town
near Daylesford, a resident since 1855, and 72 years old’
hereby declare of all my experience I never came across
such wonderful Ointment as Solomon Solution. After
! suffering seven years’ torture from Neuralgia, and tried
all kinds of remedies, also several doctors, this is the
only remedy that gives me relief. Several old folks about
here who have used S. Solution for rheumatism are re-
lieved after a few applications.—Yours faithfully, Walter
J. Quick.” .. . Very Best Results “ Callaghan Creek
Vic-., 4th June, 1897. Messrs. Solomon Cox and Co. Dear
Sirs, -1 have used Solomon Solution on a horse for a
strained tendon in the fore-leg with the very best results
Yours truly, J. Tobin.”
Westralian Agents—Messrs. Learmonth and Co., High-
st, Fremantle ; South Aust. Agents—W. R. Cave and Co.
Grenfell-st., Adelaide. Sold by storekeepers, chemists’
and saddlers throughout Australia. Price in Victoria 2/6
and (triple size) 5/- per jar, or sent direct, adding 6d’ for
postage, from the Patentees and Sole Manufacturers
Solomon Cox & Co., 422 Bourke-st., Melbourne ’
Do you want a pleasant
evening at home, or to
give an exhibition? The
graphophone
’ ~ '
a most marvellous instru-
ment: reproduces the
music of great military
bands, famous opera
singers, and celebrated
comedians in laughter-
provoking monologues
produced upon the stages
of the great cities of the
world.
Simple to operate.
Will not get out of
order.
Write or cal] for catalogues or any information. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UNITED IMPORTING COMPANY,
117 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
TATTOO OIL
(The Perfect Sheep Marker)
In Three Colors, BLACK, RED,
and BLUE ; is the only
ABSOLUTELY SAFE . . .
. . . WOOL MARKING or
Kept by all Leading Merchants
and Storekeepers.
■|!o SOipOejg ds&qf
Sole Proprietors: WILKINSON, HEYWOOD & CLARK, Ltd.
LONDON, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
BOULESTIN BRANDY.
The finest French Brandy imported into Australia.
May be had at the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, and all the leading Hotels and Wine
and Spirit Merchants.
ASK FOE BOULESTIN.
BOOK OF NATUKE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid hare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets,
illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
, is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
is iMg E r TO - MTE book lists
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d. ’
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, is • by
post Is 3d. Tiie Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s po’st
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.’
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s Od, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, ’ price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s. ’
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody; public speaking made easy, Is Cd post.
Decameron op Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How to become a Yentriloquist, post free Is. The
Art op Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works op Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is Od. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIB BOBEBT BEAR
CUlxea/fp Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
(LIMITED),
(Lake Illawarra),
»iear SYDSTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
FINE SILVER
: ::
1
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWABRA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SIEVES, LEAD and rVYP-p-PTP- nuns
H, OHKS T ,-hicks paid tor ores. BW “*
PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
A.AHX.JR.O oi SIEVES LEAD BULLION
- LIXiAiiXVAARiX A or ADDA IS. .
~■ “'" " IT “ at ‘°' l " g “ rdi " g C ' to " al,t, ' y fo 11 A ' WMll,mß - M The Company of Ansfaiia. Ltd., DAFTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f °r
Infants
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
lms by Chemists, &c., everywhere
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal
Invalids
AEMD
THEMED.


H«rrßaSSn)(iSS€i)’S AlfaliQs Herbal Remedies
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL EEMEDY EOE EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
_A_ Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Bear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfalitie Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir,—l lhink.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKIIAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mas. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
A Lady Cured of General Debility.
Herr Rassmussen. March 15th, 1894.
Sir.—l hereby beg to certify that having been a sufferer
from General Debility of the Sj'stem for over seven years,
and having tried without success several of the leading
doctors both in Sydney and Melbourne, I W'as advised to
try your Alfaline Remedies. lam thankful I did so, for
after a few courses of the Alfaline Remedies I am now
completely cured, and I shall he most happy to recom-
mend your remedies to anyone suffering as I was.
CATHERINE HAGERMAN.
As Witness : John Hagerman (my husband), caretaker,
Tivoli Theatre, Sydney.
A Cyclist Cured of Files.
It affords me very great pleasure to bear testimony to
the efficacy of your Alfaline Pile Powders, which cured
me after almost every known medicine had failed. My
case was a most serious one ; it had been caused through
bicycle-riding in wet weather, and the Piles were of the
internal kind and caused me the most excruciating pain.
—Yours truly,
WILLIAM HANSON,
Cycle Agent and Tobacconist
Narrandera, N.S.W.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully', J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, arid have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
■cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin.— “ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S. A.—“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. — “ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen lias now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
HERB, RASMUSSEN’S
mission in the Herbal World.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission lias been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is'quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Paiisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Renn dies.
Herbal Remedies are gradually pushing their
way forward, entirely taking the place of those
remedies which contain mercury, arsenic or strych-
nine.
The Australian press has fully recognised the
noble mission of Herr Rassmussen, and praise
bestowed upon him from this important source has
not only been most whole-hearted, but also very
generous. Space will not permit to repeat one-
tenth of his best press notices, but few will suffice
to show the public the estimation in which Herr
Rassmussen is held by the Australian press.
It is not unreasonable to ask, “Is it possible
such success should follow unless these well-known
Herbal Remedies are all they are claimed to be,
and is it likely that their popularity should keep
growing to such an extent, unless they contained
exceptional virtues out of the common ? ” The
evidence that Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies
contain wonderful virtues is simply overwhelming,
as he possesses thousands of testimonials to that
effect.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-••
Patrons of Herr Rass-
m ussen’s A if aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon, by
seceral unscrupulous
persons, who trarel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents —which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, TJp-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • WARNING
Herr Rassrhussen
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
HERR Ri4SSM(JSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OE THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(FleglsteredL).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Mecommended by
the Faculty, and received- more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTORS which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RasSHIUSSeiL
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
ADVICE FREE.
RNSSWUSS
Ml
ft
RtPJ-
/
V-;, 1
ALFA LINE FBLLSf
CURED 100.000 FOR T! ! S BLOOD u NERVES.
Herr Hassmussen’s
Alfalioc Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long slanding.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Rassmussen’s
Alfa I i Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
Herr Rassmussen’s
AlfaliQe UoiygrSal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free. .
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Goughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6-i. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embroeation-Is Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
AWARDED
TWO GOLD
i
assmussen’s Head Office: 547 George Street, Sydney.
/v n H Important Branches as Follows:
N.Z.—Wellington - - 91 Lambton Quay


ISLAND ANNEXATION.
Tahitians have received a first shipment of
Ogden’s Guinea Gold Cigarettes, and cheerfully
submitted to the sway of that fine cigarette.
“ DOWRIDGE’S ”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Solid. Silver Watch
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY 1
Can you read this :
w
M
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address-THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street
Sydney.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SNAPLER,
SYDNEY and SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Years.
P J.MOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HO VIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel., Tel.,
No. 312. Head Office: No. 312.
73 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
BUILT LIKE A WATCH."
STERLING CYCLES.
Fitted with MORSE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
Married Ladies % Send / om '
, j , Stamps for our New
book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend ”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold
price 1/6; posted in closed covers 2/6.
D.S . M A I R
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST
2/6; Cleaning, 2'6 ; Hairspring, 2/6 , Jewels,
20 ; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3,6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. MAIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address:6B4 George-
street, Sydney.
A Phenomenal Novelty!
The Calendar Match.
Tells the correct time of the day, the day of the
week, the day of the month, the month of the
year, and the phases of the moon. Hall-marked,
sterling silver case and dome, extra jewelled
movements, second hand, keyless. Price, 455.
Securely packed. Sent registered post free-to any
colony.
Address—THE MANAGER,
The globe UJatch Co., [td.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
o
IP
OLD
RNs
SUNBU,
FING
<?
HA
64. C
vT
h
IF
S
H
y
p *o
**etors
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites Hair working. 11
Agents for the “ROYAL LOUNGE’’
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Seal pets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
ASSISTANTS Engaged for the Country.
W/JLTH/IM
XJHATChV
msm
American Waltham Watch Comp. Watches
Are the most Perfect Timekeepers it is possible to make. To increase the
W ALTHAM WATCHES, and also give the Australian people
at the same time a PERFECT WATCH for the same money thev have been
paying for a poor make, we have decided to sell to ihe Australian Public
direct at OUR WHOLESALE PRICES !
We send Goods Post-paid to any Colony on receipt of
Money Order or Draft.
H°‘ S°! r l F'" e< l Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 5 years £2 7 0
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s case guar 10 yearn 3 0 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, syr. guarantee . J 8 „ 8 0
Prilled Waltham Watch (Lady's °r Gent’s), case, guar. 15 years p, is n
Ic Go d 1 Fm' rn heS , T ntS ’ with t * le “ America" movement 1 0 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, lOyr. guarantee .. .. 0 n
14c. Gold Filled Double Albert, syr. guarantee .. .. ~ * * 08 9
When ordering Watches, please mention if Plain or Fancy Case is wanted.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH DEPOT,
Jl nP'ru,l Arcade, Sydney, J. Landes, Manager. ’
Coolg'ardie
International Mining 1
and Industrial
Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
___ For Schedule and Particulars, apply G. WILLIAMS, Secretary, Coolgardie, W.A.
b- THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOYLE’S PRINTS ore FAST COLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day.
ff our name is stamped on the piece we guarantee that the color will stand boiling. If you can show
any Goods bearing our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will It for
you from us the price of the material, and h aper win get tor
WE WILL PAY THE COST OP MAKING UP A NEW DRESS.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Summer Days are coming—You trill want a Washing Dress.
GOODALL’
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKINB DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGOS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE
Delicious to Plum Pudding 1 .
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Sole Agents for New South Wales: TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
CoVWL
mm
Stimulating I —Nutritive—Exquisite in Tlavor.
SCUSMRD
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED!
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses*
Dr. TARRANT
P.R.C.S.E., L.11.C.P.E., E.R.C.5.1., L.M.R.C.P.E.,
Is a legallj'-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to pr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. 1 may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
..... . . , TT „, acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
3XT o 3YdCa,xx ox* ’Wonaaix
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or it it is your intention to marry, send lor Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations ann Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
ongm, tiaced pieir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
t • "ARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
. ] , * . - , ’ * ~ ~ VI. IVVVIUV Ul tuui »V. Vlt J , Ill'll WU*-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
33angeroua Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or I)ark*circled Lyes; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness, Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw 1 ourself Down when over water. Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
A Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, <fcc. Dr.
IAKitAJN l makes
Absolutely IST o diargt
for Consultation ; but- as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Vistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Blight’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
let ter, thus proving bona fide, s, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, ancC nursed back to health by carefullv-traincd nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT. *
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The when writing.
for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.


IELLIN’S
Is not FarSsiaceoos and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete pud perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which di'uled Cow's milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELUtrS FOOO
may be obtained of'all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
FEPERAL -
PALACE
MELBOURNE.
Conveniently situated close to Station, Steamers and
centre of city.
BOOMS ... 2s. to 10s.
MEALS Is. and 2s. 6d.
BOARDEBS 30s. to £3 3s.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
fect!it has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Publications, etc.
m
m
v
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
CN nfes-
vlons
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
DIAMOND SONG BOOK
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever hound
together between the covers of one book. National Songs
of every Country, including WAlt, PATRIOTIC, COMIC,
SENTIMENTAL, and other songs. Many old-time favour-
ites long since out of print, priceless on account of tender
memories, and cannot be had elsewhere. Complete list of
the Songs for a Stamp. This wonderful book will be sent (post paid)
throughout Australasia for 2s. fid, from ANGLO AMERICAN
PUBLISHING CO., Commercial Chambers, Sussex Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. Stamps 2d. extra. Agents wanted for this and other East
Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
NEW UP-TO-DATE
PUBLICATIONS,
The Soiled Dove, being-
the History of a Gay Young; Lady, very spicy ; Mist
Skittles, the Girl with Six Husbands, also very spicy :
Sappho’s Gay Life in Paris; Maria Monk; Ovid’s Art'oi
Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very spicy, post free Is. 6d.
The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes; The New
Keeeipt Book : How to command the Love and Admira-
tion of the Opposite Sex, STERILITY and Impotence
each, post free, Is. R. W. SKINNER, New and
Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Telephone 3043.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s : celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CAIiDS, 3s.—
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Supply Agency,
» Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
HOW TO
SAFELY
CURE THE
LIQUOR
HABIT.
A PAMPHLET with thousands;
of Testimonials from Clergymen,
Physicians, Merchants,- and all <
classes des-
criptive of 1
Eucrasy
will be ;
sent ,
gratis and post free. This is the <
only remedy which can be used *
SECRETLY at home with cer- ,
tainty of success. Address—The <
. EUCRASYCP., 62 HUNTER ST„ SYDNEY <
A genuine country-letter sent for publica-
tion to a daily paper :
Country News.—Bully Acre, August 8. The young
men of Bully Acre held (heir annual social in Mr.
Thomas’ barn, kindly lent for the occasion, on Wednes-
day, Aug. the third, and, as usual, was proved a great
success. About two hundred people were present.
Great praise is due to the members for their hospitality.
Mr. J. P. Travers acted as hon. sec. ; Mr. F. Williams
M.C., assisted by Mr. J. Raftery ; Mr. D. J. Travers con-
ductor of music. In spite of the wet weather, the young
lady 's came out in great numbers. After a great con-
sideration, the young man failed to decide which of the
following ladies took bell :—Miss MTnernery, dressed in
pink ; Miss E. Pfitzner, in white ; Miss Bennett, in black
and cream ; Miss R. Barker, in pale green serge and
cream lace ; Miss S. Travers, in black ; Miss B. Daly arid
MissN. Canny, in cream ; Miss E. Barker, in slate and
cream silk ; Miss Daly, in slate and green plush ; Miss
Kelly, in fawn satan ; Miss Gurry, in black plush ; Miss
A. Barker, in fawn cashmere, relieved with cream chiffon ;
Miss C. Victory, in maroon plush; Miss C. and A.
M’Mahons, in cream serge; Miss E. Daly, in black and
pink ; Miss Linch, in cream satan ; Miss Campbell, in
pink; Miss C. Kinnane, in black and white. To the
Editor. Please print the above advertisement in this
week’s Ciihoniclk. James-forby, Bully Acre.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere. *
The Kimberley natives who have been
smashing up Hale’s missionary station in Kim-
berley district and giving the missionaries a
taste of spear are, most likely, the same tribe
which has to answer for the disappearance of
Mulcahey and Ashton, members of Harry Stock-
dale’s ’B4 expedition from Cambridge Gulf to
Palmerston. Told of the same myalls (about the
most hopeless cases in the north west) that when
the Cambridge Downs Pastoral co. attempted to
occupy the country the men who were sent up put
ashore a large quantity of goods contained in two
square tanks, securely sealed ; then, the niggers
coming down, they stood off. The tanks were
impervious to every tool and weapon in the blacks’
hands, so at last they tried fire, standing round to
watch results. The results came along presently
—one of the tanks contained a few thousand
Snider cartridges. And yet they probably escaped
cheaper that way. The very spot which Mr.
Hale (a son of the ex-Bishop) selected for his
station was occupied many years ago by the Vic-
torian Squatting co., which tried to stock it, but
was beaten by niggers, grass-seed, March flies,
stray crocodiles, and other evils. But, in spite of
police and other warnings, Mr. Hale, after he has
got himself patched up, is going to stick to the
“ work.”
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINF* TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
I Silver Ulatch Free.
i These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
/M 9 and dur usual Price List for them is 505.,
hut to introduce our enormous Catalogue
I \J we will send you this WATCH FREE if
/ you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with-
out delay With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAD CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
i
HEMANE’S
dJCALYPTE
EXTRACT
Is indeed “MONARCH” of
all the Eucalyptus Extracts
on the market, as it is ONE
QUALITY onIy—FIRST, and
Guaranteed Pure.
For a GOLD, a BAD
COUGH, or any CHEST
TROUBLES, there is no-
thing can touch it. It is
Euealypte pure and simple
Without Adulterants.
rae o w i Drug Stores,
"orner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY,
Being direct importers and cash
BUYERS, our Drugs and Toilet Requisites
re of the BEST QUALITY and sold at the
jOWEST PRICES. Prescriptions Dispensed
>y first-class Registered Chemists, and faithfully
• repared.
ECONOMY, EXCELLENCY, & FIDELITY
Our Motto. Call and inspect our Store, and
,'ou will be satisfied.
I'eJephone D. COBCROFT, Proprietor.
2636. W. E. ARNOLD, Manager.
Medicines carefully packed and forwarded to
all parts of the Colonies.
J*tD\CAU\m
“I ll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Gapillarins!
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. Od.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George- st„ Sydney
Choice Old mgmana
SCOTCH WHISKY
TRADE
MARK
c Un-castl£
Fine Old
SCOTCH WHiSKY
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has restored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DE. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Jack : I hear the Yankees are going to
give over using powder and shot
in their war with Spain.
Tom : How are they going to win,
then 1
Jack: With St. Jacobs Oil. It
CONQUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET.
IN LARGE AND SMALL OAKES,
EVERYWHERE.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, SO Pitt-street, Sydney.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN. STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
838 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
V'iii'i „uid
•' f!j! jjii ii hi
i
ffiglglilflijSlli
:r ! **• I i.hi.i
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Hiding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
, and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
S &c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
* select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Bugs, 13 0. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Bugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to_, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
The Lowest Prices—
The Highest Testimonials—
The Finest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recom-
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
IDinerva peptonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, has been reduced to the
public from 2s. 6d. to Is. 9d. The high quality of
the preparation has not been reduced.
Minerva Peptonised Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. large size, and to Is. 9d.
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street, by enclosing with the above
price 6d. extra to cover postage. Sample bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Co ,
Manufacturing Chemists & Food Specialist".
LONDON : 15 and 17 Fore-street Avenue, E.C.
NEW YOBK : Kemble Building, Whitehall-street.
SYDNEY : 56 M.irgaret-street.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
DRROBERTS’^
*swm
AND WOUA/DS
or elver y
DESCr/pt/o/Y'
d?roberts
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES ;
A/VD ALL D/SOPDERS OF THE
SYOMA C// & L/VER .
or ALL chemists ///r X 2/yEACH
BEACH & BARN'ICOTT L°. BRIDPORJ.
MELBOURNE.
H A
ffiloctlE?
u . FREEv^
Watches-Clocks-
wedding i Presents
n-NEV7IVIAIVI- 1755177-FI I7ARFTM gr.
OPPOSITE G:P.O.
MELBOURNE.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
grift to man Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free' 1 , giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ONE HONEST MAN.
TVEAR SIR, — Please inform your readers that, if
written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering- from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing- to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address —
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.


MEASLES
l’n the form of a most dangerous epidemic are now prevalent throughout the city, suburbs and country. Thousands of persons of
either sex, and of all ages, are afflicted. Owing to its malignant and infectious character, this dread malady is still on the in-
crease. Many deaths have occurred through the disease. Many are still occurring. All are susceptible, and you yourself may
be attacked. You have no time to lose ! The after-effects of Measles are disastrous, and include Bronchitis, Inflammation of the
Lungs, Pneumonia, Scrofula, severe Diarrhoea, Dysentery, Deafness, Discharge from the Ears, Weak Eyes, and General Debility. In
hundreds of cases these ailments have been solely induced by and are the direct result of Measles. There is but one remedy to
prevent Measles—to thoroughly cure it and its evil effects, Measles
CAN BE CURED BY
the one great remedy, which is known so favorably throughout all parts of the rlobe as
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
Whenever we make a statement we invariably prove its truth. The following unsolicited cases incontestibly show how Dr,
Williams’ Pink Pills cure Measles and their after-effects :
Dleasles and Their After-Effects Cured.
The Case of Mrs. A. T. Hannah.
CURED OF MEASLES.
A VICTIM TO FAINTING AND HYSTERICAL FITS—
HER BLOOD TURNED TO WATER—“THE BEST
CURE IN THE WORLD FOR MEASLES.”
Mrs. A. T. Hannah, Ledge, N. 8., writes as follows to the
Dr. Williams Medicine Company “ Dear Sirs,—At the age of
17 I was taken with the measles, and I never recovered from
their fearful after-effects. My blood seemed to have turned to
water, and I was pale, and a victim to fainting and hysterical
fits. I was doctored by nearly every doctor in town WITHOUT
ANY BENEFIT. At last I decided to try Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, and soon found their beneficial effect, and to-day I am a
married woman and as well as ever I was in my life. I have not
had the slightest recurrence of my trouble, and I feel that I am
indebted to Dr. Williams'Pink Pills for my health and strength,
and I believe these Pills are the best medicine in the world. I
constantly advise all my friends who may be ailing to try them.
They are undoubtedly the best cure in the world for Measles and
their after-effects.”
ut "'u U ar i e for the Measles, or have had them, write to us, fully describing your case.
We shall reply, free of all charge, telling whether Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are good for your case or
not. Write to us if you are troubled with any complaint whatsoever. It will do no harm, and it is
just possible we may be able to help you materially. If we can, we shall be very glad to do so. It is
no trouble to us to answer your letters. Please address : Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney.
The Terrible Dangers of (||easles.
Read What Leading Australian Physicians Say.
[See “Evening News,” Tuesday, Aug. 17 last; Page 3.]
Dr. PHILLIP MUSKETT: The present is, I believe, the big-
gest invasion of disease since 1889. It is really awful ! The danger
lies in the complications which follow, of which Bronchitis is the most
common, and Pneumonia the most dangerous . A large number of
adults, as well as children, are affected.
Dr. MCCLELLAND: There must be thousands of cases about.
The epidemic is a very great one, and numbers a lot of adults among
its victims. A large number are suffering from Bronchitis, Pneumonia ,
or the various lung affections which follow measles.
Dr. G WYNNE HUGHES: Lung troubles are present in nearly
every case.
Dr. VANDELEUR KELLY: There are many cases which may
be considered very serious , and a few deaths have occurred. The lung
troubles induced will be hard to get rid of.
Dr. TRINDALL : A number of sufferers complain of sore eyes
afterwards .
ANOTHER MEASLES CURE.
A SUFFERER ®M ™7TH eS 4 £g 8 “ N ° W WRONGER AEI>
MORE
CUBED OF MEASLES.
was ffl7roT°hKZ ed he° aid 1 *"“? 'Wf 1 b ?‘- “ «» prim, of life,
he began doctoring for it, but without effect, for this is the most difficult form of rheumatism to rare TaVer nn° h“'T^ es w lefl ? behmd them sciatic rheumatism, and
greatly. He then went West to Minnesota, and settled in Blue Earth Oonntv where ho i;,,„,i „ - e ’ Later on > bis trouble increased, as his kidneys bothered him
pain. He tried doctors of all kinds and medicines of evfry description but USSmH ‘ faldto rid® \T M Z cri PP led - and suffered agonies of
decided to go still further West, and, selling his farm. he went to the coaTt buf hll i W the terrible after-effects of the measles. Finally, he
only fellow-victims of sciatica can realise, took almost the next train back and if stl J n ? or f harmful effect, and he suffering what
beautiful country of lakes, with good schools for his children Building a house' and bnvW ffm u* 16 / 6 be bad relatives, and which he knew to be a
with sciatica. Sometimes he could do a little work, but in the fields when attacked’with the nnbfs a small .. fa ™ the town, he again took up his fight
tried every known remedy, for such was his suffering that his right leg had been shortened fullv two inches’ ° fte ? lie , I dow l n al ? d have to be helped up again. He
couple of hours at a time, when he would be obliged to get up not having- control of himself J loot ! d , y troub le also increased, so that he could only rest a
ills and when he h™ i* w U , P ! not na , vln S control of himself, hin ally last Winter the sarcasm of destiny added the dreaded influenza to his
. 1 „ t u Tvii i ’ f , ” ““u vigor. xie naa no more trouble
only took a few boxes of Pills, he says he has never since had a twinge of the rheumatic pain When seen bVa r s “ u ." ,1 x r u “ u up once, ana tnough he
, , , at repairing a pump, and this gentleman, although 63 years of ;wc showed greater strength than the vmmf feMcwX * s v. i a a s residence, giving a kindly hand
case to those who know him and to himself especially, seems almost miraculous, and he was |erfectly wiEg to h helpi ?l’ fu nd T rked Wlfch all the vi «° r of youth. His
benefit of this wonderful medicine. 1 y wining to ten oi it, so ttiat others afflicted as he was with the after-effects of measles, should have the
Subscribed and sworn to before me, this 18th day of April, a.d., 1895.
(Signed) LEWIS EVANS, Notary Public.
Influenza Cured.
SICKLY FEELING, HEAVY COUGH, RACKING HEADACHES, SLEEPLESSNESS
AND ACHES ALL BANISHED.
HOW INFLUENZA’S AFTER-EFFECTS ARE REMOVED.
. says Mr - T ate ;, of Ithiea Cottage, Illawarra-road, Marriekville, “was the maladv
with which I had to struggle. Prior to this I had never experienced sickness at any time in my life
But, after thmty years’ immunity from trouble, influenza gripped me
pretty tightly. Without warning, I suddenly became ill. I always had
a first-class appetite ; it left me altogether. Positively I could eat
nothing at all. Heavy headaches attacked me, and they continued to in-
crease in violence. A spasm shot across my chest, and an overpowering
weight oppressed me there. I felt a sickening contraction of the skin
and an ominous gathering of phlegmatic matter that checked free respira-
iT° e and , SOUnd ’ became sore . tender and
irritable. I found myself unable to sleep, whilst on top of all these
strange and unaccountable sensations came a sharp and persistent cough
that sucked up all my strength and stirred the phlegm, but failed to move
it. Dull, heavy, restless faint and aching, I went to work, and got
through somehow. How I got through, and how I felt afterwards you
can imagine; I—can remember. ’' y
Take a few boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People ’
said a friend, ‘ and you’ll be saved. ’ p ’
I did so, and after a few boxes had been taken, I was, honestly
high-spirited as I ever was in my life.” 8 lam as r^hfc ’ as fresh - as healthy and as
What stronger testimony could we show ?
A VICTIM OF INFUINZA.
Pale and Sallow Girls.
be more distressing than to see a girl drooping and fading in the springtime of vouth
Instead of bright eyes, glowing, rosy cheeks, and an elastic step, there are dull eyes nale yellow nr
greenish complexion, and a languidness of step that bespeaks disease and an early death if nro’ner
‘”.1^1",o( *° a ° d PeCSiSted in “ ntil theimpoveri * I, “ J bl °° d is »nd
M s »f“f h^r„ nt b s d fz t*
She 1S t l oU . ble . d with headache or backache, pain in the side, if her temper is
ap jj ,e -i lt r p she ls ’I? a condition of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
for the most dreaded of all diseases—Consumption. If you notice any of the above symptoms lose nn
time in procunng Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They will assist the patient to deveC properlv and
Wl -ii enn ? h * be . blood and restore health’s roses to the cheeks; bright eyes and
wm be' S averted P SUrdy f ° lloW their US6 ’ and all danger of consumption and premature death
Dr. Williams Pink Pills are offered to the public with a full confidence that there is no disease
arising from a Watery or Impoverished Condition of the Blood, Shattered Nervous Forces whfch
they have not cured if the directions are faithfully followed, and the treatment lt t
well-recognised that upon the healthy activity of the blood and nerves, and the vital organs
depending upon them depends the mental and physical well-being of every adult It is that
which gives the rosy blush to the cheek, and the soft light to the eye of the maiden. The elastic
step, the ringing laugh, and the strong arm of youth own this same main-spring. How soon does
anaemia rob the face of co or the eye of brightness ! The blood becomes victim
Pu e iu r ’ b b n k b lbs f° r Pale People enrich the impoverished blood, vigor returns and
the bloom of youth again mantles the faded cheek. ’ g returns, and
Thousands of sufferers in all parts of the world have been cured of measles, influenza, rheumatism
neuralgia, sciatica, severe biliousness, liver and kidney troubles, amemia, nervous prostration indi’
gestion, .laundice, sleeplessness, pleurisy, lumbago, eczema, skin troubles, pimples, St Vitus’ dan™
vital ailments paralysis, locomotor ataxy, debility, &c., &e., by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for S
People. Sold by chemists and storekeepers, and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Pla™
Sydnew Price six boxes, 15s. 3d. ; one box, 2s. 9d. This includes postage. See that the full name
—Dr. Williams Pink Pills for Pale People—is printed in bed ink on the WHITE outside wrapper.


In Vain!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was the old story. John Grublake’s wife had
tired of her husband—and left him.
Grublake was grateful to his erring spouse for
one thing : she had left him little Dick. Till his
wife had flown, the husband did not know how
lightly her absence would lie upon him, nor how
sweet a compensation he would find in the sole
and undivided companionship of his small son.
The chief loss was not on John’s side, to judge by
the buoyancy that followed upon his wife’s exit.
He took a delight in Dick’s quaint and simple
comradeship that approached the idyllic. The
father had no pleasure that he did not share with
his son ; the son no thoughts that were not com-
municated to the father. Whether it was a visit
to the theatre, with a seat among the “ gods,” or
a stroll through the Eastern Market—a pleasure
that never palled upon Dick—their enjoyment was
unrestrained and perfect. To sit in the chair
weighing-machine; to test his “ bruising ” capa-
bilities by thumping the leather-covered striking-
pad ; or to saunter around inspecting stalls, made
the father quite as happy and quite as young as
his ten-year-old son.
Two years had slipped by in this way —Dick had
been eight when his mother went “on a visit to
friends and died ” —according to the fiction in-
vented for his benefit. It was at night-time that
Dick was captivating. Then his tongue fulfilled
its natural office, and the events of the day lived
again—so far as they concerned Dick, at all
events. One night Dick’s account had been
finished, the lamp put out, and the father was
settling himself to sleep, when Dick suddenly
began again.
“Dad, I saw a lady to-day, and she was like
mother. She was looking out of a window.”
There was a pause ; then was added, reflectively :
“But she was dressed too lovely, and she was too
pretty for mother.”
“ Where did you see her, Dick ? ”
Dick did not know the street by name, but he
described its situation and the position of the
house, and John Grublake was glad he had asked
the question. The locality had a peculiar reputa-
tion ; and, though his wife had erred, she could
not possibly have sunk so low as that.
A week later Dick had another story about the
“lady” who was so much like his mother. He
was fatally circumstantial in his narrative this
time.
“ She spoke to me—she was looking out of the
window, and she called, ‘Come here, little boy,’
and when I went up she said, 4 Your name is
Dick, isn’t it.’ ’ A pause. “ You ain’t listening,
Dad?” 6 ’
“ Yes, I am. Go on 1 ” —uttered in strangled
tones.
“ ‘lthought so,’she said—‘l heard a boy call
you that.’ I never had a boy with me, Dad.”
“Go on.”
“ Then she said, ‘ Have you a mother ? ’ ‘No ’
I said, ‘mother is dead.’”
“ Yes ?. Go on, go on, boy ! ”
“She said, ‘How do you know she is dead?’
and I said, ‘Dadsaysso.’ Then she gave me six-
pence. ”
‘‘ What ? ” exclaimed Grublake, starting up in
bed. Then he fell backagain. Dick would tell
him all!
“ Yes, she gave me sixpence. ‘ Here’s sixpence
for you, Dick,’ she said, ‘ and —damn your
Dad ! ’ ”
“ Who said that ? ”
“ She did, Dad, and then she slammed down the
window. By jiggy, Dad, she did slam down that
window ! ”
There was silence for some time before Dick
added by way of hint:
“ That’s all, Dad ! ”
Comment came from his father’s bed in the
shape of a deep groan.
“ Stomach bad, Dad ? ”
No reply, but a heavy sigh. Dick felt depressed ;
he turned over, and in a few minutes was asleep.
* * • *
John Grublake did not sleep that night. There
was an unpleasant duty that lay with one man
only in Melbourne to carry out, and that man
was himself. Shortly after 10 o’clock next day he
made his way to the street indicated, stopped
before a row of small villas, and knocked at the
first door. After some delay, it was opened by a
young woman, of gay apparel and “ assisted ” com-
plexion. “ Hallo ! sweetheart,” she said ; “ come
in ! ”
“ Does Rose live here ? —Rose Grublake ? ” asked
Grublake, calmly.
The smile left the girl’s face, and gave place to
a cool and business-like expression. “No ; there
is no Rose here.” Then she smiled again brightly,
and added, “ Never mind ; come in ! ”
Without reply, John turned away. Then it
suddenly occurred to him that he was going the
wrong way about the thing. He turned back to
the villa, and knocked a second time. The same
girl appeared.
“ You again, sweetheart ? ” she said, with
exactly the same smile. “ Changed your mind ? ”
John was disgusted; but, after all, he was a
man of the world. He met the girl in an off-hand
way. He did not this time use his wife’s name,
but described her; and, before he could finish, the
nymph broke in—
“Oh, you mean the ‘Countess.’ You go to
the first house, and ask for the ‘ Countess.’ She
will be your Rose all right! ”
John went as directed, and knocked, and,
though his hand trembled, he was determined still
to act the man of the world, and called up an easy
smile with which to propitiate the information-
rendering powers of whoever should open.
The door was flung back, and there stood before
him—his wife ! It was a grievous contretemps.
That smile on his face was awkward of explana-
tion; and Grublake started back as though he had
received a shot. The woman grasped the occa-
sion—and improved it ! Advancing a step, she
shot a withering glance of scorn at the nervous
being on the footpath.
“So this is my nice, moral husband!” She
laughed sarcastically. “ Come in,” she went on—
“ I have no doubt you are well-known here ! ”
For the moment John Grublake had no reply.
That luckless smile had given the advantage to
his degraded wife.
“Rose!” he gasped out at last. “You don’t
believe what you say. I came to see you. Take
me to a room where we can talk alone, or—no !
come outside with me. I cannot go into this
house!”
It was the right thing to do. Subterfuge, weak
explanation, or anxious quibbling would have
played into the woman’s hand. The “psycho-
logic” moment would have been lost. The woman
softened a little. He had been her “ good old
John ” once.
“Go round to the Burke and Wills monument
and wait for me,” she said, peremptorily.
* * * *
“ I give up this life on the one condition ! ”
“Dick?”
“Yes ; I must have Dick.”
Grublake flushed up.
“I cannot agree to that,” he said, hoarsely.
“ Dick is all I have in the world to care about. It
would break his heart, too, to leave me. ’Tisn’t
father and son between us. We are just friends —
mates. Oh, don’t say you must have Dick ! ”
“Very well, then; I’ll go back to ‘Scarlet
House.’” The woman laughed hysterically, and
moved away.
The husband followed and caught her arm.
“ Come back ! You must not! ” he cried, im-
petuously. “You are my wi you are Dick’s
mother, and ”
She half turned and halted. “ Oh, that’s it!
It is not my shame that matters, but your and
your precious son’s respectability must be saved!”
The husband ignored the spitefulness.
“ You can have Dick then,” he said, wearily.
“ But you must leave that house to-day,, I will
take a room for you to-night. Be there this even-
ing at nine o’clock. Do you agree ? ”
Grublake only waited for a carelessly-uttered
“ Yes ” —then sprang after a passing tram.
The woman stood, still as a statue, till the car
had disappeared from view; then she did something
she had notdone since her marriage-day. She began
to cry. Then she had cried, as other brides have
eried, as a prelude to coming happiness ; now she
cried for present misery—perhaps for a transient
gleam of happiness thrown away. But, when a
sympathetic passer stopped to inquire why she
wept, it was the “ Countess ” of “ Scarlet House ”
who replied, looking him straight in the eyes,
“ Because lam a blanky fool! ”
She turned and walked off, leaving the stranger
with his mouth open.
• * • *
The father caught up his son and kissed him
several times.
“ What’s that for, Dad ? ” Dick enquired, as he
was put down.
The father laughed, Dick thought, in a silly
way.
Oh, many things, Dick. Because I love you,
for one thing ; and I have no girl, so I must’kiss
you. But, I say, what about the Eastern Market
to-night ? And then I have something to tell
you.” A good deal more the father said, rattling
on with light affectionate, feverish talk. He had
not rightly calculated on the sacrifice he was
making on behalf of his wretched wife’s reforma-
tion, till it came to the point of breaking the news
to the boy himself. It was the sudden realisation
of this which had affected him in the manner that
had set Dick wondering at such unaccustomed
ebullition on the part of his usually sedate and
prosaic parent.
On the way to the Market, John tried in vain
to approach the crucial point. At each attempt,
his little Dick, with some fresh and loving con-
fidence, would unnerve him so that he would slide
off into something silly, and the work of preparing
the thunderbolt would all have to be done over
again. Still there was some method in the
father’s want of will. Till he had actually spoken
the words of separation, the bond between them
was still intact.
They had done the Market, and were on their
way home again, when Dick suddenly pulled at
his father’s coat. “ Look, Dad, there’s that lady
like mother. Look ! ”
Grublake looked, and was just in time to step
back within the shadow of a doorway, pulling his
son after him.
Yes, it was the “ lady ” —his wife. And
Good God ! she was going to accost that man.
The man stopped ; some words passed—a light
laugh—then the two walked past together, and
went off into the darkness, and Grublake knew
that it was In Vain! His duty once again was
clear—not to save his wife, but to save his son.
“ Come on Dick,” he said, “ let’s go home ! ”
And the “ Countess ” waits at the window for
the passing of Dick. But Dick passes no more.
PELICAN.
“Scotty W.” : The negro regiments, in-
cluding officers, were compelled to travel in
separate trains and cars. Travelling once per
steamer from New Orleans to Bolivar Point, we
had on board a colored member of the Louisiana
Legislature, who insisted on sitting down to the
saloon-dinner. “ Beg pardon, no colored man
allowed here,” from the clerk. “I am a member
of the Legislature, and I have paid my fare !”and
so on. “Are you going to shift?” “No!”
“Then I’ll ring the dinner-bell.” And the white
gentleman rang it— on the head of the hon.
member ! who thereupon promptly skedaddled.
Prosecution no use in such a case.
Peter Waite, owner of Mornba, the biggest
sheep-run in N.S.W; and owner with Thomas
Elder’s estate and others of eight or ten more
squattages in S.A. and elsewhere, lately gave
S.A. Pastoral Commission a look at some calcula-
tions made from his books. According to these
figures it costs 2s. Oid. to land a grown-sheep’s
fleece at port of shipment; this is inclusive of
rent, all sorts of wages, station upkeep, &c.
Another 6 4-sd. per fleece goes in shipping and
realisation charges. His average fleece for the
years covered was B^lb.—which is a good deal
more, though, than most back-country clips
reach. And the average gross value of the fleece
in ’93, ’94, and ’95 was 3s. 10§d. “My secret of
good pastoral work,” he says, “is to improve
largely, and to take all out of the country with-
out doing it harm.”
“ Chey ” on the Chow question :
Dear Bulletin.— “ J. A.P.” would introduce into N.S.W.
10,000 Chinese cheap vegetable growers. Personally, I
consider that the Chinamen already here constitute a
grave social and racial danger, which could not be other-
wise than increased by fresh importations no matter
under what restrictions. Besides which, if cheapness is
the main consideration, why should “ J.A.P.” confine his
attention solely to vegetables? Why not import a
second batch as bootmakers ? After a short training they
could, no doubt, by working double time at half wages
materially reduce present prices. And so with pretty
well every industry. But are cheap vegetables or cheap
boots an advantage ? Does cheapness spell prosperity?
On the contrary, wherever it is the result of long hours
and low wages it is a positive evil, not only to the work-
ers, but indirectly to every class of the community. A
truth this which has been so frequently demonstrated
that it constitutes one of the basic facts of Protectionism,
and is the chief argument for anti-sweating and other
ameliorative social legislation. With European labor,
there is no reason why vegetable-growing should not be
carried on under the eight-hours system and at fair
wages, like so many other industries; but as long as
Chinese competition exists, improvement is impossible
except by special legislation. “J.A.P.” says some hard,
and perhaps not undeserved, things about the London
submerged tenth, but that is an abnormal type produced
by the very conditions which we are endeavoring to
avoid by, amongst other things, entire colored alien
prohibition.
CICARS FREE
icrc
I -•
DROP 3
IN THE SLOT
11111111 l
MICK SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
No Extortionate Prices.
We give Value for Money.
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Value
in N S.W.
LAWRENCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter.
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
K
%
r«
mm
m
m
V
V
€i
i
s
E
L
F
F
E
E
D
I
N
G
FOR
COUNTER
USE.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
Mick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETXTIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
OGDEN’S
GUINEA-
GOLD
CIGARETTES.
STREET ARAB:
" I say .Bill I —there's no mistake
about these, they’re OGDEN'S !”
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.


“Australia’s Pride”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now Pat Ahearne, of Ingleburn
Upon the Castlereagh,
Was flush of cash and very “flash,’*
As shearer-persons say.
At Yankee grab his luck was cool,
At 100 he’d lately scooped the pool;
He d simply smashed the “ two-up ” school
[Assisted by a “ grey ! ”]
And Pat grew then like other men,
His head began to swell;
As he was fly he thought he’d try
The Sydney folks as well.
Their chances would be mighty slim
Of working any points on him,
When Euchre Bill and Ginger Jim
Had found he was a sell! ”
But bushmen’s games are not the games
That Sydney spielers play ;
A country smarty’s “ just their dart,”
The city sharpers say.
And Patrick he was taken down
J or all he had, but half-a-crown,
Before he’d been in Sydney town
lor more than half a day !
’Twas well for Pat, the shearer, that
He’d had the sense to pay
His fare’s return to Ingleburn
Before he went away.
It s not what you could call a joke
To find yourself completely “ broke ” ;
B it Patrick had a splendid stroke
In store for Castlereagh !
He found a shop—an oyster-shop—
Where lobster, crab and cray
Were all alive, and seemed to thrive ;
And "purchased straight-away
Some crayfish, and some lobsters, too
(Such things are cheap in Woolloomooloo),
And caught the Western mail that flew
Towards the Castlereagh.
The train was crowded ; which allowed
No sleeping on the trip.
Pat had a flask, and thought to ask
The men to take a nip.
Just then a lobster chanced to find
The bag unclosed, and, feeling kind,
It gave a man a nip ; but mind,
It was not on the trip !
And then some crayfish got away,
With lobsters, two or three ;
And sundry grips and divers nips
Made things extremely free.
Profane expressions filled the air
(Disgraceful how some people swear !);
A livelier time than Pat had there
You would not wish to see !
A great hooray ! The ladies, they
Declared it was a plot,
Beyond a doubt, to drive them out.
But leave? No, they would not;
They swore that they would clear the coast,
Or else the guard should lose his post;
But women always are a most
Unreasonable lot!
On Pat’s return to Ingleburn
The shell-fish were in tow,
And things were gay on Castlereagh
Preparing for the Show.
For every township in the scrub
That owns two churches and a pub.
Must run a Show and draw a sub.
From Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. I
Now shell-fish are extremely rare
Upon the Castlereagh,
And Ingleburn galoots don’t yearn
For lobster or for cray.
Lobsters indeed they’d never seen,
And never might, had it not been
For Pat Ahearne, and he was mean
Enough to make them pay !
On lucre bent he hired a tent
And made a rise with ease.
’Twas at the Show, of course, you know
Where side-shows always please.
The shell-fish they were placed inside,
And Pat stood by the door and cried :
“ Walk in and see Australia’s Pride —
The monster Sydney fleas ! ”
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
Eloa’s Successor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The men working at the canoe, when they saw
Phillips stroll out of his house across the beach,
dropped their adzes and joined the women, who,
seated on the ground pretending to be busy mak-
ing bark-cloth, were really watching the white
man’s movements.
There was going to be the biggest row ever seen
on Efate —if the old people present knew anything
about it.
Jackson’s boat came in last night, and he must,
by this time, know of the visits his pretty wife,
Eloa, had been paying to Phillips. It was an old-
standing quarrel this about Eloa. When she was
a child Jackson and Phillips had bid for her, and
Jackson won. She was betrothed, and, when she
arrived at the proper age, was sent to live with
him.
The girl was fond of Phillips, and when Jackson
left for a short trading-voyage, it didn’t take much
persuasion to bring her over occasionally to this
end of the beach. She wasn’t afraid Jackson
would kill her—no chance of that ! —her “nakai-
naga ” (tribal relationship) was too strong. Phillips
didn’t care either. Things had to come to a head
between him and Jackson some time or other—
and, anyway, the girl was safe.
Such were his thoughts as he walked carelessly
up to Jackson’s store,
“Morning, Jackson,” he said.
“Morning, Phillips.”
The two men eyed each other. Phillips saw his
rival knew all, and waited for the outburst. It
didn’t come, though; and, after a pause, he asked,
“ How’s trade up North ? ”
“Damned bad. I’m going South to Erro-
manga to-morrow. What are you doing ? ”
“Oh,” replied Phillips, “I’m going to hang
about here for a bit.”
The natives, gathered round pretty close now,
couldn’t understand this at all. They were dis-
appointed, and when in a few minutes Jackson
turned and walked away, their astonishment
knew no bounds. No row after all ! The whole
matter ended peacefully.
Phillips was puzzled himself. Of course, it
couldn’t end here—but what on earth was Jackson
up to ? Things went on as usual for some months,
except that Eloa, who had previously been em-
ployed at light housework, was sent out to work
in the fields. “ The other women do it—so can
she. There’s nothing to do in the house when I’m
away,” was how Jackson explained it.
* * * *
There was quite a stir in the village when it was
known that Eloa would soon require the services
of the “ Matemaure.”
On the evening before the birth, Jackson left—
“ for about a week,” he reckoned. Phillips stayed
behind, but he could not see his mistress. She
was in charge of a number of women, led by the
“Matemaure”—Bunuea. These women were
not allowed to leave the house, but Phillips, pass-
es by.the next, morning, saw the “ nasuafa ”
leaves in their girdles, and knew the child was
born.
On the fifth day, after the mother had tasted of
the “ noas ” leaves, the girdles were discarded, and
the women came out. Soon, the peculiar cry of
the men announced that the babe was a male.
But scarcely had the echoes died away before
Bunuea came rushing from the house, wailing and
cutting her body.
Phillips heard the cries, and ran fast across the
beach. He caught her by the arm. “What is
the matter ? ” he said.
“Eloa is dead ! ” she screamed.
. “ Gome with me! ” and he dragged the woman
into the house.
A single glance at the swollen corpse told him
all he wanted. He was stunned, and for a moment
loosened his hold on the “Matemaure,” and she
made for the door. Then he remembered, and,
throwing the screen across the opening, he grasped
the old woman by the throat.
“ Curse you ! Stay here ! You’ve murdered
this girl—tell me how ! ”
Something in the tone of his voice smothered
the denial which arose to Bunuea’s lips, and she
sank cowering at his feet.
“ Tell me ! ” he said again, “ or I’ll choke you.”
The woman pointed to the roof.
The man went in the direction indicated, and
soon found in the thatch a piece of “ noas ” leaf.
“It was this, then ? You poisoned it ? How ? ”
The shrinking wretch murmured: “When I
was making the ‘ koro ’ over the leaf. ” Then she
added, anxious to tell everything now: “Her
husband gave me the poison and told me what to
do. He said her ‘ nakainaga ’ did not know this
powder and would not suspect us. He took me
into his house and promised to give me land.”
“ But her ‘ nakainaga ’ will know of it now, for I
shall tell them,” said Phillips.-
“ No ! no ! ” shrieked the terror-stricken woman.
—■ ‘ they will tear me to pieces. Listen, I will
tell you more. Jackson will be back to-morrow.
He will ask you to drink. I bring in the drinks
and yours will have some powder in it. Then
Jackson will say you must have caught this
strange sickness from Eloa.”
Phillips staggered back. “So this is what the
eurwas waiting for, is it! By God ! I’ve only
just missed it ! ”
He roughly raised the woman who was kneeling
at his feet, and said : ■“ Hear me, you brute !
Bring those glasses in when they are called for,
but give Jackson the one you intended for me, or
else—the nakainaga.”
Again came the protest: “No !no ! I will do
it! ”
“ Well, you understand.”
Phillips threw down the screen, and, after one
glance at the body in the corner, strode out, heed-
less of the crowd of weeping women at the door.
* * » *
Phillips met Jackson on the beach the next
morning as he landed.
“ Eloa is dead,” he said.
Jackson feigned surprise. “ How can that be ?
—Oh, I suppose she died in childbirth.”
“ Ho, I don t think so,” said Phillips. Jackson
looked up rather anxiously, then said : “ Well,
Phillips, it’s perhaps just as well she’s dead. You
and I won’t have to quarrel now. Come and join
me in a drink.”
Jackson led the way into the house. “ Bunuea!
Bunuea !” he called. The woman appeared at the
door. “Make us some punch, and bring it here.
Excuse me a minute, old man,” he said to Phillips;
“ I want to give orders about unloading.”
Phillips guessed this was only a ruse to avoid
disconcerting the woman by his presence. Bunuea
brought in the glasses. Phillips watched her
closely. “Is it right?” he whispered, as she
placed them down, one on each side of the tabic.
“Yes, this is yours,” she answered. But her
averted eyes, the catch in her voice, and the
trembling hand, told him differently.' She was
no fool. Of course if he was poisoned he couldn’t
tell the dead girl’s relatives ! He heard Jackson
returning. “ Clear out! ”he said to the woman.
She hastened to the door and blocked Jackson
coming in—that instant was time enough to
change the glasses.
“ Well,' Phillips, I’m glad to be having this
drink with you. At one time I was fool enough
to want to fight you—all through a wretched black
girl. That’s over now—there’s plenty more of
them. Here’s to Eloa’s successor ! ”
“Here’s to the one following Eloa,” said Phil-
lips ; and the empty glasses were pushed aside.
Phillips put his hands in his pockets and leant
back in his chair. “Say, Jackson,” he asked,
“ have you made your will ? ”
Jackson laughed. “Not me! I guess I’ll be
■your executor. Damn you !—you thought I had
forgotten about the girl; but ” He tried to
rise—his legs gave way. “ Why—what’s this?”
Phillips was smiling.
“ Bunuea,” the dying man called faintly ! “ You
hag ! —a mistake ! ”
Phillips laughed outright, and, stepping over
the body, called the people.
“ He has followed Eloa ! ” he said.
WINDA.
Gentlemen requiring Spring and Summer Un-
derwear and Overwear should call in or drop a line to
Hordern Brothers, Pitt-st., where their requirements will
be studied. We exert all our energies to please our
clients, in town or out of town, and give more for their
cash than most firms. As we pay solid gold down on the
spot for everything we buy, we buy cheapest, conse-
quently sell cheapest ; and, being always on the spot,
we have first pick of the newest European goods. Now
what do you require ? An answer on a penny postcard
will do nicely. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211
Pitt-street (only), Sydney,
THE MOST REFRESHING, COOLING* & HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE.
f'ii
a>;
Trad* Mark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
Tha “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
ci U'Ut. Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
e*. or they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
I&M
■ &
mm
'eS’n
shi\o t - Lk OkDhR TO-DAY.
We will more than please you.
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
-m
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 los., f. o. b. vessel New Yoik. Cost of carriage, about
£2 tos. Description: Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handroirely carved, fo inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual o' keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golder-toned r eds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Refe ence, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and heather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co„
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WOItlJ).
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OK BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., x/-, and 2/- each.
Proprietors.* GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, &, CO, LEEOS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
III.T.OCK & CO., KENT and I.IVERPOOI, STREETS, SIDNEY.
■
111' )V\ TRADE VHb
WtLoWAIIST
l-'m MARK '-I
n Corset
WiuvoWfl'St Corset
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS Wl LL BE WORN
PERFECT in SHAPE.
LENGTHENS THE WAIST.
BE A UTI FI ES TH E FIG UR E.
W'fctoWA'Sf Corset
MARK
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
ASK FOR
W'lwov/a'ST Corset
OF ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
wholesale orders taken by
F.w. LEE, Camden Buildings.
216, GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY,
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
SOUTH
■ mm
Lifts.
Complete Sanitation.
Electric Light throughout.
(Under Royal Patronage.) -■ /\ wp ■ j
Contains over 200 Apartments, Furnished with all H HP ELj
Modern Luxury. Two minutes from the Park. Ken-
sington Gardens. Imperial Institute, and in the midst of ttie Fashionable Quarter- ;
. y
MODERATE TARIFF.
Queen's Gate Terrace, London, S.W.
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Us
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
ROPES, &0., &o.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for tlie “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PERM’S
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
t< iddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Gold Chills, Flush*
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to he “ WORTH A
GUI .4 ’A A BOX.”
BEECH AM'S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly i emove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic— a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beerham’s Pills have the Largest Sale atf any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is 11,(1, and 2s 9d each.
The WORLD looks on
and LAUGHS and
drinks its
Ip
just the same.
WHY?
mess*
Because it has been pronounced
—by the World’s best judges
GRATEFUL & COMFORTING
not for a day but for a lifetime.
It is the World’s standard of
EXGIISIjXjBNCE and nothing
can alter it.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where•
tnt/r situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be .unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who ivoald pro-
bably undertake its sale.
iST A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
TL| OLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
n There is not a country in Hie civilised world where
the healing virluesof these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands ot suiferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IK YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Dxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the i
Wopeestep; I
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ; [
and Export Oilmen generally. I
RETAIL EVERYWHERE. I
Agents: Messrs. VIRGO E, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO. SYDNEY
** *
THU LAST OF SIX
PRICIv: Is. ... ... per lost, Is. 3d.
FOR
23 Years
Owbridge’s Lung Tonio
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
f a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
'Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottli s, at Is. l§d., 2s. 9 d., 4s. tid.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all Loudon and
Colonial Houses.
CeFTBIUB*.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Stop tliat Cough.!
Don't Delay.
... TAKE • • •
P
IRISH ROSS
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron -
chitis. Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s. Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion,' Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, lorpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stiinu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Box.


,-
™E LAROE St ,
Established
1847.
SSVIO-HQIH
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRiS CO, LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Head q’rt’rs, 168-169 William-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address ■
36 Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots ana Agencies almost every?, here.
Illustrated Catalogue Drees, on app.ieation.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
ROBERTS'
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
LUNCHEON, 12.30; DINNER, 6.30.
Superior Accommodation. Moderate Charges,
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
BPOOHS FORES
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
r
<»HE BOT
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortl}ii}gtoi) PCin>pii)g Eogifyc Corppaoy.
(AfralMm BrancL) SimpSOU BrOtHerS. Branch.)
82 Ola rence-st.,
t a
■ f ,
REGULAR PATTERN.
(WORTH IN
THAOS MAR&r
Sydney, JST.S.W.
■Agencies :
Victoria : WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-streefc, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
, _ ADELAIDE.
Queensland : MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia : HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-streeb, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand : E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
*W. c. IEIODIRHIDG-lE] & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOi! li s'i itEET, SYDNEY
COpp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by yost from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
What is Health?
J Rheumatism, Sciatica,
- - Lumbago, &C,,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
IJKER, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
'these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure.
\
ECZEMA
Self Applied.
“OLEAC”
Btdk*T—M. H. Horwitb, 84 Pitt St.
Adelaid*— Harms & Kemp, BBnhdleSt.
Melbourne— Fred. J. E. Phillips, 817 Collin* St,
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Bactory System
of Butter-making- (which lias done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery S\ stem of Butter-making
(which.has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
JnPPr^t^i B^ 8 P nl Very Best Articles.
0? P SYDNEY with 6 PWNCIPAL PLA CES
Visit the CITY
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note,
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Pri
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
SiEK?™; 92 a kin< * street and 23 royal
, or A TEA. (Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of
e Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION T ’
OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
H. PATESON. Manaoir.
mu
tie 9
w#
wm.
The Roger Rolls.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
60 Clarence street, Sydney,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MINING MACHINERY,
Steam Engines and Boilers.
(All Sizes in Stock.)
Patentees of— Ropp Straight-line Furnace, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mill, Frue Concentrator, “James” Ore
Feeder, Roger Rolls, Dodge Rockbreakers, etc., etc.
n i are now manu facturing in Sydney, for the Associated
Oro d Mines of W.A. Ltd., four sets of 36x16 Roger Rolls, weighing
weive tons each, the largest ever made in the colony.
Batho’s
Baking p OW( | er
TNSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Th „„
A & Co., Guntfiakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees oflfer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OE THE
o i OCK :
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stook, double grip, box spring triggers best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s fid each complete ’
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke’bore steel locks with
oartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 10 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap'action, left-hand
barre full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price <£l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
complete. Usual price 1 21, reduced £7 lOsea. complete.
'HE LONDON SMALL. ARMS COMPANY 137 Elizabeth st., Melbourne,
Absolutely Cheapest m Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES
mf Qnnlrac / oil Nmlrio Pnmro A q (venocl ATmnln’n O lf\ ™ cit. -t »» n n , . uvaujuu.
List. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia,
up to date, £7, £B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
H
P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74
Clarence-st.,
Sydney.
435
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
"JL'lae Greo. I*. Blake Maufg. Co.,
DIRECT ACTING ST RAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
"W". Jb'. & John. Barnes 00.,
FOOT, HAND, and STRAM POWER MACHINR TOOLS and GENERAL MACHINERY.
B. F. Sturtevant Co.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FORGES, btg.
Representative in Western Australia—J. BARRE JOHNSTON & 00.. Fremantle
„ New Zealand-J. BURNS & CO., Auckland*
