

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cocoa
u The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
E®. <3r» «SC. CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BE
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
r OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briscoe & Co., Melbourne; Briscoe, Mac Neil & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe & Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, London.
SCOE. DRYSDALE
& CO.
Broadbent’s Hydro-Extractor.
i .
o
o
o
<'RActAt R °CK>
O
o
c
o
o
4
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney,
Grit*son, Battle & 00., 85 Pitt-street; Sydney.
Are SOLE AGENTS for Over 2200 of these Machines Sold and at work.
Broadb€i)t’S
DIRECT
STEAM
DRIVEN
Hydro-Extractors.
These Machines
have been suc-
cessfully intro-
duced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar, Salt, Chemicals, the production of Meat Extracts.
Send for testimonials and full particulars. All sizes in stock or arriving. Spare parts stocked.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
A.ndL see that you get it;.
mm
PROOF
Pt.l
f. •
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS OIM HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Largo Orders.
Lysaght Bros. Sc Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta Kiver.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
p
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CIGARETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
HOBART.
—m —
Hadley’s Orient fiotel.
Before viyiHng fhe OfX wrirero the Manager for
<jra of Tariff, (jprrcjpondence promplly attended to.
THE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE Is.;
per Post Is. 3d.
After all, TTouAm is the Best.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by the N.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWIDiIc SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
■ Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian Brandy.
Boomerang Brand.
The Report of the British Commission to the Brussels Exhibition of 1897, which has
just been received, speaking of this product, says:—“This Brandy was
judged by a jury of experts in French Brandies, and so WORTHY OF
COMMENDATION did they find it that they awarded it a GOLD MEDAL.
It cannot but be with the utmost satisfaction and congratulation that English-
men find that they have in their own colonies a product of this class ABLE
TO COMPETE FAVORABLY WITH THE OLD-ESTABLISHED
BRANDIES OF THE CHARENTE.”
In Cases, Casks, Flasks, and Half-Flasks.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales
and Queensland.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and. New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
THORNE’S WHISKY,
A 1 LIQUEUR.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 19.—N0. 953. J
[Saturday, May 21, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


B Y
APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY
GOVERNOR.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. OROYA.
THE
Messrs. GEORGE ROBERTSON and
BOOKSELLERS 'AND STATIONERS.
:0.,
Hope’s Simon Dale, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s;
Pett-ltidge, Three Women, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s. and
4s ; Hitchin’s Londoners, 2s fid and 3s fid, post 3s and 4s ;
Russell (Clark), Is He the Man ? 2s, post 2s 6d; Ashley’s
Sir Tristain, 2s fid and 3s fid, post 3s and 4s ; Cameron’s
Devil’s Apples, 2s 6d and 3s fid, post 3s and 4s ; Dicken’s
Against the Tide, 2s fid and 3s fid, post 3s and 4d ; Panta-
leones’ 'Pure Economics, 12s, post 12s fid ; Strasburg’s
Text-book of Botany, 21s, post 22s ; Neumann’s Electro-
typic, 10s fid, post 11s 3d ; Seward’s Fossil Plants, vol. 1.,
12s, post 12s fid ; Merriman and Jacoby’s High Structures,
12s, post 13s ; Birknrore’s High Office Building, 15s, post
16s ; Illingworth’s Divine Immanence, 7s 6d, post 8s ;
Will’s Electric Lighting, 15s, post 16s ; Procter’s Leather
Laboratory Book, 9s, post 9s fid ; Woodsend’s Woodcarv-
ing, 4s fid, post ss.
NEW AUSTRALIAN WORKS.—ROBERTSON’S
COLONIAL LIBRARY.
THE SWORD OF A SIN, by Alex. Montgomery.
WHEN PASSION FLIES, by Gerald Wolf. Paper
covers, 2s fid, post 3s ; cloth, 3s fid, post 4s.
LOKAINE and Other Verses, by George Essex Evans,
with a portrait. Cr. Bvo., ss, post 5s 6d.
DEAD MEN’S TALES, by Charles Junor, a.Story of the
Australian Desert, &c. Picture boards, 2s, post 2s 4d.
THE BOOK OF DIET, by Dr. Philip Muskett, author of
“The Art of Living in Australia,” “Feeding and
Management of Australian Infants,” &c. Wrapper, 2s 6d,
post 3s.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Write to us for ANY Boole or Magazine you want.
DO YOU SMOKE THEM ?
YES
NO?
THE RED PAGE.
The Ballad of Heading Gaol.
For The Bulletin.
CARL.
I.
He did not wear his scarlet coat,
For blood and wine are red,
And blood and wine were on his hands
When they found him with the dead,
The poor dead woman whom he loved,
And murdered in her bed.
VII.
Yet each man kills the thing he loves,
By each let this be heard,
Some do it with a bitter look,
Some with a flattering word,
The coward does it with a kiss,
The brave man with a sivord.
VIII.
Some kill their love when they are young,
And some when they are old;
Some strangle with the hands of Lust,
Some with the hands of Gold:
The kindest use a knife, because
The dead so soon grow cold.
IX.
Some love too little, some too long,
Some sell, and others buy ;
Some do the deed with many tears,
And some without a sigh ;
For each man kills the thing he loves,
Yet each man does not die.
XXX VI.
With slouch and swing around the ring
We trod the Fools’ Parade !
We did not care : we knew we were
The Devil’s Own Brigade :
And shaven head and feet of lead
Make a merry masquerade.
XXXVII.
We tare the tarry Tope to shreds
With blunt and bleeding nails ;
We rubbed the doors, and scrubbed the floors,
And cleaned the shining rails :
And, rank by rank, we soaped the plank,
And clattered with the pails.
XXXVIII.
We sewed the sacks, we broke tlie stones,
We turned the dusty drill :
We banged the tins, and bawled the hymns,
And sweated on the mill:
But in the heart of every man
Terror was lying still
XXXIX.
So still it lay till every day
Crawled like a weed-clogged wave :
And we forgot the bitter lot
That waits for fool and knave,
Till once, as we tramped in from work f
We passed an open grave.
XL.
With yawning mouth the yellow hole
Gaped fora living thing;
The very mud cried out for blood
To the thirsty asphalte ring :
And we knew that ere one dawn grew fair
Some prisoner had to swing. - ,
' XLI.
Right in we went, with soul intent
On Death and Dread and Doom :
The hangman, with his little bag,
Went shuffling through the gloom :
And each man trembled as he crept
Into his numbered tomb.
XL VIII.
The gray cock crew, the red cock crew,
But never came the day :
And crooked shapes of Terror crouched
In the corners where ice lay :
And each evil sprite that walks by night
Before us seemed to play.
XLIX.
They glided past, they glided fast,
Like travellers through a mist :
They mocked the moon in a rigadoon
Of delicate turn and twist,
And with formal pace and loathsome grace
The phantoms kept their tryst.
L.
With mop and mow, we saw them go,
Slim shadows hand in hand:
About, about, in ghostly rout
They trod a saraband :
And the damned grotesques made arabesques,
Like the ivind upon the sand.
LVII.
At last I saw the shadowed bars,
Like a lattice wrought in lead,
Move right across the whitewashed wall
That faced my three-plank bed,
Ami I knew that somewhere in the world
God’s dreadful dawn was red.
LVIII.
At six o'clock we cleaned our cells,
At seven all was still,
But the sough and swing of a mighty wing
The prison seemed to fill,
For the Lord of Death with icy breath
Had entered in to kill.
_ LXXXVI.
They hanged him as a beast is hanged ;
They did nob even toll
A requiem that might have brought
Rest to his startled soul,
But hurriedly they took him out,
And hid him in a hole.
LXXXVII.
They stripped him of his canvas clothes,
And gave him to the flies :
They mocked the swollen purple throat,
And the stark and stating eyes :
And with laughter loud they heaped the shrouc
In which the convict lies.
LXXXIX.
Yet all is well; he has bub.passed
To Life’s appointed bourne :
And alien tears will fill for him
Pity’s long-broken urn,
For his mourners will be outcast men,
And outcasts always mourn.
XC.
I know not whether Laws be right,
Or whether Laws bp wrong ;
All that we know who lie in gaol
Is that the wall is strong ;
And that each day is like a year,
A year whose days are long.
XCI.
But this I know, that every. Law
That men have made for Man,
Since first Man took his brother’s life ,
And the sad world began,
But straws the wheat and saves the chaff
With a most evil fan.
XCII.
This too I know—and wise it were
If each could know the same —
That every prison that men build
Is built with bricks of shame,
And bound with bars lest Christ should see
How men their brothers maim.
XCIV.
The vilest deeds like poisoned weeds
Bloom well in prison-air :
It is only what is good in Man
That wastes and withers'there :
Pale Anguish keeps the heavy gate,
And the Warder is Despair.
xcr.
For they starve the little frightened child
Till it weeps both night and day :
And they scourge the weak, and flog the fool,
And jibe the old and gray,
And some grow mad, and all grow bad,
And none a' word may say.
XCVI.
Each narrow cell in which we dwell
Is a foul and dark latrine,
And the fetid breath of living Death
Chokes up each grated screen,
And all, but Lust, is turned to dust
In Humanity’s machine.
XCVII.
The brackish water that we drink
Creeps with a loathsome slime,
And the bitter bread they weigh in scales
Is full of ohalk and lime.
And S.uep will not lie down, but walks
Wild-eyed, and cries to Time.
XCVIII. .
But though lean Hunger and green Thirst
Like asp with adder fight,
We have little care of prison fare,
For what chills and kills outright
Is that every stone one lifts by day
Beoomes one’s heart by night.
XCIX.
With midnight always in one’s heart,
And twilight in one’s cell,
We turn the crank, or tear the rope,
Each in his separate Hell,
And the silenoe is more awful far
Than the sound of a brazen bell.
C.
And never a human voice comes near
To speak a gentle word :
And the eye that watches through the door
Is pitiless and hard :
And by all forgot, we rob and rot,
With soul and body marred,
CL
And thus we rust Life’s iron chain
Degraded and alone :
And some men curse, and some men weep,
And some men make no moan :
But God’s eternal Laws are kind
And break the heart of stone.
CVII.
In Reading gaol by Reading town
There is a pit o] shame,
And in it lies a wretched man
Eaten by teeth of flame,
In a burning winding-sheet he lies,
And his grave has got no name.
CVIII.
And there, till Christ call forth the dead,
In silence let him lie :
No need to waste the foolish tear,
Or heave the windy sigh:
The man had killed the thing he loved,
And so he had to die.
CIX.
And all men kill the thing they love,
By all let this be heard,
Some do it with a bitter look,
Some with a flattering word,
The coward does it with a kiss, V
The brave man with a sword 1
“The Ballad of Reading Gaol, by C. 3. 3.”
(Smithers, Bond.), is tlie work of Oscar Wilde,
whose previous performances stamp him a Man
of Talent, not a Man of Genius. “ The Ballad ”
in nowise alters the classification. It is a very
strong piece of work, but it is not inspired. Hood’s
“Dream of Eugene Aram,” which has probably
modelled the manner and metre, takes higher
rank: so does Coleridge’s “Ancient Mariner,”
which may have helped in the shaping. Yet
“ Eugene Aram ” has only 36 stanzas to “ Read-
ing Gaol’s ” 109. I here is certainly no gain in
effect commensurate with the gain in extent;
and one thinks a stronger effect would have come
by compression.
But it seems that Wilde has endeavored to com-
bine the ethical appeal and the esthetic appeal,
and has failed naturally and necessarily. Just in
proportion as the denunciation suecet ds, the poem
fails as a piece of literature, a piece of Art. To
reach its highest potency, the artistic emotion
should be a purb emotion, should not be compli-
cated by references to anything rotten in the state
of Denmark. Eor such references are suscepti-
ble of intellectual doubt and argument, and
when argument comes in at the door Art flies
out at the window. In other words, to
get the greatest possible reaction, Art
must appeal to the mind undivided against
itself : there must be no hesitation, no reserves.
Hence it is that pure Beauty is a priori likely to
produce the greatest artistic effect : to Beauty one
surrenders unreservedly. But pure ugliness, ac-
cording to European conventions, may also pro-
duce an artistic effect : there may be undoubted
aesthetic charm in a Satsuma idol.
Yet there are some human ideas of such general
acceptance that they do not complicate the mes-
sage, and these may be so introduced as to heighten
the artistic emotion. Millet’s landscapes would
stand alone, but Millet’s peasants wonderfully
increase their artistic significance. But here
there is no jarring note. We yield with
a whole mind to sympathy with the toil
of “The Sower,” the prayer at “The Angelus.”
Homer’s battles are free to produce their whole
artistic effect because Greek and Trojan are no-
thing to us But if one used the same words in
the same way to describe the current war, ob-
viously either a Spaniard or. an American would
miss much of their force. His racial or individual
preconceptions and prejudices would fill his mind
to the exclusion of the artistic appeal. Yet
Homer’s description of a moonlit scene can be
freely accepted at any time.
Hood, in “Aram," if he denounces anything,
denounces murder; his poem exhibits the Nemesis
that follows murder. Well, there is a generally-
accepted convention that murder should be de-
nounced ; and so the mind remains free
to accept the artistic message. But Wilde, in
“Reading Gaol,” denounces the English prison
system ; and indicates some of that system’s
brutal blots. But are all the points which he
stresses abominable? Is it possible to mend all?
A flood of controversy surges up, overwhelming
the artistic effect of the poem.
These lines are written to show that “The
Ballad of Reading Gaol ” is not on the highest
literary | lane, and to show why it is not. Other
reasons are the ephemeral character of the system
attacked, making against artistic permanency;
and the want of vagueness, of mystery, in the
attack, making against artistic illusion. Re-
mains that “The Ballad ” is a magnificent piece
of work for humanity.
Yet it is only when Oscar Wilde goes to gaol
that he realises the misery and brutality of gaol.
The appeal of that victim of N.S.W. judicial
maladministration, Thomas Suffield, makes no
impression on the minds of thousands of unim-
aginative persons. To understand his case they
need to suffer so themselves. But that is another
sermon.


RS
AND
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
-WARN-
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
if
L 5
i NVIAI
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervoxxs Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.— A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
committing himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for nearly all tle wa o
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, the experience o ,
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly end*used ■ u-‘ n a unen
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the remarkable treatment
which has made both fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
WALLACE.
-Fii
In the Laboratory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back ?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains ?
Do you feel fatigued ?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy ?
Do you have ringing in the ears ?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak ?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet ?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society?
Are you losing flesh?
Do you sleep poorly ?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired ?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has'the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post,
rsf'fco
All Trams stop at the Door .
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to thatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
WRJj'tßi 'iVv'SrX
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
Rescued at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 10 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer —in fact, all
classes and condition of men—should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs. ;
or including a scries of Medicine & Advice, £l,
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDKTEY.
please mention this Paper when writ in;!.] CORRESPONDENCE, P.O. Box 1359.
»
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. G-ibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribts Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily,
10 till 5; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
T T?T TJMPH ’ P 0. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON, M.8.C.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
r ATROPHY in IVlen^
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit —A benefit that you feel, know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address-
. J. HINTON-WILLIS, A
V Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melb. J®
modern medical institute,
41 Exhibition-street, MELBOURNE.
(Under the direction of the leading Specialists of
Australasia:
Health, Strength, Vigor, Manhood,
Absolutely and Permanently Restored.
It is a common practice of quacks pretenders to
issue flaming advertisements and still more flaming books.
We do none of these things. Our business is to CURE
SUFFERERS. Write to us and we will correspond
with you by return post.
TiRTTCOLLTs BROWNCU
rmOROPYHE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
NERVOUS PEOPLE.
1
fV l
For people on
on the verge of
nervous prostration;
for the overworked,
i the languid, for the
f run-down system, for
those who have used
up their vitality in
excesses and dissipa-
tions ; for people who
can’t sleep ; for men
and women who need
a true tonic one
that braces, builds
up tissue and cures
permanently. For all
forms of nerve weakness, the American invention —Dß.
PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT is a G R A N D REMEDY.
It assists Nature by a gentle re-inforcement of vital energy;
by infusing a mild, warming, invigorating current of elec-
tricity into the nerves ; and by supplying the system with
the very essence of nerve vigor and nerve strength.
Worn at night, Dr. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT in-
duces peaceful sleep and cures when medicine fails. It is
as perfect as science and mechanical skill can make it.
Electric Suspensory for weak men. Read all about it in
the little “ Book No. 2,” which will be sent, sealed, in
plain envelope, for 2d. in stamps, or it can be had free at
the office. RUPTURE.—If Ruptured, send also for “ Book
No. 1.” Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS
CO., San Francisco, U.S.A., or
W. H. SOUL & CO., 158 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
JOHN' PUHAHTO
!iSft
BUSH
fHce^fcFterßw.'
FULL 'DIRECTIQUSI
» ENCLOSED' 'j
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4/6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
denc3', etc., are to be found in the
“ Ijiglit an.cl Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address— S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €fi)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n>brocatioi>-


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
ELLESMERE S. June 4.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the ah v >.
Name.
Address
WATERLOO C. June 9.
100,000 Subscribers at 5<
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name .
Address
Rosehill C. June 25.
50,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
£ z Z
Shares in the above.
Name
Address
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE. July 9.
50,000 Subscribers el t 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me— 1 shares in the above.
Name 1 ' '
Address
Australian Waterloo C. July 12, 14, 15.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
N ame
Address
shares in the above.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Price Reducers
‘Friends of the Family’
-AND-
Up-to-date merchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SHAPLER,
SYDNEY AND SUBURBS.
Established 1864—44 Years.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HO VIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel., Tel.,
No. 312. Head Office : No. 312.
73 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
Publications, etc.
V
-Ballet fiirl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATION S, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Lite.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, arid
Contes-!
sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
Barmaid.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
PfIRTIINF J BILLING Cards (Mdme-
run I UiiL Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s. ■ nwr LETTERS,
— LOVE 12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS. 3s.
SfCRET“ LOVERS fr kftSe
Continental Supply Agency,
l Box 1402 G. P. 0., Sydney.
Carried Ladies. S“'£"“uf e S
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melboubne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
4£225
IK
I
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 12 Cuba, 9d.; 50 Spain (fine), 25.;
9 Porto Rico, 6d.; 5 Philippine Isles, Id.;
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. od.; 8 New Cale-
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, 6d.;
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, (id. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets: 30 differ-
ent, (id. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d. ; 150, ss. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., orstamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
. . BOOKS ... BOOKS ... BOOKS . .
Nkw Up-to-Datk Publications.
The Soiled Dove; Miss Skittles, or the Girl with Six
Husbands; Sappho, or Life and Love in Paris. These
books are very choice and selling rapidly, each (post free)
Is. 6d. The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes, Is.
post free. Maria Monk, Don Juan, Ovid’s Art of Love,
Is. 9d. post free. R. W. SKINNER.
New and Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney. Telephone 3403.
Should you require any Books New or Second-hand
kindly advise.
GrO TO TTTiT.T..
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. (!<l.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
oratis.
FredL HCagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W,
SULKIES, as shown, :i s[ lings, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, s.lver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6(1.
SULKIES, from ‘J5s.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s
per set. Best Quality VVAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
II • HILL I ER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Springs, etc.
Send for a Catalogue.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in one
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE .
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
The
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says :
“ I have used
your ‘ KOKO ’
now since June
last, and I have
not only stopped
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness,but
Ihave an entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As I am not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing teat
of your prepara-
tion."
sip
1/v
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
rUPMICTC FTP
KOKO MARICOPAS COY., LTD-, MARKSpLON DON, ENGLAND.
LOOK _A.T OUR RRICRS !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Blackboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
our Special
No. 2.
y/iir-ii
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£B.lB. 6.
Note Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send, for Our Illustrated Catalogue.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
Dr. Mackenzie’s Soap is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most
lovely Complexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously and
expensively perfumed. ONE SHILLING PER TABLET. Doctor s certilicate with each cake, certifying
to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imitations MADAME
ADELINA PATTI writes : “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” This Soap
cures shiny and greasy skins.
Dr. Mackenzie's Pace Lotion is not greasy,does not contain Glycerine,and is absolutely harmless.
By tightening the skin it quickly removes all wrinkles, lines, crowsfeet, or puffiness under the eyes, it
keeps the skin soft and velvety, and in summer will entirely prevent and quickly remove freckles;
whilst for excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. Price 3/6 per bottle; large
bottles, 5/-. This Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs on the face. Delicious in hot climates.
S. HARVEY, LTD. 5, Denman Stieet, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists and Stores.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER
can bo obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
POWDER
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s. Concentrated
Egg Powders* Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. Cohen &
Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Adieu, Summer!
Where is our lusty Summer,
Whose wanton smile and sunny brow
Dwelt long upon the hillsides ?
His scented breathing mingled with
The dawn’s.first whispers ; at noon
The green fruits blushed within his hand ;
And evening lulled with song his slumber palm.
Not Winter’s windy riot,
Nor Autumn chills, nor bitter rain
To mar his golden presence ;
The Spring’s white cataracts were still;
Sweet Silence o’er the rivers
Strayed, and spread her silvery wings
Along their shining courses day by day.
Prom the bright, quiescent sea
But faintest murmurs and deep sighs,
As the waves kissed his warm lips
Where saffron margins lined the shores,
And sleepy winds came slowly
Prom cooler latitudes to paint
Its sunlit crest a truer, deeper blue.
He strode along the meadows
Thro’ grasses green and clover sweet,
And left his golden imprint
Trembling upon the fields of corn ;
In the drowsy insects’ hum
He simmered his hot life away
Against the dim horizons day by d ly.
The far old mountain-ridges
He folded in his purple robes—
They held him sweetly sleeping—
And there wild Winter smothered hi n
In an avalanche of snow ;
Nor feeble wish may waken him
’Till o’er his grave the maiden Spring doth wepp.
Tasmania.
BARKIS.
Resurgam.
Ah, do not weep ! for vainly death is trying
To tear my captive soul away from yours.
There is no sting, no bitterness in dying
While you are with me, while your love endures.
The Darkness cannot hold me in subjection
Till you forget, till —but it cannot be !
For you are all my hope of resurrection :
Remembrance, sweet, is Immortality.
If in the glory of some dew-clad morning,
When all creation thrills with song and glee,
Your yearning heart, the wooing breezes scorning,
Should turn away and softly call for me ;
Then deathless Love, the mighty necromancer,
Will echo through the graves the name you
cried,
And I shall 1 ear, I shall awake and answer,
And you will feel me walking by your side.
Or if the sadness of a sunset hour
Should touch—encompass—hold you, till at last
You drift away in Fancy’s subtle pow’r,
And gazing dreamily into the past
Your wandering thoughts should suddenly dis-
. cover
Some hidden trifle, just a glimpse of yore—
Then I arise and am again your lover ;
Then lam with you; then I live once more !
Q.
VON KOTZE.
Three in a Thicket.
This is the thicket ; now to hide.
God ! what a hell is yonder light:
Her chamber —he is by her side ;
This blade shall end it all to-night.
Ah, they are moving. I will crawl
A little nearer—so, ’tis well—
Pools ! shadows blab upon the wall;
Your feast to-night shall end in hell.
Now I must think—if this poor brain,
That seems all blood and rage and fire,
Can strike on some new path again
Prom this delirium of desire.
What said she, near this very place,
A few hours since ? I see her now;
A haughty coldness in her face,
As she laughs back each burning vow.
List! she is singing. Let her sing ;
And let him drink her words like wine,
And dally and toy, and kiss and cling,
And snatch down heaven; I’ll soon have mine!
But oh ! to crush her royal breast
In one fierce grasp, and quivering feel
Passion’s white lava unsuppressed
Surge through us as our bodies reel.
But, hush ! They come—from bush to bush
I’ll crouching steal with tigerish pace,
And laughing leap, and with a push
Send them to hell when they embrace !
Q.
ARTHUR A. D. BAYLODON
Pekin Gazette prints an announcement
of the commutation, by order of the Emperor, of
the sentence upon one Wong Tzi from quartering
to simple decapitation, in which privilege his
children are to share. Wong’s offence was the
omission, in historical mention of certain Chinese
Emperors, of part of their prescribed style and
title. That’s the sort of Emperor who would have
just suited the late Burdett Smith, C.M.G., &c., of
Sydney.
Mr. T. C. Allen (member Eng. Assoc, of
N.S.W.), Consulting Engineer, having entered
into partnership with Mr. Arthur Griffith
(M.L.A.), International Patent Agent, 41 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, the firm will henceforth be
in a position to supply to intending patentees
without charge expert engineering opinion on the
merits of their inventions.*
Queensland boasts a little over 5000 J’sP.,
and every quarter sees a few dozen more put on
the list. The fat alderman with a 60-inch paunch,
who always signs himself “esq.;” the bullocky
bucolic who signs his name with a cross, and the
high-falutin sugar-planter who has a private
Kanaka-cemetery, constitute nine-tenths of the
Great Unpaid in Bananaland. As to the decent
residuum, they get on by accident and off by
intention as soon as possible.


TltiStraliao tyGtGal Prft/ TT7 ■ ft#
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established * ■ O V OyIC ty ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Aunual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
fhe CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £128,797, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head. Office : 87 !Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary.
S'
m
%
m
4
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
RATES : 12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
ffd
'R«r
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Agents: J *
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Sandfoed & Co., Adelaide.
Geo. Ross, Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
PIANO
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
OF PIANOS IN
Tl)€ Fii)?st ai>d Largest WareboGS?
✓♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«*♦♦*♦♦♦<►♦«
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .£35
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCIIIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDNEY.
HELIDOA SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
VISITORS
to SYDNEY
Families, Tourists, Business or Pleasure-
seekers should stay at the most modern
of Sydney’s hotels—
. Tatter sail’s.
Hotel & Cafe.
Telegraph Office ; Telephone 728 ; Elec-
tric Light. Three minutes or less from
four leading theatres and G.P.O.
TARIFF: Bs. per day upwards.
W. J. Adams, Manager.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER.
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
npHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of JBridyeu’ork.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note —We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address —
98 3ECim.g-st., Sydney
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
iviELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. HSF” All tastes and pockets suited.
Write for Card of Tariffs.
• • •
A GREAT TRIUMPH
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
E. J. & D. CXJRRA.KT,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
MPA
UMTg
COIN BUR
Trade
Mahh
Company IT,
EDINBURGH.
»»»jr.J.Uh„t A.f l '/lyr"‘i' , g'\
U/7.'T, Jfle > t' ,u “* ' n,u AHto 4Ju/.<6t*
£§t '-■
ti
Drink
Djoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for the stomach’s sake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“ D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
D.C.L.
Public Companies.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Tire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary,
i >—T lll5 -
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
' - FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. P. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary: A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,312.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gtiavantee
Co. TMI. of Lon * :i.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liiabilty.
Acoi dents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Facts Respecting j)ixson’s Tobaccos.
DURING 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
Yafyktt Poodle.
The 'Sales of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright. The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
Cban)pioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut I 'and Plug.
CooqG^ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Cei)tei)Qial.
Dark Plug and Twist. ,
■ -B
vjgars.
Imported). Lhe Club Favorite Monopole, Rothschilds.
Bonanza 4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Rost Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Rost as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 953.
SATURDAY, MAY 21, 1898.
Price, (sd.
new GUINEA BAND GRAB.
250,000 acres ; 2s. an acre ; 8 vears to select it in.
London, Saturday -.a
•speech of g reafc national I
significance was made at '
Birmingham last nmht
\ Mr - J oseph Chamber
| Mr. Chamberlain said,
among other things, that
war would be cheaply
purchased if it resulted
in the American Star 3
and Stripes and the
Union Jack waving to-
gether over an Anglo-/
Saxon Alliance. /J
British Syndicate (selecting his land—with I
8 years to do it in) : “You fellows I
getting any gold Jhere 1 ”
Pioneer Prospectors : “ Yes, we’ve struck
it rich at last after three years’
hard battling.”
When it got so bad as that, Joe really ought to
\ have gone home. .
•“BOYS WILL BE BOYS” (?)
'Mk
British Syndicate : “Ha ' Well, I’ll
join this to my little block at two
bob an acre. You fellows can go
on prospecting on the other side of
the range, and I’ll look you up
again.” _
/ ////a lyne prom HAMLET. 1
“ What tho’ this hand be thicker than itself
with Braddon’s Blot, is there not ink enough in
the gentle Telegraph to make electors forget
that .1 voted for it 1 ”
th V
fa V
A- QA *
c
%. '
a/6.
The N.S.W. Telegraph Department is going to discourage
a “growing" evil. If a messenger-boy entering the service
begins. to grow, lie will be cautioned. If he persists in be-
coming a full-grown wan, Be will be dismissed.
SHAKESPEARIAN— MORE OR LESS
Hamlet ; " Tie not alone my inky cloak, good mother 1 *
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ' ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—-with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order , Postal A ote,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confident ial.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed, But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction , or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. : Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street
cfc Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 32 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith <fc Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Lemka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and ATaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There wiU be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland,
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynnr-
paper edition of The Bulletin is no w sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, MAY 21, 1898.
The Best Constitution on Earth.
The Victorian anti-Federal party, of which
ex-Minister Allan M‘Lean is the most
vociferous luminary, has issued a manifesto
in which it gives its reasons why Victoria
should lie low and keep dark on June 3. In
some features this document strikingly re-
sembles similar publications which strew the
surface of New South Wales ; in others it
doesn’t. The Want and Rosa and Norton
and Tommy Dodd faction in Sydney is against
Federation because, so it alleges, Victoria
will still be allowed to grant bounties ; the
M'Lean faction in Melbourne is against it
because Victoria won't be allowed to grant
bounties. The Want crowd is hostile be-
cause, it says, New South Wales is going to
be the sole loser and Victoria is to be en
riched at its expense ; the M'Lean following
implores every good Cabbage-gardener to
come down on the Convention Bill with the
axe of just indignation because, it says, Vic-
toria will lose £600,000 a year, and won’t
have a chance to make it up at anybody’s
expense. Want, Hogue, aiid others in
Sydney say bitterly that under the Common-
wealth the Riverina trade will go to Mel-
bourne ; and the Victorian anti-Federal push
demonstrates quite as successfully that the
great object and the certain result of the Bill
is to force the Riverina trade to Sydney.
Also Ashton, M.L.A., when he isn’t in
Sydney helping Want to show that the
Riverina trade must go to Melbourne, is
wailing through the Riverina about how the
Bill will cut off that district from Melbourne,
and force it to trade, against its will, with
Sydney. And the Melbourne anti-Federalists
solemnly appeal to the Victorian Democracy
to reject the Commonwealth scheme because—
If you accept the Bill you will be exchanging: one 0 f the
best Constitutions that the world has ever known (that
which we now enjoy) for one which, according to its
most ardent supporters, is blurred with grave and serious
errors.
Which is so very like the appeal of the New
South Wales Fat Man to the New South
Wales electors to reject the same Bill in de-
fence of the principle of One-man-one-vote
—a principle that no New South Wales Fat
Man was ever concerned about before—that
this resemblance also is quite remarkable.
* * » *
Among all the shoreless seas of gall which
ljave foamed over the proposed Constitution,
this appeal to the Victorian Democracy to
reject Federation, in order to preserve its
own dreadful Constitution in all its native
horror, is about the largest breaker of the
lot. To begin with, however, there is no
immediate question of exchanging Constitu-
tions at all. The Federal and provincial
Constitutions will exist side by side, and the
worst political system on the Australian
mainland will still be preserved—until the
people revolt, or the Federal authority grows
sufficiently strong to tear up the infamous
House of 48 Rich Landlords by the roots.
Therefore the Melb. Anti-Billiouspushdoesn’t
put the case quite fairly. In any case, the
intellect or the honesty of the four politicians
who put their names to a deliberate asser-
tion that Victoria’s utterly smellful political
system is one of the best in the world must
be something beyond description. The only
things against the Victorian Constitution are
that it is about the most ingenious dodge
on earth for preserving the outward sem-
blance of liberalism with the inward reality
of bigoted conservatism and class tyranny,
and that the famous House of 48 Rich Land-
lords makes it one of the worst constitutions
now existing.
* * * *
The Victorian Assembly is still largely
dominated by the property-suffrage, every
attempt to establish the democratic principle
of One-man-one-vote having been contemp-
tuously trodden on by the House of 48 Rich
Landlords. Therefore, some men have one
vote and some men have a great multitude of
votes. Also, a large number have no vote at
all ; a rigid residence-qualification, rigidly
interpolated, does good service in (his direc-
tion. Where the Victorian has a vote, a
beautifully haphazard system of allot-
ting the representation makes its value
very uncertain. For instance, at the 1897
election the 1499 electors of Windermere
had one member; also the 1743 at Port-
land ; 1784 in Johnny Isaacs’ constituency
of Ovens ; 1781 at Maldon ; 1685 in Pea-
cock’s electorate of Clunes ; and a dozen
more showed about the same figures. Also
6000 electors at Donald and Swan Hill had
one member ; 3572 at Dandenong ; 3333 at
Ballarat East ; 3776 in Hancock’s demo-
cratic borough of Footscray, where the
bone-crushing mills are ; 5108 m Deakin’s
constituency of Essendon ; and so on. And
while 6000 agriculturists of Donald and
Swan Hill have one representative—in East
Melbourne, where the Tory Zox hangs out,
4322 electors have two representatives. The
3384 electors of Castlemaine have two also.
In Victorian Assembly elections, therefore,
some men have no vote, and some have one
vote, and some have 18 votes ; and among
the people who have one vote the difference
is that some votes are worth four times as
much as others. As the result of this weird
system that awful Tory, Jonas Levien, is in
Parliament as the representative of 932
votes, and that other Tory, Staughton, is
there by virtue of 865 votes ; and MTntyre
represents 819 ; and the slow and useless
Duncan Gillies was returned by 1355 votes.
Yet grand old Graham Berry was the
choice of 2284 Victorian citizens, and Hen-
nessy had 2126 votes, and they are both
out. Further, that loud and sturdy Demo-
crat, Prendergast, with 1096 votes, and
Lazarus, with. 1972, were among the re-
jected. Barring all these things, however,
the Victorian Assembly may be called reason-
ably democratic in its constitution, and it
is much more democratic than could be ex-
pected, considering its origin.
* * » •
The Victorian Council is also elective,
which is probably the reason why the Mel-
bourne anti-Billious party regards it with
such pride. There is an elaborate and com-
plicated property suffrage, however—so
elaborate and complicated that at last year’s
election there were only 133,000 Council
electors against 245,000 for the Assembly. A
very large part of the Victorian democracy
has no voice in choosing the 48 Rich Land-
lords. Only a man aged 30 or upwards, and
possessed of real property worth a net annual
rental of £lOO is eligible to sit in the Coun-
cil ; this qualification, at present values,
means that he must possess “lands or tene-
ments” worth about £4OOO over and above
the mortgages. All men in their compara-
tively early youth are shut out; ditto, all
poor men ; ditto, all rich men whose wealth
is solely in Government or other securities,
ships, machinery, stock-in-trade, cattle,
sheep, share, or deposits, or is the mere earn-
ings of their brains—the Horn e of 48 Rich
Landlords is confined to landlords only. Also,
as the members are unpaid, and the Council
holds out practically no prospect of political
advancement, it is further confined to rich
landlords of leisure who are willing to take
a hand in politics with no reward except the
joy of throwing out any Democratic measure
that comes in their way. Therefore, if the
electors who vote under the Council’s pro-
perty suffrage were Democratic, which, in a
very large degree, they are not, they are
absolutely prohibited from choosing anybody
save the members of a very small class, and
that the most bitterly Tory class in Victoria.
Also, the members hold their seats for six
years, and the Council can’t be dissolved—
it is an absolutely permanent institution,
and never dissolves. Even if it were pos-
sible, despite the narrow suffrage and the
fact that there is hardly anybody but the
existing gang of fossils to choose from, that
a wave of popular indignation could sweep
the 48 Rich Landlords from their seats, it
never gets a chance to do so ; the House of
Landlords doesn’t all go for re-election at
once, but a third of it retires and comes back
again every second year. That is to say, it
walks out of the House, stands outside a
minute, and comes in again. In the absence
of any general election, and any body of
Democratic electors, and any possible Demo-
cratic candidates, the retiring fossil is simply
re-elected without opposition, and he goes
out and stands outside the House for a
minute to signify that he is appealing to the
free and independent electors.
* * * *
The Victorian House of 48 Rich Landlords
deliberately rejects nearly every Democratic
measure sent up to it, and it blocks progress
continuously and hopelessly. There is no
possible remedy for deadlocks in the Vic-
torian Constitution, and the 48 rich bigots
over-ride the people every time. There is no
hope of the Council becoming Democratic for
an indefinite period; the purely-landlord
class isn’t built that way. It is an elective
body only, so it can’t be swamped by Demo-
cratic nominees. Its narrow and mainly
Tory .constituency can’t be widened save
with the Council’s own consent. The
property qualification which makes its mem-
bers almost all Tory can’t be altered save
with the consent of these same Tory mem-
bers. And the chance of getting that consent
is about the deadest thing that has yet con-
trived to escape burial.
* * * •
This is what Victoria has. To all intents
and purposes only one-half its adult male
population have votes—the half which has
votes for the Council; because the represen-
tatives of that half have, and use, the most
absolute power to block every desire and
aspiration of the rest of the people. And
that half which has effective votes isn’t
allowed to use them as it pleases,
but is compelled to select members of
one small class only. The 133,000
Council voters have also votes —many of them
six or eight or more—for the Assembly ;
they elect a full half of one House and the
whole of the other. Therefore, they control
both the House which initiates legislation
and the one which blocks it, and the other
112,000 electors are present on sufferance
only. What the proposed Federal Constitu-
tion offers to Victoria is a Legislature where
both Houses will be paid ; where there will
be no plural vote for either House ; where
there will be no property qualification for
either House ; and it also guarantees that
every man or woman who has a vote for the
Legislative Assembly of his or her own State
shall have a vote for each House of the
Federal Legislature. Both Houses of the
Federal Parliament will be purely and abso-
lutely Democratic ; both Houses will rest
solely on the will of the people ; and both
Houses will be dissolvable when they come
in collision with popular sentiment. This
means that a large number of Victoria’s in-
terests and affairs will be removed from the
control of the House of Landlords and placed
under the control of a purely Democratic
Legislature. And the one hope of mending
the awful Victorian Legislative Council which
has glimmered on the political horizon for
30 years or more lies in the fact that the
Democratic Federal Legislature, as its influ-
ence expands, may ultimately get power
enough to abolish that institution and supply
Victoria with something respectable in its
place.
* * * #
The one real complaint which the Vic-
torian Democracy has to make against the
Federal scheme is identical with that of
the Democracy north of the Murray. The
representation is not wholly equitable, and
one Tasmanian democrat has about as much
voting power as 2b Victorians. But, even
with this drawback, Victoria has as much
voting power as Tasmania and Westralia
combined. And, at the worst, the proposed
conditions are very many times better than
those under which the Victorian lives now,
and very many times better than anything he
is likely to live under should Federation be re-
jected, unless he mends his House of 48 Rich
Landlords by main force. For a community
which peacefully endures the present Vic-
torian Constitution—a Constitution which is
one vast and complicated outrage on every
principle of Representative Government—to
seriously complain of the small discrepancy
in the representative system embodied in the
Federal Bill is straining at a gnat and swal-
lowing the planet J upiter.
“The Bulletin’s” Financial Curse.
In view of the fact that a new session of the
Victorian Parliament starts next month, Pre-
mier Turner again receives positive orders
from his proprietor, David Syme, of the Age,
that he is to give up his policy of economy and
break out into a violent eruption of public
works. If he doesn’t, David Syme will this
time certainly holler down the spout and have
a new Premier sent up, and George Turner
will be wanted no longer. The warning is ac-
companied by a statement for the last three
years or so, showing the large sums spent out
of loans on public works in N.S.W., and the
very small ones spent, mostly out of revenue,
in Victoria. And Turner is distinctly informed
that this sort of thing won’t do. So far as
concerns the latter part of the statement, there
is no doubt that the Syme organ speaks the
hard and gritty truth. Victoria needs more
railways, especially in Eastern Gippsland and
the Wimmera ; more roads and bridges and
culverts and irrigation works, and many mil-
lions of pounds worth of other improvements.
Its population has increased very, slowly
in the last few years, simply because the
supply of these things stopped short and
the process of opening up the empty
parts of the province was not carried on with
sufficient energy. The future increase will be
very slow also if the same cautious policy is
still adhered to. It is all a question of money.
If the needful funds are raised by loans the un-
stable Age may bless Turner in the present,
but it will assuredly curse him by-and-bye when
the inevitable panic follows. Also, whatever
the people of Victoria may say tq-day they
will also curse him by-and-bye ; and just by
way of variety The Bulletin will curse him
in the immediate present and keep on doing it
all the time. If, on the other hand, he raises
the needful cash out of taxation, and the Age
chances to take a favorable view of the case and
doesn’t blast him out of existence at once, and
he can hold office long enough to demonstrate
the great advantages of a self-reliant policy,
and the Victorian democracy has sense enough
to support him in the meantime, then there is
a magnificent future ahead of Turner.
* * • *
By the time Parliament meets next month
the Turner Government must decide whether
it will go on the old, thriftless insane borrow,
or whether it will have the courage of its
opinions and be honest. The Bulletin appeals
to it once more on this matter, mainly because
it is the only Government in Australia which
has the elements of honesty about it. Within
the last year or two, the custom of raising loans
in England has gone somewhat out of fashion,
and three provinces—N.S.W., Victoria, and
S.A.—have done their latest flotations in their
own cities. No one has noticed that this was
any burden on the community ; instead it has
been hailed with delight by many as affording
a convenient form of investment. And, so far
as concerns the community at large, it would be
just as little a burden if the same sums had
been raised for the same purposes by extra
taxation, and spent in the same fashion. This
may seem a startling assertion to a community
which has been so accustomed to the old ways
and the old groove that it has forgotten the
very meaning of self-reliance, but it is capable
of easy demonstration all the same.
* * * *
If the money is borrowed locally at 3 per
cent., and spent locally on reproductive works
that yield 3 per cent., the situation is simply
that the State gets, say, £1,000,000 per annum
from a small number of the people, and they
get 3 per cent, for it in cash. If the same
million per annum is raised locally by taxation,
and expended on the same works, it means that
the State raises the same amount from all the
people, and they get the same 3 per cent, for it
in the shape of reduced taxation or other bene-
fits. The amount of money taken from the
people is the same; the works are the same;
the dividend is the same, only it is paid differ-
ently and divided among the whole community
instead of going to a small part of it only.
There is no more drain on the total wealth of
the community one way than the other. But
the difference lies in the fact that instead of the
bulk of the community gradually becoming the
bond-slaves of a small section through the
accumulation of paper liabilities and the pro-
cess of compound interest, there is no liability,
and no section of the community holds a lien
on the bodies and souls of the nation at large.
The only other difference lies in the fact that
under the system which The Bulletin
advocates certain pieces of paper called
bonds—paper of no intrinsic value whatever,
and causing a great expense in iron safes to
save it from being burnt or mouse-eaten —would
not be in existence. The money which they
represent, and the public works which repre-
sent that money, and the profits of these works,
would all be there just the same.
• • * •
If the money is raised locally, and spent
locally on useful and profitable works, then
after it has been raised and spent the amount
of money in the country is the same, and the
average wealth of each individual inhabitant is
the same. Only the province is this much the
richer that after raising a million of cash locally,
and spending a million of cash locally on public
works, and having the million still left, it has
also the public works to the good, and the
profit of them, and the extra land values or
other indirect profits which they have created.
And while the money has been changing hands
in paying wages to all manner of people it has
vastly stimulated trade, and made the country
prosperous where it was once stagnant. It is
not money that Victoria wants —there are
<£2,200,000 more of actual gold in its banks
now than there were in the glorious boom days
of 1886 when almost every Victorian was
flourishing, and the country was one golden
dream of affluence. The whole difference
between the bad days now and the good ones
then lies in the fact that then a sovereign, or
more likely the note or cheque which repre-
sented it, changed hands perhaps a dozen limes
in the week, while now it lies in a bank vault
from one year’s end to the other. If the
Turner Government would draw up a list of
£10,000,000 worth of profitable public works
which are urgently needed—such as the great
irrigation works and railways in the mallee
country, and the Gippsland lines which are so
much required to make Victoria’s Lost Pro-
vince saleable and habitable—and would set to
w ork to raise £1,000,000 a year extra taxation
for their construction, the lost boom would
come back again. But this time it would be a
boom with no fearful load of foreign liabilities
behind it. There would be more employment,
and a large increase of population as the result
of increased employment, atid the lands that
were opened up would bring in more population
with money in its pockets, and the influx of
people would make the value of the Fat Per-
son’s property go up again. The boom that
is made with foreign loans grows continually
smaller because the increasing interest bill eats
away its foundations. The boom that was


made with the country’s own money would
keep growing bigger, because the increasing
revenue from the works constructed would sup-
port it and make it more and more substantial.
* * ■ *
The paradox which The Bulletin desires to
lay before the Australian public is this—Aus-
tralia can be made rich and prosperous by
heavy taxation, if the proceeds are wisely ap-
plied. (The paradox which every Government
has gone upon hitherto has been that Aus-
tralia could be made rich and prosperous by
being more heavily in debt than any other place
on earth.) The reason why such heavily-taxed
countries as Spain and Italy do not grow rich
is that the proceeds go in armies and navies
and ammunition and foreign war and interest
on foreign debt, instead of in reproductive
works. Undoubtedly a certain strain would be
felt during the first year or two of the new
policy when its effects had not yet had time to
make themselves felt, but Australia is rich
enough to stand the initial effort. There are
vastly poorer countries than this which carry
income-tax ranging up to 4s. in the £, and
tremendous land-taxes, house-taxes, tolls, and
other exactions as well, and where the State
makes revenue out of lotteries and monopolies
and absentee-taxes on top of all. And no effort
at all resembling this would be required, even
in the first year of the new departure. More-
over, the money would remain in the country,
and, as soon as the new policy got started, the
increased employment, increased trade, and in-
creased circulation of wealth would counter-
balance the preliminary trouble.
* * * •
Australia just now is full of pessimists who
talk of the iniquity of fixing an (allegedly) cast-
iron Federal Constitution upon posterity. The
Bulletin rises up as one lone pessimist to say
something about the far worse iniquity of
fixing an absolutely cast-iron interest bill on
posterity, and it asks some of these other pessi-
mists to join it in this lament by way of being
true to their own principles. Australia is also
full of gaudy amateur-warriors, with beautiful
clothes, and swords which have a tendency to
get between their legs, who allege that they are
ready to go out shooting at a foreign enemy in
order to preserve posterity from a foreign yoke,
and they all propose to let future generations toil
in grimy mines and in grimy plough-furrows to
pay for the guns andammunition theyshoot with,
and for the monuments that go on "top of them
when they are shot themselves, and for their
wages while they are shooting, and for the in-
demnity which will have to be paid to the enemy
if he does the more scientific and successful
shoot of the two. And The Bulletin suggests
that it is equally essential to save posterity
from the yoke of the foreign money-lender—
which is much the more certain and probably
the heavier yoke of the two. The readiness of
the modern Majah to die for posterity may be
very patriotic, but his readiness to pay for
himself and not leave his public works bill to
posterity would be a great deal more practical.
Also it would do posterity a lot more good.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great Papuan Grab.
The completeness and vastness of the great
Papuan land-grab soaks into the public com-
prehension but slowly. It is so complete, and
so vast, and so infamous in its greed, and the
imbecility or dishonesty of the Administration
which sanctioned it are so much beyond the
ordinary run, that it takes some time to
assimilate the matter. The British syndicate
which runs the affair appears to have been
engineered by Somers Vine, the Prince of
Wales’s special fat man, well-known as the
boss fakir of the Imperial Institute. The
syndicate has power to take up 250,000 acres of
land at 2s. an acre. It has eight years to do it
in, and if, at the end of eight years, 250,000
acres have not been thrown open, its monopoly
lasts indefinitely until the required area is
available. For eight years, anyhow, and possi-
bly for 16 or 20 years, it has a prior claim
against all comers. It may pick small and large
areas anywhere, at any time it pleases. It has no
need to hurry. Until it is filled up noone can buy
land off the Government because the syndicate
has an option over everything, and the Govern-
ment can’t sell land to anybody lest the syndi-
cate should want it. Therefore, the syndicate,
though it is only pledged to buy 250,000 acres,
can block settlement all over the province, and
whoever wants to buy must buy from the syn-
dicate at its own price. If anyone attempts to
squat on a valuable piece of land without legal
title, the syndicate can fire him out and take
the property at 2s. an acre. It can pick out
the river frontages, and by cutting off the land
behind them from access to water gradually
freeze out private owners. It is allowed to
take up the freehold of mineral lands, and has
the sole right to the minerals in them, despite
any laws to the contrary—it is expressly pro-
vided that its charter overrides the law.
1 herefore, the awful syndicate has the right to
grab every goldfield, coal-field, or other mineral
deposit which may be discovered. Apparently,
too, it has the right to grab the waters as w’ell
as the land, for it is specially mentioned that
it has the right to “sublet its lands, mines, or
rivers, ’’ &c., &c., so it seems that the private
owner or trader or agriculturist will have to pay
for the privilege of sailing up the syndi-
cate’s river, and may be shut out altogether if
the syndicate pleases. Further, the syndicate
may grab more soil in addition to its 250,000
acres in the shape of a “ land subsidy from the
Government for every adult introduced”—
which, in practice, will probably mean every
adult Chinaman or Indian coolie. And on
top of this there is a provision by
which it may buy land from the natives
(which the private settler isn’t allowed to
oo), so its acreage may easily run into many
millions, and it may ultimately grab all the
good available soil in the province. It is allowed,
as a further addition to all this, to occupy
Grown lands, so that when any private indi-
vidual finds valuable mineral or vegetable pro-
ducts on soil which isn’t open for sale the syn-
dicate can apparently jump these also, either
by leasing the land from the State or buying it
°ff the local nigger And, in addition to
several hundred other things, the syndicate is
permitted to maintain “ land and sea defences,”
so apparently it may run an army and a fleet
of its own ; the insane Papuan Administration
would actually appear to have authorised the
creation of a force of arrried and legalised free-
booters who may overawe the law and the
Government. The three provinces of Queens-
land, N.S. W., and Victoria bear the largest
part of the cost of the Government, which
has thus, in effect, thrown all Australians out
bodily to make room for this great Bull steal.
It is also understood that the Governor of
Queensland has some shadowy authority over
the infuriated Scotch understrapper who runs
British Papua ; and if he has, a pressure of
many tons to the square inch should be brought
to bear on him with a view to squashing this
infamous agreement. If he hasn’t any such
authority, and if the British Government won’t
move in the matter, it is high time to stop the
subsidy. The .£15,000 a year which the Aus-
tralians pay to keep Papua afloat is too high a
price for the privilege of being thrown out by
Vine’s syndicate.
♦
The Federal Capital.
It is getting about time that the anti-Billious
party dropped one A r ery crude and stupid lie
from its list—the one concerning the Federal
capital. It deserves a rest. A few weeks ago
Sydney Daily Telegraph announced, as a
sudden and awful discovery, that the Federal
city was to be in Victoria. Then Hogue,
M. arose, the other day, and flapped down
the bald statement that the capital would be in
Victoria. Premier Reid said that he feared the
capital would be in Victoria. Want roared
that N.S. W. was going to be swindled out of
the capital and that it was going to be in
Victoria. Last week the Telegraph discovered
or invented a violent old sea-captain who, it said,
had been heard to announce in a restaurant that
there was a wicked conspiracy on to defraud
N. W. out of the capital and plant it in Vic-
toria. Yet the short and simple explanation is
—the capital won't be in Victoria. Neither
will it be in Tasmania, South Australia, Wes-
tralia, or New South Wales ; and, if Queensland
and Maoriland join the Federation, it won’t be
in either of them. Nor will it be in the
Northern Territory or Fiji. It is specially
provided by the Convention Bill that the dis-
trict selected for the capital must be separated
from the province which now owns it, and
made into a separate Federal State independent
and outside of all the existing States. The
town and district which are selected as the site
of the capital will, doubtless, gain—but the
province which is selected will lose heavily, for
a considerable slice of territory and, probably,
a good deal of population will be sawn off it.
The N.S. W. anti-Federationist who informs the
people that the Victorians are a greedy and
earth-hungry race with a bitter craving to
annex Riverina, and at the same time that
they want the Federal capital (in other words,
that they are yearning to lavishly give away a
considerable slice of the little territory they
have got) is the kind of liar who ought to be
ashamed of his own inefficiency. The Vic-
torian, being just like anybody else, will almost
certainly vote, when the time comes, to plant
the Federal city and the Federal district
attached to it just on the N.S. W. side of the
Murray—probably the Cornstalk county of
Wentworth or Tara would suit him down to the
ground. Then Victoria would be just as close
alongside the capital as N.S. W. would be. It
would get just as much of the benefit to
be derived by increased trade and increased
population as N.S. W. would do. It would be
just as much benefited in every way as if the
capital were placed on its own side of the pre-
sent border—and the loss of territory would
fall, not on it, but on N.S. W. And S.A. will
almost certainly develope the same hunger to
put the capital just inside the Vic. or N.S.
Wales border. If N.S. W. wants the capital,
and is willing to plant it where the three
provinces meet, it will probably be surprised at
the enthusiasm with which both Victoria and
S.A. will assent. The one thing, however,
which the terms of the Convention Bill make
absolutely certain is that the capital won’t be
in Victoria—nor in N.S.W., Tasmania, S.A.,
Westralia or the Northern Territory. But
if The Bulletin were a follower of the
Cabbage - Tree push, and had a little
more horse-sense than Want and Hogue
and the Daily Telegraph, it would vote for
the selection of Melbourne as the Federal city.
Then that city would be separated from Vic-
toria, and become joint property, N.S. W.
having the biggest share of the ownership. And
Victoria would be left with 700,000 population;
no big city, very little commerce, very little
manufactures, about 19 members in the Federal
Legislature against N.S.W.’s 31, and all its
glory would be departed. But there is no
horse-sense about the firm of Want, Hogue
and co.
Those “ Sacrifices.”
Premier Reid explained at Goulburn last
week that he had really only two serious ob-
jections to the Convention Bill. One was the
fact that it doesn’t fully provide for the rule of
the majority—and Reid was one of the men who
“ burst up ” the rule of the majority in
N.S.W. by supporting the rascally 80,000
minimum vote. Also, the Cornstalk Fat Man
says he is troubled in the vast caverns of his
inside by the feeling “ that this province is
called upon to make much larger sacrifices than
any other province.” But Reid, like every one
else, failed to give the slightest definition of
these alleged “sacrifices.” No one ever does
define them in any coherent fashion. N.S.W.
is to pay the same taxes as the other provinces,
and to get back its own surplus, just like the
other provinces. It keeps its own lands and
railways, like everybody else. It makes prac-
tically the same sacrifice as Victoria, in
giving the smaller provinces a little extra
representation. It gets a little ahead of Vic-
toria in the matter of the Riverina and western
trade, for the reduced rates with which that
province attracts trade from N.S. W., and carries
it long distances at a loss for the mere glory of
the thing, are prohibited, while N.S.W. is
allowed to keep on making reduced rates “ for
the development of her own territory.” Also
N.S.W. has the principal voice in fixing the
capital, and, as the capital means a serious loss
of territory to some State or other, this pro-
bably means that N.S.W. will have the prin-
cipal voice in fixing it just outside its own
borders, so that it will have all the advantages
of being alongside the Federal city without
losing the territory. Altogether these painful
sacrifices are very difficult to define, and all
the shadowy Jeremiahs who lament in a
wilderness of tangled figures make them no
clearer.
The Genus Irritabile Histrionuni.
“As bees bizz out wi’ angry fyke,” so did the
Wilson Barrett mummers break forth with
one accord into clamorous vilification of the
critic who recently ventured to hint in Sydney
Daily Telegraph that, from Barrett’s stodgy
and unmelancholy Dane downwards, the lead-
ing impersonations in his production of “ Ham-
let,” were not quite the last word of histrionic
art. If “ A.N.R.’s ” identity, indeed, had not
been such an open secret, his effusion might
reasonably enough have been taken as a mere
“ draw,” to give Barrett’s subordinates the
chance of a little cheap advertisement of the
kind that Sydney Telegraph has recently been
allowing their principal and one Lewis Scott to
■wallow in. The ill-dissembled viciousness of
Barrett’s reply to “A.N.R.,” however, gives
badly away the cheapnessof the tin-potpunctilio
with which, as the disputants themselves were
never weary of pointingout, was conducted what
Carter Edwards —“douce man! —calls the
“ graceful encounter ” between “Mr. Wilson
Barrett,” haw ! and “Mr. E. Lewis Scott,”
hum ! The real, bulloeky, bludgeony Barrett
now breaks through the skin of the elaborately
courteous Shakespearian dhfquisitionist; and,
fired by the example of their leader, his merry
men rush frantically to the slaughter of the
caitiff “ A.N.R.” with no better weapon than
an angry vituperation. Their bitterness is
in itself pretty good evidence that the foe
has smitten them, one and all, between the
joints of the harness. Also, in perfect key and
keeping with the splenetic femininity of the
male mummers’ protesting screeds, there was
printed with them, from “A Southern Woman,”
an irresistibly funny squeal to the effect, ap-
parently, either that Maud Jeffries, being
another “Southern Woman,” is ipso facto above
all criticism, or that “ A.N.R.” should be forth-
with cowhided for daring to disagree with
Miss Jeffries’ conception of the part of
Ophelia. Cowhided ! just so ! —after all the
doffing and scraping, the mincing measurement
of swords, the courteous controversial carte and
tierce, the casks of grease—out comes the
coarse cowhide of personal abuse, and Barrett
leads the way with it !
“Chas. G. Hkydon,” lawyer, writes persis-
tently to the daily papers asking :
1. If the Commonwealth were to take over any of the
railways of the other provinces is there anything whatever
in the Convention Bill to prevent it from carrying goods
upon them as cheaply as it pleased ?
2. If this were done at a loss to the Commonwealth,
would not N.S.W. have to pay a very large share of such
loss ?
3. If, to protect herself, N.S.W. were to run her own
railways at equally low rates, would she not have to pay
the whole of that loss herself?
4. Under these circumstances, would not N.S.W. be
heavily subsidising rival railways to compete with her
own, and to carry her business to other provinces?
By way of relieving Mr. Heydon’s mind, there
doesn’t seem to be anything to prevent the
above horror—except that S.A. and YVestralia
and Tasmania have no possible interest in
sending trade to Melbourne at great expense
to themselves, and N.S. Wales has far more
voting power than Victoria. An equally-
dreadful circumstance is that there is nothing
to prevent the Commonwealth taking over the
N.S.W. lines and reducing freights so as to
fetch all the Vic. trade to Sydney. And there
is also nothing at all to prevent the Common-
wealth, urged on thereto by N.S.W., from
buying the Vic. lines and tearing them up alto-
gether ; and there is absolutely no clause to
ptovide that the Commonwealth Government
shall not set Sydney on fire, or bolt with the
wives of provincial M’sL.A. And just in case
the Federal Government should decide to take
over the Victorian railways and bestow the
blessing of such alarmingly cheap freights on
the N.S.W. producer that he will grow too
beastly rich altogether, The Bulletin would
be half-inclined to suggest that Federation
should be postponed. Only it has just dis-
covered that there is nothing in the N.S.W.
Constitution to prevent the local Parliament
destroying the N.S.W. railways, and repu-
diating the public debt, and filling Sydney
harbor with sand, and ordering everybody to
eat horse and have his goods carried per bul-
lock-dray along the dirt-road. And, in view of
these dangers, this paper wants the protection
of a Federal Government at once.
According to the Cornstalk provincialists,
New South Wales will be utterly ruined if she
accepts the Convention Constitution ; the
smaller provinces will simply bleed her to
death. The anti-Federationists of the smaller
provinces, meantime, are frightening their
hearers with dismal stories of what is to befall
them if they accept that same Constitution.
Capt. Miles, M.H.A., a Tasmanian provin-
cialist, breaks out thus :
He felt quite satisfied that, if Tasmania went into Fede-
ration under the terms of the present Bill, she would ulti-
mately be landed in a position of financial disaster. . . .
He wished the meeting to particularly observe that Tas-
mania was giving up to the Federal Parliament the valu-
able services and retaining the service by which she was
losing £120,000 a-year. . . . Under this proposal, New
South Wales would get back more than she gave.
The loss to South Australia would be £55,000, West
Australia £515,000, and Tasmania would lose £199,000.
Those were the figures made public, and he challenged
each or all to refute them. ... He feared that, with five
delegates against 25 from New South Wales, Tasmania
would get very little. The Senate might be knocked out
for all the good it would be able to do. It would only be
an endorsing machine. The Federal Government would
be able to fix rates on railways, and Tasmania would be
saddled with a large annual loss. ... It appeared to
him that under the proposed Federal Bill the position of
Tasmania would not be bearable.
w hen Parkes brought forward his Federa-
tion motion in N.S.W. Assembly on Nov. 13,
’94, the ten noes consisted of nine Labor
members and John Haynes; and the spokes-
man for the nine gave three reasons for throw-
ing the motion out. (1) It was proposed (in
the old and now discarded Convention Bill)
that the Senate should be elected by the State
Parliaments. That has been remedied. (2)
ihe Bill was framed by, among others, “the
men who introduced the hellish system of
Kanaka slavery ” to Queensland. No tv, those
men not having helped to frame the present
Bill, the same critics are inviting Australia to
wait a while so that the Kanaka-friends’ assis-
tance may be got again—and a convenient
reason given for once more objecting to the Bill!
To oppose one Bill because a particular party
helped to frame it, and to oppose another Bill
because the same party didn’t help to frame it,
is not the sort of thing one wmuld expect from
honest men. (3) The war-danger argument was
absurd nonsense,” because “we have seen
the last of European wars ; the people will
refuse to fight at the instigation of those who
happen to be in authority.” Since then, Greece
and Turkey have battered one another, and
now Spain is getting gruel from the U.S., so
argument No. 3 falls to pieces without being
hit. Despite all which, the same party expects
the crowd to take its revised anti-Bill argu-
ments quite seriously; and when anybody
su gg es t s > in view of this internal evidence, that
these gentlemen don’t want Federation at all,
they say they are grossly misrepresented, and
that their critic is a deep-dyed crimson traitor.
Before Sydney Telegraph finally dropped the
exploded State-bounties bogey, it got one really
ingenious piece of misrepresentation off its
chest in big capitals :
New South Wales will pay a larger amount of the Vic-
torian Bounties than Victoria herself.
Which is a perfectly true lie, and looks very
terrible in its raw state. The rest of the story
is this : The Co mi mon wealth may grant boun-
ties, with the consent of its Legislature, in
which N.S.W. will have the largest vote. They
will apply to all the States, N.S.W. and Vic-
toria among the rest. As they will come out of
the common funds, N.S.W., having the largest
number of taxpayers will pay more of
the Victorian bounties than Victoria herself.
Also, Victoria- and S.A. and Tasmania
and W. A. will all pay more towards
N.S.W. bounties than towards their own.
Also, N.S.W. and Victoria will pay more
towards the bounties of the three small pro-
vinces than the three small provinces do them-
selves ; and S.A. w r ill pay more towards Tas-
mania’s or W.A.’s bounties than they do them-
selves ; and those States will pay more towards
S. A.’s bounties than towards their own. And it
all boils down to the fact that the State with the
biggest population pays most, and gets most,
and in the end every man pays for himself. It
is on the same basis that Sydney pays more
towards Goulburn’s share of the N.S.W. taxes
than Goulburn pays itself, and that the highly-
respec table Herald pays more towards the
cost of police protection for John Norton’s
Sunday Truth than Truth pays itself—yet
the taxes are levied on the same basis allround.
When the news of the simmering revolution in
Italy came along, the Sydney Telegrafh arose
to point out that it was the heavy Protective
duties which impoverished the people and drove
them to revolt. Next day, however, it thought
better of it, and said that the state of Italy was
owing to the people rushing into a hasty Fede-
ration in ’6l. Italy never did federate at all;
it unified in ’6l, and allowed Victor
Emanuel’s little kingdom to annex the other
Italian states, but that is quite a different
thing. And it is mainly the burden of the
huge £500,000,000 debt and the appalling load
of direct taxation that is driving Italy mad. In
’97, it raised about £10,000,000 in customs,
which is about one-third as much per head as is
levied in Freetrade N.S.W. But the £4,300,000
of land-tax (the Italian land-tax is about twice
as heavy as that of N.S.W.), the £3,500,000 of
house-tax, £11,000,000 income-tax (the Italian
income-tax goes as high as 4s. in the £), also
enormous succession, registration, stamp and
excise duties, the tolls charged at the gates of
towns on all articles brought in for sale (this
direct tax, in the case of corn, has run as high as
2s. 9d. per cwt.), the taxes on manufactures,
and the abuse of the salt monopoly make Italy
about the most awful case of direct taxation on
this earth. These things don’t go to prove
that direct taxation is bad ; they merely prove
that an unfederated monarchy which is suffi-
cient of a fool can make a mess of anything or
everything.
Van Dobson has won his claim for bush fire
damage from Tas. Government, and once more
has the luck of Fat Man proved itself worth
backing. It is interesting to compare two
cases tried at the same sittings of the Court.
A workman sued for compensation for the loss
of an arm in a bark-chopping mill. Verdict for
the employer, presumably on the assumption
that the workman had been guilty of contribu-
tory negligence in not keeping his hand out of
the cogs. In the Dobson case the matter of
contributory negligence wasn’t considered,
though when a man deliberately, and for
pleasure, builds a mansion in the middle of a big
inflammable scrub, and takes no precautions
whatever against a bush fire in the hottest
summer ever known in those parts, contribu-
tory negligence seems to stick out pretty
prominently. The Crown didn’t even raise the
defence that the bush fire was “ the act of
God,” but under the peculiar circumstances no
storm at sea was ever more chargeable to “ the
actof God” than this particular bush fire. In the
one case water is always somewhere about
when the wind rises ; in the other fire is always
somewhere about. In any case, there seems to
be one law' in Tas. for Dobson and the same
sort of law for the influential employer of a
mangled workman. And Van Dobson is respon-
sible for such law.
The British troops who recently smashed
up the Dervishes had to previously sit down for a
fortnight and file the hard nickel tips off their
Dee-Metford bullets in order to make them “ set •
lip, or telescope, and so stop Fuzzy Wuzzy’s
dreaded rushes. This is said to have utterly
destroyed the accuracy of the rifle for anything
except the very shortest range. There were
plenty of dum-dum cartridges available, but the
British arsenals are chock-full of the obsolete
ammunition and it had to be used up somehow !


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1897
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1897
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER
any other Life Office in the World.
£49,349,231
4,187,992
10,508,995
1,513,749
198,159,549
7,513,284
than that of
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT MT.f! •
Hon. CHA§. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C. ’ ' o * ’
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
TELEPHONE 2701.
(LATE OP MELBOURNE)
TAKES THE LEAD for
[ifelike and Artistic portraits
NEW STUDIOS :
308 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
OVER LLOYD & COLLINS’.
SIMPLEST—M OST DURA RLE—BEST.
Light
Running
9uio|| ma||
Sewing
Machines
Write for Illustrated Price List
(Free).
Genuine Needles, Farts and
Fitting's for all Machines.
Madame Weigel’s Paper Patterns,
Catalogues and Journals.
J. W. Johnston & Co-
-746 G-eorge Street, Haymarket,
SYDNEY.
222 Swans ton Street Melbourne.
67 Queen Street Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ Sifrn of the Cross.”
“ A Life of I’leasure.”
Criterion “The Middleman.”
Lyceum “ The Shamrock and the Rose.”.
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Royal Standard “ The Relief of Lucknow.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess Wilson Barrett Farewells.
Roial. “Two Little Vagabonds.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Bow “Dr. Bill.”
Town Hall Saturday Shilling “ Pops.”
St. George s Hall Prof. Bristol’s Horses.
. “ Moths ” went away and died somewhere
in the cold damp shades of wjnter, and that fine
drama, “ The Middleman,” which succeeded it on
Saturday night, roused the first deafening burst
.P”blic approbation that has shaken Sydney
Cri. this season. At the end of the second act,
when Cyrus Blenkarn fired his famous curse after
the fatted oppressor, it might have rained anchors
and wild elephants on the Criterion roof, and
the noise would have passed unheeded. Old
Cyrus, the potter, with his dim eyes, and
far-away soul, and his starts and jumps and
enthusiasms, and his bitter hatreds, and the dirt-
colored tuft on his chin, is the one great character
in Charles Cartwright’s repertoire. Cartwright
is a decent actor, or a good one, or an ordinary
one, or a mediocre one, in a lot of other parts, but
as old Cyrus, with his picturesque vengeance on
Joseph Chandler, he rises to greatness. Joseph
himself is almost equal to the star. Arthur Styan
is a good and versatile actor, and he is a perfectly
different actor in his different parts. His Joseph
Chandler is a good study of the British coumier-
cial and moral bounder, and his whiskers, his
aggressiveness, his chest, his morality, and
his grovel when he is down, are all care-
fully studied. Story Gofton, Charles Thurs'oy,
and the oldest inhabitant are all good, though the
gigantic Gofton threatens to grow wearisome by
reason of being always the same, or very nearly
the same, Gofton.
* * » •
Probably Cartwright’s leading lady is the
only person in the co. who really loses reputation
over the “Middleman.” Miss Beatrice Lamb’s
painful stiffness, and her mode of hanging her
arms like two defunct objects at her sides, passed
at first for restrained force.; now the writer begins
to suspect that it isn’t restrained force —onlv stiff-
ness. Bright Gethyn Darragh is a pleasant char-
acter as the other daughter of Cyrus, the potter,
and Misses Hope Mayne and Noni Rickards do
their little parts successfully. So do most of the
P 60 ?! 6 - There is a big moral in the
Middleman,” and the said moral is that it is un-
wise to jump on the worm when he is down unless
it is absolutely certain that the animal is extinct.
Joseph Chandler is the man who bounds on the
worm once too often. He buys old Cyrus’s dis-
covery for a song, and grows rich and bloated on
it, and keeps Cyrus on as a workman at a starva-
tion wage, and still the unworldly old potter loves
and reverences his swollen employer. But when
Chandler, junior, seduces the potter’s daughter,
and the father, in the bloated insolence of his top-
hat, refuses redress, the maddened potter wades
in at new.in ventions which enable him to under-
mine the inflated boss’s trade, and ruin him, and
buy him up, and cast him into the streets. He
relents at the last, and gives the humbled bounder
a billet, and finds that his wrath was partly based
on misapprehension—but, all the same, the story is
a solemn warning that the worm which is stood on
all the time may burst in the end. And the
bursting of this particular worm is a very pictur-
esque episode.
* He * *
A good deal of hard service has worn “ the
Shamrock and the Rose ” a trifle threadbare at the
elbows and a little baggy at the kneps. Still it is
better than the average run of Irish dramas, and
the present revival at Sydney Lyceum gives the
tale a very good show. The stage Ireland is a
place where the whole population is incessantly
being evicted for non-payment of rent, and seeing
that nobody pays any rent, and somebody must
pay the process-server, and the informer, and the
man who throws out Doolan and harries Mulligan,
the landlord s means of support are a mystery.
After a while, however, the Lyceum drama de-
parts from the ordinary shriekful track and goes
out upon a gaudy burst on its own. The flinty
agent is about bolting for America with <£15,000
of embezzled rent, when Mulligan comes in
stealthily at the window and demands backsheesh
as the price of his silence. Mulligan is afterwards
counting his plunder on the edge of a tall cliff in
the moonlight when the agent’s wicked son grabs
at him and heaves him over. The son does
this because he mistakes the back view of Mulli-
gan for that of his own father, and Mulligan is
such an awful wreck at the bottom of the cliff
that he might be anybody. But the crime is
witnessed by Mulcahy, who blackmails the miser-
able son just as Mulligan did the father ; and the
son is also pursued by Dandy, the adopted son of
Bridget, who wants to strangle him because he
seduced Morna ; and the son’s attempt, in which
he is abetted by Mulcahy, to lay the crime on
Desmond, fails miserably. All these things and
many more arise out of the awful death of Mulli-
gan. Altogether a very well-constructed plot is
built on Mulligan’s remains, and the drama goes
strongly all through and ends with a loud bang,
and it isn’t more illogical, even in its worst places,
than the average.
• * * •
With the exception of Desmond, who is really
painful, and Morna, who is loud and harrowing as
she batters at the door of old Flint and calls on
young Flint to come out and make her an honest
woman at once on the public highway, and one or
two very small people who don’t matter, the co. is
remarkably free from " eak points. C. R. Stanford
?®r * piece of wildly-eccentric comedy, and as
Mulcahy, the process-server and evictor, and the
person who puts his red nose to bogus affidavits,
he is,a credit to all parties concerned. J. H.
iS unn s red and bitter Scotch agent, and Diver,
who represents the son of that pleasing person,
are both excellent, though Diver’s tendency to
look rather too much like himself and too little
bke somebody else grows rather conspicuous.
Harry Shine, as Dandy, and Laurence Dunbar
and Miss Iherese Lindahl, and Mulligan and
Jones, and one or two other people, are all viewed
with favor by this influential organ. The
moonlight sea, in which Mulligan meets his doom,
is a restful work of art, though a much cheaper
tomb would be quite good enough for Mulligan.
** * #
Bland Holt is still alive and well, despite
his utterly reckless feats on the horse in the fourth
act of “ A Life of Pleasure,” and as that animal
has struggled up the wall for over a week without
falling on Bland The Bulletin begins to enter-
tain dark hopes that he may get through. The
present show at Sydney Royal was good to begin
with, and improves on acquaintance. It is full of
r r a r>i Sln n^ n ? c °l° r - The painted vestibule
of Phyllis s music-hall and the red carpet therein
strike the audience in the eye as if Rubens had
been thrown at it. The garish hall of sin and
wine, wherein Norah abjures her old bad life and
aims fizz at her betrayer, is a staggering* glare of
light, and is alive with life and movement. Then,
when Bland Holt invades Burmah he does it with
a whole real army behind him—in fact, the entire
drama is lavishly staged and dressed, and is put
on with the copious finish which is B. Holt’s
strongest point. In any case a melodrama which
might look second-rate in the hands of an in-
ferior person often looks well when Holt does it.
I hat wily manager diagnoses the weak points and
spreads expensive Brussels carpet over them, or he
diverts attention from the bad places with a large
stained-glass window or a cataract. The Bulle-
tins and everybody else’s old friend, Chris.
Simonsen, is again in front at the Royal. Simon-
sen quitted management some time ago, and went
into some kind of business connected with horse,
but he discovered that there was a void in his
existence when he was away from “ the front,’’ so
he returned to the old life, and the business that
was connected with horse gets on as best it can
without him.
** * *
Wilson Barrett s season at Her Majesty’s,
according to the arrangements existing at time of
writing, closes to-night (Thursday). “Othello,”
put on for a very few nights, boomed as that
influential brown murderer lias not boomed in
oyuney for a long while, and in between times the
infuriated Moor and his co. and supporters wrote
bitter and undignified letters to the Telegraph
about barrister Nugent Robertson, who hadn’t
admired the co. quite so much as the co. admired
itself. It was a joyful row, and the language
of the combustible co. was loud and fish-like ;
but it helped to advertise the last nights of the
season considerably. And in the opinion of many
people who are not so Very Tired of Shakespeare
as the present scribe, “ Othello ” was an artistic
success, quite apart from any success achieved by
theco. in crying out for the scalp of Robertson.
1 wo performances of “ Virginius” wind up the sea-
son, so that mournful Roman tale has at last
ma,naged to present itself. On Saturday the
Sign of the Cross,’’with Julius Knight and all
the previous co. on deck, resumes business at the
old stand. Considering that there was still a
great and unsatisfied demand for the Cross, and
the gibbering Caesar, and the lion that ate the little
Christian when the previous season came toan end,
the revival should fill a want as large as the
N.S. W. public debt, or even a little larger.
** * *
A great event, the re-appearance of Geo.
Wood, the somewhat different comedian, is due
at Sydney Tivoli this Saturday. Miss Marion
Ainsworth, of pleasant memory, returns with
him, and as the Hegehnanns and the Tiller Quar-
tette and Miss Lilian Tree are still at the Tivoli,
the bill for next week is expected to be something
tremendous.
*****
Henry’s Co., at Sydney Royal Standard,
is doing the “ Relief of Lucknow ’’ this week about
as Avell as the size of the premises admits—
or else it intends doing that piece, or has
recently done it, or something. Space is limited
at the Standard, and the rush of the bare-
legged Caledonians is done under difficulties,
but they arrive there with much pibroch about II
p.m., and tilings might be a good deal worse.
Still, the management’s statement that the drama
is staged with “Unprecedented Magnificence”
must be taken with condiment. Even if the co.
stole its furniture it is impossible to have the
Magnificence quite Unprecedented for 3d.
** * *
The Kellino Family and other matters
mentioned last week are flourishing at the Opera
House, and the Saturday night rush to Rickards’
snow is rushful above the average. Next Satur-
day (21st) three newly-imported turns will be
turned on with a considerable splash. Meanwhile
Bellman Lottie are going away,
and the tinkling feet of the musical clowns will
shortly follow suit.
** * *
The third of Newbury’s Shilling “ Pops ”
fetched another mighty crowd to Melbourne Town
Hall on Saturday night, when Ernest Wood
played the organ, and Falk’s capital Biograph put
an assortment of views before the public, and the
vocal concert, assisted by Hattenbach and Seherek,
had to endure several encores. The singers sup-
porting Phil Newbury are good, as a rule, and the
performances of that attractive tenor on Saturday
were positively great.
** * *
Prof. Bristol and his family party of horses
likewise the comic mule and two or three hums ’
n
acrobats, cropped up at St. George’s Hall on
Saturday. The Bulletin regards Bristol’s horses
with a favorable eye, but finds two hours of them
a somewhat heavy experience ; and the world
hereabouts sepnis to share this lack of enthusiasm.
The placid Prof, had a limited audience to talk at
on Saturday, so, unless a strong demand for tame
horse should set in suddenly, the season will not
be longer than was expected.
* * *
Miss Myra Kemble has arranged to re-open
the Bijou on Saturday with “ Dr. Bill,” the riotous
comedy which she brought from Hingland seven
years ago. “Dr. Bill” and Miss Myra K. are
affectionately remembered in Melbourne, and the
revival at popular prices is likely to get at least a
fair start. Another show billed for Saturday, day
and night, is the Old Colonists’ Carnival, at
the Exhibition Building. This vast collec-
tion of stalls, bicycle races, spectacular
ballet, music, and conviviality in general, will
run for a week. Melbourne is getting about as
much entertainment as it can carry just now.
Marshall Hall will give another orchestral concert
next week; Allan’s Chamber Music Concerts
were to start yesterday (Wednesday) at the
Athenaeum Hall ; and the rival firm of Glen and
Co. is putting some more Elsie Hall recitals on
the market. The Glen-Allan antagonism is a
sweet and pleasant thing and worthy of encourage-
ment.
** * *
“Two Little Vagabonds,” at Melbourne
Royal, is mostly better than the first production
at the Princess’s, and partly not so good. Any-
way, the lower scale of prices in this case makes
it a more deserving show. “ Two Little Vaga-
bonds” is a rivulet of natural pathos meander-
ing through a broad plot of melodramatic non-
sense, and the success or otherwise of the piece
depends mainly upon the two smudgy ladies who
disguise themselves in the name-parts. If they
can hit the feelings of their audience the circum-
stances that lead up to them and revolve around
them afterwards are not necessarily fatal. Miss
Florence Terriss, as the wan boy with a korff on
his chest, seems a fairly real object for sym-
pathy, whilst Miss Lily Titheradge is a brighter,
younger, more attractive little Dick than her pre-
decessor. On the other hand, she hasn’t the
emotional power of the previous Dick, and she
doesn’t lay sufficient emphasis on small points in
the dialogue. The scene where Wally interposes
between his mate and his muvver was an affecting
bit at the Princess's ; here it is less affecting, and,
seeing that wo have the same consumptive Wally,
the falling-off in the situation must be due to the
new Dick and other changes in the cast. Perhaps
Miss Hughes is somewhat hard at this tender
moment, also Mrs. Maesmore Morris, who has to
hover round and say something, is too casual in
her hover and her remarks. But maybe the com-
pany felt tired on Saturday night.
* * • •
“Two Little Vagabonds ” is now played
with a due sense of proportion, which wasn’t
the ease at the Princess’s. Miss Hughes and
Titheradge pitch their grief and woe in a milder
and more domestic key than Miss Ferrar and
Julius Knight adopted, and the foolish portions of
the yarn are less irritating. Mrs. Morris, looking
prettier than ever, is a nice, unobtrusive young
aunt, and several low-comedy people—Sweeney,
Oily Deering, Miss Julia Merton, and a policeman
not mentioned on the bill—give the rough humor
of the piece a much better chance than it got
aforetime. Sweeney and Deering may be said to
revel in the characters that Gaston Mervale and
Caleb Porter didn’t appear to so fully understand.
The company brought W. and M. scenery with
them, and will probably make the “ Vagabonds ”
hum for the allotted fortnight.
** * *
Napoleon and Josephine, at the Princess’s,
have been keeping their end up satisfactorily,
although public opinion rc historical tableaux
plays is bound to grow cooler on reflection. Nap.,
posturing in the middle of the Battle of Waterloo,
or at the head of the Retreat from Moscow, is one
of those impressive effects which don’t last long.
Wilson Barrett returns to the Princess’s on Satur-
day, and will rush through a series of revivals.
Two nights each of, firstly, “The Manxman,”and,
secondly, the sorrowful Roman potentate who is
doomed to live on and on, whilst his autocratic
legs never knock-under to rheumatism, will bring
the season level with next issue of this irreverent
newspaper. The noble Roman, by-the-bye, will
add a matinee on Queen’s Birthday.
** * *
The old question re the genuineness of
Kennedy’s lamentable platform outrages was
lately resurrected in Melb. ’Erald by somebody
who offers to let himself be punctured in divers
places with six-inch pins. The scepticism that
refuses to take Kennedy seriously in any of his
misdeeds is a very “ fly-flat ” unbelief. Medical
men have satisfied themselves that the red-headed
Professor is not an impostor. Some of the wretched
individuals he uses are undoubtedly under his
mesmeric influence, and how he got them there is
not the point to consider. Mesmerists’ shows,
taken in the lump, are made up of humbug, per-
haps—i.e., of humbug to a certain extent. The
mummers are usually hired and rehearsed
in their songs and so forth. Neverthe-
less, the presence of the mesmerist is essential
to their fooling, or to most of it. If any specula-
tive unbeliever supposes that he can engage a batch
of professional subjects, at increased salaries, to
do the things for him that they did for the mes-
merist—well, let the speculator try it. The
scheme has-been tried, and was always a dismal
failure. Even among practised hypnotists a
4 swapping ” of subjects is seldom a satisfactory
deal. Kennedys differ in their precious influences,
and the epileptic creature who submits to one
travelling Professor will probably prove insub-
ordinate when handed over to another member of
the “ You’re all right ” fraternity.
** * *
Compared with the taffy served out to
Albani, the hard, unyielding criticism that Phil
Newbury receives from the Melbourne dailies is
palpably unfair. A gallery seat at an Albani
cost times as much as the same seat at one of
Newbury’s Saturday “ Pops,” but whereas the
well-nigh exhausted soprano got nothing but praise
for breathing like a grampus and proving herself
incapable of now singing certain ballads up to the
best local standard, Newbury is told that he
“ makes the judicious grieve,” or, his “ intonation
was very different from what he has accustomed
the public to expect from him.” Did the public
ever get what they had expected from the seven-
and-sixpenny Albani ?
** # *
In his latest importation—Durward Lely,
the Scottish entertainer —R. S. Smythe seems to
have struck real oil. The specialty of the native
of Arbroath is averred to be “Scottish song and
humor,” but, having been principal tenor with
Mapleson, Carl Rosa, and D’Oyly Carte, he has a
wide repertoire, and gathers ’em in from all quar-
ters. He apparently scortis the stoall towns, and
only appears in big halls—in Dunedin, Christ-
church (whete he is at present), Wellington, and
Auckland. Also, he is announced as “ the only
great vocalist who has visited the colonies while
in the zenith of his powers.” Which is fine and
large and Smvthian. A Bulletin man now in
Maoriland writes of Lely as “a hard-featured
Scot who evidently made his escape from the
‘bonny hills’ at a verra tender age. His accent
is in bad repair, and, if put into bankruptcy,
would only pay about a ‘fink.’ However, his
Scottish intonation is in evidence, for nothing but
death can remove that. He has the well-pre-
served remains of a tenor voice, the equal of
which has never been heard in Australia. It has
four distinct qualities as strongly marked as
organ-stops : a beautiful low chest tone, a
mezzo voce like the upper notes of a
‘ cello,’ a lovely falsetto, sweeter than
that of a boy-angel, and last and bpst, a top-note
like the blast of a silver trumpet, which frequently
aroused the enthusiasm even of an audience largely
composed of bald-headed, monkey-shaved Scots.
As a finale, he dances a highland fling, apologises
for the unseemly display, says he was carried awa
by the music—then takes his ‘ encore ’ the same
as the rest of us. Mrs. Lely is the only other
member of the show. She is a beautiful matron,
who plays most sympathetic . accompaniments,
though it would take a small omnibus to carry all
the medals she would win as a soloist. In addi-
tion, she is a really splendid actress ; she listens
with apparent rapt attention to Tonal’— ho, Tur-
ward ; her fine eyes shining, and a sweet, budding
smile is always ready to blossom into a laugh every
time Turward’s chestnuts are ripe;
“ Poverty Point ’’—See page 28.
Premier Reid said, at Goulburri, the othet
day, that if eight of the G 4 members of the Federal
Lower House were away (or ill, &c.) on a sitting
of the joint Houses, the whole of the rest Of the
Lower House could hot prevail against the Senate,
This is rot. If eight Representatives are absent
from a joint Hotis'e of 04, there will be 86 left, and
three-fifths of 86 is 52-not 57, as G. H. Reid
assumes it to be. And the Representatives, eveh
eight absent, will muster 56. Section 57 provides for
a majority of three-fifths of the members present
and voting. If oh some vital issue affecting
State rights, the small States are absolutely solid
against N.S.W. and Victoria, and six members
are absent from the combined vote of 59 of the
larger States, and all the small States men are
present, the larger States, having a vote of
53 out of a joint House of 88, will still command
the requisite three-fifths majority of the members
present and voting. The working majority-
of the large States in the joint House is,
therefore, not two, but six, and this
even allowing for the absurd assumption that
all bodily infirmities will be found amongst the
representatives of the large states. There is suf-
ficient mental infirmity amongst some of the anti*-
Billites already, without their claiming all bodily
infirmities too.
The indignation of Sydney Sunday Times :
Pray, what chance has N.S.W. of legislating in favor of
the bounties before June 30, if she were so disposed? It
being admitted, as it must be, that she has no chance,
how can it. be held that it is possible for her to retaliate
against Victoria, which is allowed by the Federal Consti-
tution to continue bounties already in existence? Tub
Bulletin bluffs, blusters, and blunders in the custotnary
way. In this instance the quotations from the Bill merely
serve to show the fallacy of its argument, and ihdeed its
utter stupidity.
The Sunday tipster asks a very easy question.
Victoria has five bounties in force, ten having
lapsed or been abolished. They are for the growth
and cultivation of forest-trees, for a vegetable-oil
factory, for encouraging the growth of flax and
hemp, for the export of green fruit, and for the
establishment of wineries. There are no sugar or
coal bounties, as is commonly supposed. The
above five will also lapse very shortly (four of
them probably within a year) for want of funds,
as all the money voted is already spent, except
about £BOOO, so before the Federal tariff is at all
likely to get started they will be gone and out
of the road. The only way Victoria can create
any new bounties, or extend the old ones so
that they will in any way affect the Common-
wealth, is by passing the necessary bill through
Parliament before 30th June. The N.S.W. Par-
liament meets about the same time as Victoria,
and, if it wants to create any bounties —say to
carry out Premier Reid’s favorite idea of
creating a local iron industry by artificial assist-
ance—it can also shove the necessary bill through.
That is all there is about it. The only chance
that any province has of creating bounties that
are likely to be in existence when the Common-
wealth begins is by “ legislating before June 30.”
And if N.S.W. doesn’t know the way to legislate
before June 30 as well as her scoundrelly neigh-
bours, what is the matter with her?


LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A pure Cartolic Disinfectant.
FOR GENERAL USE.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/357.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
.93/109%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71°.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
jui *i* I A 178 wi,liani street >
narKWaiCS, Melbourne ;
, Sydney ; If, Currie-xt., Adel. ; Queen-st., Brisb-
Hv-
-11 Pftt-st.
R. BEIL & CO.’S Vestas
—ARE-
. . . British V^staS.
Ax r s. I
Reps. |
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Building's,
Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
“Tl)€ R€AL MACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES. J
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
THE
Refreshment Department
OF THE
House of Commons
(Unsolicited)
HAVE ORDERED
SIB JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
As regards the fall in Westralia’s revenue, the
probability is that it will go on with increasing rapidity
now that it is started, till the annual receipts get down
from the £2,842,000, which was last year’s total, to about
£1,500,000, or so. Last year’s revenue of the various pro-
vinces was as follows :
Tasmania .. .. £4 17s. Bd. per inhabitant.
Victoria .. .. 5 12s. lOd. „
Maoriland .. .. 6 15s. Id.
N.S.W. .. .. 7 3s. 6d. „
South'Australia .. 7 9s. lOd. „
Queensland.. .. 7 13s. Id. „
Westralia .. .. 20 12s. Bd. „
Apart from land-sale income, the six reasonably sober
provinces show a comparatively small variation. There
is nothing special about Westralia’s intelligence or enter-
prise to keep it so very much beyond the average, and
when its boom simmers down the revenue will probably
drop gently to not over £8 per head. And even if it only
falls to £lO that means the biggest collapse Australia has
ever seen.
* • • •
Mayor M'Eacharn’s scheme, by which Melb.
City Council is to buy up the three local electric-lighting
companies, and run the whole electric supply of Melbourne
and suburbs, should pay all parties concerned. Melb.
Council already runs a small electric supply, and furnishes
light, with a good profit to the ratepayers, about 17 per
cent, cheaper than the private companies. When it con-
solidates the business, and thus reduces the working
expenses, it will probably be able to sell 20 or 25
per cent, below the old private co’s price, and
yet have a handsome surplus to go towards sinking
fund. Melb. (if the M’Eacharn scheme really comes
off) will have done wisely by taking over the business before
the private monopolies get too large and the vested in-
terests too deeply-rooted. There is much money in the
electric lighting biz. London is illuminated by nine pri-
vate companies, whose dividends in ’97 ranged from 4 to
141 per cent. Every one of these dividends showed a
large increase over ’96, and it looks as if, in a very few
years, the gorgeous Cockney monopolies will be sweating
from 15 to 40 per cent, out of the householders. Even
now it would take a stupendous sum over and above their
original capital to buy them out, and London has practi-
cally thrown away its opportunity by waiting till the
private syndicate grab has grown up, so to speak.
* » * *
Maoriland railways, for the year ended 31st
March, IS9B, paid £3 4s. lOd. percent, on capital, against
£3 3s. lOd. in 1597, £2 16s. in 1896, and £2 14s. 6d. in 1895.
The province which is “ ruined ” by Socialistic government
still keeps moving steadily to the hunt.
* * * m
Burns, Pliilp and Co. Limited, the concern
which owns North Queensland, and is commonly mistaken
for God in the Far North, closes its 16th year with a net
profit of £48,289, and £10,849 balance from last year
makes £59,138 available. An 8 per cent, dividend (£21,400)
isdeclared; ±5OOO allowed for depreciation ; £25,000 added
to reserve, making it £125,000 ; and £7738 carried forward.
The dividends of 8., P. and Co, have ranged from 71 to 12
per cent., so it has been a cjnsistently profitable con ern
for its shareholders since it first started as a limited co. in
’B3.
* * * •
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co. (Syd-
ney), which was established by way of a protest against
the rapacity of the old wool-broking firms and their
hunger after big percentages, completed its first year on
28th February. It did a very respectable business for a
new institution, and on a capital of only £843 the year’s
profits were £1077, or about 127 per cent. This profit is
partly made up by treating £172 of the preliminary ex-
penses as an asset—if all the preliminary ex.’s had been
written off the profits would only have been 107 per cent-
Why a concern which is doing so wonderfully well should
keep a purely paper asset in its balance-sheet, thereby
making it look as if it was doing a little better still,
passes comprehension. The Co-operative Wool Co. pays
its shareholders only 6 per cent, (about £5l) and the rest
of its profits, apart from amounts which may be put to
reserve, is to be divided among the people who consign
their wool and hides and bones for sale, shareholders
getting twice as large a bonus as non-shareholders. When
the consignors fully realise the advantage of sharing in the
profits the Co-operative co. ought to grow rapidly.
* * * *
The Swan Brewery Co., Perth, had a profit of
£24,048 for the half-year ended 31st March. After writing
£5OOO off its leaseholds it pays a dividend at the rate of
34 and a fraction per cent. (£7609), and the balance, with
amount previously on hand, makes £33,826 at credit, of
profit and loss. Also, there is a reserve of £20,000, so
in its very brief career the Swan Brewery, with a paid-up
capital of only £44,384, has accumulated ±53,826. This
achievement, on top of the 34 per cent, dividends, makes
the Melbourne shareholders feel almost as if the boom had
come back again. _ The Swan co, proposes to make a loud
sensation by paying an extra dividend of 71 per cent,
shortly, in addition to the regular half-yearly payment.
* » • *
Victorian Credit Foncier is unpopular with
the banks because it interferes with their monopoly of
cheap money on fixed deposit, and also their up-country
farmers’ overdraft business—secured by mortgage, on
which they exacted any rate up to 15 per cent., the bor-
rowers being unable to check the rate, as it is charged on
daily balance. Solicitors also decry the C.F. because it
puts no fees into their pockets, whereas under ordinary
mortgage they get a big mortgage fee, a share of the
commission, and probably a cut out of the valuation fee,
as well as fees for preparing release when the loan is re-
paid. The professional trustee, who generally combines
the occupation with that of “ guinea pig,” also misses his
share of the spoil ; whilst the financial agent is out in the
cold altogether, as the Savings Bank and the borrower
come into direct contact. So the whole pack of
wolves is howling against this form of security. The
security, however, is certain, sooner or later, to be appre-
ciated by the smaller capitalists, whom reconstruction has
hit so heavily.
* » * »
A city grocer recently scooped a big ad. (and
apparently a cheap job) by getting up a competition to pack
1501 b. of tea in the shortest time ; prizes, 305., 205., 10s.
Carried out in a front window—crowd looking on. There
were 20 competitors, and the grocer, thus got 30001 b. of
tea packed in lbs. and ilbs. for £3—or less than Jd. a lb.
Which recalls the average newspaper-literary-competition
business.
* » * »
Grif : Publication of writs and summonses
issued by the Supreme, County, or any other Court should
be prohibited, as it is used to compel unfair settlements.
Ikey Usurer Mo, when he has overdue paper of a small
trader who squirms at the proposed rate for renewal,
shrugs his shoulders and says, “ Veil, I must issue a writ,
and you’ll be in the Circular." This compels compliance.
• * • *
Government, by making it compulsory to ad-
vertise in the Gazette all mortgages, bills of sale, liens,
letting and hiring agreements, &c., and publishing the
judgments recorded in all courts, could make it a paying
venture. If you raise the wind on your household sticks,
it is announced in all trade-protection circulars, but if you
mortgage your land it remains a secret; and, as one only
pawns his sticks as a last resort, this system savors of the
parting kick to all credit. With a Gazette, as suggested,
the transactions would be equally public. Certainly it
would interfere with that bogey, “ private enterprise,”
always trotted out when any reform is suggested, but, as
the average trade-protection society savors to an extent
of black-mail, no sorrow would arise if the genus became
extinct.
* * * *
Some M'Sharry (N.S.W. railway) arbitration
statistics Evidence for plaintiff occupied 143 days, and
for defendant 92 days. The evidence covers 12,000 letter-
pages of typewriting. Plaintiff’s counsel, opening, occu-
pied five days, and in replying 42 days. Defendant’s
counsel spoke for 36 days. Plaintiff spent 53 days in the
box, and other witnesses two and three weeks. So far
the Crown has paid away £30,000, and the total Crown
costs are likely to be double that. The costs to M'Sharry
are likely to be about the same. The umpire, Mr. Barton,
has received £BOOO, and Crown counsel, Mr. Bruce Smith,
a similar amount.
» * • *
H.F. : The city man out of collar, and unfitted
for manual labor, can do worse than go into the bee busi-
ness. The present price of honey, 2d. a pound—sugar
value—is probably bed-rock. Return 10s. to £1 a hive per
year, according to season and location. Important that
neophyte get previous instruction in established apiary,
and obtain expert advice in selecting his locale. This is
one of the best honey countries in the world, and it is
unfortunate that there is no payable export market. But
the low price has enormously increased local consump-
tion, and the limit in this direction is yet afar off.
* * * *
A Bulletin correspondent: I am authorita-
tively informed that the will of Crotty, the gilded North
Lyell man, provides for One hundred a year to the widow
—the R.C. Church being the residuary legatee. Crotty’s
wife struggled with him through the bitter bad times.
When the boom came she went with him to London and
enjoyed a very short period of magnificence, and now that
Crotty is dead she is forced to go back to the good old
struggle on 40s. a week. Provided always though that if
she will only enter a convent she is to get £6OO a year—a
very left-handed sort of bequest. If this information
be correct then Mr. Crotty was the sort of person who
should have died much earlier, and I would like to ask
Archbishop Carr if he intends taking all the Crotty thou-
sands and leaving the widow—who is morally entitled to
be regarded as a partner in the huge estate—her miser-
able two sovs. a week ? I hope also, in the interests of
people who are ballasted with tons of rotten Lyell-district
scrip, that the Archbishop won’t unload Crotty’s over-
boomed paper with any rash haste. For if (and this is
where I come in) the executors attempt any quick realisa-
tion a great deal of the Crotty £150,000 will vanish into
thin air, and St. Patrick’s will continue without its tower,
steeple, or something.
» • * •
B. : An unpublished incident of the Elliott-
Lee atmospheric gas swindle. Before the flotation of the
syndicate I was introduced to Elliott and Lee, and only
refused to take shares because I didn’t understand gas—
that kind of gas, anyway. A Westralian friend of mine
was with me at the tests. He is an enquiring sort of man
and takes a lot of trouble to find out things that he will
never have any interest in—sort of man who would put
his head in a lion’s mouth to see if the lion had tonsilitis.
Well, he made a second trip—alone this time —to the
swindle-factory in Elizabeth-street, and he took with him
a small phial, close-stoppered and filled with cotton-wool.
When he thought no one was looking he turned a tap on
and held the phial over the escaping gas, re-stoppered the
phial, turned the tap off, and started for an analyst’s.
Elliott captured him and detained him till two large
policemen arrived, and my enquiring friend was forced to
hand over the phial and express his gratitude at escaping
arrest on a charge of stealing gas. That was sufficient to
cover the whole scheme with suspicion, hut I did nothing
when he told me of his adventure. Had I published it
Jake Garrard might have escaped his explosion, and Jaw-
bone Neild would have been a few hundreds poorer.
* * * *
S-A- Insolvency Commissioner Russell has been
speaking out re the present state of the Insolvency law
and the facilities afforded lawyers to fatten on the carcases
of big estates. In the Harrold estate, which is still in the
hands of the lawyers, the legal costs alone amounted to
over £lO,OOO some weeks ago.
• * * •
The importance of the banana industry to N.Q.
can easily he gauged by folks if they recollect that in the
Cairns district alone 2400 Chinese make a living, and that
two-thirds of these subsist by raising bananas. Just now,
in London, there’s a perfect rage for banana-biscuits and
banana-flour, and Queensland hasn’t the nous to derive
one penny of benefit therefrom. Waiting for the Yanks
to step in.
* * * *
The flotation of the business of Lipton, of tea
fame, was most sensational. The capital was fixed at
£2,500,000, and twenty times that amount was subscribed
when the lists were opened, Glasgow alone offering to
supply the capital twice over. Extraordinary scenes
were witnessed at the Bank of Scotland, the police having
to regulate the crowd. The “ tip ” was thought a good
one, and the craze extended to the West End, where titled
ladies, officers, and public men besieged Lipton, implor-
ing him to take their money. The scrip, at latest, was
quoted at a big premium.
* . • *
The only notable recent market movements in
N.S.W. gold-mining are the heavy fall in Overflows con-
sequent on the failure up-to-date of cyanide operations
(slime difficulties having proved too tough), and the spurt
and subsequent drop in Mt. Drysdales. The latter co.
struck what it at first thought to be a replica of the rich
vein which, yearsago,paid -40,000 in dividends, butitgave
out and scrip went back to about the old figures. And how
quiet the find was kept till all the scrip available in
Sydney had been snapped up! As to the Overflow, it is
approaching the end of its available capital, and those
concerned now probably see how grave a mistake it was
not to open up the mine extensively in the first place and
see what it was stuffed with, instead of making all sorts of
costly experiments in plant before it was known what the
ores were like.
» • * *
* ! Cologne smelters are desirous of opening-up a
trade in N.S.W. in manganese ores containing cobalt, and
ironstone ores containing nickel, and owners are advised
to communicate with the Mines Dept, on the subject.
* « » *
Randolph Bedford (no more, he insists, Ran-
dolph the Reckless) is painting his name on the map of
the Chillagoe district—that North Queensland copper,
silver, and lead mining country upon which General-
manager Stewart, of Bill., has just reported. Already
there is a Bedford district, a Randolph claim, and a
Chillagoe-Bedford mining and railway syndicate.
• * * »
The Bulletin is told that the biggest mine of
the 30 or more owned by the Chillagoe proprietary is the
Ruddigore, situated on a succession of low hills about
four miles north-west of Calcifer, the easterly township
of Chillagoe. Three cuttings are down—one 50ft. deep
by about 90ft. dia., and from the bottom of the cutting a
shaft is down 40ft., cutting the sulphides sft. above the
bottom. 10,000 tons of allegedly 9 per cent, ore are pad-
docked, and a costeen of a maximum depth of 30ft., put
in to lead the hill rains away from the big open cut, shows
the deposit to be over two chains wide. It is proved for
a length of nearly 10 chains. Also, it stops as abruptly as
it started, and the position-blocks pegged on to it have as
big a chance of striking the Suez Canal as ore.
Chillagoe (The Bulletin’s correspondent goes
on to say) will be no 4 per cent. Mt. Lyell scheme, and
there is not a Lake George sort of mine in any of
the proprietary’s holding. The North Australian at
Watsonville, a privately-owned mine, has been for years
sending copper ore to London at continuous profit. Pack-
ing has on occasions run into ±'9 a ton, besides freight to
the old country, smelting and realisation charges, and
yet the profits have averaged £6 a ton. The North
Queensland copper country is big and rich.
It is probable (continues the writer) that John
Moffatt’s Mt. Garnet mine, south of Chillagoe, will be
offered for flotation shortly. The Mt. Garnet is a very
rich thing, and as big as it is rich. A tunnel put in
at a point giving 82ft. of backs struck the lode on the
footwall side at 111 ft., and is now into the lode 60ft. with-
out any sign of wall. For all this distance the stuff is
highly payable and not a blank in it. A winze is down
54ft. from the tunnel floor and has just cut the line of the
sulphides. s.
» * * •
Ed. Bulletin. — Re a recent paragraph. The
Chillagoe Proprietary Ltd. mines are now in a much
higher stage of development than Broken Hill was when
the original syndicate was selling _ a 14th at £lOOO.
Broken Hill had three pups—the British, Block 10 and
Block 14 —and, with bonuses, &c., the 14th reached
£‘600,000 apiece. Chillagoe Proprietary has 2000 a. in 35
properties—every one a mine, many with large develop-
ments—and its 480th is selling to-day at £l7OO or so.
There will be a separate co. for the railway scheme, one
for the smelters, and, for the purposes of easier manage-
ment, the 2000 a. is likely to be split into 10 pups. Now,
I tip those 480th shares to touch £40,000 each. Tall talk
certainly,* but the tongue was put in the cheek when
Broken Hill 14ths were tipped—on less evidence than the
Chillagoe Proprietary has — to see £5OOO. — Yours, Ran-
dolph Bedford. [R.B. has apparently got ’em bad.]
* • * *
El. Bulletin:— Your Mount Morgan figures
(23'4/98) need explanation. For the years mentioned (’B7,
’BB, ’B9), the gold won was comparatively free. Since that
time, up till and including last half-year, the rich ore has
needed special treatment, and much slower treatment at
that. For last year the mundic ore, over 17,000 tons,
averaged a little over 4'oz. to the ton. During same term
low grades of comparatively easy treatment (over 70,000
tons) averaged slightly under loz. If the total cost of
treatment is only 4dwt. per ton (as is stated that the
management boasts) then the co. produces some 14,5000 z.
gold, or, say, £60,000 worth per month, at a cost of £lO,OOO.
Now the monthly div. accounts for £25,000, which leaves
£25,000 unaccounted for. The actual case is that the cost
of treating low-grade ores at the West Works is under
4dwt. per ton, including everything. These West Works
are now in full swing and are treating about 3600 tons
per week, or at least 14,000 tons per month of low-grade
ores. In the lower levels extremely rich mundic ores are
occasionally met with —one such dab was met with during
the last fortnight.—D.
« * * *
According to Warden Hill, the gold bought by
the Clermont banks for April amounted to 41090 z.—a
record return. March returns were also a record, 31420 z.;
but April is ahead of that by nearly IOOOoz. A lot of
cement from M'Kean’s Wild Cat battery yielded 2620 z. for
three loads. Altogether, things are gav at Clermont just
now.
* • * »
The reconstructed (English) Kalgoorlie Consols
co. is a fine, comprehensive affair. According to its
articles of incorporation the new co. has power to trans-
act mining business of every description in any part of the
world, and power also to carry on the business of a min-
ing, smelting, and trading co. in all its branches; to lay
out towns and villages, and to construct, maintain, and
work rail and tram roads, wharves, docks, piers, &c. ;
a'so, to act as hotel and tavern-keepers, ice merchants,
provision dealers, livery-stable proprietors, refreshment
contractors, licensed victuallers, brewers, manufacturers
of and dealers in aerated and mineral waters ; as tobacco
and cigar manufacturers and dealers, farmers, &c. ; also,
as hairdressers, perfumers, proprietors of clubs, baths,
&c. And the &c., is so comprehensive that almost the
only businesses the Kalgoorlie Consols Co. is not author-
ised to undertake are those of corn-and-wart extractor,
itinerant prawn-merchant, and chucker-out.
* * * »
Mitchell, now M.L.A. for Geraldton, and for
many years connected with the long-idle Northampton
lead-mines, is determined to set copper-mining going in
Westralia. The show selected is new—a few miles out of
Yalgoo—and trial shipments are to be sent East at once.
• * » «
W.A. Govt, is offering substantial bonuses to
mica-getters. The demand for this mineral is remark-
ably steady. And yet nothing profitable seems to come
of the spasmodic working of the big deposits up Mac Do-
nnell Ranges (S. A.) way.
• * * *
Average ore-yields last year :— Westralia, loz.
lOdwt. 14gr. ; Queensland, loz. 3dwt. lOgr. : N.S.W.,
17dwt. 20gr. ; Victoria, 9dwt. 16gr. “ The comparison is
vastly advantageous to West Australia.” Nothing of the
sort. N.S.W. is not in the same street with Victoria in
output or divs., yet its average is nearly double, and the
average yield of the biggest gold-camp the world has ever
seen is even lower than Vic.’s.
♦ * * *
Foster, Vie. Minister of Mines, returned from
his Mt. Peddiok explorations, last week, with vague
tidings. He was pleased with what he saw, “ considering
the amount of work that had been done,” but would re-
frain from giving an opinion on the precious little work
visible until he gets the Govt. Geologist’s report in about
three weeks time. “In a number of places,” said Mr. F.,
“ tunnels had been driven into the hills, and some shafts
had a’so been sunk disclosing several lodes of galena. The
Mt. Deddick United Co. has displayed more energy in
opening up the lodes on its property than any of the
other mines.” Looks rather like a puffing of the particu-
lar spec, that has Foster’s colleague, Peacock, for its legal
manager. Anyway, it would he interesting to have
Foster’s opinion as to why those other mines, which were
boomed on the Melb. market previous to the birth of the
M.l>. United Co., have been worked with so little vigor.
Also, he might advance a reason why the energetic open-
ing up of the M.D. United “lodes” since February has
produced nothing better than a decline in the price of
shares from £3 to 30s.
The official pilgrimage to Mt. Deddick seems
to have finally disposed of the persistent Govt, railway
gag, anyhow. Even a narrow-gauge railway from the
mining field to the seaboard is voted impracticable, but
somewhere in the rugged country between Deddick and
Orbost a line may be constructed at some time, if some-
body should report that it can be done “ without incur-
ring a very large outlay.” The Govt., however, will
certainly cut one or two tracks through the awful bush
thereabouts, and auriferous discoveries may follow.
* * * *
The old Avoca district of Vic., neglected for
30 years, is being shaken up. The Cambrian Prop., a
Melb. concern working a show at Redbank, has just put
up a battery and spent £6OOO ; and a Broken Hill and
local party has taken up the True Blue, on the old Moona-
bel line, and, having erected a pumping-plant, is going to
give it a try,
• • • •
The now “Unique Colossal Melbourne Enter-
prise ” purposes to exploit the auriferous areas of
Northern and Western Borneo. It is pointed out
that, although the British West and British North Char-
tered Companies have at their disposal between them an
area of 80,130 square miles to explore and mine, there is
not a single mining plant at work on the island.
• * * *
“S.S.”: Melbourne papers try to send loose
miners to Wood’s Point in search of fortune; and, as miners
still have faith in the papers, they go there, and strike
what is perhaps the most riddled district in Australia.
Wood’s Point, as a shop for the miner “ on his own,” has
been worked out about nine times, and a stranger would
not be able to find the diggings for old shafts and tunnels.
The co’s on rock seem to consider themselves lucky with
sdwt. stuff. The faith the miner has in a newspaper view
is most astounding ; and an old digger will often accept
the say-so of a city scribe in the teeth of his own experi-
ence, not knowing, of course, that the aforesaid scribe is
most probably only a street-bred expert, educated merely
in the cant phrases of the Exchange.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin. —A recent correspondent im-
plies that Bischoff-manager Keyser will have a better
claim on posterity than “ Philosopher ” Smith, the mine’s
discoverer. Let me point out that Smith spent nearly all
his spare time, for years, prospecting in about the worst
country and climate in Australasia, whereas Keyser only
came in after Bischoff was discovered, and managed the
claim for a good salary. Smith had to depend most of
his time on shanks’ pony ; the no doubt skilful and ener-
getic Keyser has been able to ride to and from the coast
by rail. K. has probably managed the claim well, but
there are others who could have done as well. Smith
voluntarily exposed himself to great risk and hardship for
a long time, without return ; Keyser managed about the
best tin-mine in the world, and paid big dividends —he
could hardly help paying them, for, anyhow, it would take
unimaginable mismanagement do seriously damage sucb a
phenomenal show. Easy to guess also who was the cutest,
and made most money.—Right Horse.
* * * *
A floating business block to be moored at
Skaguay and Dawson City next season is the latest
Yankee idea ; it is to be steam-heated and have a perfect
village trading settlement aboard. The projector calcu-
lates that if the trade moves so can he.
* * * *
Strange that the man who backs a dark horse
for a race, on the supposition that the “stable” never
talks about its really good things, will back a mine
because the “ stable ” is publishing a “ splendid report ”
to the world once a week regularly.
* • • •
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists ; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
Melb. : “ The fashionable old-clo’ dealers
of our Petticoat-lane, broad Russell-street, are in
a quandary for clobber. Unbounded demand.
No supply.”
The Cubans seem to be a lired race,
judging by their proverbs. “Hasta Manana ”
(There is always to-morrow); “ Only dogs and
Englishmen walk in the sun.” Sancho Panza-like
epigram is still natural to Spaniards. A witty
Spanish journalist recently defined an island as
“a piece of land entirely surrounded by English-
men.” “ How’s that for the Philippines?” asks
J. Bull.
She was a winsome damsel of 19, and, when
she had selected a suitable leg of pork at the
butcher’s, she ordered that it should be salted for
boiling and sent round to her cottage in Suburbia.
After settling accounts, she deemed it wise to jog
the buteherman’s faulty memory, and remarked,
“Now, don’t you forget to put my leg in pickle,
will you?” Then she blushed, and fled preci-
pitately.
S.A. Parliamentary Labor-men, bound to
anti-Billiousness, are thrown back upon the com-
plaint that Kingston and Glynn helped to sacrifice
the interests of the smaller States by voting to
limit the powers of the Senate in money matters.
Whereupon Kingston replies crushingly to Price,
who made the complaint, that, led by the late
J. A. McPherson, lie (Price) and other of the
Labor members voted in the Assembly against
suggesting an amendment of this provision, on
the ground that it was “ the only possible ” way
to Federation.
Stolid Premier Turner, the other day,
dropped a lovely “oner” on to anti-Federal Hig-
gins’s eye. Higgins stated in one of his speeches
against the Commonwealth Bill that Turner
would in his heart be glad to see the Bill rejected
“ because he saw he had made a mistake in re the
verbiage of the railway clauses.” Turner replies
that the one thing in the Bill which he most fears
from the Victorian point of view is the railway
provision that was carried in the Convention by
only one vote ; and the one Victorian who voted
for it was Higgins. Higgins is holding his eye up
against a cold lamp-post.
The ancient wheeze about character has at
last cropped up in the Federal discussion. An
antiquated crank, writing to S.M. Hkrai.D, sug-
gests than ten of the most prominent Federalists
and ten of the Anti-Bill people should be chosen,
and their character, ability, s’ncerity and moral
weight duly considered, and the set in which the
predominance lies may be safely followed. The
“•Good ” man again ! But then, alas, who is to
define good or bad character, and who is to make
sure about the character of the person who does
the definition, and who is going to pay the cost of
the necessary delegation to Japan and elsewhere
to find out what the characters of our politicians
really are ?
Cosmos: “Re the ‘ blood-thicker-than-
water ’ gag. My experience of the Eastern and
Southern States —’B3 to ’B7—was that anyone stood
a better show in the scramble for work than a
Briton. In New York, there are whole colonies
of Italians, Germans, and Irish, very few members
of whom can speak decent English. Of pure
Americans, I met about half-a-dozen, and, any-
way, Americans don’t count for much in the U.S.
The * mob ’ are open for sale to the highest bidder.
Such a conglomeration has no patriotism, but
sticks to its racial and religious antipathies, which
are kept well sharpened. The Union is the most
illiterate, corrupt, and clique-ridden nation of the
Anglo-Saxon group. English is merely the official
language. As you say, ‘ They speak English, bub
think American.’ ”


V,
d
ORIENT
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOX! SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board m the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
By far the Best Victorian Coal.
• . ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU . .
Address: THE COAL CREEK PROPRIETARY CO.,
flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-st., Melbourne.
Society
B[?]
COON[?]
Owing to that tired feeling which renders
most Tas. legislative acts and functions even more
slipshod than those of other provinces, the Isle of
ad .Dreams has to rub along without a fully-
fledged Chief Justice for yet a while. The
oupreme Court Act, 1895, bars the Governor-in-
Oouncil from filling the first vacancy that may
occur in the Supreme Court Bench without the
express consent of Parliament. The “first”
vacancy was caused by the death of Chief Justice
Dobson, but, having regard to the fact that the
Government only holds office by the narrowest of
narrow majorities, Braddon-Fysh discreetly de-
cided that ; the moment was inopportune to ask
parliament s approval of any appointment. The
ffifficulty is being wriggled out of by the creation
and filling of a second vacancy, against which the
9o Act says nothing. Thus Justice Adams is
T „‘, r ® d °‘ 1 11 h ' s Pension and his place as puisne
Judge is filled by the Ministerial appointment of
Opposition leader Inglis Clark. On May 14
Mr. Clark climbs on to the Bench and Mr.
Adams climbs off. Justice Dodds continues as
Acting Chief until that date, when he will
probably, be regularly installed as Chief Justice of
lasmania and its dependencies.
* * * *
Chief Justice and vice-viee-regal repre-
sentative John Madden was asked before Vic.
Law Commission the other day: “ Could you
suggest some means whereby a poor man who has
only got his brains could enter the profession ? ”
“No,” said his Waxcellency, chippily ; “there is
no royal road to the profession for such men.”
“ Royal road ” is good, implying an easy and
luxurious jaunt. The ambitious poor man asks
for no royal road, but only for the abolition of the
extortionate tolls, and the poll-tax, and the
customs and precedent duties, and the charges
and legal brigandage he encounters on the present
hard track. There is no royal road—the only
road is a royalty road ; and it is easier for a rich
man to enter the kingdom of the prophets than
for a poor man to enter the province of the law.
* * * *
Chairman of the Melb. Law Commission
to Chief-Justice Madden : “ Could you suggest
some means whereby a poor man who has only got
brains could enter the pro. .ion ? ” The C. J. :
INo, there is no royal road to the profession for
such men.”—
The English Naicest’s growing inclination
towards the raking-in of base commercial shekels
finds a curious recent development in the adoption
by Lord Hopetoun’s two maiden sisters of the
horse-dealing trade. In addition to personally
driving home their purchases, they act, it is stated,
as their own “vets.”—a practice the incidentals
to which would involve some very peculiar pre-
dicaments for “ maiden,” or any other, “ladies.”
One “proud daughter of a hundred earls” is running
a dairy, in which, it is alleged, she works herself;
keeping a keen eye on the bawbees, and “ vending
penn’orths of milk to the poor villagers at the
back-door.” The Marquis of Salisbury, it is also
asserted, will not abate, even to his lOs.-a-week
serfs, one penny of the Is. each at which are sold
the rabbits taken off the estate under their noses.
How Napoleon’s “nation of shopkeepers” keeps
coming to the front!
Parsons do say such
odd things. At a soiree,
the other day, the present
scribe heard one bringing
the usual keg of superflu-
ous butter to the noblest
of wives, women, and
mothers “ the Widow
of Windsor. ” Just as the
congregation was on the
crest of the wave of loyal
exultation, the pastor
added : “ I saw her once
—that is, I did not see
her, because the most
magnificent man ever I
saw was sitting beside
her, and obliterated her !
I refer to Albert the
Good.” People didn’t
know how to take it.
Maoriland has long possessed the cheapest
and about the most drunken and disorganised
police m the Seven Provinces, and the commis-
smelha <->f h T W B, .‘& a ff e d stirring up the moral
smells of the force is gradually finding out the
reason why The Commissioner who is supposed
to rule the force has no control over the appoint-
ment of constables. Nobody connected with the
toice is allowed to examine applicants to see that
they can read and write, and haven’t been con-
victed more than eleven times for beating their
the Hnfo ri th; , lt t , ley are lust y enough to run in
the plain drunk when necessary. Political influ-
ence is the one essential for appointment, and
when a new policeman is wanted anywhere a
small, weak, bow-legged man of 40, with no char-
acter worth speaking of, probably arrives, and
simply states that he is the new cop. ’ The
standard of height is only sft. 6in., and in Maori-
ON THE STREET.
STREET ARAB (to member of W.C.T.U.)! “ Come now—yer gettin' too
old for that now. You make me blush! ”
land the sere and yellow cop is actually allowed
to start at 40. The officer to whom the
new specimen is consigned has to take him
and make the best of him. The pay is
low, and there are no pensions, and as appoint-
ments and promotions are purely political, the old
stunted, red-nosed policeman with influence simply
tells his superior to go to ’L. Maoriland has
one policeman to every 1461 inhabitants (one to
692 is the N.S.W. proportion), and one-half of
the force seems to spend a good part of its time
in arresting the other half for being found drunk
in the gutter with its uniform on while “on
jooty.”
• * * «
At Melb. County Court, last week, a poor
fraud-summoned civil-servant pleaded that he had
nine grown-up daughters gnawing at his income.
Judge Gaunt asked the gentleman whether he
didn’t think it was time that some of the girls
turned their attention to marriage or other busi-
ness. Up to now, seemingly, the nine adult
females have been attacking the duties of the
household in battalions, and sweeping up the
“ dust ” as fast as poor pa can put it down.
* * * *
Apropos a recent N.S.W. death-sentence
for arson, there was, last week, released from
prison the man who was, 16 years ago, sentenced
to death by Judge Windeyer for an unspeakably-
squalid crime, the “ murder ” of a woman whose
death was due to her jumping from the window
of a house which accused had fired, for the sake,
it was alleged, of the “ first-notice” fire-reward of
ss.
A recent charity function in an
Australian R. C. Cathedral was estab-
lished on a sound commercial basis and
“ conducted on strictly business princi-
ples ” by associating with each collector
a reverend recorder, who, when anything
over the half-sov. went into the “ plate,”
duly entered-up the donor’s style and
title in a book for future proclamation
upon the housetops. “ Let not thy right
hand,” &c.
* * *
The pangs of parental affection.
A cab dashed up to the hospital casualty-
room, and an elderly man sprang out and
dragged forth a half - fainting 6ft. son,
whose hand had been shattered by a gun
accident. Whilst the injury was being
attended to, and sundry fingers ampu-
tated, the old man danced up and down
out-side, tearing out his hair, and ex-
claiming : “My God ! my God ! what
have I done that I should have to suffer
all this ! ”
Talking of the recent development of com-
mercial instincts among the superiah classes in
England. A while ago, one Colonel Daniel, of
Pelham Place, S. W., was sued by his laundress
for an unpaid bill. The gallant warrior replied
with a counter claim of 255. on account of a pair
of woollen combinations belonging to his wife
which had been ruined in the wash. The Colonel
proved his counter claim and routed the plaintiff
He gave evidence to the effect that the legs of the
garment aforesaid had shrunk out of all knowledge
and wearing, in consequence of the undue hotness
of the water, or because they were allowed to
remain too long in soak before being rinsed.
Under ordinary conditions a military man would
not carry much weight as an expert in wash-tub
tactics, but the colonel was a crusher. He twirled
his moustache-ends and stated that he had been a
student of shrinkage in combinations and things
when he and a fellow officah conducted a laundry
at Wandsworth.” Female belief in the military-
can t stand many such revelations. The thought
that a majah-general on parade may be longing to
g’ot on duty and assist in turning the mangle is
calculated to dim the glory of his epaulettes. The
time is coming, perhaps, when the co-respondent
captain in a fashionable divorce-suit will be ac-
cused of luring the giddy matron to the back
parlor of his own ham-and-beef shop.
* * * *
F-C. . Met a charming old lady the other
day who had never heard of the English
cricketers, didn t know anything about Federa-
tion, and thought she had heard of Brassev as
being Vic Governor. Yet she lives within 14
miles of Melbourne P. 0., and years ago thousands
of eager striving men hurried past her door on
the road to Anderson’s Creek and Caledonia
diggings. Now the track is a back road, and none
but a swaggle or a casual wanderer ever passes
it is nearly twenty years since she visited the
big smoke, and she knows nothing of life as we
know it.
Colonel Madley, who
was a pedagogue before
he became S.A. Police
Commissioner, has in-
troduced some of his
school-marm ideas into
the“foorce.” Before a
bobby is considered cap*
able of arresting a vag.
dog or assaulting a
drunk he has to pass an
exam, in the remote
fields and fastnesses of
knowledge, and the cop-
per who can promptly
spot Timbuctoo on the
map has a prior claim
to the first vacancy and
a billet at Onkaparinga-
bbowlahmine. Thespec-
tacle of P. C. Hooligan
on exam, day, with
tongue in cheek, trying
to multiply the square
of a circle by a common
nuisance “ under the
Act ” is one for the gods.
* *
Thus a Barrier
school - teacher : “ The
ignorance of children
born and bred in this
district is astonishing.
If I ask a class of, say,
20 how many have seen
a river, possibly five will
hold up their hands.
Many, too, have never
seen a field of grass, and
a much larger percent-
age haven’t the slightest idea of a sea or ocean.
It is heart-breaking to attempt to teach some of
them.”
« » * *
More than half the divorce cases in Aus-
tralia are based on stories about how one of the
parties to the union “just stepped out” casually
one day and never returned. Last week three
cases were heard in Melbourne on the same day :
(Case 1) “Less than a month after their marriage,
Faulkner left home, saying he was going to look
for work, and petitioner had never seen him since.”
(Case 2) “ On 10th June, 1891, respondent left his
home as usual to attend to his business. He did
not return.” (Case 3) “Evidence was given by
petitioner that he was a sanitary contractor. . .
Respondent kissed him (the sanitary contractor)
and said she was going to Collingwood to see about
the baby’s vaccination-papers and would be home
before evening. She did not come back.” (Case 4)
Respondent just stepped out, and died. Case con-
sequently withdrawn. Probably, it is the great
size and the grea,t emptiness of Australia that
makes the Australian the most disappearing man
on earth. The man who just steps out in Aus-
tralia is about as completely lost as if he had just
stepped off Jupiter into the universe.
A Murchison CW A j naner had an article
muituison P a P er naa an r a [ r “ CI f,
* ecent ]y on The Dog as an Article of Diet,
w m ' nf , orma V, on ab ? ufc fch . e I)est U7 w f t 0 f U the
Wild ‘ Cat would not be amiss in W.A.
MUSIGAL ITEM.
“Come into the garden, Maud!”
A week’s dynamite-record for Queensland.
Arthur Devers, miner (Ch. Towers), killed by
dynamite explosion in Brilliant Deep Levels.
Richard Gardner, pilot boatman, Southport, blown
to pieces in shed near his residence. Richard
Davis (aged 72), Mt. Morgan, found in an out-
house with his head blown off by a plug of dyna-
mite —an open, sharpened clasp knife beside him.
Fancy waiting till you’re 72 to blow your head off!
Ma Teo
Mine
I r\ol y\)f)ere sKoes v)ere blue
r f\6 T -' Trills WeT-e Q^reer^;.
(Q) , r
’ • ld.pT ii\ si !\/er ,sHeer\ ukl^jp
% lvf©T - ryT Dje
J&&y'.n X osT'
jCdo7~ up repiqrouryrl
■X* scNv\) I \/<2j]ejy.s
X«S Bkv) I
air [aJ* laj\d- Wlyr>e ( snry f i b]a,r\d , (
uc K THaI? o’ M I f\e!
P.Lufting
A poor man who has only got his brains
Must never hope to practise at the Bar,
The Brotherhood his company disdains—
Sing hey ! the rank outsider that he are*
Sing hey ! the rank outsider,
The quite unqualifieder,
The lowly rank outsider that he are.
A puppy with some “ pieces ” in his paw
May one day put a case before a Judge,
Provided that he studies for the law,
And purchases assistance from a drudge.
The Law is meant, say sich men,
For poor as well as rich men,
O, that’s the yarn they pitch men —but it’s fudge.
John Madden doesn’t want to find a means
To open his profession to the poor,
Unless one has a pocket-full of beans
’Tis vain to seek admission at the door.
The door is well defended,
The matter can’t be mended :
The Law was not intended for the poor.
SOUR GRAPES.
The distant lights within your liquid eyes,
Like dim stars glowing in a mist of tears,
Mock the dull anguish of my soul’s surprise—
False lights which lured me through the niopths and
years
To taste at last the venom of your sneers !
I thought your lofty brow supremely fair ;
I thought your tongue more eloquent than song;
The curling glory of your sunny hair
A radiant shawl to shield me from the throng:
’Tis but a net cast from the shores of wrong.
So if I am a fox who pines for sweets
Which me denied I curse from dusk to day,
I’ll still remember beauty is so fleet,
And wait until the season has its sway—
Then, when grapes fall, the fox will have his way !
N.S.W.
WILL. BRUTON.


"||AVE You
ForOOXTEAI
I
S®
JJOSE’S CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or othe.r causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, ‘2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk StriPjS
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per 'Half-dozenfree by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
Tartaric, Acetic Acids, Cream. Tartar, Carb
Ammonia, Almonds, Sorrento Walnuts, Seeds
(Canary, Hemp and Millett).
CA TA TLA ItO LIQ UOHICE.
Wholesale Only
from HY. MARKWALD,
11 Pitt-st., 178 William-st., 14 Currie-st.,
SYDNEY. MELBOUKNE. . ADBtriVtDE:-
Also at Wellington (N.Z.), and Queen-st., Brisbane.
One of the most awful things that
can happen to a miner is to have his spine
injured—and it pretty often occurs, through
a fall of ground while the workman is
shovelling the ore back from the working
face. Occasionally the victim lives for
years, hopelessly crippled, often utterly
incapable of moving his limbs and filled
with dread of possible brain - affection.
There has been such a patient lying in the
Bendigo Hospital for the past six months ;
and Broken Hill has another who reckons
his sufferings by as many years. A na-
tional mine-disaster fund that overlooks
such cases, while taking in those in which
merciful death has come promptly, hardly
fills the bill.
Roll-call in
a State school
on Monday
morning. Lot-
tie Jones (say)
answers. The
call over—
“ Lottie Jones,
you were not
here on Friday
aft’noon.
Have you
a note?”
“ Please ’m,
father was get-
tin’ buried.”
A pause—awk-
ward for the
teacher; from
the other
youngsters
just a few
looks of admi-
ration at one
who had been,
even indirect-
ly, interested
in an Event.
T e a c h e r:
“You are ex-
cused.” And
then the
“ marm ” fool-
ishly spent a
second or two
in idle, silent
thought;
whereupon
from the back-
seat rose the
arm of the big
dunce, jerked
up by a sudden
happythought
and followed
promptly by
the question—
“ Teacher, do
we all be ex-
cused when
our father’s gettin’ buried ? ”
• • * •
A Melb. daily mentions, as a fairly artistic
idea, a new fashion of floral advertising lately in-
troduced in I'ranee. “The advertisers,” it says,
“instead of making the landscape hideous with
hoardings, that appear at intervals all along the
different railway-lines, have devised the idea of
planting the slopes of the line with flowers of
every hue, and making by this means the lettering
of certain advertisements.” The Bulletin re-
lieves its prospective outraged feelings in ad-
vance :
Beak, solemnly, at conclusion of case in
N.Q. police-court, thus : “ This is one of those
cases, gentlemen, in which, after giving my deci-
sion, I don’t know whether I’m right or whether
I’m wrong.” And then he gave it. Same genius,
in case where white man was charged with having
stolen parrot from Chinaman: “lam not satis-
fied with this case. I shall dismiss it; but, if the
defendant is an honest man, he will restore the
bird ” —long pause—“ that is, if he has it.”
* * * *
Specimen written answer given by pupil at
recent Adelaide University examination: “ Primi-
tive means very holy ; for example, the picnic was
a very primitive affair.” The boy who wrote this
may have been shady in his etymology, but he
was a keen observer and a fine, though unconscious,
humorist.
MA’S DILEMMA.
TERRIBLE INGANT: “ Ma, dear, I saw Uncle George kissing the governess at the
door of her room when you were in the bath.”
MA : “ Nonsense, my dear. It couldn’t have been Uncle George.”
TERRIBLE INFANT : “ Well, then, ma—if it wasn’t Uncle George, it must have
been papa!”
Brisbane Courier advt. :
YT'OUNG Gentleman, 18 years of age, orphan, wants
a lady-like person to adopt him ; highly edu-
cated. Apply at once, Harold, Box 23, office of this
paper.
The “gentleman” who wants a “person” to
adopt him is an orphan of rather fine distinctions.
• * • *
At Newington Asylum, Sydney, over 700
poor women, mostly old, are turned out of doors
daily at 7 a.m. One of these recently begged a
visitor to procure her a shawl, as she could not
move about to get warm like her younger com-
panions. Cold Charity !
The use, or abuse, of the
word “ Nice ” seems to be be-
coming an Australian'habit. In
a batch of advts. from a recent
Saturday’s D.T. and Herald,
19 advertisers had “ nice ”
rooms suitable for “nice”—
private, steady, quiet—families,
.and the twentieth just cut it
down to “apartments for nice
family.” Eleven wanted a
“nice” home, and three de-
mand “nice board, cheap.”
One|’tiser capped all not long
ago with “ young man, not
strong, requires nice employ-
ment, country preferred.”
* * *
Ponte: “Travelling in-
spectors of various kinds, whose
duties take them to strange
places, have fallen beneath the
wiles of an ‘ unaccountable fe-
male ’ at a certain wayside ac-
commodation house. She is
smart and buxom, with a per-
petual challenge in her eyes.
As most of the officials are
middle-aged, susceptible, and
grass widowers, her little free-
doms usually culminate in a laughing query
as to the whereabouts of her room. Singu-
larly enough, it adjoins his and through
the night the visitor mistakes the room. The
girl’s scream bring her brother on the scene with
theatrical quickness, and the victim gets out of it
by paying according to his wealth or status. A
thriving industry.”
* * * *
Alexa winder Collins, unctuous dealer in oils,
and co-respondent in Melbourne’s most entertain-
ing divorce-suit, when appealed to —as he be-
lieved —by the wife of the other fellow —the lady
\\ ho had loved not wisely but too well, and was
cast out —sent, to relieve her mind and her bodily
distresses, pious precept and six twopenny stamps.
Alexawnder is Scotch, and he has wrecked one of
the best Scotch jokes of the century—that which
describes the wrath of the gude wife when, for
the second time, “ Rawbert ” came home saxpence
short in his wages. “ I ken wha’ it is,” wailed the
heartbroken wife, “ye’re keepin’anither woman!”
Alexawnder demonstrates that this is no mere flight
of fancy—probably the gude wife’s suspicions were
correct. Extravagance is a sin, but it does not
necessarily follow that a sin is extravagance, ye
ken.
* » * *
All the parties concerned in the case of
Collins, the seductive eucalyptus-oil man, be-
longed to a sect in which the members called
each other “brothers” and “sisters.” And when
Brother Horace wrote indignantly to Brother
Alexawnder about the leading astray of Brother
Horace’s wife, he received a beautiful reply, in
which Brother Alexawnder told him that he still
hung on to the “clear, shining Truth.” Then
Brother Horace, thirsting for vengeance, tele-
graphed in his wife’s name as follows : “ Wire
next address. Write. Send stamps. Great dis-
tress.” The telegram cost ninepence, and, as it
drew Is. worth of stamps from Brother Alexawn-
der, Brother Horace had threepenn’orth of fiend-
ish vengeance on his enemy, and proudly men-
tioned the fact in court. Strange how persistently
religious sects run to threepennies !
* * * *
Macleay (N.S.W.) Akgus, 14/5/98 :
Apropos of the fair occupant of the Bench in company
with Judge Docker on Tuesday afternoon, it is the first
time in the history of the court—in this district, at all
events—that a District Court Judge has been accompanied
by an Associate. That is solely the privilege of Supreme
Court Judges, and even then their Associates are of the
masculine gender.
However, while a personage like Mr. Docker is per-
mitted to remain on the bench, it may be just as
well that he should submit his offensive manners
to the restraining influence of a lady’s presence.
Dear Bulletin. —Re the filthy condition
cj, i , t., J c
of Havana harbor and the conflicting fact that
Havana ,s a fairly-healthy place- hardonyx
draws a wrong conclusion. The typhoid germs
dent get a fair chance. The town is full of
tobacco leaf tobacco smoke tobacco dust It
“Sardonyx will trouble to hunt up some statis-
tics he will discover that cigar-makers and dealers
all the world over suffer less from fever, diph-
theria, &c., than any other class of workers. Your
tobacconist is the most disinfected fellow going.—
Peter Piper.
, » * *
Wild rumors floated about Adelaide re-
~ , » .. iTT , , i. j r yn
cent y that Acting-Gov Way (w-ho acted for Gov
Buxton during the latter s Westrahan visit) had
wandered into Govt Ouse ballroom and nearly
lost his life through an organised attack by the
myriads of rats believed to infest that deserted
S P° ’ * * , ,
A curious old Melbourne capitalist named
Houston died the other day. He was a lone
patriarch 6|ft. high and aged 73, and his gaunt
figure had been seen daily for 30 years sloping up
the back street to his little tin tenement. The
rent was 2s. a week, and for years the ancient
fought hard to have it reduced to Is. 6d. Then
the tin residence caved in through age and settled
the question, and the inhabitant removed the
stretcher and the old tin plate, which composed
his entire furniture, into lodgings. He never
smoked or drank, and he lived entirely on cold
victuals. When Houston first became known in
these parts he possessed a coat, hat, pair of pants,
two old boots, and a decayed shirt. He “couldn’t
see his way ” to buy socks but he acknowledged
several times in the last five years that he was
thinking of making a new shirt, as that process
was cheaper than buying one. But he never
carried out his purpose, and the old shirt-
fell away till all that remained of it
was a string round his neck, and, as he didn’t own
a waistcoat, a large area of his stomach became
public scenery. At last, one day, two small boys
made disrespectful remarks about the matter, and
the old man got angry, and seized a stick, and ran
after them in his unlaced boots till he fell down
dead. In his coat, which was an article of his own
manufacture, .£lOOO worth of securities were dis-
covered, and other wealth is supposed to be
planted. He was a fine example of Thrift, and he
died as a capitalist should, endeavoring to sup-
“A BIRD IN THE HAND IS
WORTH TWO IN THE BUSH."
press the democratic small boy and maintain
law’n’order.
* • * »
A Sydney daily published a cable the other
day in which it talked about a line of steamers
between Paris and New York. A few days later
it sent a warship overland from Michigan.
* • » *
Donnybrook (W.A.) is said by those who
have inspected it to be the prize-stench town of
this continent. The short and simple annal of
Donnybrook is that all the refuse of the town
flows into the sluggish Preston river, and all the
drinking-water of the town comes out of that same
river. There are no drains or sanitary appliances
of any kind in Donnybrook ; everything goes into
the Preston. The local horse, who is a tolerably
seasoned animal, flatly refuses to drink the Pres-
ton water, but the placid Sandgroper doesn’t
mind. At latest advices, about half the fearful
town was ill with typhoid or diphtheria, and the
inhabitants set it down to the “ visitation of God.”
Pure water can be got a little way below the earth
surface, but a proposal to spend <£2o on digging a
town well was rejected with scorn. The ’Groper
doesn’t throw his money away in any such reckless
fashion as that.
* * * *
The Whifceworkers’ Board, now sitting in
Melb. to consider the possibility of fixing piece-
work rates, finds itself unable to grapple
with the multifariousness of women’s under-
wear. Some factories put more embroidery and
frills on the unmentionable articles than other
factories go in for, so a trade-log embracing every
variety of whitewerk seems out of the question,
Unless the Victorian consumers of ready-made
mysteries can meet together and arrive at an
understanding on the subject of decoration for
their most sacred garments, the present difficulty
must remain insurmountable. It is rather too
delicate a matter to be settled by a Parliamentary
committee.
* * * •
BY THE SEA AT S. MELB.
Along the expanse of sands,
Where moon-rays fall
They lie, like leaves on autumn strands,
And, seeing them, one understands
Love levels all !
* , * * Dsr ‘
Following upon Sydney D.T.’s recent
ifading-column shriek for the raising of the
consent —age, comes its smart contributor
« Ali i » in Y subsequent issue, with a hearty
endo ” em ’ ent of the contention (by “Surgeon”
in a recent letter to the paper) f n view of the
tender age afc which great numbers of girls become
tainfced f vith « i mn) orality,” it is mere foolishness
to confine the question to the case of the adole-
damsel. 4 The Telegraph always did like to
<<, u •. 1.1 J
a t J ' * ,
~T . , ■ , , , i,
“It only serves you right if he assaults
and beats you again to-night,” said the Bench
(Melbourne) to the too-forgiving woman who had
put the poor, hard-worked police to the trouble
£ f arres £ ng ’ this man on tw( * occasions, and now
wanfc t ” beg him ofT .» W hat wonder that the
* tleinan sho f ved his appreciation of the J.P.’s
& d consideration and suggestion how to act in
the futu re, and replied as he left the dock, “Thank
you, your Worship ” 1
m -T
, ?umleaf writes Talk about pru-
dery ! It happened m a Melb. Women s Hospital
committee meeting, the other day. It is a mixed
committee, but certain high-societ}’ madames
ru^e roost - This day several of the male
members were present. Aletter cameup for con-
sideration from the chairman of the midwifery
surgical staff m connection with a little storm that
is brewing between that branch and the com-
mittee-ladies. In giving a case where it would be
necessary to perform an operation in the mid-
department (which the committee-ladies
to) without carting the patient into the
infirmary branch and waiting for a member of
uifirmary staff to operate, mention was made
ruptured uterus. When the lady-official who
was reading the correspondence came to this por-
tlori of the letter she had a severe atta,ck of
modesty, and remarked in solemn tones that she
could not read it to a mixed committee. The m-
truding males, including two or three newspaper-
men, were requested to retire whilst the mature
matrons gravely read aloud and considered this
P °* “ ie e^ter-
* * * * .
That shrewd and gallant veteran, Hosie
(Melb. restaurateur), the original Scotch-pie man,
has given his 3d.-course-catering-biz. best. Hosie
started this venture in his old age on the col-
lapse of the boom, and, at the buffet, ex-million-
aires (on paper) and bankrupt silver-kings stood
up and wolfed their modest threepennorth. Now,
so many restaurants give a full dinner of three
courses for sixpence that the old man’s craft was
blanketed.
* * * *
The idiotic and wanton injury to the
beautiful limestone formations in the Copper Mine
Ca.ve, Yarrangobilly, N.S.W. has induced the
Mines Department to publicly notify that the law
will be pushed to its extreme against any dis-
coverable mutilators of any limestone-cave-forma-
tions in the province. In the Copper Mine Cave,
axes, crowbars, and even gunpowder have been
used to effect a smash-up which, though apparently
directed in part to the procuration of calcite-
crystals, has evidently been, in the main, due to
sheer senseless delight in destruction.
Ah, sweet it was and pleasant,
In Youth’s enamoured hours,
To speak unto the Loved One
The Language of the Flowers 1
But soon another meaning
May rose and lily bear,
And violet sweet, and marguerite,
In garden and parterre.
For roses, ranged in order,
And violets may spell—
“ Buy none but Simpkins’ Sheep-Dip 1 ”
Or “ Ask for Hogg’s Hotel! ”
And in our public gardens
There yet may be descried
The legend writ in lilies —
“Try Smith’s Insecticide 1”
Tub Bulletin, in loathing,
Might wish that it were dead
When here that fashion reaches,
But that it has a dread
That o’er the silent dwelling
Where it would lie at rest
Some fiend would write in roses white—
“ Moidd’s Coffins are the Best.”


We Wan;
Your Custom.,
We wish gentlemen to know that we avant their custom, and
will appreciate it when it comes to us.
It is not the casual purchaser we seek. Permanent trade is
what we are bending every energy to secure.
We want gentlemen who buy our Boots to be able to say that
Callaghan methods aie the straightest in the boot business
and that Callaghan Boots wear longest.”
Gent’s Winter Boots
in Black and Tan.
Just Received.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-st., Sydney.
GLOBE TEIS
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
have NO Equal.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
T 4 „ Sydney, May 17, 1808.
My Dear Myee—
“ The Middleman ” chased “ Moths ” out of the
Criterion last Saturday, with a force and fury that
has not been heard in the theatre this season. The
night was wet, as all nights were just about that
time, but no damp got into the house. Cartwright
dried the air up to red heat with fiery furnaces,
and baking tea-pots, and his still more burning
portrayal of an old man cursing. Any sort of a
curse goes down with a house this century. Statis-
tics prove that the poor old grey-haired damn still
tmkles the funny-bone of a tired audience more
effectively than any other effort. But Cyrus
BJenkarn s curse was a work of art that made the
top ceiling hang low for minutes, and even the
best-conducted feet in the dress-circle stamped
their approval all over the carpets.
Cartwright has had such a run of Arctic weather
all through this venture that his admirers have
been smitten with sympathetic neuralgia as they
sat out the rapid series of chilly first nights,
and watched the houses get thinner and thinner,
and heard the applause scare itself away in gho-tly
whispers that died if you looked at them. The
of a one-time star made things no
better, and one evening through the week of
«« ti° rn an hour before the curtain was to rise,
t‘ tutu der ” vvas in rehearsal. Fortunately
Moths ’ managed somehow to flutter through the
performance, but there was a lot of desperation in
the flutter. It was a glorious victory for the ad-
mirers to see their actor’s spark flash out once
more on Saturday, and strike the audience in the
eye with a dazzle that turned Wilson Barrett’s
light low by comparison.
The play of “The Middleman” leans more
heavily on its acting than its dressing. The frocks
are not remarkable. Miss Stewart, in a white wig
ftnd some rich black silks, makes a comely mamma
to pretty Hope Mayne. The wife’s-mother-made-
easy is one of Miss Stewart’s own patents,
and the man who wouldn't take Hope on
her own (if there is such a man), would have
had her by the dozen for the. sake of such a
mother-in-law. Miss Lambs one best frock is
snatched out of sight by the curtain. There is
only time to see a lot of green tucks disappearing
into Cartwright’s arms when the lights are up and
the play is over. I fancy that this is the briefest
glimpse on record of a leading lady’s best frock.
Thursby, as Captain Chandler, arranged his
moustache too close to his nose, and made hearts
beat by bis resemblance toa popular Aide. Only a
clever man like Arthur Styan could have worn one
tie so smoothly for two years. The front row of
society leaned over the red velvet dress-circle, and
demonstrated cuttingly what a little row that
front row is. From a side box lively Lady Holled
Smith sparkled in black and steel alongside of her
large commander, and on the other side of the
house a lady achieved a bathing-costume effect in
tight pink sleeves, as plain at the shoulders as a
long-sleeved camisole.
Speaking of Wilson Barrett a while ago reminds
me that Her Majesty’s stood on its head last
Wednesday,,and kicked itself into hysterics over
A.N.R.’s” tilt against his majesty’s Hamlet
Everybody knows that the tilter is Nugent Robert-
son, journalist, poet, anti-Federationist, and bar-
rister, as the company took the trouble to discover
before they launched a dart that could wound
nobody but a barrister. “ You are the clerk of
some fifth-rate, pettifogging attorney,” is a barb
altogether invented for the slaughter of the Bar.
Led on by Wilson Barrett, the whole troupe
threw themselves into the battle, and a large
theatrical advt. travelled free through the land on
the back of the Daily Telegraph. Barrett’s
oration was adorned with “ Dear-me’s,” and
“ Never-mind’s,” and “ Bless-mv-soul’s,” until
the authorship of the “Sign of the Cross” was
irrevocably established. “ A Southern Woman ”
was undiplomatic enough to first scream out an
invitation to “ A.N.R. ” to come to America to bo
cow-hided, and after that to ask him if he had a
wife. Surely an American dame would manage
better than that. Such a bleating and a bellow-
ing has not been heard since- well, since last
year’s cattle-drafting.
A calf also played a big part in the opening of
tn© Vaccinal Institute last week. Tli© Oovernor
and a mob of medicos waded through torrents to
look on at the incising of a pretty child’s arm.
Hie little girl watched her operation witli a calm-
ness that does credit to whoever owns her ; the big
white calf gave up its lymph without a kick ; and
the institution was declared open with the usual
champagne accessories. Dr. Rougier thoughtfully
cut high up on the shoulder, with an eve to the
child’s sex and possible ball-dresses. These vac-
cinal brands have cut deeper than skin-depth with
many women. The wound goes to the heart when
a good white arm is ruined for ball-dresses by
great leprous-looking blotches half-way between
elbow and shoulder.
A University ball occupies Paddington town-
hall on Thursday, May 26th, and another intelli-
gent dance will be the fancy-dress ball the Society
of Artists is discussing for the opening of its
next exhibition.
The London criticisms on our Austral artists’
pictures have brought to light several sky-fanciers
whose names are not even names to the Australian
public. Several of these unknown painters figure
among the creators of works marked “sold,” and
many leading lights are not noticed at all. The
most successful lady is a Sydney artist, Alice
Norton (daughter of Hon. James Norton, the
veteran solicitor), whose work is deservedly
admired locally, and who has been favored to the
extent of four purchases. Mr. Lister Lister has
possibly made the biggest pot of coin out of the
sales, but there was not much elevation even in
the top prices. The Duke of York went to quiz
round, but no record of his purchases is to hand
yet. A critic in the Daily Graphic comments
that the nude is but “sparsely depicted,” and
history is almost entirely neglected. The remark
about the nude sounds as if the Graphic wanted
draperies, and, as for the moan about history, the
absence of Queens of Sheba, Elizabeths signing
Mary Stuart’s death-warrants, Cromwells leading
Ironsides to the fray, &c., won’t raise an echoing
moan this side of the globe.
The latest news of Edgar Straus tells of a little
mend in his health, lie is still recruiting in the
dry climate of Arinidale, and doctors’ orders for-
bid sea air for the present. The benefit concert
came off during Saturday’s loudest rain, but there
was a better booking than the house revealed. Eel-
low-musicians offered up a lengthy programme,
and every one who sings at Sydney concerts was
represented. The only sensation of the evening
was lent by Mine. Kellerman, who maimed her
finger in her sparkling Train du Diable, and was
unable to touch the notes again.
Songs without fees are correct at such a concert
as a benefit to Straus, but there are other occa-
sions when the correctness will not be fixed by an
etiquette-book. A moneyed feminine coterie
invited one of our tenors to sing for his afternoon
tea, the other day, and was knocked over by a
courteous memo, from the singer, that he sold his
warbles for three guineas. An icily-reproachful
reply withered him with the information that
those At Homes were conducted on principles that
applied even to the buns, and the pastry, and the
loaf-sugar, and the boiling water. It told him
that the afternoon-tea was acquired at the very
lowest rates, and left him to infer that there was
still a lower rate for songs, and that his callous-
ness was immense. But he boldly refuses to
wither, or sing, or do anything at 'all for that
coterie, without a “definite arrangement.’'
The St. Bernard's Home for Working Gentle-
women is not exactly a charity, as it supports
itself to the extent of meeting its own housekeep-
ing bills and incidental expenses. The rent is the
only difficulty, and to arrange its payment a com-
mittee exists that keeps an eye on the working of
the Home, and gets up entertainments when the
funds are low. The retreat is an ordinary, un-
branded house in William-street,carefully managed
within. Nine working gentlewomen are allowed
to live there at an inexpensive rate, and situations
are found for those who need them. The docu-
ment which sets this all forth does not say whether
the gentlewomen are turned out if unable to con-
tribute their inexpensive items, but the probability
is that the Home is especially good to them at that
time, and keeps them there unspotted from the
world until something turns up. Anyway, it is a
good deed that saves even nine elderly spinsters
from the steak and turmoil of a third-rate board-
ing house.
lo help the Home along there was a Musical
Afternoon, last week, in the Oddfellows’ Hall.
The gathering was entirely feminine - clergy,
pretty girls with red ribbons round their waists,
and the strained essenceof the cable-tram suburbs.
A pleasant little programme went on at intervals
under Miss Woolley’s care, and conviviality set
m with the frogs and monkeys of the Toy Sym-
phony. One tiny girl managed her violin with a
pretty promise, and jolly little owls and night-
ingales introduced an air of midnight revelry into
the otherwise peaceful atmosphere of breaking-up
day at a ladies’ school.
Miss Marcia Cox, fourth sister of the doctor’s
daughters whose beauty mortally wounded two
aides in the Carington days, is to be married in a
few weeks in Sydney. After her marriage she
settles down in the Big Smoke.
Two jaunts under a mackintosh to the Tennis
Tournament revealed no audience to speak of, and
a congress of players in the unhappy state of
never being dry for a week. The trip'was a dis-
appointment to the Victorians, who had heard big
stories of Sydney’s enthusiasm over tennis. But
in Sydney, as everywhere, even fine weather can’t
turn tennis off the road to death. It is galloping
along at a great pace to the croquet-cemetery,
where the racket stops from troubling, and the
emptiness of love loses its power to grieve. Miss
Peyton played a gritty game last week, but hurt
her knee just when she whs expected to win, and
was beaten on Monday by Miss Dransfield in the
final for the Ladies’ Championship.
Tennis players were the organisers of the bright
Neutral Bay dance last Thursday, and several
tournament folk were among the guests. The
wettest night of the week told on the attendance,
but, as no more than two people dance together, a
crowd is not the main element of a successful hop.
A pretty young play-actress toned down her re-
markable black hair with a blue frock, and her
fair sister assisted her fairness in the green that
works harder than any color for golden-haired
women.
No one would be surprised if our ex-Governor’s
wives forgot us in the shortest possible space of
time. Yet Lady Jersey writes regularly to the
University Women’s Society, and showed an in-
convenient memory, the other day, in alluding to
an engagement that began in her day and since
ended abruptly. In a letter that was read aloud
to the Society by the secretary, she directed some
prettily-worded sentiments to the erstwhile en-
gaged ones. It was awkward that the lady in the
case should have been present at the reading.
Not even vice regal interest in one’s doings can
atone for publicly-offered congratulations on an
engagement that has ceased to be.
An Australienne in London writes: “The
rumour—now gaining much credence in ’Ome
circles—that multi-millionaire Astor is to have a
peerage given to him with the object of taking
him out of the rank of a commoner so that he can
marry Wales’sole remaining and plainest (laugh ter,
is causing a great deal of nervous fluttering in the
dove cotes of the * smart ’ sassiety journals. No
official denial of the story has yet been given,
and mighty folk ‘in the know’ are strangely
reticent on the subject. So it needs the most diplo-
matic handling on the part of the scribes whose
aristocratic susceptibilities are outraged at the
idea of a man, whose; father or grandfather handed
round fried-fish in a Bowery saloon, mating with a
princess of The Blood. But these same scribes
know well enough The Blood’s strong reach-out
after coin, and Tummy’s democratic tendencies
wherever coin is concerned ; so they wisely neither
deny norcontirm the rumor, but make vague gene-
ral remarks about it. One gushful scribess, whose
column seems to shed inky tears at the idea of the
mesalliance, skilfully turns the subject up by say-
ing, ‘Still money, even in royal circles, is an un-
doubted power and the lack of it causes much dis-
tress, which has been recently proved by the
great economies that have been revealed in the
Tecks’ happy home and the sad break-up and loss
of income the Duke of Teck has had to grapple
with since his popular wife's death.’ This fat and
bizy royal fortune-hunter has been living on the
money granted to his huge wife by the great B.P.
for nearly 30 years past, and it seems high time
that the said B.P. should knock off paying several
thousands a year for the privilege and pleasure of
beholding Teek’s prodigious and celebrated yawn
at all public ceremonies.”
Surely the unacknowledged brave should in-
clude those people who lose false hair and teeth,
and advertise their deprivations in “Lost and
Pound.” To own up to a toupee is about the
ultima thule of feminine courage, but last week a
candid notice in a daily appealed for “a tail of
lady’s.hair, lost at the Haymarket. ’’ and promised
a reward “on return to the Wesleyan Book
Depot.” Shades of the holy John ! Those old
rnppings at the Wesleys’ parsonage will resuscitate
if female folly is to be cloaked thusly with the
mantle of this fierce revivalist. Or does the advt.
bear an inner meaning, and has the Wesleyan
Book Depot lent itself to the bereaved lady on
condition that she hands over her fragile soul to
be saved, by Wesley's saving clauses, from the
tails of other people's hair and the gnashing of
other people’s teeth ?
Someone with a cunning knowledge of human
nature is advertising that lie will remove tattoo
marks from Sydney’s brawny arms—money other-
wise returned. There was a time when a young
man who had not stamped himself with these
sincere symptoms of love’s fitful fever would not
be smiled upon by any self-respecting housemaid.
Even school-boys measured school-girls’ interest in
them by.the amount of arm the tattoos covered.
But, when all the rest passes and the boys are men
and the girls other men’s wives, it is a little
aggravating to have these marks revive old
memories and bear a silent witness to the follies
of the past. If the advertiser doesn’t make a
fortune ’twill be because the marks won’t yield,
and the money has to be returned.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ A London society-paper announces that that
smart young man, the Earl of Shaftesbury, ‘does
not intend to return to Australia’ with Brassey.
\ Does not intend ’ is indeed a neat way of putting
it. Brassey, rather, ‘ does not intend ’ that he
shall. When Brassey thinks of Shaftesbury, lie
sings to himself the chorus of one of Willie Young’s
pantomime songs—
‘ We parted on fiirhtinsr terms ;
He was one of the early birds,
And I was one of the worms.’
“ The story of Mine. Risser, one of the victims
of the Balaclava double suicide, shows a strangely
persistent accumulation of misfortunes. Married
at 23 to a man of rank and wealth, she soon after
lost her husband and little son, and also her
money, which went to the husband’s family.
Came out to Australia to be married to a cousin,
but the match never came off. Went governessing,
met Risser, married him after two weeks’ acquaint-
ance, though much his sup rior socially. The few
Melb. people who knew Madame Risser say that
she was a perfect type of the graceful and fas-
cinating Frenchwoman. Her sorrows had so told
on her, however, that, though only 27, she was
white-haired.
‘ ‘ E very boom -burst Iyd y turns to tea-room i rig, but
one, the widow of a Melb. banker who is dead,
has taken to tea-rooming with a difference. She
cooks by wholesale for other tea-rooms, as her
husband cooked the public goose; and there is a
run on her pies and tarts just as there was on
her hubby’s bank five years ago this month. She
has waltzed into business with a partner with
whom she used many times to waltz in ball-rooms,
for he was an aforetime haughty youth and one of
the best dancers in Melbourne. Now he has
caught hold of the right end of a gridiron and is
one of the Lest grillers going. At a chop or steak
he is considered Al. Good grit in both of them.
Talking of cats that come back, AVestralians
swear to the truth of the following puss-yarn. The
only son of the late Rev. J. Johnston, first Con-
gregational parson of Fremantle (see memorial
church in that town) was returning home to W A
in a sailing vessel. His ship, sighted off Rottnest
Island, disappeared in a moment. None of her
crew were seen again, so she must have gone down,
though the sea never gave up its dead. The
missing brig's carpenter had bis home on Fre-
mantle beach, separated from Rottnest by 12
miles of sea, dotted with rocks and an islet or two.
boniß nights after the ship’s disappearance, Chips’
wife, distressed but not despairing, sat worrying
over the vessel which came not. Suddenly she
heard a feeble scratching and opened the door to
adimt, not the missing carpenter, but dear old
labby, Ins trusty ship-mate. Poor puss, drenched,
wasted to a skeleton, her claws worn down to the
quick, was palpably near the end of her nine
lives. Welcomed with tears and kisses and
nursed tenderly as a baby for the absent one’s
sake, she drew her breath in pain all night and left
tor the happy hunting-grounds at dawn. The
carpenter s wife at once sent word of the night’s
experience to old Mrs. Johnston. That distracted
mother hurried to the longshore cottage and both
women gave up hn pc as they cried together over
the battered body of “ the messenger from the
dead, for it was in this light they chose to regard
poor puss. °
“ Nowadays, wanderers just back from ’Ome
hold a parade of the sartorial spoil annexed en
route, inviting their cronies to gnash their teeth
enviously at the splendor thereof. More often
than not the bulk of the finery has been locally
modelled on the lines of the few-and-far-between
genuine Parisian creations secured by the pilgrim.
A thickly-gilt recent bride got back from her
travels not long before her wedding, and at once
called upon her former modiste for new plumage.
‘ Whatever I wear will go down as “ imported,” ’
she said airily, ‘so I just saved all my shopping
for Melbourne—and pa’s account! ’
“ A quiet wedding was celebrated on Thursday
week between bridegroom Dicketison, of ‘John
Anderson My Jo’ time of life, and bride Wright,
40 years younger. For once, the sassiety reporters
could have got-off their stock-wedding announce-
ments with freshness. The ceremony was almost
in dumb-show in the Friends’ Meeting House, in
Russell-street. Only three couples have been
thus turned-off, according to Quaker rites, in 20
years. The quaintness of the business made it
pretty, and the ‘ stiffkit ’ was the size of a tray-
cloth, and was unrolled and signed before all
friends present. So the Quaker ceremony, which
is quiet, plain marrying, gets there just the same
as the fancy ceremonies which have much frill
and are cut bias, with plenty of train and veiling.
“Notwithstanding the Brasseys’ awkward little
knack of forgetting their purses when bound for
bazaars and sich, their memories work well enough
between times. At a church-fair, for instance, a
lady of the clan in one breath apologised to the
shepherd in charge for her stupidity in bringing
no money, and in the next gently but firmly
demanded of his reverence a donation to her own
pet particular charity. Isn’t this what the Good
Book calls ‘seething the kid in its mother’s milk?’
“As usual, ‘much cry and little wool ’ at the
recent Teachers’ Congress. ‘For the sake of the
past,’ I atn told, the utterances of Dr. Wilson, of
the Presbyterian Ladies’ College, were read with
affectionate interest by galaxies of ‘old girls’
(once upon a time every one went to the P.L.C.).
The kindly mathematician, judging by his ardent
advocacy of brain-culture for women, evidently
still wheedles his pupils into swallowing their edu-
cational pills by means of sugared fictions of this
kind : ‘The study of Euclid will some day help
you “ gurls ” to decide the question properly ! ’
“ The most heartrending care is being taken
by the opulent old colonists of Melbourne to avoid
anv connection with the forthcoming shivoo at the
Exhibition to raise funds for that deserving
charity, the Old Colonists’ Home. One after
another of the crowd now luxuriating in Toorak
disown on behalf of pa and ma any connection
with the beastly kawliny during its. infancy, and
the most desperate efforts are made to keep out of
the way of anybody who might identify the Mrs.
Giltedge of to day as Sally Spots, who used to
help the ould man deliver milk in Melbourne in
the fifties. Charity wncovers a multitude of sins.
“ The wedding of H. J. Thompson, ex-BuLLETiN
scribe, and now of the London Daily Mail, ought
to have come off by now, as his bride, Miss Minna
Elliott, of E. Melb., left last Ormuz. Their en-
gagement was a long and faithful wait on the part
of both ; he left seven years aaro to seek his for-
tune, and she devotedly vyaited until it was found.
A honeymoon in Paris is the reward. And it’s
worth doing a Jacob’s wait for a month in Paris
even on one’s little alone.
“Mr. F. M. Alexander, a slim young man with
a curly-headed smile and much pink on his cheek,
gave a dramatic and elocutionary recital at the
Athenaeum Hall last week. The tinted aspirant,
who claims to hold the secret of a perfect voice-
production, turned out to be a genteel entertainer
of the tea-party order, and his show had the
peculiar merit of closing at 10 o’clock sharp.
About the best item among his assortment of
sketches’ was ‘The Amateur Rider,’ by ‘The
Banjo,’ in which he expressed a ringing good
voice and an evident intention to achieve a suit-
able racecourse accent. He didn’t achieve
the accent, and it would have clashed
horribly with _ his curly hair and shop-
walker graces if he had succeeded—but the
humor of the yarn wasn’t lost in the struggle.
Mr. Alexander’s pupil, Miss Edith Tasca-Page
(the stage-struck wife of a Tasmanian official),
likewise spoke two pieces, previous to supporting
Mr. Janies Cathcart in the Quarrel Scene from
School for Scandal. ’ The elocution and acting
of the lady pupil left several things to be desired,
but a semi-sassiety audience felt very grateful for
veteran Cathcart, and the long pent-up applause
gushed forth so freely that his pretty colleague
probably didn’t notice her shortcomings.
“ Love laughs at lymph. A little idyll of the
Quarantine-station was completely nipped in the
bud a week or two back owing to a lady’s insus-
ceptibility to vaccine. Her husband went down
to Portsea to medically attend some spotty
patients in hospital, and his wife (only a short
time married they were) yearned to share his
exile, but an obdurate health-officer refused to
allow her unless she were vaccinated. So she
forthwith had her arm punctured, but it didn’t
ta,ke. A second time she underwent the ordeal
and still no result. And as the official was ada-
mant she had to be parted from hubby after all.
“ Collins-street Congregational Church gave a
choir-concert last week, which caused a slight
rumpus with the municipal authorities. Admission
was by sixpenny tickets, and as the good folk were
tripping up the steps with their pasteboards ready
to hand in, they were met with the cheering news
that they could go in gratis, as a veto had been
placed upon the sale of seats in a church, it not
being a 'licensed place of amusement.’ The diffi-
culty, however, was dodged by the concert-pro-
moter announcing that the plate would go round
at half time, which it did, and the sixpences
honestly rattled in.
“Elliott Page, who plays the rejected Berenis
and the slighted second Mrs. Nap and such-like.
women scorned,’ says, laughingly, that she is
tired c? being repulsed on the stage and yearns
for a change—for a part ‘where somebody will
accept her.’ In real life she doesn’t suffer'much
from neglect, as she is a brilliant talker and
usually the centre of an interested group of listen-
ing men. She is—on ‘mamma’s’ side- of the same
family as John Elliott, learned in Red Indian
dialects, who missioned the Red men and first
translated the Bible into one of their guttural
languages.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
“ People would not think of falling in
love, if it was not talked about so much
Rochefoucauld.


■ ...
nunns
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
The Coming of the Cold
AND THE DANGERS THAT IT BRINGS
TO SO VERY MANY.
Winter is coming !
Indeed, some of our great scientific men assert
that the approaching winter will be one of the
severest on record.
The winter is always dangerous, although too
many people forget this important fact. The
mildest winter causes more deaths than the hottest
summer. It has almost become a proverb that
“ cold weather kills'.” And why does it kill ?
Because so many people are in no condition to
pass through a severe winter. They complain of
tired feelings, they suffer from billiousness, pains
near the heart, headaches, backaches, and seem to
lack their customary energy. Cold weather,
instead of bracing them up, only makes them feel
languid, irritable, nervous and depressed.
And that is just where the danger lies. People
who feel like this are running some very grave
risks. The chances are that possibly 50 per cent,
of the people who suffer from the effects of
approaching winter will never see its end unless
they exercise the greatest care.
But there a way to avoid these dangers. By
building up the system, restoring healthy action
to the liver and kidneys, freeing the blood from
impurities and regaining renewed strength, the
penis of winter can be safely encountered. To do
this a suitable remedy must be taken, and there
is nothing for the purpose that can be compared
with Warner’s Safe Cure, because its effects are
immediate and lasting. As a means of restoring
lost vitality and promoting the general health this
grand remedy has never been equalled. That is
why it is so universally prescribed by physicians
and chemists, who know from experience that it
can always be depended upon. If you are suffer-
ing from any of the symptoms that denote weak-
ness you need to regain health, and Warner’s Safa
Cure will speedily help you to regain it.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A rumor somehow got abroad in Sydney
last week that B. R. Wise might find himself ap-
pointed Chief-Justice of Tasmania.'
The Victorian estate of the late George
Robertson, publisher, is valued at =£119,370, and
is left absolutely to testator’s widow and children.
One is almost inclined to think that poor
Duncan Gillies dislocated his shoulder the other
day for the sake of the advt. Gillies was so much
in need of an ad.
Nat. Kinsman, the marrying auctioneer,
late of Fitzroy, Vic., cut up inconsiderably, after
all, leaving less than a thousand pounds. Yet he
married for money.
Professor David, of Sydney University,
has lately had flattering offers of scientific posts in
England. His Funafuti explorations delight the
disciples of Darwin, and have given his name a
European prestige.
Major Ferguson, Gov. Hampden’s son-in-
law, has, accordingtoaremark allegedly dropped by
his spouse on the eve of her departure, rosy hopes
of early returning to Australia in the capacity of
full-blown Governor
Lawyer Jones, who won the case for the
alluvial-diggers against the leaseholder, in W.A.,
the other clay, was once a practical miner. He
was one of the first to peg out a “ show ” on old
Pleasant Creek (Vic.) diggings.
Boyd D. Morehead, the only political mag-
nate put on trial for Q. N. Bank affairs, was for
years a clerk in the Bank of N.S. Wales, in
Sydney. His life, till past middle-age, was a
blend of Sydney and the Queensland bush.
Richard Seddon completed his fifth year
as Maoriland Premier on May 1. The longest
Maoriland Premiership was the five years and 40
days of Edward Stafford in 1856-61, and if Seddon
lasts till 11th June he will hold the M. L. record.
Now that Longmore is dead, only its head
—the venerable Graham Berry—remains of the
famous “Black Wednesday” Ministry. Peter
Lalor, J. B. Patterson, R. Le Poer French, John
Woods, J. M. Grant, and Major Smith—the other
members of that Cabinet—have all “ gone over. ,>
Adelaide Observer reports the journey
alone (for pleasure) of 12-year Launcelot Lewis
from Kooringa, S.A., to Warrnambool, Vic., and
back —ll4O miles—riding one pony and leading
another with his pack. The trip is one some men
wouldn t care to face; and the boy did his 570
miles in 16 days.
After all, teetotaller Jaypee Lormer suc-
ceeds and Panton, P.M., resigns from Melb.
u ?e m ,ng " bench - ani ’able slab of a man, most
kindly and sympathetic, he never had the magis-
terial mind, like Cal], Nicholson, and even a few
prominent amateurs. The soldierly mind no more
does for a beak than a bobby.
Rupert Carrington, who regularly dis-
penses justice as an hon. magistrate at Berrigan
and is locally credited with a fair share of common
sense, is again seriously talked of as a likely
appointee to N.S. W. Leg. Conncil. Reid’s theory
provides for a continuance of nomineeism, so that
under present or prospective systems the way for
Rupert lies open.
AFTER THE DROUGHT.
INQUISTIVE PASSENGER (who has not shouted on the way) : “ What was
the cause of those sheep dying here? ”
IRRITATES DRIVER: “A complaint called ‘without the necessary’; it
affects both man and animals in various ways. They had it in
their fn’ards, and YOU seems to have symptoms of it from your
head downwards! ”
William Barry, miser and misogynist, was
™ n i dead in his hut at Narandera (N.S.W.) on
4th May. Verdict, “death from heart-disease,
accelerated by insufficient nutriment.” His trou-
®? rs 'y? re known for l(i years in Narandera, and
the old constable’s coat which he wore had out-
Jived memory. Sleeping in his “pelt” to save
ls b*“! ir b he stinted himself of bare necessaries,
and died leaving money and landed property. His
wife, on her separate estate, has a hotel in Mel-
ourne. Barry was in the police, and was orderly
f 4 .ur dl ®’° ac "» also took part in the defence
of the Eureka Stockade. May William’s bones
rest in peace ; during late years, at least, he had
no soul to speak of.
Dissimilar
as the men
were in tem-
pers, tastes
and ideals, a
natural and
genuine amity
bound to-
gether the
late John Me-
Elhone,M.P.,
and W. B.
Dailey. Mc-
Elhone,icono-
clastic in so
many ways,
plunged head-
long into hero-
'v or ship of
Dailey. Dal-
1e y, on hi s
side, appeared
to find virtues
in the un-
couth tallow-
dealer which
few would dis-
cover. He
used to regu-
larly supply
John with
numerous “ pointers ”
to slay political ene-
mies, and on more
than one occasion com-
posed polished senten-
ces for the use of the
Upper Hunter mitrail-
leuse. To those aware
of the arrangement it
was highly amusing to
listen to John belch : ng
forth in frenzied indigna-
tion something Dailey in-
tended to be uttered in
tones of playful badinage. In-
deed, Dailey was said to have,
in the exuberance of his mirthful
mischievous way, often worked
John up to play his part in this
fashion. D illey always held that McElhone
did good service to N.S. Wales, and that despite
his faults of style and exaggeration his influence
was sound and healthy.
G. H. Reid does not like to be addressed
as “Dr.” Reid. But, if he didn’t want to be on
the level of Dr. Garran, or Dr. Cullen, or Dr. Sly,
he could have begged off. When Thomas Carlyle
was offered an LL.D., he said “ No ” emphatically,
and there was an end of it. There is something
trickily coy and vainly feminine in accepting a
distinguishing title in one breath, and in the next
whispering around, “ Oh, don’t say Doctor, say
George ! ”
Vie. : “ Apropos Longmore. During the
20 years of his first experience in Parliament he
was the dreariest bore ever known there—the
most nonsensically abusive speaker. It was
astonishing to note his transformation into an
urbane and gentlemanly Land Minister. He was
out of Parliament eleven years. When he re-
turned he had improved out of all knowledge.
Never opened his mouth without something tren-
chant, in the Tillett line.”
U.S. Commander-
in-Chief Miles, who has
deprecated the invasion
of Cuba with a huge
gang of raw levies, is
the same level-headed
man who, when Ameri-
can jingoes were simply
howling for war with
Britain over the Vene-
zuelan trouble, had the
courage to say plainly
that with unprotected
ports, a small army,
practically no navy, de-
fective artillery, and
scant ammunition, try-
ing conclusions with
Britain meant unspeak-
able disaster. How he
escaped lynching as a
traitor is a mystery. It
is a risky thing, just
now, for any man to
hint that U.S. doesn’t
spell Divine Omnipo-
tence.
The one-man-one-
billet rule does not ap-
ply in the South Aus-
tralian Labor-party. A.
E. Roberts, the Port
Pirie member, now
edits the party’s weekly
organ. Roberts is a
comparative youngster
of many parts. He was
lumping on the wharf
when picked out for
Parliament; but before
then he had made a
telling first appearance.
It was in the “ring,”
where, in a series of
bouts in a tournament,
the pluck of the strip-
ling won for him a little
crowd of thick - and-
thin admirers. Among
other trifles he is now
studying for the bar.
George Ash’s fate ought to stand out as a warn-
ing to such enthusiasts.
One of the proudest boasts of Melb. Sewer-
Bard Fitzgibhon is that he cares not what the
papers may say. Yet, to the slightest criticism of
his actions, Fitz. may always be depended on to
reply with columns of slush, if not even with one
of his soul-harrowing “pomes.” Also, as chair-
man of that comic institution, the Melb. Metro-
politan Board, Fitz. has allotted a huge volume
to the recording of all newspaper-references to the
board. Even the faintest allusion to it or any
of its members in the remotest backblocks rag is
carefully pasted into the gigantic tome. Even
borak poked at Fitz. as a poet is solemnly cut out
and entered up. The whole time of one clerk is
occupied searching the newspaper-files of all Aus-
tralia, and, in due time, the present par. will itself
figure in the ponderous record.
Piripi : “Idly re-reading Lawson’s
fine poem ‘ The Days when the World was
Wide,’ and pondering on its keynote of
juvenescent impatience o f humdrum
modernity, I bethought myself of a Syd-
ney acquaintance, a retired sea-captain,
who has crowded into the last decade of
this century a sufficiency of uncommon ad-
venture to satisfy the most ardent longer
for thrilling experience. Since 1892 this
old sea-dog has commanded a vessel in
the Queensland labor-trade, has had many
hair-breadth escapes whilst illicitly running
cargoes of weapons to Cuba for the insur-
gents, and has taken a shipload of convicts
from Havana to Spain, this trip being
spiced with a good old mutiny and a satis-
fying amount of bloodshed. Tinally, he
commanded the ship which conveyed An-
dree and his balloon to the White North
as a preliminary to his hare-brained trip to
the Pole. A good and varied record for
the prosaic Nineties.”
David Gaunson : “ When
an attorney gets on, he gets
honor; when he gets rich he
gets honest. But just
then he dies.”
AN EPISODE IN THE EARLY LIFE OF
KEROSENE KENNEDY, MESMERIST.
F. Illingworth, the ex-Victorian land-agent
who formerly exhibited tempting plans of £5
Perth building-allotments in his Swanston-street
office, is now a leading real-estate dealer in
Perth. He writes himself M.L.A. and J.P., and
has one of the best houses round the city. The
<£s allots, are now worth £lOO. Go on the land-
agent, young man 1
N.S.W. American Consul Bell as a prophet
(on the declaration of war): “If our folks take
the business in hand they’ll just put it through,
slick, and get home to breakfast.” Report of the
Manila fight: “Hostilities ceased for about two
hours, during which the American crews had
breakfast.” Breakfast is obviously a very import-
ant circumstance in Yankee estimation.
Sergeant Nelson, one of the Cootamundra
bunch mixed up in a trouble which is the subject
of a criminal prosecution, died suddenly the other
day—a habit which John Norton’s adversaries or
victims appear generally to cultivate. Thirty-four
years ago Nelson’s father, also a policeman, was
shot at Collector by Dunn, the bushranger. Dunn
was hanged at Darlinghurst on Christmas Eve.
1865.
A pretty story goes round the papers that
General Kitchener, the commander-in-chief in the
Soudan, is the son of a poor farmer in Tasmania,
where his sister still keeps a village-school; and
young Australia is further invited to consider that
it was just hard work which opened the way for
the farmer’s boy to Sandhurst, and thence, step-
by-step, to his present billet. Just as a matter-of-
fact, Kitchener’s father was a lieut.-colonel, and
his training-place was Woolwich.
Clement Wragge writes to the Brisbane
Courier announcing his intention to henceforth
divorce poetry from meteorology, keep rhetorical
fireworks and cyclones strictly apart, and other-
wise conduct himself as a good, staid, respect-
able weather-prophet ought to. Clement naively
admits that press criticism and remonstrances of
friends have driven him to this desperate ex-
tremity. Henceforward Wragge will be plain,
scientific, dull, and uninteresting.
Law business has so much decreased in
Melbourne that it is stated, on what seems un-
questionable authority, that the earnings of the
most widely-known barrister for the last year
were lowet* - than for any other year during the past
twenty—in fact, they were well below four
figures. And yet that advocate is still the best
man for a jury at the Vic. bar, as solicitors unani-
mously admit. He simply hasn’t had many cases
because there has been a iaw-drought.
It is settled that Tom Mann is to come out
when Tillett gets back to England. A manly,
fearless, downright fellow is Mann, with all Til-
lett’s enthusiasm, and other qualities of which the
hard little nut cannot boast. His personal worth
was indicated by the choice of him by Lord Salis-
bury’s Government to serve on the British Labor
Commission. There was some talk of his becom-
ing a parson a few years ago, and he has always
been a bit soft on the religious side, but it didn’t
come off.
Medico: “I heard the ‘Tichhorne Claim-
ant ’ (obit, last Ist April) lecture in a 3d. provincial
English music-hall during ’B5. A beetle-browed,
sag-eyed man suggestive of a small elephant in a
badly-fitting dress-suit. He began : ‘ Lydies hand
gentlemen. Hi appears before you this hevenin’,’
and so on. The ‘ lydy ’ who did the next * turn ’
sang a song with the refrain, ‘To ’elp Sir Roger
Titehbung to ’is raights ! ’ But he made me think
that if he had gone into politics, or quack-doctor-
ing, or the church, he would have succeeded.”
‘Hullo!” Sydney people have been ex-
claiming, “Norton actually employing counsel
against Hagey-Caulfield’s application for a “show-
cause ” rule! Is the valiant John going off?”
Not much ! The matter simply is that Norton—
having been advised by someone, allegedly a
person called Crick (of whom some people may
have heard), of the fatal informalities in Caul-
field’s initial proceedings—duly provided himself
with an expensive legal array, in order that the
costs thereof might fall upon the foe. “Fire at
his boilers, sir !—always fire at his boilers ! ”
The man who served civilisation so well by
shooting that unspeakable ruffian, bushranger
Daniel Morgan, is, The Bulletin hears, now
boundary-riding on a Diamantina River station
owned by the sons of one of the owners of the last
station which Morgan stuck-up. On this Dia-
mantina station is also a well-known old-tinie
stalwart Victorian pug (M‘Laren) now employed
in punching only dough.
Since the subjoined was written by Thb
Bulletin’s London correspondent, the terrific
crash in Bottomley’s Westralian and Northern
Territory mining scrip has much altered that
doughty and well-advertised plunger’s financial
position
Horatio Bottomley, the latest reputed millionaire, told
me he is going to take the Derby with Hawfinch, and
very likely the Two Thousand Guineas also beforehand.
The “ West Australian Market Trust” man is a mysteri-
ous marvel. Originally a parliamentary shorthand re-
porter, he has seen extraordinary vicissitudes, and after
many reverses at last struck it so rich that he was able to
give as a gift a quarter of a million to the disappointed
shareholders of the collapsed “ Hansard Union.” They
had neither a legal nor even a moral claim on him, and it
seems a big sum to pay for an advt. Bottomley has a
strong facial resemblance to the late Charles Bradlaugh,
who was a near relative, though there is much difference
in the stature of the two. In manner he is easy and
keenly intelligent, with very broad views, and intends
standing for Parliament shortly in the Liberal interest.
His ambitions when put into words are appalling, though
given a continuance of wealth and health and he may
attain them all, and he is blessed with the attribute that
Bismarck loves so well —he is a magnificent hater. He is
now going for success on the turf, then for the House,
and up a ladder of illimitable possibilities.
Q. : “Have just re-read ‘The Ballad of
Reading Gaol ” for the fourth time. What a
blood-curdling piece of realism ! and how forceful
compared with the ballads of the library, or those
not so intimately inspired—Kipling’s ‘ Danny
Deever,’ for instance ! Only men who have come
in close contact with the condemned can com-
pletely feel all it contains. Oscar Wilde's sen-
tence has been a crucifixion and a resurrection.
Petty pietists will never understand the true
meaning of the process as experienced so tragi-
cally by him —
How else but through a broken heart
May Lord Christ enter in ?
He will give us no more epigrammatic plays, no
mere cynicism, decadent philosophy, and aesthetic-
ism. Contact with human degradation, suffering
and sorrow have made the scoffing poet human.
Every sane intellectual man who undergoes im-
prisonment is similarly affected in due degree.
The old Oscar is dead, dead, dead ; and a new,
clean, purified and sane Oscar lives in his stead.
He is the Penitent Thief of the Decadents.
G.B. : “ Sassiety in Perth (W.A.) consists
of the Six "Families and their offshoots ; all others
are but offal, only tolerated on the ground of
expediency. This haute nohlesse of Ragland is
composed of the Burts (founded by a Chief
Justice), the Leakes (sprung from an old-time
P.M.), the Lee-Steeres, the Cliftons, the Shen-
stones, the Parkers, and the Lefroys. And all the
surviving old lags, and even their descendants,
HIS LEVEL.
MAN’ZELIE GIDDEE (to the Rev. Chump, who, on
look[?] through some songs, saps that they
are “too high ” for him): “Ah ! Here is a
low song that would just about suit you !”
accept the “ six ” as the purest representatives
of aristocracy that the world contains. You will
observe a smooth-jowled old blasphemer hush his
voice, and bring into his 14-years-* hard ’ visage
an expression of reverent awe when one of the
Sacred Six passes by, or is even referred to in
conversation. This state of things, considered in
connection with John Forrest’s One-man-Govern-
ment theory, suggests that there is some very
pretty work cut out for the Democratic ogre, who
has of late years been invading the territory of the
Six, and will sit on their necks in the long run.”


“ three good things ”
. . Made in England. . .
Holbrook’s Sauce
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
Holbrook’s Vinegar
"68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook’s Sauce has been awarded more Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALP THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vine
&dO
IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSEMER
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LAGER B€€R.
Aboriginalities.
The recent appointment in Queensland of
an Aborigines’ Protector has caused quite a boom
in the mixed matrimonial market in the lar
North and the Never-Never. It must be men-
tioned, for the benefit of the uninitiated, that the
abovementioned Protector has power to take
the lonely or persecuted aboriginal female under
his wing and trot her off to a reservation. Now,
numbers of Queensland station-hands live with
the native black women, and are often fairly
happy with their ebony brides and their saffron
offspring. Consequently the new law has stirred
them up to take measures for the securing of
their domestic treasures against these ravening
wolves of Aborigines’ Protectors, and _ several
dusky Kitties have lately donned a wedding-ring
“allee same white Mary.”
• * * *
During the recent dry season an ‘ ‘ Out-
Back ” blackfellow, the soles of whose feet had
begun to crack with the heat, bought a packet of
boot-protectors and hammered eight or nine into
the sole of each foot. They stopped the wear-
and-tear admirably, and he now declares that no
nig. should be without a packet.
* * * •
At a woolshed near Condobolin, last
season, there arrived a traveller who “ chucked a
scranny ” (pretended to ha,ve paralysed arms),
and “ had ” the sympathising shearers to the
extent of £B. As his arms were useless he got
them tied into a belt round his waist, and after
thanking the shed-hands with tears in his eyes,
he set out for the nearest township to take train
to his poor anxious wife and family in Sydney. A
few days later one of the shearers visited the
township and found the whole of the inhabitants
gathered outside a pub. in the main street col-
lected round the “scranny” gentleman afore-
said, who was trying to climb a lamp-post feet-
first, with his swag in his teeth and a billy hung
on each ear, for drinks all round. The shearer at
once rolled into him on behalf of his absent mates,
but “Scranny” used his paralysed “dooks”
with deadly effect, made a most unholy wreck of
the avenger, and proceeded with his climbing
amidst the cheers of the townsfolk.
* * » *
English jonnny sent to a Queensland
station in company with Bob, son of his father’s
gardener. On board ship it was “ Master John,
on arrival “ John ; ” one month on station—where
Bob has proved the better man—“ Jack.” Later,
“ Here you blanky Jack ! ” Latest: “ Here, you
blanky blank ! ” The “ Evolution of Demo-
cracy 1 ”
J » * « *
Omega : Re “Yeoman” running an emu
down. On Mehi River, Moree, in the sixties,
“ Watagah Jack” (aboriginal) could run a wild
euiu down any day. Jack was the father of that
once noted ped. Combadello Billy.
* * * *
About Taunton’s dog. Taunton’s dog was
a bitch, a retriever, large and black, and Taunton
declared that for years he had been looking for a
man who knew as much as Elo and was half as
honest. Flo was intelligent (if you really want an
intelligent dog, catch a black retriever young, and
make what you like of it), but her honesty was
nothing to brag about. She was honest to Taun-
ton, however, and that is how we understand
honesty as a general thing. It was Flo’s ability
as a thief that made her most useful to her owner.
Taunton was working on the roads near Hamilton,
and living under canvas with a party of three,
and it was Flo’s duty to keep that party pretty
well supplied with fresh meat. _ There were two
butchers’ shops within half-a-mile, and Flo drew
on both for supplies with the greatest impartiality.
Taunton gave his dog the office, and she trotted
off, and returned with meat in five minutes, or an
hour, or two hours. The dog knew enough to
watch her opportunity, and sometimes the oppor-
tunity was a long time coming. One day 110
went off for meat, and did not return. Next day
Taunton went hunting, but nobody had seen 110,
nobody had heard of her. Later, however, T. got
a clue, and v/hen next Dwyer, the butcher, called
there were bitter accusations and bad language.
Stung by profane abuse, Dwyer spoke up at last:
“ Know them sausages you had Thursday ’ Liked
them, didn’t you? You had more on Friday.
You’ve just paid for ’em. Damn you ! them
sausages was Flo. Now I’m even.' 1 Taunton
called for a ring and buckets for two, and when he
was knocked chin-up in the fifth round it was felt
that butcher Dwyer had just about squared the
ledger. ,
Re the acceptance by the guileless foreigner
of the great Australian adjective as a legitimate
part of our tongue, a Turk, selling “ Tur-r-kee
101-lee ” in Bourke-street, Melb., had some of his
stuff purchased by two men, one of whom re-
marked that “Them’s blanky nice lollies!
When the Turk started his howl again it was
revised into “ Tur-r-kee blankee lollee ! blankee
lollee 1 ” Then a copper came along and ran him
in. _ ,
* * * *
C. : “Can’t- say about snake-killing, but
the jackass is a most expert monser. In the
passion-vine round my verandah there is a colony
of mice, and every day Jack sits on the top of an
adjacent tree with his dull, deceptive eye fixed
upon the creeper. From time to time he makes a
lightning dart, drives his beak into a mass of
leaves and brings forth a shrieking mouse. A tap
or two on a handy log quietens it before it dis-
appears down Jack’s throat. Then his
tail and he is ready for the next victim.”
* * • *
Ellendale : “If I hadn’t had a large ex-
perience of gohanna hunting I should be writing
to say that all of them turn back-somersaults
when overtaken by a dog. My sheep-slut (just
deceased through taking a ‘ bait ’) was death on
all gohannas, and killed hundreds of all sizes
without getting a scratch, until she met her
Waterloo in a big yellow fellow who, just as she
was about to snatch him, turned a back somer-
sault and ran the other way. She coursed him
backwards and forwards, with the same somer-
sault at each turn, until I rode on and left her at
it. When she rejoined me her was cocked
sideways and covered with blood. The acrobatic
gohanna is a new thing to me and evidently
puzzled the slut. Can anyone illuminate the
subject? ”
THE DROUGHT FIEND—A sketch by F. P. Mahony.
Bronze wing:
White ants—
numerous in
Illawarra dis-
trict — used to
confine them-
selves strictly
to timber as an
article of diet,
but since the
coal-mines star-
ted so much
timber has been
used in them
that the supply
isn’t enough for
the white - ant
population.
Last week the
fettlers on a col-
liery branch-
line, while ex-
amining a rail,
noticed that
white powder
dropped from it
when struck
with a hammer,
and, on investi-
gating further,
found that a
colony of white-
ants had made
a nest in what
had originally
been a flaw in
the rail. It had
become so
weakened by
the insects that
it had to be
replaced. A
flake of metal,
about a foot
long, came
away from the
web of the rail
when pulled.
Looks from this
as if the ants
are dropping to
the fact that
timber will soon
be unavailable
for their nests,
and are sending
colonies to
build nests in
the materia
that is super-1
seding wood, so that coming generations may
possess jaws fit to nibble iron, and digestive organs
that will find nutritive properties in the metal.
* • * *
A great race happened once between the
Exton-Deloraine (Tas.) mail-train and an old grey
horse. The moke got the start and kept it to the
finish. For the first half-mile the driver pitied
the gallant steed and steadied down to allow him
to retire with safety and honor ; but each time the
engine slowed the ancient would look back con-
temptuously and kind of beckon with his old
plume of a tail in a way
that made the driver mad.
Then the engineer would
blow the whistle and shove
up the lever hard and rattle
down the line after the
gee-gee at express speed ;
and the way that beast
would scratch along with
his tail up and his nose
down, and the gravel
squirting off his toes like
hailstones, would have
made old Carbine burst
with envy. At the third
mile he was still going-
strong, and in the final
straight the driver opened
the front steam-pipes and
raised an unearthly blast
on the whistle. Then the
old grey laid himself out
and they couldn’t see him
for gravel and lather.
The Deloraine people woke
up when they saw a streak
of grey horse skim past
with his eye sticking nine
inches out of his head and
the hair all blown off his
tail. He went up to the
nearest stable, followed by
the wholepopulation. Here
he stopd one moment exul-
tant ; then gradually sank
down upon his poor old
knees, breathed a prayer
or two, and, with a sweet
smile of contentment on
his face, rolled over and
expired. Now, in Delor-
aine, when you recount any
great racing feat, some old
weather-beaten battler will
turn over his quid and
remark: “Yes, but yer
should have seen the old
grey hoss bate the injine.”
* * *
Dear Bulletin. —A
bush “ matchbox trick.”
Lender shakes box when
lending; borrower gets
light, then drops full box
into the palm of hand, holding an empty one
between htumb and finger, knuckles upward.
Shakes his hand ; matches in palmed box rattle,
but empty box is handed to lender and pocketed
unsuspiciously.— Malua.
* * * *
Werrimee : “J.G.’s” argument re dingo
amounts merely to a contention that as he has
seen the hungry one disdainfully pass newly
killed flesh, no one else can have ever seen him do
otherwise ; and the accounts of thousands being
poisoned are simply all lies. The one that
“wrestled” with the maggots was observed by
two others as well as myself, on Knapman’s selec-
tion, near Casino. In that part, teeming with
game, a dingo has often been known to pick up
rotten meat when fresh was easy to get. Not long
ago, also, I saw two dingoes quietly shepherd in;/ a
flock of sheep, whilst a third dodged about waiting
TWO FEET ONE YARD .
SHE (after forty minutes' walk): “ I thought the policeman said it was only
ten minutes' walk.”
HE: “ My dear, you forget the size of the policeman's feet!"
to get a lamb on the outside. This shepherding
propensity is well-known about here, and man 5
squatters try to cross with the dingo on that ac-
count. Again, twice last week, I caught dingoes
rounding up sheep at noon; and I can show the
sceptical the trodden places where mobs were
rung. I was born among dingoes, have been
among ’em ever since, and have never yet known
one to go straight at anything. He’s naturally a
prowler, and his bent is to hang around for
chances. The calf-snatching strategy was wit-
nessed by myself and three drovers on the Mara-
noa, where the occurrence is common. Another
instance. J. Toohey (ex-manager of Taroma
Station, Q.) and a stockman came up to two
dingoes harassing a cow with a young calf on
Paradise Creek, Taroma. They cracked then-
whips to drive them off, when 20 others sprang
out of the long grass, forming almost a complete
circle. They hadn’t their eyes on Toohey, for a
rise hid him from view till within 20 yards.
* » * *
C.C. : “ Re dingoes, ‘ J.G.’ seems to dog-
matise on the strength of a single experience.
Unfortunately, I have too many opportunities for
acquiring dingo knowledge. I can confirm Wei-
rimee’s ’ statement that they ‘ round-up sheep,
and even drive them some distance before attack-
ing. I have seen one dingo go ahead of a mob of
sheep and drive them back upon another follow-
ing up behind. ‘ J.G.’ says they k never perform
in the evening, 5 but I have known them often to
kill at sundown. They certainly do not mvari-
ably w.ait till night ’; one may hear them howling
to attract their mates at night, but the favorite
time for killing is daybreak, when the sheep are
moving off camp. I notice that on misty, drizzl-
ing mornings local dingoes are always on the job.
I may mention that in spite of all the dodges to
disguise the ‘human aroma,’ I have never suc-
ceeded in poisoning a true dingo, and I’ve tried
everything, from fat run on to a pegged
skin to sardine-oil. I’ve caught tcune dogs in art-
fully-concealed traps with a trail of valerian ovei
them, but never a dingo. I find lead the only
sure remedy.”
* » * *
“ R.” ( r L\as.) : “ Old Man’s ” remarks in a
recent Bulletin re kangaroos are correct. They
do not touch the ground with their tails when
going at full speed. Should they scent danger,
they give two or three jumps, with a pause be-
tween each, alighting on the feet and tail simul-
taneously, thus causing the heavy “ thud,” which
is never heard otherwise. They use the tail as a
balance-pole (vide “ Old Man ”), and as a rudder
when swimming; likewise to brush the flies
off. (Also it makes good soup.) A kangaroo
will creep into a grain-paddock as noiselessly as a
bandicoot, but, when satisfied, clears off in a
jaunty manner with an insolent flourish of his
tail. You can’t beat an old brush-buck much for
cunning. He will allow his mate to crawl first
into a feeding-patch to test the safety of the locale,
whilst he gammons to keep watch just inside the
scrub. The way to nab the old stager is to let the
doe feed quietly and pot him when he follows her,
which he will soon do unless he smells trouble,
when he will utter a note like the roar of a stag ;
then pot the doe, or you will lose both. A rut-
ting doe will attract the bucks for miles.
Then a shindy happens, and the best
man gets her. If you shoot him , the doe
returns next night to make enquiries, and
if unsuccessful leans up against a stump and
weeps. If you shoot her the buck doesn t happen
around again but seeks a new spouse. He is a
philosopher. A good plan to shoot a kangaroo is
to get on top of a stump not less than 10ft from
the ground. He never looks and cannot scent
you at that height. I once got into a beautifully-
placed stump and was preparing to take a sight at
an old buck when I suddenly got up and left. I
was calmly sitting on a nest of bull-ants. I saw,
one moonlight night, a party of eight kangaroos
dancing a set of Caledonians. I hoy had chosen a


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Ss SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
“ D C.L.”
When applied to a man is a high Academic dis-
tinction. When applied to whisky “ D.C.L.” is
the highest distinction it can possess. “D.C.L."
(Black Bottle) Scotch Whisky is perfect.*
MORE GOLD.
More Ogden’s Guinea Gold Cigarettes will be
your cry when once you have tried this delicate
weed.*
Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30;- per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
y
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIK.K It ItO 111 V. US,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
little level patch of white-grass (tussock) and the
way they set to partners and manipulated tne
errand chain, and whirled around on their tails,
was a sight to behold. After the last figure each
old buck looked out his she-inale and promenaded
around. Just here a repeating winchester put in
a word or two and the ball broke up suddenly. It
was a kind of surprise party. There is more
character in a brush kangaroo than in a good
many humans, and to study it you must be a
bushinan and lie low.
* * * •
H.F. : “Amen to ‘Compton’ on pollard
as diet; it is all he claims for it, and its general
use would ruin the pill-trade. A mixture of one
part pollard to two of flour makes a grand loal.
My own invention is the addition of sugar and
making the dough into buns ; they fill a void
under the belt like a charm. Also, pollard bread,
like whole meal, keeps well. pollard is best.
• * * *
In che desert country ('W.A.) where
often no water is to be found three hours after
rain, the blacks scoop out a little crescent-shaped
tree-limb, and sink it in a clay-pan till the ends
are level with the surface, then cover it carefully
TE KEEPA (Major Kemp), a lately-deceased
Maori warrior.
Photo., Kinsey & Co., Wellington (M.L.).
to prevent evaporation. This is done at about ten-
mile intervals, and the limb is dug up when
wanted and gently tilted to run the water out.
Diggers on many western fields serve the same
purpose by sinking hollow logs, blocked at the
bottom, perpendicularly in the ground.
* * * *
Plover •. ‘ Saw an ox-conductor lately
driving his team across a flooded creek. Bullocks
all under water ; but bullocky didn’t seem to mind
much. He cut with his whip at an extra large
bubble and yelled, ‘ Smoker, you ! going to
sleep there, are you ? You’d loaf on your (blanky)
road down a precipice, you would.’ ”
• * ♦ •
He was one of the liveliest residents of a
town which was very lively in the old days, but
Cupid “ pinked ” him, and he entered on a course
of reformation much to the disgust of his
quondam boon companions. One evening, for no
particular reason, the township started on a howl-
ing drunk, and while the night was yet young the
reformed one was missed, and was sought for high
and low without success. By and by “ the boys ”
learnt that he had been seen making for the court
house (a very primitive building) with what ap-
peared to be a bundle of bedding under his arm.
A secret meeting of the “ Royal Silvertail Push ”
was at once called, and plans laid “to nip this
sort of thing in the bud.” Within ten minutes two
men in a buggy left the “ swell ” hotel yard. At
the same moment four men entered the hall of
justice (per window) and pounced upon the sleep-
ing escapee. It was a hot summer’s night and
his toilet scanty in consequence. A shawl was
tied round his head —a sheet covered the rest and
a couple of saddle-straps held the parcel together.
He was carried out to the aforementioned buggy
and away it went. The four “sc.rufflers” then
separated, and soon after. “ the whisper ’’ went
round that the captive “ mid nodings on ” might
be seen “for one night only,” whereupon the
whole male population turned out to enjoy the
“wanderer’s return.” He came—fleeing like, a
hunted hare and sore distressed by his 3-mile
canter from the “dumping” spot. The town-
ship’s ecstatic reminiscences of that spectacle
finally drove the “ exhibit ” out of the district.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Do you ever have a headache ? Would
you not have a cure —simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post.*
Robbery, etc-
Dear Bulletin. —Why are postal rates so com-
plicated? What is really gained? I only know the
Maoriland scale, but just consider it. Letters, 4d. the
ounce ; books, 4d. the lb. That is plain, and not unfair.
But then go on to the complication of parcel post—6d. the
first lb., 3d. each succeeding lb. ; book post, jd-the first
2oz. ; commercial papers, Id. the first 4oz. And outside
Maoriland a printed paper under 2oz. is id. anywhere,
while the same matter type-written is 2id. Could we not
simplify the whole, without much loss of revenue, into
two classes, “closed” and “open?” The “closed’ matter
would include what we now call “letters, which may
only be opened by special warrant, and may not be de-
layed ; 2d. the ioz.' should carry them anywhere “ Open
matter would include every kind of parcel, book, and
non-private manuscript, liable to be opened and, in case
of pressure of business, delayed. This could g° every-
where at id. the 20z., as “ books ”do now. The limit of
weight is also very complicated, differing m different
countries for books, letters, parcels, samples, &c. Surely
one limit would do for all ?—lgnotus.
* * * *
Maoriland talks of putting an export duty
on kauri-gum, which, it is believed, is now the only
much-used substitute for copal in the manufacture of
varnish. Kauri-gum is only found in the Auckland pro-
vincial district, its habitat being from the latitude of
T ake Taupo northwards. Thirty years ago gum was
largely used by the settlers as a fire-kindler, and could be
bought from the Maoris at about a couple of shillings a.
sack. Now the gumdiggers receive from £4O to £5O a ton
for it at the bush-stores, and it is believed it costs the
varnish-makers as much again.
• * • *
It leaks out that the up-south trader who got so
big a cheap advt. out of his alleged paying-off of old-
time creditors only appeased the hunger of the small-fry
—to the extent of two or three hundreds—after all.
The great man is bathed in glory, but the big creditors,
are waiting—and waiting—and waiting.
» » * *
Good misprint for a Westralian wild-oat—
“ Capital £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 snares of £1 each.”
* • * *
N.S.F.— Not Sufficient Friends.
« * * *
Out at Bargowlahbudgeree (Q.) the Q.N. Bank
has a branch. It used to be a hot shop once, and the
manager, a timid kind of chappie, was often bullied into
bad business. So they sent out a rough-and-tumble
manager, who ran things better. When the inspector
came to visit him, he found the pug manager’s safe full of
various tins containing coin. He was short £l6. Let 8
see,” said the p.m., “ there must be another sardine-tm-
full somewhere.” And there was.
• * * *
Sydney G.P.O. now sells British penny stamps
for the convenience of people remitting small sums. You
can buy 2s. worth of British stamps for 2s. Bd., or Is.
worth for Is. 2d.—at least that.was the experience of one
recent purchaser. So he naturally bought two lots of Is.
worth each, and left the flabbergasted clerk struggling to
decide whether 6d. worth of stamps would be 6|d. or 10|d.
* * * *
In the early days of Coolgardie a noted expert
was asked to report on an alleged gold reef. On arrival
at the property he was shown by the man in charge over
a Godforsaken-looking piece of ground entirely devoid of
any promising features. “ But where is your blessed
reef ? ” he asked at last, and the reply was a comprehen-
sive arm-sweep that took in apparently the whole lease.
“Oh, I see!” was the rejoinder, “and the sky’s your
hanging-wall.” * * *
Manager of a little tin-pot Groperland mine,
dilating on its merits “ And if we don’t cut the lode at
the 169, astrology's a blanky liar ! ”
* * -* *
The export of Victorian butter alone this season
ehows £409,000 decrease as compared with last season’s
shipments of the same commodity. Also, very large
sums indeed have this season been dropped by every
shipper to England of tinned rabbits.
It’s not so easy to get safely away with bullion
stolen from the closely-guarded strong-rooms of ocean-
going steamers. A person under suspicion in connection
with a mysterious robbery which occurred some time
ago is constantly shadowed by detectives. An itching
to handle the spoil is certain to put him away sooner
or later, if guilty, and-the co. means to have revenge,
even at the cost of thousands in cash and years of strict
surveillance.
* * * •
Sydney newspaper par. : “ Through the fermen-
tation of acids which formed portion of the load of a
carrier who was travelling near Copmanhurst, an
explosion of five tons of dynamite occurred. Damage
estimated at £lOO was done.” Is that all! Dynamite is
worth £lOO a ton. What became of the man and the
team, also where is Copmanliurst, and what has become
of the surrounding towns ? “I am sure ’tis true, because
I read it in the newspaper.’
» * * *
An intelligent analysis of the past and present
positions of certain very prominent figures among the
Westralian nouveaux riches will be excellent reading for
the thousands of deluded British speculators in W.A. and
other Australian mining ventures. At least one reputed
“ millionaire ” is notoriously broke.
* * • »
Whilst a person recently lauded in M.L. papers
for his bravery at a bush-fire was good-naturedly rushing
around saving other peoples’ dwellings from destruction
his own model mansion was burnt to the ground. It was
the only house insured in the district, and the insurance
co. is loudly oursing people who can’t mind their own
business.
• * • *
R. L. Nash, financial editor of the Sydney
Daily Telegraph, has issued the Australasian Joint Stock
Companies Year Book. It gives a complete official record
of all investments, furnishes a list of all the mining cos.
with data as to capital, production, divs., &c. It is by
far the best book of the kind published, and should be in
the hands of every broker and speculator.
* * • *
To the many hundreds who have gone bung
got out of their liabilities either by compromise, insol-
vency or fraudulent “ statutory declarations—the last
banking crisis is forgotten, but the remorselessness with
which poor wretches, who have hitherto met all calls, are
pursued for the balance of their liabilities, both to banks
and trading concerns, is appalling. The conscientious
man is being made the victim of those who were rogues
enough to “get out” at any cost—perjury or fraudulent
compromises were the most favored methods. So long as
an honest man has a cent, he has to pay to the uttermost
farthing. “ Honesty is the best policy ! ” Not much !
* * * *
Knife : “While the investigators of Melb. tram
trouble are about it they might as well ask secretary
Sprigg what number of hours a week lie puts m at the
co.’s work for his four-figure salary. Also, why he acts as
auditor to various banks, co’s, and private Arms, as
director to insurance, brewing, discount, and other co s,
and as secretary to a building society ; why, in short, lie
is allowed to engage in outside occupation galore, whilst
the poor-devil conductors and gripmen are forbidden to
o p en _or even to allow their wives to open —a small shop
wherewith to supplement the miserable wages and pro-
vide insurance against a possible sudden loss of em-
ployment. . , , *
The Lord Chief Justice of England recently
charged a jury in a libel-case in this fashion :“ My own
opinion is that the man who honestly criticises pro-
spectuses does a great public service. When you remem-
her the large number of wrecks enquired into by public
officials you will see how enormously the public have been
imposed upon by what are called ‘ wild-cat schemes, ana
you are entitled to afford every protection to the
journalist who honestly, in the discharge of his duty to
the public, exposes such ventures.” Phew ! When will
an Australian Judge talk in this strain .
Mr. JOHN BUSSELL, the passenger-hero of the
Maitland wreck.
Photo., Creelman & Co.
All the smarties down South are not on the
Stock Exchange. Three hook-nosed gentlemen started
iust before war broke out to buy up all the well-known
brands of Havana cigars held by the larger retailers. A
bier rise at once occurred.
* * • *
Although the disputes between a big man and
his big man, down south, are alleged to have been
throttled, it is now stated that the big man’s indiscretion
is likely to result in retaliation of a most sensational
character. Both men are “of the soil,” and when Greek
meets Greek—D’ye moind me now ?
* * * *
Jarrahdale Timber co. (writes a Bulletin cor-
respondent) is one of the oldest W. A. commercial institu-
tions, and at present one of the most prosperous. Has
absolute possession of a tremendous tract of country,
paying a paltry annual £5O rental. Owns about 40 miles
of railway with rolling stock and wharves, &c., at Rock-
ingham Bay—a harbor only second to that of Albany.
Employs over 300 men, and pays, say, £5OOO a month in
■wages. In the early part of its history the co. failed to
make ends meet, but of late years it has progressed
wonderfully, the Perth building boom giving it a big
lift. It must have been a splendid investment for the
shareholders—George and John Whittingham (Melb.),
Neil M‘Neil (Perth), Reid (R. Reid and Co.), and M Lean
<M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg).
All the big W. A. timber co.’s have been floated
in London. Miller’s, of Torbay, got a big lead of the
rest, and through plentiful advertising and a judicious
selection of imposing names for the directorate scored
heavily. The Jarrahdale co., probably Australasia’s best-
equipped timber station, was next, and several others
have followed suit. Jarrah is a shade better wood than
Karri, but the Torbay people more than equalise matters
by lower quotes and smart “ pushing” in foreign markets.
This timber-trade means a big thing for the land of W ait-
a-while. Latest shipments of Jarrah —90,000 sleepers for
Port Elizabeth and 50,000 for East London, South Africa.
Orders on hand—loo,ooo sleepers for Calcutta, and 250,000
blocks for Colombo.
In Campbelltown (N.S.W.j church-yard a
monument bears testimony to the “ many virtues
of Thomas Reddall, J.P., as a minister of Our
Saviour.” Not considered necessary to mention
that this precious disciple of the Pitiful One once
sentenced a miserable convict to the murderous
punishment of 500 lashes ! Perhaps he wanted to
give the weary rest.
Judging from the accounts now available,
the great sea-fight at Manila was just the sort of
row with just the sort of ending that might have
been expected, when the most wide-awake nation
on earth meets the nation that is fast asleep and
dreaming of Cortez and the Cid and the glories
of the old Conquistadores. The Spaniards forgot
to lay mines in the channel. They forgot to keep
a look-out. It was discovered at the last moment
that their torpedoes were useless for want of cer-
tain fixings which couldn’t be obtained nearer
than Europe. Their guns were old and obsolete.
Their magazines were planted conspicuously on a
hill where the first shell could blow their ammu-
nition to Tophet. Their ships were old and feeble
—some of them wooden, and the fires were out,
and there was no steam in the boilers, so that even
the ancient craft that they had couldn’t move to
meet the agile Americans. The only thing that
was ready was the ever-reliable grit of the men,
who apparently fought their utterly hopeless fight
to the bitter end. But the 15th century has no
show when it knocks up against the 19th nowa-
days.
In the waiting-rooms at manyN.S.W. rail-
way-stations the fenders are made of portions of
disused steel-rails, liberally covered with Bruns-
wick black. Economical—and few people recog-
nise the deception.
In a Cape Colony court a defendant re-
cently pleaded that he was not liable for his wife's
board-bill of <£2l odd, as they were living
separately. Said the beak: “But plaintiff says
you live in the same house, eat at the same table,
and sleep in the same bed with the lady.” “That
is true,” admitted hubby; “but then, you see,
she finds all the cash. I’m out of work, and you
can’t say my wife is legally living with me when
she is earning her own living. If I’m without a
cent of my own I can’t possibly be ‘ keeping
her ! ” And the flabbergasted beak gave it up.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very’ palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/f>,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.
Demos: “‘Eureka Stockade,’ again. A
vivid account is given, at length, in Marcus
Clarke’s ‘ For the Term of His Natural Life.
‘ How ? ’ says the reader, ‘ I cannot find it in the
book.’ Which leads me to prophesy that the
work must be published complete some day, as
Clarke wrote it. Only two-thirds appears in the
book. The introductory portion was slashed off,
and the remainder truncated, in deference to an
omniscient and omnipotent Mr. Bentley, of Lon-
don. Hence whatever there is of rag-jag and
cobble. Yet the whole was twice published in
the Australian Journal during Clarke’s life, and
for the third time after his death. Conclusive
evidence was thus afforded that Clarke’s work as
a whole was worthy of its author.”
The manager of Spiers and Ponds’ central
depCt, London, states that whisky-and-soda is far
and away the most popular restaurant drink
throughout Great Britain. Also, Scotch whiskies
are knocking the Irish brands into oblivion. The
various gins—Old Tom, unsweetened (otherwise
Dry) and Hollands —maintain a steady circulation,
but the flow of rum and sherry diminishes
rapidly. The history of bar drinking, however,
gives many instances of startling revivals in cer-
tain liquor lines. Five-and-twenty years ago
“three of Irish ” came to be a popular cant order
at every London pub. “ Threeofirish.” Then, in
a moment of inspiration, perhaps, a representative
of the opposition whisky industries started the
cry of “ Seotchandsoda,” which has been increas-
ing in volume ever since.
Hardly anybody would, at a glance, take
the portrait in this issue of Tim Bulletin for that
of a full-blooded Maori. Major Kemp, known as
Taitako, up Wanganui way, and deriving his
Anglicised name from “Te Keepa,” did a lot of
fighting for the pakeha against the Maori warriors
of the early days, the medals for which are seen
on his breast. The sword by his side, a present
from Queen Victoria, is inscribed “For unfailing
loyalty and valor.” “Loyalty ”is a pretty elastic
word, but it seems a good bit overstretched in the
case of a man who fights tooth-and-nail for the
invader against his own kith and kin. It says a
lot for Maori apathy that Kemp was, after all,
allowed to die in his bed. Te Keepa was the son
of Tanguru and Reremaki, with a mana extending
throughout Wanganui, down to the much-con-
tested Horowhenua arid Papaitonga Lakes. Only
the day before Te Keepa died the Maori Appellate
Court justified his conduct in connection with the
Horowhenua Block transaction, a result which is
said to have killed the old man (aged 75) with joy
or astonishment. So useful was Te Keepa to the
Eakehas in the war that General Whitmore said
e was worth 200 men in the field, and he was
repeatedly mentioned for feats of valor. (Curious
fora Maori chief to get “ mention ” in British
despatches about engagements with his country-
men.) When the country between Wellington
and Wanganui was overrun by hostile war parties,
Te Keepa carried the mails through single-handed.
Major Kemp declined a seat in the Leg. Council,
saying he would rather win a seat in the Lower
House by contest. His death-bed advice to his
tribe was--“ Sell no more land. Keep what you
have for our own people.”
Mr. “Jack” Russell, of Newcastle,
N.S.W., the hero who carried the life-line
ashore at the Maitland wreck, is a burlj 7
man of the type universally associated
with ideas of bravery. Quiet, unassuming
and self-consoious, he resents the publicity
given to his name over what he appears to
consider a mere matter of course, and, at
present, his time is fully occupied in dodg-
ing interviewei's. Mr. Russell was a pas-
senger by the Maitland, and, after seeing
two men drowned in the attempt, he suc-
ceeded in reaching the shore with a line.
After almost miraculously escaping death
in the first instance, he repeatedly risked
life and limb while successfully helping
many people to shore. It is intended to
present him with a testimonial, and to urge
his claim to the Albert medal. Those
who know him expect to see him disappear
for a time to escape these well-meant
honors.
Dear Bulletin . Kioto has been
tin? capital of Japan for 11 centuries. The
former capital was N.igaoka, and Kioto
was made the capital by the Emperor
Kwaimtm. The Imperial Palace is there;
the last national exhibition was held there,
three years ago; and, although Tokio is
now politically and commercially the capi-
tal, Kioto is still inspected by the older
class of Japanese as the representative
Japanese city. As the hydraulic and elec-
trical engineering works of the city beat
anything in Sydney, I fail to see how it can
be considered an “ unknown town.” Also,
the name has not been changed to “Sai-
kio,” as you state, but an eastern quarter
of the city is now called “Okasaki.” —H.X.
[“ H.X.” says that Kioto “has been the
capital for 11 centuries.” Then he admits
that Tokio (which is four times the size
of Kioto) “is now” the capital. Well,
The Bulletin said it was.—Ed. B.
E.J.B. : “Interesting to watch banana-
shipping in Suva, Fiji. The steamer anchors out
in the harbor, and is quickly surrounded by a
flotilla of small craft of all shapes, two and three
deep. All the hatches are worked at once, and
the bunches come up one at a time, handed on by
natives perched on stages up the ship’s side and
down the hatch. The shipper’s agent, standing
over the hatches, keeps his eye open for bad
bunches, which he rejects with an angry “ Beu
Ongo ” (throw out that one !), at the same time
counting the accepted bunches with a sheep-tally
machine. A bunch often passes through 20 pairs
of hands from the small craft to the hold. The
A.U.S.N. and Union Co.’s steamers take away
every fortnight some 15 to 20 thousand bunches.
Fiji is one of the few countries in the world that
produce bananas all the year round, and in this
respect has the pull over Queensland, which has
“ seasons.”


AN ENTHUSIASTIC FEDEEATIONIST.


THB PHUROH AND MONEY
In tfie light of my results an*
ftrfhdr knowledge. I began soon after, al-
most automatically at first, to sift the Bible
from a monetary point of view—tbe Bible
abounds in monetary references and raeta-
(Phors. It gradually, however, began to dawn
on mo that tho Book is. from a monetary (and
by consequence) higher, point of view, unsat-v'
ip .a most.jeriquA. wax. /
l7/
& 7
k, He.lt> A^j|l|
jaifeA^
A as* frc
other r£ s? e, ' rAr ,able of reaVismg yester-
bSeß actions «as tmv ’^^ent.
ance -oidetectives. Tral „ the for lo
day **>l** attendant borrows, wa dreD ~yj
k w ith which am <*
-of amusement sc Nes, Tbm g^.
■§-&? }jjv or > L
~r\ \ x \f
"bed-i Op)y bsovop "T?o-S-»'5/
*T e ;'_ «I 7
1 W'l//) iP
??of"/ \Jj
ryoyoy iy 7/je, /
>1 " / fH
°S> / Jl
rr> * \°bj i° AfflSi
ocl K I 1
TO TOP. ELECTORS OF VICTORIA.
l Gentlemen, —On bShalf of our league we
h take its opportunity of
% with reference to our work and objeots,
if The Victorian Anti-Commonwealth Bill
its rejection- Our operations will invohe
_„,.u evnense, and financial aid is im-
nwessarv to enable us to reap
■> aid in their power p.
tm, J J
&o v ry
d&tfce , little boy ?"
y&UTflg r) febX — DotyKTlK^,
lljf ttQP22£^~.
*,&•<? tu^>w> ur V 4c -
This' i»
particularly so among the Citfoese maker*
of furniture. When questioned by the
inspector of factories, the Chinese declare
that they are receiving the stipulated wage,
and the eiiiployer naturally iupportf their
statement.
e \
kU^"sfcu^i-
\ Oj c^u i> * *" 'Pb
Hill 111
lll I
I 11111
II i%ii iiifif
/ >4fT III %
fXVj'
I A lot of rubbish h.;d been talked IM| V^g
I about the Governor-General and. tl - Mf . B\\l
I thin” in connectionig able man. H M fltff
jo— rwp|
\ Ij>c :-"ty <&AT |
'iSwih it - ” wn/
3 Cjjri^teyecL'nje!'
/ !%&
MELBOUENIANA.


RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant ani>
Effective.
Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
. -.r ■nTtTrn'rmWC
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for IS.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses
R. RAFFAN. Proprietor,
55 Elarin-st., MELBOURNE.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(cf any province) accompany.
Potiphar : Consider yourself sworn at K.3L:
“ Religion has made the doing of almost anything on
Sunday a pleasure by forbidding it." No, indeed ! Not
one man in 10,000 cares enough about the church to feel
a pleasure even in doing what it tells him not to.
Nika: Not a picture—only a map. Picture shows a
mountain; map merely says “ Mt. So-and-so, 8724 ft.
high.” You don’t paint an emotion ; you simply say this
emotion is 8724 ft. high Ajax: “Great Bank Fraud"
so beautifully obscure that only you and Heaven know
what kind of a fraud you are driving at. T.A.K.: Nicely
written, but the good girl who married a poor but honest
man, and lived happily ever after, is older than every-
thing on record—bar chaos W. Lyell : What are you
driving at? : Your kind offer to “ work up a dis-
cussion on drink ”in this paper is declined F.C. : The
praste “ put the stone ” further than the other man. Did
he, begorra? J.L. : Poem wouldn't either help or
hinder Federation, and would sadden both parties
P.F.R. : “Federal ABO” declined with a loud thud.
...A.T. (Rockhampton): Ranji literature is off
Block 14 : Yes, it might. Again, it might not.
. Lib.: Motive good ; verse execrable. M‘6. : Never
heard of a leakage. The shops that sell the sweep tickets
are doubtless debited with the full number of tickets
they ta :e, any that remain unsold at the shops are
practically bought by the promoter. .No “leakage”
there B.S. : True, as j'ou say, Shakespeare didn’t in-
vent the “Jumping Frog.” Neither did Mark Twain.
The yarn is a lot older than Twain H. : The great sen-
sation scribe in “Held by the Enemy" must be familiar
to many Bulletin readers. From your description it is
evident that you have never seen the play Mathanas :
Looks like a spiteful libel A.M.G. : General Holt, The
Bulletin is told, went back to Ireland and opened a
public-house in Kevin-street, Dublin. He is believed to
have been buried in “Bully’sAcre,"an ancient cemetery on
the south side of the River Liffey Sievier : Christie
Murray's appearance in “The Penman," was at Melb.
lioyal. The play was several times produced at the Bijou.
J. PUrtell: Why not set “ Barbarous Melb.” to a suit-
able dirge and get a musical undertaker to sing it?...
C.A.: Considering that pedestrianism is an unnoticed
sport in Melbourne, the legs of its obscure professors are
naturally unimportant G.H.R.: Don’t remember them.
C. : On the contrary, of all the women in a theatre the
skirted ballet-dancers are dressed with the strictest re-
gard for decency. The notion that they are anyway
“improper ” in their high-kicking, is one of those sweet
delusions which no wise management would venture to
dispel Seria : Excellent matter, but prima-facie libel-
lous, and as you send no verificatory clipping, into the
basket it goes ! In such matters a newspaper can trust
nobody Kalangoora : Subject exhausted Wan-
derer : No good going to Coolgardie to look for work.
Too many unemployed there Fed : Yes. N.S.W.
Federalists have, in order to carry the Bill, to poll at
least 80,000 votes in its favor, and also show a majority
(small or large) over the opposition Y. : Yes, but then
you see some people are somebody, and some people are
only somebody’s wife C.D. (W’arwick) : Put your griev-
ance in one-fortieth of the space and write again
Miner (Wild Cat Land): Glad to hear there is one alluvial
digger with an umbrella Student (Zeehan) : Good
yarn, but old F.C.: The Commonwealth is not allowed
to “impose any tax on property belonging to a State.’’
Sut that doesn't refer to property belonging to private
ndividuals in a State. Surely the language is simple
enough ! R.O. : Fact unsavoury Opera Hat(Maori-
land): Squashed-hat joke too old {for repetition
C.W.G. : Yes, also under Federation N.S. Wales would
have a practical Australian monopoly of iron manufacture.
She would have the whole Australian market open
to her with a tariff against the outside world; but it
would not pay to put. up large iron-works in New
South Wales with only one province for a market.
How much, do you think, an iron-making monoply
would be worth annually to N.S. Wales? F.S.: Will
illustrate one J.F.M. (L.L.): Both old G.A.B. :
Can t see the points P.M. : But we daren’t print the
Maginty story Stye: Many items are scrawled, but
few are chosen N.D.P. : Don’t remember them
J.G.T.11. : Your drawing not good enough to directly
'•eproduce. May serve as suggestion A.O.P. : Sorry
jo time to go into details ... C.P. : Dibbs never told the
Unemployed to “eat grass,” the statement to that effect
was a malicious lie .. .. 11. Camp. J. : Clumsy libel in every
one of them .... C.A. : Marcus Clarke's oldest son when
last heard of, was, we believe, in a Govt, billet in Perth
(W.A.) C.B. : The law clearly is, that if you lend Jones
furniture and Jones falls in arrear with his rent, the
landlord can sell your furniture in the house when he dis-
trains on Jones. Fatman says it is right because it’s
legal, and if you interfere the law will deal severely with
him. Of course, it is a sheer swindle to levy on your
property for Jones’ debts, yet this is one of the privileges
that Fatman fights for, and the house of Landlords
upholds ... Phida : The bark that sails the Great Divide
is an amphibious bark, anyway .... C.H. (M.L.) : Cold-
mutton kind of poems, and mighty little on the bone
Nodrag : Too moral. Always hit a moral with a brick.
...Medda: Poem re “ the gallant Lasseteers ” declined
with saucepans . Reader :It was Sir Henry Browne
Hayes who lived at Vaucluse Harry M. : You’d better
agree to differ Sancha : Brighter! briefer! W.B. :
“ Grapes” may do H.F. : All your good ideas seem to
want so much qualification Why don’t you walk round
the subject?. Eunella : Too juvenile M. :
“Thirty” reads less forcible than hysterical G.R. :
Flat Medda : Fact that most Salvation lasses are
honestly fanatic knocks wind out of it Philos : A pes-
simist at five-and-twenty—when every man should be a
hero and every woman a goddess! John W. : Poor
vintage Edward M. :We remember one worse poet.
P.T.C. : Melodious lines; too thin for B. space
E.E.E. : Sorry if you often feel like that En»ry S.
(W.A.) : Comparatively tired item. The local fatigue is
superlative H.R.M. : “Even” no better; perhaps
“ Honeymoon.” H.W.P. : Take a word of advice from
experience : don’t write cold poems about your wife ;
write warm ones about the Other Woman Doggerel :
Little force Quoth : We don’t print enigmas. They
are too often “loaded.” 0.8. : Declined with thanks.
Vic. : Goose-yarn appropriately silly Soudan Ass :
Don’t see wherein you differ from any other kind of ass....
Ginghie J.: Irish-English, or Freneh-English—what’s the
odds as long as you’re tickled ! D. M‘L. : Too sugges-
tive of the dissecting-table E. de K. : Fairly , well told,
yet not up to Bulletin mark Halie : “ Everyday inci-
dent,” mild little weep Chas. S. F. : Feeble use of con-
ventional situations .. . H. S. T. : Not bad in its way, but
too magniloquent for our print Nil : Exactly so !
Brumby : Can’t yard you .. Sarah F. : Some weight of
thought but ill-expressed .... Harry J. C. : You “find no
end; in wandering mazes lost.’’... Lucie: Mildly meri-
torious sentiments in mildly demeritorious verse .... C.B. :
Bulletin doesn’t care to enlarge on the subject of mad
mothers chopping up their children. That sort of thing
is as contagious as diphtheria W. B. : “Screen” will
soon be printed; also probably “Hard.” Caisar
Bulletin prints no “jam ” about itself. It has lived by
pleasing itself, and taking its chance of pleasing other
people
Hard Lines for the residents of Victoria and
fI.S.W. Messrs. M‘LEAN BROS, and RIGG, Ltd.,
the well-known Ironmongers, are offering decided bar-
gains in electro-plated ware, table and pocket cutlery,
lamps, cooking stoves and ranges, household and kitchen
requisites. The sporting fraternity have not been for-
gotten —special bargains in Cashmores, Hollis and Scotts
i. 8., B.L. guns. Send for our Gun and Cartridge Price-
lists, posted on application. Don’t forget, M‘LEAN
BROS, and RIGG Ltd., furnishing general and builders’
Ironmongers, Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, George-street,
Sydney.
Scot: “When Bessemer’s steel first was
made, I was present at a seance of shipbuilders
and engineers in Glasgow'. Everyone except old
Randolph, of Randolph and Elder, and John
Fulton, of the Lancefield Forge, pronounced it
«Crude, very crude, and unworkable for ship-
building.’ James Rodger, of Smith and Rodger,
said it would improve and eventually make rolled
plates. These three were right. One retired,
took to fly-fishing and hanged the ‘ tred ’ (trade);
another died mad on steam-hammers; the third
sold his yard, also took to fishing and a kayrich
(carriage); but Bessemer’s steel lives in many
improved forms.”
The Fatherhood of the China-
man.
Dear Bulletin,—A few months ago I pointed
out in Sydney D.T. that much of the prejudice
against the Chinese rested on illogical bases —
that they were law-abiding and thrifty ; that they
were producers of wealth from the soil which
would not be produced but for their industry and
Chinese half-caste girl, aged IT. Musician and
singer.
Photo., Osborne Bros., Sydney.
skill, and that their standard of living was high,
and their consumption of European food and
clothing much greater than was generally sup-
posed. Not long afterwards the S.M. Herald
contended that, though this might be true, the
racial deterioration which followed the mixture of
Mongolian and Caucasian blood was sufficient
argument against any mitigation of the policy of
restriction of Chinese immigration. Now, having
numerous friends and acquaintances amongst both
Chinese and Chinese half-castes, and knowing that
the European mothers of many of these half-castes
sprang from a very debased class, it had often been
a matter of surprise to me that the social condition
and educational status of their mixed offspiring
was so high ; and I had arrived at the conclusion
that this apparent anomaly could be only due to
the care and self-sacrifice of their Chinese fathers.
The majority of the girls are educated at
expensive schools, and a half-caste young
woman who does not possess the usual accom-
plishments of the daughters of well-to-do
Australians is rare. The piano and the
American organ are common articles of furniture
in the homes of the half-castes, and the frequency
of illuminated scriptural texts as adornments of
their dwellings marks a “ serious-mindedness ”
somewhat remarkable to the uninitiated. Know-
ing, however, that my ipse dixit would not be
accepted unreservedly by a public strongly pre-
judiced against aliens of any kind, I determined
to see what independent evidence was collectable
upon the subject. The statistical publications of
N.S. Wales throw no special light upon the
matter, but the census returns show that at last
enumeration there were 867 of these hybrids in
N.S. Wales, and that of the white wives of China-
men, 61 per cent, were Australians. There were
other official sources of information available,
however. Further, in reply to an inquiry on the
point, Police-Inspector-General Fosbery stated
that there were no half-caste prostitutes in the
metropolitan district, and I happen to know from
Chinese sources that Mr. Fosbery made careful
investigation before answering my query. And,
when it is remembered that there are nearly 300
half-caste women in the metropolitan district the
antecedents of whose mothers would, in the
majority of cases, be extremely dubious,
this is valuable evidence in favor of these
people. Also, putting actual prostitution aside,
the Deputy Registrar-General states, in reply! to
an inquiry as to the prevalence of illegitimacy
amongst Chinese half-castes, that, though prob-
ably some Chinese half-caste girls have English
names, “no women with Chinese names have been
registered as the mothers of illegitimate children
in Sydney from Ist January last (1897) to date.
And, as half-castes almost invariably .adopt the
paternal (Chinese) surname, it may be taken for
granted that illegitimacy is almost unknown
amongst them. Mr. Sidney, secretary to the
Charity Organisation Society, also informs me
that, in 19 years, his society has not had
a single application for admission to any lying-
in-home on behalf of any Chinese half-caste, or for
charitable relief of any kind by a Chinese or
Chinese half-caste.
The standing figure is a Chinese half-caste. Has
won prizes shearing, and last season “ rung”
several sheds in the western district.
Mr. F. H. Galbraith, police-magistrate at Hay,
who was for some years resident at Shoal-
haven, sent me word that the half-castes in that
district were “ all very respectable and well con-
ducted.” Mr. W. Seymour Wells, formerly road-
superintendent in the Shoalhaven district, informs
me further that young half-caste women were m
great demand there as general servants, and com-
manded a higher wage than their European sisters
of the cap-and-apron.
So conclusive, indeed, is the evidence of the
half-caste women’s general morality that I thought
their freedom from vice might possibly be due to
some congenital lack of sexual vitality, aim I
communicated this doubt to a medical man hold-
ing a high position in the Sydney University.
He replied with characteristic caution as follows:
“The freedom from vice of Chinese half-caste
women compares favorably with what is com
monly believed of half-caste women of other races,
and it would not be safe in the present state of
knowledge to attribute it to a lack of sexual
vitality. The questions involved are very compli-
cated, and an enquiry into the fecundity, fertility,
and sterility of Chinese half-caste women both
here and in China would well repay the trouble it
would entail.”
Aspiring physiologists have here a new field of
research ; but, as for myself, I had, perforce, to be
satisfied with the appended “fertility” statistics
of ten families the mothers of which are half-castes.
No of „ •, No. of
Family. Children. Family. Children.
No. 1 ... S No. 6 ... 4
No. 2 ... 6 No. 7 ... 4
No. 3 ... 1 No. 8 ... 3
No. 4 ... 3 No. 9 ... 4
No. 6 ... 6 No. 10 ... 6
Total ... 38
Average number of children per family, 3.8
Had statistics dealing with women of maturer
nge be ;n available, it would probably be found
that the fertility of the half-caste mother
exceeds that of the average white mother; and,
consequently, a high standard of morality may be
legitimately assumed for the Chinese half-caste
women.
N.S. Wales.
J. A. PHILP.
Land of the Crocodile.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a retired spot, a few miles out of Bris-
bane, lives an old fellow who was a lieutenant in
the 55th lowa Regiment, at the battle of Vicks-
burg. The men of the 55th lowa were known as
the 41 Fighting Methodists,” and, after pitohing-
in like devils at Vicksburg, they retired
Family Group.—Father Chinese, mother Chinese
half-caste.
Photo., Lemaire, Sydney.
and held a thanksgiving service ! Says the old
man referred to : “We smote the enemy with
the sword of Gideon, and then sang a hymn of
praise to the Lord ! ” Hallelujah ! That was one
occasion, at all events, when Methodism was not,
as Carlyle sarcastically puts it, “looking inward,
contemplating its own navel.”
* * * *
If MTiwraitli returns to Queensland in
good fighting form he will flutter the pigeons in
more than one dovecote. I remember asking him
one hospitable night at “ Auchenflower ” (his
private residence): “ What is your predominating
ambition?” “My ambition,” he replied, with
fiery emphasis, “is to make Queensland ( ',e
wealthiest, happiest, and greatest of the A.i.s-
tralias ! ” And, doubtless, he was perfectly sin-
cere ; but, alas! the keystone of his Arch of
Triumph gave way under hostile pressure, and the
rest fell to pieces like a Chinese puzzle. Alone
and free, he could have done it—a veritable Corio-
lanus in politics—but the Fates were against him,
as they doubtless would have been against
Frederick the Great, and Peter the Great, and
Alexander if they had been compelled to consider
the majority in a Parliament elected by “loud
cheers ” and “ tumultuous applause.”
* * * *
An old white-headed Richmond River
aboriginal recently told me that he was at Runny-
mede station, on that river, when it belonged to
“ Mitha Teefen ” —meaning Ward Stephen, once
of the Sydney Hkrald —and that he was close to
Stephen’s son when the latter accidentally shot
himself. The young fellow was buried in the
station-garden.
* * * •
Had a recent chat, at Jimbour station,
with Charlie Samuels, the once famous sprint-
runner. His chief regret was the wasting of all
his money among Sydney thieves and spielers.
Charlie’s father, a fine old fellow of 70, is a Namoi
native, and came over to the Logan River in
South Queensland via New England in 1846 with
the late C. R. Haley. The old chap still speaks
his own language, the Kamilroi dialect of the
Namoi, in addition to the “ Wacca-Wacca ” of
the Darling Downs.
* * * *
The word “ bushranger ” in the early days
of Australia appears to have had the significance
of “ bush man ”at the present time. An ad. in
Sydney Gazette of 1805 is for “a steady, honest
white man, who is also a good bushranger 1 ”
Chinese half-caste youth. Won gold medal at
Scots College, Woollahra, on the votes of his
schoolmates, as being the most popular boy in the
school.
Photo., Crown Studios.
One of Thomas Mitchell’s exploring-
party, in 1846, was an Italian, named Felix
Maguire, who was invaluable in dry country.
Mitchell records that Maguire could go to sleep,
dream of the locality of water, wake up, and go
straight to the spot. He did this at least twice.
I have known a woman who possessed the same
curious faculty.
* * * *
Let me commend to title-craving Aus-
tralian politicians the system of the Brazilian
statesman, Pereira. All Brazilian titles were sold
at fixed ad valorem rates, and the resultant money
was devoted to the erection and endowment of the
splendid lunatic asylum on the shores of the Bay
of Botafogo ! Cold historical Brazilian fact! The
asylum has been - described as “ less a monument
of humanity and love of our afflicted neighbors
than of the vanity and frailty of poor human
nature, the tributes to which erected it.” Much
coin for similar purposes could doubtless be raised
in Australia from the foolish human fowls who
desire to strut about with a solitary bird-of-para-
dise feather stuck in their own commonplace tails.
• * * *
In South Brisbane lives an ex-U.S. Texan
Ranger, who tells me he was at the public-house
near the Sandridge rifle range when Lindsay
Gordon shot himself, Gordon was passing with a
rifle over his shoulder, and someone hailed him.
He turned back, had a glass of brandy, and
resumed his walk, saying he was going to the rirb--
range to “do some shooting.” Soon afterwards
the pub. party heard a rifle-shot, and news cann-
in that Gordon had shot himself. Just as my
informant arrived on the spot Lieut. Scratchier
rode up, jumped off his horse, lifted Gordons
head, and observed :“ A bag o’ bones —a bag o
bones ! ” Scratchley afterwards became Sir Peter
Scratchley, and met a somewhat tragic end on the
North Queensland coast.
* * » *
Alexander Forbes, brother of the famous
war correspondent, was a middy on the Omar
Pasha about 1860. Afterwards shepherd on
Hooper’s Hawltwood station, on the Burnett River
(Q.), where he wrote many poems and ballads, and
covered the walls of his hut with these poetic pro-
ductions. Died in Toowoomba. When Archibald
Forbes was in Australia he went to visit the
grave.
MAROOGALINE.
In Hobart Mercury 44 A Christian Woman
shrieks wildly to her “brother-ministers ” to put
more “ sand ” into their rain-supplications. “Cer-
tainly, we did have an answer, but only in a
small way.” The ghastly unhumorousness of the
pious person is proof even against the grotesque
conception of a pro rata Omnipotent, running a
universe on the strictest business principles.
“ Absolutely no Credit! ”
According to a decision of Melb. District
Court, the cyclist can disport himself on the paths
of local reserves without bivach of the law. It
was held that as the paths had not been surveyed
and laid out, the cyclist is not punishable iinder
the Police Offences Act. So the silent _ bike < n
these early setting eves will be as deadly in M« I ■-
parks as Bill Sikes’ sand-bag.
Boy—Father Chinese, mother Chinese half-caste
Photo., Osborne Bros., Sydney.


While it is perfectly fair for N.S.W. j
Presbyterians to demand, as they did the
3ynod the other day, a proportional share of the
money the Govt, disburses to other religious
bodies’ the attitude of ’9B Presbyterianism towards
the State milch cow must strike t h o ob^® r .
much less heroio than the attitude of thesameism
in 1842. Then, at a meeting in the old church m
Jamieson-st., Sydney Presbyterianism renounced
the State and all its pelf, and manf y P „
on record its determination to refuse, though aU
other churches accepted, State stipends m
oever manner tendered .
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
it
the celebrated
LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
LUSTROUS BLUE
AND
JET BLACK,
AND
EVERY CONCEIV-
ABLE SHADE FOR
WEAR.
‘‘LOUIS’’ Velve-
teen is essentially a
Ladies’ material, and
surpasses all Fabrics
for the adornment of
women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
handsome
FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
NOTE WELL.—Each yard of genuine “ LOUIS
Velveteen bears the name, and is stamped with «
<T')arantee of wear.
> adies should refect all Substitutes.
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER
HAS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents au,
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations.
“BEETHAM’S” is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/-& 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham, England.
FELTON,
ELLIOTT
GRIM WADE & CO., Melbourne;
BROS., Sydney.
Hotels.
n
' SI
sszal
A*ch,
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
\ IMI *OL B'S GEORGE HOTEL, °PP° si^-
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Largest Hotel
Vccominodation in Victors. INCLUSIVE TARIFF
Hoarders, 9s. per Day, or > Guineas per Week.
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTIOH.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
QPPOSIT6 5.R.9-
THE <SRANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
II
K
STOYE,
Manager.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Toronto Hotel,
Lake
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
GECtUDUR =*=
unOERDIERR
FOR
WINTER COMFORT.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, or Cotton.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
K& CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Solb Asbntb :
Qauid graham « Co.,
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
SK/rf D/SEASEf
d?r6berts
and Wounds
OF EVERY
DESCRIPTION
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
AND ALL DISORDERS OF THE
STOMACH & , L V£R /r.cAru
OF ALL CHEMISTS I It X 2/? EACH
BEACH & BARNICOTT^BRIDPO^.
This well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS^*®"
0
S^' EOUGH ~!2K s
SPOONFUL A DOSE.
Gives Immediate Relief and Rest.
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
See that HAYMAN’S is supplied.
ATKINSON’S
Newest Perfume
AOLINE
“Most Refreshing.” '
N,CE "gSBahSISv REVIVING IN
HOT OR CROWDED ROOMS.
A true natural perfume
made from flowers*
Not a Chemical Preparation.
“AOLINE” PERFUME.
“ Most Refreshing."
“AOLINE” TOILET SOAP
For the complexion.
“AOLINE” TOILET POWDER
Imparts a delightful bloom to
the complexion.
“AOLINE” SACHETS. „ .. .
Delightful for Handkerchiefs.
Gloves, &o.
“AOLINE” TOILET CREAM.
Softening and beautifying for
the complexion.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
J. & E. ATKINSON, Ltd., 24, Old Bond St., London.
INVENTORS OF THE CELEBRATED
M WHITE ROSE” PERFUME.
» A Duihess M
DR. MACKENZIE Expanding Shoulder
Brace for Men.
In bringing this Brace before the public we are supplying
a long-felt want. It can be worn with perfect ease, and
for clerks, accountants, and more especially cyclists, it
will be found invaluable. In fact, they are «ueh a protec-
Bic/Cr
i
tion to the lungs
and kidneys the
wearer can sit in
draughts with im-
punity without the
slightest danger of
catching cold. '
Dr. MACKENZIE’S Celebrated Shoulder Brace
and Spinal Supporting Corset.
The Corset not only protects the spine, but also the
lungs, keeps the shoulder-blades in proper position, and
® • ../».,vw-ir>i-ic’o Trj word,
preventTstooping or roundness. In a word, the wearer
unconsciously :acquires a graceful and perfect carriage.
M
MM>
vV * A>
■fMU,
ll*
These Corsets can be obtained nowhere but from the
Dr Mackenzie Corset Company, and are not sold by any-
one but ourselves, we having the patent r.ghts of the
goods. Beware of Spurious Imitations.
ST.. MELBOURNE.
Colmane’s
Eucalypti
Extract
For ...
Winter Couchs
Colds &
ChestComplaijjs
USED B>r
earl Jersey
LordCarrincton
etc
PURITY!
What’ B in a name 1 Every-
thing we reply. For the
last ten years Coleman©
and Pure Eucalypte
have gone hand-in-hand,
and deservedly so. Instead
of trading on a name, and I
supplying adulterated,
cheapened Eucalypte fas
many have done), they
have stuck to the genuine
article and that precious
""'PURITY!
Madame Albani uses
Colemane’s Euca-
lypte Lozenges, and
recommends them highly
for the throat and voice.
Is. boxes everywhere.
Publications.
]\TBW music.
•« Rose of the Morn” Waltz, by Henry Laski, composer
of My Polly Waltz ; “ Tops and Bottoms, a right merry
Burn Dance. bv Theo. Bonheur, La Gracieuse
Mazurka, by Eniile Larkozy , “ Tootsie
bv Benjamin Parks. Beautifully illustrated. PRICE 6d.
EACH of all musicsellers, or the publishers, I •
VAXTON & CO., 19 Oxford Street, London, and
203 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Catamites (post free)
of over 1000 songs, dance music, &c., at 3d. each.
ttENRY FARMER'S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
H E and PIANO. “ Martha,” . “ Robert U D.ab e
“Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Boigia, ™
Tell” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera, II Trova-
tore” “ Res Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
! KTS.-SSS&S:
' and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
S^&iettiSlK
W!fcl/<MST
lARK •
Corset
WitwoWfliST Corset
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN . ALWAYS WILL BE WORN
p ERFECT in sh ap e
LEN GTH ENS THE WA lS T.
SEA UTIFIES THE ItTg UR E .
W'wwoWAiSt Corset
THE MOST PERFECT
parisienne style.
ASK FOR
W'wtowA'ST Corset
OF ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN OV
P, W. LEE, Camden Buildings,
218, GEORGE STREET, SYONEV,
Plum
Plum
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should nob fail to give our celebrated Plum
pLor ftrial Tids brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
sneoi all v - tern per ed perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. W»
id is specially ternpeioo, i r y * ~ t> •_ practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the of tdge that is require,Ho ensure'an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
number of years can testify to their merits. We uuarantcc each Razor for /wo \ cars.
‘ f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful moroooo leather case, .
Price I R., zor j n j vory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
P!- : •“ i r.,
Vf'ifiiininiiQji
Wyfmiiiiiiiiu
* i ini
! !,r iiio
j j r • i> 111• i.
O'"
i . ' :; "
•''Will in
Wiiiiifl I III'*!!!! :;i5
jjanjSISSS
■ ii » » '!
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from AU-M 00l
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10 6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 (i. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
('lerical Suits to Measure, £5. Colt
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Hiding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Bawl
and other Uniforms, Hiding Habits,
,yc. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from. ,
We supply Ready-made Men s
capital Tweed Suits, 21 -. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 - Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black V atei"
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18,6. Tim
Greatest Assortment of Boys
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 «. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
c.fi qft Hats Caps, all kinds, Cheap. e
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,*’ also PaUcrns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. \\ rite
for them. The largest stock in Australia of «oollens,
Clothing Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you towntetoj^' Tweed
US. We will send vou enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
HEADACHE
Readers of, this paper should
know that Bishop’s Citrate of
Caffeine, which obtained the
highest award at the Chicago
Exhibition of 1894, is an imme-
diate cure for headache. It is
pleasant to take, and will be
found - most refreshing after
'shopping, or as a morning re-
storative, The Lancet com-,
mends it. Of all Chemists in
twp sizes. A Booklet on
ache sent post free on’applicar
tion to their Australian Depdt;
1§ .O’Connell.-.street, Sydney/
Inventors'dnd Sole Makers —
/ALFRED BISHOP, Ltd.,
48' Spelman St., London, E.-
'CURED.'-
RgAr_SER.MA.N Hollow Ground
tm
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
~rT .u VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
MAD f N 'bla V ck and IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT. & CO.. LONDON. V
Public Notices.
Public Service Board,
50, Young-street,
Sydney, 30th April, 1898.
ri HE Public Service Board hereby notify that a Com-
-1 petitive Examination of Candidates for admission to
the Professional Division of the Public Service of the
Colony will be held in Sydney, and at various Country
Centres which will be fixed as far as possible to suit the
convenience of candidates, on the 27th June and four
following days. The estimated number of appointments
to be made is 20. Candidates must not be less than lb or
more than 21 years of age on the first day of examination,
3Bd moral character, and in sound health Persons
already employed in the Clerical and General Divisions
of the Public Service, or who may have previously been
employed therein and retired for reasons other than an
offence, wi 1 be admitted to the examination provided
their does no exceed 30 years. Candidates may elect
to be examined for either the Engineering, the Survey,
or Drafting Branches, but must state in their application
the Branch which they desire to enter. Candidates for the
Engineering Branch will he examined in the following sub-
lets'-(1) Handwriting, (2) English (Dictation. Com-
position, Prck'is writing, raising. Analysis, and Derivation
of Words), (3) Arithmetic (full course), (4) Geometry
(Euclid, First Book), (5) Geography (outlines of physical
and political geography, and the geography of the Aus-
tralasian Colonies in moderate detail, (b) English History
from the middle of the Eighteenth Century to the present
time, especially with reference to the Colonies and
Dependencies, (7) Mathematics (Euclid, Books 2 to 4 and
6 including easy exercises in these hooks, Algebra up to
and including quadratic equations), (8) Elementary
Drawing, and (9) Elementary Geology. Candidates for
the Survey or Drafting Branches will be examined in the
first eight subjects referred to above. Candidates tor all
branches will also be allowed to take any two, but not
more than two, of the following subjects (ft) English, a
prescribed author, viz., Tennyson's “Gareth .nd
Lynette ’’ (MacMillan). (?>) Latin, (<■) French, (-1) German.
(e) Elementary Chemistry. Any candidate for admission
to the Professional Division, who has previously passed
the examination for the Clerical Division, may, on appli-
cation being made by him, be credited on examination
with the number of marks obtained by him at the
Clerical Examination in the subjects that are common to
the two examinations. Application to attend the ex-
amination must he made on a form for the purposjp,
which can he obtained at the office of the Board, and
must reach the undersigned not later than the Ist June.
Candidates will he required to pay an examination fee of
I<K, which must be lodged with a Clerk of Petty Sessions
or the Treasury, and the receipt therefore forwarded
to the Secretary of the Board with t lie form of applica-
tion. A list of registered candidates, with centres of
examination, will he published in the OovKiiN.vti.Nr
Ga/.kttk, after the time for the receipt of applications has
expired, and candidates will also be advised direct of the
place at which they will he examined. _ ...
Copies of the Regulations in regard to this examination
can be obtained from the Government Printing Office.
By order of the Board,
9 a .75. J. W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Waning; price, 1/-; posted. 1/3.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newimn, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the Largest buyer
of olrilin Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a jjeriod of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
CbipS of WiSdon? . .
Eat Granuma and defy the physician.
Early to bed and early to rise,
And drink Billy Tea if you wish to be wise.
Granuma in the morning
E«>r mother’s darling.
Billy Tea at night
Is mother’s delight.
A PROVERB FOR CYCLISTS.
Granuma Porridge for a hard road.
One cup of Billy Tea in hand
Is worth ten (of any other) in the bush.
The proof of Granuma is in the eating.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
Sole Agents and Proprietors.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION A. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, Cliina, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in Hie City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Itoonis.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sl.
Smoke
- #|3fe==»» i gar "VWw—~~
L's-^S'
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The tune for the Cuban army of invasion-
Yankee Boodle.
A member of N.S.W. Govt, wagered
tin 0 1900 St Weo k *kat the Reid Ministry will last
The two Sydney syndicate dailies—D.T.
and Star—oppose the Convention Bill. The two
privately-owned dailies - Herald and E. News—
support it.
The Victorian Anti-billers don’t want a
-reaeration ; they want a Revolution. It is im-
possible to teach them the difference between the
two things.
So dissatisfied are officers of N.S.W. Gen-
eral Post Office with their treatment under the
Public Service Board that they are expected to
vote almost to a man for the Federal Bill, in hopes
of better treatment from the Commonwealth’s
Joe (Jook.
Vic. miners refuse to answer the call of
the Melb. Trades Hall and arm against the
federation Bill. An anti-Billious public meeting
convened at Bendigo the other night was attended
by six persons, conveners ineludpd. And that
even after Ben Tillett had orated there !
As illustrating what may happen when
I ’ed crated Australia wants a Governor-General,
it may lie noted that George Grey and Frederick
Wold were Premiers and also Governors of Aus-
tralasian provinces.
The anti-Federal-bill cry at Melb. Trades
Hall : —“ We want different politicians.” But,
unfortunately, they have only indifferent poli-
ticians in stock, barring Trenwith, who seems to
be losing his Hall-mark.
C. M. R. Dumas, proprietor of Mt. Barker
(S.A.) Courier, is regarded as a certainty for
Agent-General Cockburn’s vacated seat. S.A.
Assembly will soon consist almost entirely of
country journalists and local preachers.
Higgins, M.L.A. (Vic.); “A member of
N.S. W. Parliament has written to me that if the
Bill is carried there his House will refuse to send
it home.” Will Higgins furnish the name of the
member who proposes that Parliament should
override the decision of its masters, the people ?
Brisbane Courier, which is a stirring advo-
cate of Federation, nullifies its advocacy by boom-
ing Byrnes and his anti-Federal party. Editor
Ward has a free hand on academic questions ; but
Boodlewraith spells Courier bread-and-butter,
and the rats don’t yet judge it time to desert the
ship.
The men who are elected at the Narrabri
and Fitzroy (N.S.W.) bye-elections will only keep
their seats for about six weeks before the dissolu-
tion throvvs them out again on a cold world. Yet
five politicians are after the Narrabri seat, and
three or four are racing after M'Elhone’s old shoes
at Fitzroy.
Is “ moral suasion ” what it is cracked up
to be ? An umbrella-poke seems to have knocked
more sense into Premier Forrest than all the
deputations. What might have resulted from a
judicious half-brick? Perhaps manhood suffrage,
re - distribution of seats, and the Norseman-
Esperance railroad.
A devout anti-Federalist discovers the
working of Providence in the almost simultaneous
recovery of the brothers Heydon from the land of
silence. C. G. Heydon was gagged with an
Acting-Judgeship and L. F. Heydon with in-
fluenza. Both can now curse the Convention Bill
without restraint. Ain’t it Providential ?
Premier Reid promised at Goulburn last
week that if N.S.W. will reject the Federation
Bill he will make ‘arrangements for joining the
Federal Council. What a fall, after all the pre-
vious promises that Reid would put his fleshy
shoulder to the wheel, and never leave off till he
died, or burst, or Federation was accomplished !
The Federal Council has no money ; no authority ;
no mission. It meets for a few days every second
year at Hobart, bee:.:.: c if it doesn’t meet at least
every second year its constitution provides that it
shall cease to exist altogether. And the little
handful of delegates talk things over, and have a
few drinks, and then separate.
T.D. ; “This Yankee-Spanish conflict is
next to valueless as a test of modern naval arma-
wonts the first-class fighting nations have each
such a distinct set of trump inventions up their
sleeves. In conversation with a naval officer the
other day. lie told me that talk of shelving the
Brennan torpedo was sheer rot. It is the best (or
worst) messenger of death now held by the British
Admiralty, arid no other nation is known to
possess any instrument of such possibilities in
destruction. My informant said the Brennan
would even surprise the men who have to handle
it.”
Bulcock, the great Q. election-engineer, is
making no effort to put new life into his Political
Ass. For years, Bulcock was the organising
genius of the Boodlewraith, and his present inac-
tivity suggests indifference to the fate of the
Byrnes Ministry. Bulcock is very yellow and
Byrnes very green—which p’raps explains.
Lewis Cohen, the pushing ex-politician
who has apparently appointed himself leader of
the S.A. Anti-Billious party, was not eagerly wel-
comed by that miscellaneous crowd. The fact
that he rims a bank, where the hard-up citizen
can obtain accommodation on easy terms, has pro-
voked the remark that Cohen was only “ discount-
ing the Federal “ Bill ”as an advt.
More Sydney Telegraph : “ The remission
of mterprovincial duties will relieve us (N.S.W.)
of no taxation, because they are remitted already.”
In view of the fact that levies duties on
the sugar, brandy, wine, tobacco, ale, biscuits,
candles, cigars, jams, jellies, &c., &c., of the other
provinces, and raised about £lOO,OOO from this
source last year, this is another yarn that wants
disinfecting.
S.A. anti - Federationists disagree in a
marvellous manner as to the loss to S.A. under
Federation. Coghlan places that province’s loss
at £150,000- a figure which exceeds Treasurer
Holders estimate by £120,000; but the climax
was reached when oppositionist Lewis Cohen
(financier, etc.) placed it at £358,000 ! Adelaide
people are wondering what kind of a “system”
prevails at Cohen’s loan-and-discount bank.
Charleston, M.L.C., who resigned from
S.A. Labor-party owing to hospital dissensions,
is working with the Federal delegates, whereas
his old colleagues, without exception, solidly
oppose. Hie S.A. anti-Billites are under the
, ac * ers hip °f Batchelor (Labor), Cohen (ex-
M.P.) and H. R. Dixon (who is a big tobacco
manufacturer), with the Advertiser half-
heartedly barking at the tail-end of the procession.
As Bishop Moorhouse cabled his
sympathy to the Yanks, he doubtless
prays for their success, and is therefore
guilty of instigating a British subject—
to wit, God—to aid the enemy of “ a
country with which Britain is at peace.”
If the Yanks do win, it will mainly
with the assistance of a British Bishop
and the British God ; and that’s neither
neutrality nor fairplay.
A thing not generally known,
mentioned in Duffy’s autobiog. One
reason for stopping transportation was
the action taken by Edward Wilson,
of the Argus. He got up a subscrip-
tion for returning the very worst ex-
pirees to England. Some were actually
sent to Liverpool, at an expense of
<£ls a head. It was announced that
subscriptions would be forthcoming
to send a thousand.
It is only too common in Queens-
land to see a Govt, grant for cleaning
public offices spent in this wise : Civil
. servant A or Policeman X (more fre-
quently the latter) receives a grant of
J 340 per annum for above-mentioned
purposes. Forthwith Policeman X hires
Ah Lillie Gel, Celestial sweater, to do
the necessary duties for £2O per an-
num. Then Ah Lillie Gel hires hap-
less Ah Cow to do the bullocking for
various sums ranging from .£5 to £lO
a year. The Govt, never troubles—no
Govt, ever does.
Renmark (S.A.) has the one hotel
in Australia which is run as a munici-
pal enterprise. It is a great success as
a hotel, being clean and well-managed;
also, it sells good grog, because the
manager would gain nothing by se’ling
bad grog instead; and it does no afier-
hours or Sunday trading, because if it
did the hired boss would lose his billet.
The first year’s profits were £450. At
this rate a State or municipal public-
house monopoly, either in N.S.W. or
Victoria or Maoriland, should be worth
from £500,000 to £1,500,000 per annum
clear profit. As an unexplored source
of revenue the State or municipal grog
system has magnificent possibilities.
Apparently “Tom” Slattery is
left again. He undertook to contest
Fitzroy (Sydney) on the purely anti-
Federal ticket, therefore Protectionist
Federalists are, to a great extent, not
taking any Slattery. And now the
Freetrade anti-Federalists are putting
up candidates of their own ; and the
Freetraders who go on the fiscal issue
only are warned by advt. not to be
“ misled,” because"-a well-known Free-
trader (Macleav-stm-t) will contest the
corning election, receiving the Govern-
ment support.” Even the public-house
interest seems to be divided between
Slattery and grocer Chapman. The
most probable result of it all will be that
when the lost Slattery keeps his pro-
mise to contest King Division against
Reid at the general election, that acrid
Fat Man will allude to him as “the
cast-off gentleman from Woolloomoo-
loo.” And the gibe will kill Slat-
tery.
The Maoriland law has awarded £7225
damages to the widows and families of the men
killed by the Brunner coal-mine explosion in ’96.
M. law, like that of N.S.W., and like the law
which once prevailed in Victoria, holds that in
ease of a mine accident it is for the owners to
prove that there was not negligence on their part
—not for the penniless widows to prove that there
was after the principal witnesses are dead. In
ML., however, the law is a reality so far; in
N. the courts simply blew the provision out
of the statute and refuse to take any notice of it
whatever.
NO DEMAND FOR TARIFF.
NEW COMMERCIAL: “I suppose you have special
tariff for travellers here?”
PIRKEEPER : “ No, we haven't; but we've got plenty
o’ whisky en’ any gorsquantity beer—good
enough fer blokes up this way !”
Broken Hill Miner, which of all Aus-
tralian daily papers comes nearest to thorough-
going support of the Parliamentary Labor-party,
has vigorously taken the other side on the Federa-
tion question. And the Bill needs battling for
over there, too, since the Far Western miners and
station-hands answer (usually without a question)
to the Labor-party’s whip. Moreover, while no
N.S.W. Convention delegate or first-rate follower
can spare time to go round to this detached part
of the province, neither the S.A. nor Vic. dele-
gates, who are nearer and have been appealed to,
think it politic or prudent to speak out of their
own States—a decision come to in Premier
Kingston’s case with much regret. Further,
Barton was “ the man that gaoled the leaders and
burst up the strike”—-and this is the first chance
Sleath and co. have had to get even with him.
Last week the Sydney anti-Federal organ
expressed a foreboding that if Federation got a
majority on June 3, yet lost for want of the 80,000
minimum vote, the unprincipled national party
may try to get the minimum abolished by Parlia-
ment so as to have the matter decided by a bare
majority. This is mentioned as a rumor, but
there is no need to rumor about anything so
obvious. If there are, say, 70,000 votes for Feder-
ation and 60,000 against it, it will be lost for the
time being for want of the needful 80,000. But
the Federal party, going on the sacred principle
that the majority should rule, will fight next elec-
tion on the straight-out issue that Parliament
should abolish the 80,000 minimum, and either
have a new election or declare the thing settled by
the election already held. And the Provincial
mob must either cave in, or fight that election on
the plea that the minority, and not the majority,
should rule.
The voices of a few casual a-ati-Federa-
tionists :
A £7,000,000 to £7,500,000 tariff would oe required. . . .
A tariff like that meant an additional payment (in N.S.W.)
of 255. per head. — Postmaster-Gene ml Cook (N.S.W.), re-
ported in Daily Telegraph, of 16th May.
It would mean £3 10s. of increased taxation per head of
population in N.S. Wales.—Lyke, M.L.A., reported in
same paper, same dap.
The necessities of the other provinces foredoomed our
fiscal system. ... It had heen shown that the tariff of
the Commonwealth would be a highly Protective one.—
Cook, some paper.
Many Protectionists would probably be found voting
for this Bill, believing that it would give them Protection,
but this was a fallacy.—-lask, same paper.
The population of N S.VV. must increase in greater
ratio than the other provinces, and then the principle of
equal State representation would become more dangerous.
■ —LiYne, some paper.
The ratio of population increase last year was : West
Australia, 17’37 per cent. ; Tasmania, 3'37 per cent.;
Queensland, 2'65 per cent. ; Maoriland, 2‘09 per cent. ;
N.S.W;, 1-99 per cent.; S.A., 0.78 per cent.; Victoria, OTI
per cent.— Cogulan’s statistics.
Now, why don’t these people get together, and
agree to tell the same wheeze ?
UN-FEDERATED
Alburyite : “ Hello, Bill, where are you working now ? ”
Bill: jJiOh, I’m carting dough over to Wodonga bakers.
""'There’s a duty on flour, so this is the way they
evade the customs.”
Vio. Customs Oticer: “Are you quite sure, madam,
V these are all second-hand goods?"
Customs Officer : “ I am very
sorry, madam, but I must have
this Coffin opened to see that the
customs are not being defrauded." -
Ctithni j Ojjicei Cto| any
dutiable a'board*?'
** Yes ! hie! "
C. Ojfica . ‘ What are
Wae. * hie! whiskies.
I rJ Yfi
■Af GpomS Officer. \II
- Kow Ih<n K]‘Cs-her| 7
Y Vvhnl (jave von (onGylcd
A J?encalh your ve§l'7<r
* \ HI r Cnhen |
' l *'&o help mine j
T/Y gracious it VO5 £ i
/Attic Pickled ruruinb/r ,
I had jor mi rye «
3 ' ThC,STocK la* /
Alburyite : “We are only just going for a drive,
„and will be returning to Albury shortly.”
•'Vic. Customs Officer : “ I can’t help it. You must
pay the usual tax on the horse, and I will
refund it when you return.”
Vic. Customs Officer : “ What havo you got'in that bag,
madam ? ”
Lady Traveller : “Grapes ! ”
Vic. C. O. : “I cannot allow you to take thorn into
Victoria liko that. You may eat them if you
THE BARBAROUS BORDER DUTIES.


%
I
, " / n,
%
' VI: H '/ //illU
f>iniiiliiutui\
COpid’s Choice
ip Fiije Shoes
Should be relied on, as he knows he makes
as many virtues by a pretty foot, clad in a
dainty shoe, as by any other attractive
feature. Even Romeo praises Juliet’s foot :
“So light a foot ne’er hurts the trodden
flower.” Our new stock of Winter, Light,
Strong, Comfortable Shoes combines
Style, Beauty, and Durability, . .
■ . . with Reasonable Prices.
John Hunter and Son, Ltd.
CITY BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY;
AND 75 BRANCHES IN CITY, SUBURBS, AND THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
m
CAN BE MADE BY THE USE
OF A
NATIONAL
- CASH -
R€6IST€R.
Prices: £5 to £6B.
NINETY DIFFERENT PATTERNS AND SIZES TO SUIT ANY BUSINESS.
They are Absolutely Necessary in hotels.
Indispensable in all shops.
We have 130,000 enthusiastic users in all parts of the world. Our storekeepers’machine
records cash sales, takes care of credit sales, moneys received in payment of accounts and
amounts paid out. We sell for cash, or on easy monthly terms.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA—
-393 George Street, SYDNEY.
W, A, LIJS GUAM, General Manager,
You can Buy
at PALING’S
Catalogues post free,
Iff. ff. Paling I 80.
XatdL.,
Sydney, Brisbane,
Newcastle.
PI3NOS
©RG3NS
MUSI©
VIOLINS
aee©RDE©NS
auTOHaRPs
eORNETS
BaNJOS
FLUTES
GUITaRS
MaNDOLINS
Mouth Organs
POLYPHONS
STRINGS
AND
FITTINGS
For
every In.
strument
Cheaper and better than
any other house in
Australasia.
PRINCIPLC: its roeaoiOS-
“A settled rule of action.
OUR RULE
Has been to offer the public the best only. Nothing
cheap or second-grade is our principle. The
best material; the best workmanship is used in
the making of all
Du niqp Tyres
thus ensuring an all-round excellence that enables us to
give with all our Roadster
Dunlop Tyres
A . .
Twelve
Months'
Guarantee.
NONE
guaranteed -without this registered
Trade Mark.
Crs
same lines as those from which others
are derived.”
COPIED,
but never equalled.
When you see tyres advertised as being on the
DUNLOP principle,
that they purport to be a copy of the best
Por people never copy a bad article,
they only imitate the best,
and as the
Best is the cheapest in the long* run,
ride
First in 1888.
Duniqp Tyres
Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 Kent Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
From the Newcastle Morning Herald’s
current-events column :
Mr. J. N. Brunker will sell by auction this morning
three trucks of chaff and one of wheaten hay.
Daddy has been selling chaff to N.S.W. for a
long time now; when is the country to get its
“ one of wheaten hay ” ? Anyhow, it’s cheering
to hear that Sunday Brunker sometimes deals in
the other stuff.
Hunk of execration from the Sydney
Catholic Press :
Thk Bulletin, the pink infidel of Sydney, is ayain on
the warpath. On this occision it waxes wrath over the
conduct of the late Mr. Janies Crotty, who bequeathed
£llO,OOO to religious and charitable purposes in Mel-
bourne. Judas Iscariot, who, il he were alive to-day,
might find a place on the staff of The Bulletin, was also
opposed to the waste of worldly goods even when these
were employed to honor God. The “pink one” laments
and weeps because this money was not expended on road
and railway making or in giving employment to the
unemployed. Infidels are not remarkable for their keen-
ness of logic. Even if £lO,OOO is expended in erecting a
tower on St. Patrick’s Cathedral will not the working
men become the recipients of the legacy ? The rest of the
legacy will go direct, without official grasping, to find
homes and bread for the poor and afflicted over whom
IHE Bulletin sheds crocodile tears. Even Voltaire said
that he would never trust an infidel, because the
said infidel could have no scruples in cutting your
throat to get your money if he saw a safe chance of
escape from the law. The attempt of The Bulletin to
pose as the friend of the poor is a screaming farce. Its
poisonous pages are weekly devoted to the baneful and
diabolical work of trying to rob the poor of what is
dearer and more consoling to them than worldly goods—
the belief m a bright, and happier world. And all good
Christians should prefer to see a snake on their table
rather than the weekly Bulletin.
The above is possibly excusable from the unprac-
tical builders of useless, empty cathedrals, and
the mediaeval dreamers who spend old Crotty’s
money in teaching the young about the lives of
Irish saints. But The Bulletin could build an
execration at ten seconds’ notice that would
simply shrivel up the weak effort of the Conse-
crated Press. There was a time when the church
was the boss curser of Christendom. Now the
ages have gone by and left it dozing among its
relics, and all the curse there is left in it wouldn’t
get a bullock out of a creek.
Sir (xeorge Lewis, the distinguished Eng-
hsh solicitor, in a letter to London Times, tells
the following story of the little ways of London
usurers :
i *!! sh«5 h « vea r 1884, a ricll Australian sent his son to Eng-
f and £° be educa ted at Cambridge. He had an allowance
?! 1800 a 7 ear - He "as 20 years of age. In 1884, he made
tne acquaintance of Mr. Samuel Lewis, of Cork-street, and
gave him three p.n.’s for ♦ 750, £5OO, and £250, the last
one payable on Jan. 27th, 1885-altogether £l5OO. Mr. S.
,v,!7J S hl, “ £550 > "Merest on the transaction amount-
J' 0 percent. Imagine a wealthy usurer charging
?wn derKr , a I luat , e 800 per cent -> knowing perfectly well
that he could onlv have requir- d the £550 for evil pur-
poses. Directly the father heard that his son was in the
“ f ‘"'J 8 of . a money-lender, he telegraphed to the manager
? 0 1 ne . 0 \ t . he Australian banks in London to send his son
c , . e next boat. This was done, but the younor
mans university career was ruined. The bank-manager
™L" e t 0 me ’ and 1 saw Mr. S. Lewis and offered'to
repay the amount he had advanced, with 5 per cent, in-
. He refused the offer, and I then told him that, as
w '{-"‘‘‘-’•'graduate was under age, the claim could not be
legally enforced against him. Mr. S. Lewis replied, “I
na\e his letter, in which he states that he is of age, and I
r . n e 5 blin 0I obtaining money by false pretences.”
r “Jd thafc that "’as nor. possible, because he was not now
conn try. On Jan. sth, 1886, I forwarded Mr. Lewis
fh ’ ‘°” eth y "' lth interest, and he returned me
„;rn".u ate ' s Promissory notes for £1560, together
with the incriminating letters.
The foolishness of any hard-and-fast rule
of personal habit is well instanced by the fact that
Gladstone, the man of life-long machine-like
regimen, isn’t likely to see out his fellow-octo-
genarian, Bismarck—the scorner of all hygienio
rule ; the tremendous but casual worker ; the man
of enormous gorges and huge potations of weirdly
mixed victuals and drinks ; the man of a daily
quart of brandy, of ditto beer by the gallon, of
everlasting strong cigars. The “way we’re
built ! ”
Melb. Mayor M'Eacharn, in reply to Rev.
Prof. Gosman’s stricture—“ it was rather shabby
for the Mayor to refuse them the use of the Town
Hall,” &c., on the occasion of his lecture under
the auspices of the Anti-Sweating League—re-
marks that “it is the custom to avoid any Sun-
day work for the Corporation officials.” After
which, of course, the ships of the Mayor’s firm
will not leave port late on Saturdays to get all
possible work out of the crews.
If the Australian Governments desire to
quash the current New Guinea land-grab scheme,
they have plenty of precedents to build on. In
’7B, the master of a trading vessel bought 700 a. at>
Port Moresby. He alleged he gave <£ooo for the
land, but, whatever he gave, his claim was quashed
by the British Government. A claim to 15,000 a.
in the Kabadi district was similarly disallowed.
Later on, a German company, and, still later, a
London company, set up claims to extensive
tracts, and both were unceremoniously ousted.
“The London County Council,” writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ intends
spending ,£7BOO on bands to give free public per-
formances in and around the metropolis during
the coming summer. Over 30 are already en-
gaged playing two or three times a week in the
open air, and the scheme is so popular that last
season nearly 150,000 penny programmes were
sold. The poorer localities are specially looked
after, and here the listeners, women and children
especially, turn up in thousands. The idea at
present is to introduce, under the control of the
Council, the continental or bier-garten system in
the gardens along the Embankment. Why some-
thing of the kind doesn’t obtain in Australia is an
unsolvable problem to all foreigners acquainted
with your climate and circumstances.”
Extract from the manifesto of the Vic-
torian anti-Federal gang :
The present Constitution, however, whilst building up
the credit of the Commonwealth at the expense of the
States, by giving the former control of all our urincipal
sources of revenue, such as customs, excise, and un-
limited powers of direct taxation, leaves the impoverished
States, with their reduced revenues, diminished credit,
and impaired borrowing powers, the sole responsibility of
providing for the payment or conversion of our national
debts.
This is about as much inaccuracy as could be put
into so small a space. The Commonwealth hasn’t
anything like absolute control of customs and
excise, for it is to return three-fourths of the cus-
toms and excise revenue to the States. And
the Constitution distinctly provides for the Com-
monwealth taking over and converting the debts.
Besides, if there is anything in this world which
wants to be not only impaired, but killed quite
dead and buried in some place where nobody will
ever find it again, it is the borrowing powers of
the Australian States, which have already the
biggest and most awful debts on earth. The pity
is that the Federal Constitution quite forgot to
impair them.


TUESDAY, 21st JUNE.
BY AUCTION.
Tenham Cattle Station-
TITO be SOLD pursuant to a judgment of the
1 Supreme Court of Queensland, made in an
action, Hammond v. Hammond and Others, num-
bered 55 of 1807, with the approbation of the
Honorable Mr. Justice Cooper, by Messrs. B. D.
MO REHEAD & CO-* of Brisbane, Auctioneers,
in conjunction with Messrs. HILL, CLARK &
CO., of Sydney (the persons appointed by the said
Judge), at Mary-street, Brisbane, in the Colony of
Queensland, on the 21st Day of JUNE, 1898, at
Eleven O’Cloek in the forenoon, in one lot,
TENHAM STATION
(Outside Tick-Infested Area),
Situated in Gregory South district of Queensland, con-
sisting of 276 square miles-of country (more or less), of
which 190 square miles are Leasehold, having 17 years to
run from the Ist July, 1897, and 86 square miles of country
held under Grazing Right, under “Crown Lands Act of
1884.” Together with
6500 CATTLE (more or less), Fifty (50) HORSES (more
or less), STATION PLANT, STORES and IM-
PROVEMENTS thereon or belonging thereto.
The Country is situated on Cooper’s Creek and Kyabra
Creek, about 40 miles south of Windorah and about 230
miles west of Charleville railway station. It is very rich
fattening country for cattle, consisting of lightly timbered,
•open, mulga country, with occasional black-soil plains,
a mndarice of salt-bush, blue-bush, cotton-bush, and other
edible shrubs. TENHAM is splendidly watered by the
main channel of the Cooperand its many branches, be-
sides springs. The Cattle are quiet, and have been well
•worked. In the herd there are about 1000 head of Bul-
locks and Cows fit to start for market. The Improvements
:are sufficient for the efficient working of the station.
Particulars and Conditions of Sale may be had gratis at
the office of Messrs. Macdonald-Paterson and Hawthorn,
Ed ward-street, Brisbane, Solicitors for the Plaintiff ;
Messrs. J. F. Fitzgerald and Power, Queen-street, Brisbane,
Solicitors for the Defendants ; or at the offices of the said
B. D. Morehead & Co., Brisbane ; Messrs. Hill, Clark &
'Co., Sydney ; Messrs. Ryan, Hammond & Mates, Mel-
bourne ; and Messrs. Barker Bros., Adelaide, and at the
place of sale.
Dated this twenty-fifty day of April, 1898.
(L.s.) W. A. DOUGLAS,
Deputy Registrar.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FllfTllF.lt REDUCED KATES.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery -
At rate of 4d. in the £ per month.
Large amounts as per arrangement.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLERISAGH ST., SYDNEY
.(next Metropolitan Hotel, between King & Market streets)’
Southern Branch 262 Castlereagh-st.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
•clnding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
REQUIRES the services of an INSPECTOR
OE AGENTS for Victoria. Remuneration
by Salary, Commission, and Bonus. Applications
will not be entertained except from men with a
satisfactory new-business record. Apply by letter
only, giving particulars of previous experience, to
THE GENERAL MANAGER, 419 Collins-st.,
Melbourne. Leslie J. Park, General Manager.
head off ice
Intersection Hunter,Bligh and
Castlereagh Streets,—*
• SYDNEY •
Established -1379. , a «.
A ,7/ ' B£^-»PMWi f
vt Office in AustrM I*' 1 *'
Annual Income and Invested
Funds Exceed j2OO, 000 frerfi/r*.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
, Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street ;
or to
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
(Queensland).
E. A. WEINBERG, E. M„ General Manager.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ 6UIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will, be
forwarder! by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
IEDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
McGee’s
SHEFFIELD AND
SOLINGEN RAZORS.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for light boards, 3/6, 4,6.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for heavy beards, 6/-, 6/-, 7 6.
Solingen Razors, for light and heavy beards, 6/-, 6 « 8 6.
GENUINE BENGALL RAZORS, 3/6.
THISTLE RAZORS, 3 sizes, i, |, i, 10/-, 12/6.
All Razors Set arid Ready for Use.
Best Canvas and Leather Swing Strops, 2/6, 3/6, 5/-, 7/6.
, Razors Set and Returned by Post, 1/- each.
All Post Free on receipt of postal note from Andrew
McGee, Hairdresser, &c., 6 Castlereagh-st, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited,
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1897 .. £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
E«q., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
-THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up £2,074,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: ffm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M’Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Thread needle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Tki £ r m n ., is noted for its Prompt
Itj I O \Oll)Pd an d Liberal Settlements.
— e United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee, I Authorised Capital. ..£500,000 0 0
Plate Glass, Fire, & Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Accident Insurance. | Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
sr., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
WALLEN & WOODS
( FRANK WALLEN, \
\ Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne /
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. boll
6 1CKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson; Arnold 8. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street. London E.C.
Missing Friends.
TNFORMATION WANTED of NANCY M’CREADY,
a native of Tendooly, County Donegal, Ireland,
who left Ireland for Australia or New Zealand in the
year 1856 or 1858. Her father’s name was Dennis
McCread.v ; mother’s maiden name was Rose Carr. They
died in the year 1854 or 1855. Nancy MoCready’s brother
James died in Fort Smith, Arkansas, U.8.A., on the
30th day of August, 1896, leaving some property, which
Nancy or her descendants, as next of kin, are entitled to,
if they can be found.
Any information of her will be thankfully received
by me.
MAT GREY
Administrator of the Estate of
James McCready,
Fort Smith, Arkansas,'U.S. A.
JEFFS, the Younger, formerly of Yass, N.S. W. ;
last heard of at Harden, N.S.W., is entitled to a
legacy under his late father’s will, conditional on the
trustee, before the 23rd JULY, 1898, obtaining positive
evidence that he is alive. Information as to the above-
named to be sent to
HILL & SCOTT,
194 Hereford-street, Christchurch, N.Z.
Solicitors for the Trustee.
Business Announcements.
USE
Spooler's
gOOWEftfr
FOR
!! BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
' OF ALL DESCRIPIIUNS
DIREC I lONS FDR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning anti Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), ed.'and Is.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivailed Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
f ‘XUIBRLIi’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, May 21, 2 p.m.
-Leura, Saturday, May 28, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Tues., May 31, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Tyrian, Saturday, May 21, 2 p.m.
Buninyong, Tuesday, May 31, 5 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Buninyong, Tuesday, May 31, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, May 21, 2 p.m.
Kelloe, Tuesday, May 24, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 28, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG 1
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE 1
LUCINDA POINT ,
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c. J
Peregrine, Saturday, May 21, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 28, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SE It VICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape. Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
On the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cords, railway maps, and guide hooks showing
all other informal ion, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Slre' f : Branch Office, Moore
Street, nearQ.P.O., Sydney ; Comer Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AIND
-vi-
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
IVESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
A. U. S. INI. Ooy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE AND COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
N-ormanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY- Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE —A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Business Announcements.
P£
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Cable Address— liiEMSfelL. Telephone No. 695.
Code—Mouuino & Neal, eto. Hox No. (i. P. 0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOOJiLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, May 24.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, May 24.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping’ at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, May 24.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Tuesday, May 24.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Tuesday,
June 7.
Best <& Cheapest JRoute to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker £ (Jo’s Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCES'I'ON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
nilluiraith, |l)‘Eachara & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage’Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS
’SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
FARES From £l5 15s. to £4O.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydnev;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 181)4 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from Cl 4 to £67 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets oyer the Co’s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Co
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
No. 139.—9 ct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, JEI 2s 6d.
No. 209.
Gold, Amethyst
Heart, set Pearls.
£1 ss.
No. 130.—15-ct. Gold, Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and handsome design. £l2 10s.
15-ct. Gold Heart, No. 145.—9-ct. Gold, Amethyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 15s.
Diamond and
Sapphire, £1 Os.
No. 102.- -9-ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Ruby, 15s 6d.
No. IX7.—Elegant 15-ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £1 7s 6d.
No. 113. —9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Diamond centre, 17s 6d.
No. 101.—9-ct. Gold Uroo. h,
set Pearls, 10s 6d.
No. 107. —9-et. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Ruby, 17s 6d.
No. 335.—501 id Silver Child’s
Cup, Sin. high, £2 10s.
No. 308. —Solid Silver Pin
Tray, 3in. long, 8s Cd.
No. 234.
15-ct. set Opal,
Oil 7s (id.
J
No. 201. —Set Gold Ginks.
#-ct. Gold, JEI ss; 15-ct. Gold, JL2 5s ; Silver, Gs Gd.
No. 134. —15-ct. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
No. 235.
15-ct. Heart, Key
an 1 Diamond,
xl 12s 6d.
iSo. 289. —Cut-Crystal Toilet
Salts Bottle, Silver Top,
2|in. high, 11s 6d.
No. 332. —Electro-Silver on
Nickel Child’s Cup, 3ta.
high, 16s 6d.
No. 136. —9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
No. 150. —15-ct. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
£4 7s. 6d.
No 311.—Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dish,
6iin. by siu., £1 7s 6d.
No. 263.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, 8s 6d.
No. 260.—Solid Silver Case, elegantly engraved. s Jin. long,
to hold Four Cigars, £3 3s ; ditto to hold three, £2 ss.
No. 347. —Elegant Electro-
Silver Gong. llin. high,
£1 103.
No. 337.—Six Solid Silver Tea
in morocco case, £llos.
I
No. 197.—Set Gold Links.
9-ct. Gold, ,£1 fas ; 15-ct., £2 5s ; Silver, 6s Cd.
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart
10s 6d.
9-ct. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 196. -Set Gold Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18s 6d ; 15 ot., £l lss ; Sil\ er, 4s 6d.
No. 215.
9-ct. Hold Heart,
i'earls and Ruby,
No. 200. —Set Links.
9-qt. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., Gold, £ll7s 6d ; Silver, 5s 6d.
No. 284.—Cut Glass Puff Box,
with Solid Silver Top, Sin. high, 21s.
No. 330.—Solid Silver Butter Knife, Jam Sp'.on,
and Sugar Sifter, in morocco case, *.l ss.
No. 280. —Elegant Photo Frame,
Solid Silver, cabinet size, 16s Od.
No. 370.
New and Elegant Design Electro-Silver Entrde Dish,
llin. long, £2 2s. (Dish and cover make pair.)
No. 297.
Sol'd Silver Thimble,
steel lined, 3s 6d.
No. 133.
-15-ct. Gold Brooch, Opal centre, set I’e..i ls
and Diamonds, 1:4 17s 6d.
No. i.%.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 18 fine Biam-mis,
2 whole Pearls, 3 Sapphires, J.B 100.
No. 118.—15-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Sapphires and Rubies, ill 12s (id.
No. 157.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 fine Diamonds
2 whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £7.
No. ;{].).
Silver Button Hooks and Shoe Lift,
16s 6d.
No. 262.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., £ll6s.
No. 205.
Electro-Silver Serviette l ings.
2 in case, 8s 6d ; 4 in case, l(is lid;
6 in case, £1 5s
Twelve Electro-Silver Tea Spoons and Sugar
Tongs, in case, £1 7s 6d.
No. 261; —Medal. Silver, 3s 6d:
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., £l i7 S 6d>
NOTE.—The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the
goods, any of which will be forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Free.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE,
AUCKLAND, PERTH.


“I thought I had a Stamp.”
Many inquiries havihg been made at this office for
the above humorous picture by “Hop” which
appeared in The Bulletin as a coloured supple-
ment some years ago (and which has been long out
■of print) Mr. Hopkins has, by special permission of
'The Bulletin, executed an etching of the work,
and a limited number of signed artist’s proofs
may now be had only on application to this
office. The proofs are printed on Whatman’s
“Creswick ” drawing paper, 14 x 174? inches ; size
■of plate, x 12. As every detail has been carried
out by the artist himself (including the printing)
these proofs have all the value of an original
drawing. This will be an exceptional opportunity
to possess an example of “ Hop’s ” work, which is
rarely to be seen outside the pages of this paper.
On receipt of Three Guineas we will send by
post or parcel delivery to any address.
BULLETIN OFFICE,
, 214 Geokqe Street, Sydney.
A Few Words oi) RGby Rinjs
You know all about RED BIRDS;
well, RUBY RIMS are next.
We will compare it with any other Machines
at any price, RED BIRDS only excepted.
LOOK WELL; WEAR WELL; RUN EASY.
These are the Best Points in any Machines, and the
RUBY RIM has them ALL. MODERATE PRICE.
AT OUR NEAREST AGENTS, or send us YOUR ADDRESS for
DESCRIP IIYE CIRCULAR. A Post Card brings it.
The GOOLD BICYCLE CO. Ltd.,
CYCLING SCHOOL-
Waverley Road, Woollahra.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH-
-64 King Street, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Mr. J. Gubbins’ name may be agin him, but it
doesn't spoil his luck. Cabled that he has sold the
English Derby winner, Galtee More, to the Russian Govt,
for £25,000. As a three-year-old Galtee More raked in
upwards of £23,000 in stakes alone.
* • • •
S.T.C. brings off the first instalment of its Q.
Birthday Meeting at Randwic-k to-day (Saturday) when
good fields will be seen, as owners are out for “ hay and
corn ’’ stakes. The Hurdles look like falling to Cornet or
Jack Rattling, and Othello or St. Ilario may account for
the Steeple. The Tola, Heinpie, Strathrov, and Precau-
tion are a likely quartet for the winner of Royal Stakes
to spring from, and of these Precaution may’ prove the
best. The Birthday Cup (on Tuesday) is already provok-
ing speculation, and True Blue reigns as first favorite.
His most dangerous opponents should be Insulalor,
Syerla and Glendennon, and when ’tis all over perhaps
the rather uncertain Insulator will be found “ there."
* * * *
Under the totalisator regime S.A. racecourses
seem as decorous as a church congress, and the falling-off
in attendances at recent Cup meeting was ascribed by
some to that fact. There is little of the excitement that
used to prevail in the old days. The tote receives and
pays without wearing a blue-and-yellow coat and a glossy
belltopper, and yelling the odds through a gigantic
broken nose, and the crowd is deprived of the pleasure of
chasing it over the fences and ditches for about three
miles, because it always “parts” after each race. The
good old times when the less important scions of the race
of Mosestein and co. used to sneak into town through
back alleys, clothed in one sock and the ruin of a belltop-
per, and with a damp sensation all over them, are, alas,
gone for ever!
* * * *
Paul Pry, who won Adelaide Cup for Rupert
Clarke last week, did the mile and five furlongs in 2.51 J.,
a record for the race. Weighted at Bst. 51b. the race was
a gift for the Lochiel gelding, and he only returned even
money in the tote.
• • * *
“ Big Jim ” Wilkinson, who put up a bit of a
reputation as the VVestralian goldfields handicapper,
though he had much “ sandgroping ” prejttflice to over-
come at first, has just been “ farewelled ’’ at Kalgoorlie.
Wilkinson has roved over most parts of Australia, and
has hung on to little besides a clear name and a devotion
to A. L. Gordon, whom he knows from cover to cover.
He was “ coaching ” in the awful Western Never-Never
of N.S.W. when Broken Hill was discovered, and that
was the beginning of his connection with uncertain
mining. From Kalgoorlie he goes East.
• * * «
With Newhaven and Aurum, far and away the
best of their years, in England, and Mr. Wilson asked to
put a price upon Bobadil, who, on paper, has only to
start to win this year’s Derby, it looks as if the very best
of the Australians of the future will make their homes in
England. This makes the outlook for the Australian
horse serious, as when the present crack sires die out,
where are their successors to come from, if the cream of
their progeny are expatriated ?
•' * * •
N.S.W. trotting men are to^have still another
show, the Dubbo Trctting Club having decided to bring
off a meeting early in July, probably on the Kensington
course, Sydney. Mr. Fitzgerald’s horse, Huon Junior,
has improved out of knowledge since his last Sydney trip,
and good judges of trotting in Dubbo go so far as to say
they are not even afraid of the champion, Fritz. If the
horse is as good as the Dubbo people think him a meeting
between’ the pair would go far towards making
the meeting a success. The writer’s little hit, however,
would go on Fritz.
• * • *
At a pony course lately a boy rode queerly and
almost let his owner heavily in. But the owner was nob
one to take thii g; lying down. The lad was scarce!v past
the post half-a-oozen lengths ahead of the field before his
employer was up the track, dragged him out of the
saddle and chucked him over the fence to be “dealt with ”
by some friends of the stable. Then the owner and his
“ push ” chased the riderless horse into a corner of the
course and forced it to jump a fence into the street. Of
course when the stewards met they unanimously wiped
out the resourceful owner, but, as disqualifications have a
maximum currency of only three months on the pony
course, he considered his money well saved.
* * * •
Surely the English pony-market' is worth Aus-
tralian owners’ attention. At a recent sale at Rugby
(Eng.) 30 polo-ponies averaged the goodly sum of i 231;
four of the best selling at 750, 650, 610, and' 480 guineas.
* • * *
“ H.G. ” to The Bulletin, from Christchurch,
Maoriland : “Bookmaking in M.L. is entirely a thing of
the past. The totalisator, with its fair and legitimate
odds, has crushed the old game of laying dead-nns right
out of existence. About the last semblance of the old
bookmaker is the occasional lone, sorrowing Ikey, who-
lays the tote odds—or says he does. There isn’t much of
him, and he is a miserable fraud. Nowadays, if you put
a pound on a winner, and Ikey has laid the same horse
several times, he will only pay you £5, including your
own pound, even though the horse has paid over £lO on
the machine, which is the recognised limit. When you
go to collect, he will produce a card, which he has ready
for such emergencies, stating, ‘This meeting, £5 limit;’’
and I’ve known several cases where they were very badly
struck, and would only pay £3 for each pound invested,
though the winner had paid £7 or £8 on the totalisator.
If you object, they simply tell you it’s against the law,
and that you are as liable as themselves to be sent to gaol
—a place they have no particular antipathy to. A good
proportion of them are used to it. They mostly spend'
the winter months there. Of course, the layer can’t make
a fuss. He generally has an objection to prison."
* * * *
Jimmie Jockey Hayes had to produce his fair
young face at Melb. City Court, last week, on a charge of
smiting a hotel barman. It was one of those curious,
nocturnal cases which complainant rarely proceeds with
after discussing the matter with his—er—friends. The
smitten of the pub. merely came into court to-
state that he didn’t wish to prosecute because he was
suddenly leaving for Westralia, and Mr. J. Hayes wore
very thick gloves when he dealt the blow, and' the wit-
nesses of the transaction had been called out of town on
important business, and a peaceful end to the “slight-
difference ’’ would be best for all parties, including the
Bench. The exact bearing of this last remark wasn’t very
evident. The Bench thought it best to hear the apolo-
getic barman's evidence, and fined Jimmy ten “ bob.”
Whereupon that ornament of the turf offeied to put two-
ten “ bobs ’’ into the poor-box rather than be fined at all,
but the offer was coldly refused.
* * * •
It was a cold, wet night after Dungan’s Onka-
paringa Steeple day, and a number of trainers and’
jockeys at a farm-house near the course were sitting close-
to a tremendous log-fire when a hesitating knock came to
the door. Mick Carey, remarking that it wasn’t a fit-
night for a dog to be out, opened, disclosing a long,
lanky, hatless man, with the water pouring from his-
clothes and beaid in streams. He stepped inside and
stood, fascinated by the fire, till someone pulled him
near the blaze and poured hot coffee into him from a jug.
Then, with chattering teeth, he told his tale, shaking the
water from him like a retriever at every few words. Had
been drinking at a booth till it was dark, and, crossing
one of the numerous streams on his way home, had
slipped from the narrow footway and fallen into the
water. “ That was cold. Got out pretty quick, I’ll bet,”
said one. “ No,” was the solemn reply; “I thought I
was in bed, and—who-o-o ! —I pulled the clothes over my-
self t ” The long wet man looked surprised at the roar
of laughter, but after half an hour by the fire and some
quarts of coffee he said he’d make a start; his house was
only a short way off. A hat and overcoat were offered
him, but he declined them, pausing in the doorway to ex-
plain : “ There’s a gutter near my place, you see, and /
fall into it every night ! ” “ Boys,” said Carey, when the
scarecrow had vanished—“ take it from me—that mam
is a ghost! ’’
• * • •
“ Lesna is coming back to Australia,” so says
Daine Rumor, and the visit is well-timed if Rumor lieth
not. They do say that the French sprinter is coming to-
pick up the crumbs of his past long-distance Australasian-
records, but such a job would be now difficult of accom-
plishment. In the first place, there aren’t any crumbs-
left; Swift Relph took the entire record cake left by the
French crack, arid ate so heartily that not a single con-
lolatory fraction was left.
• • • «
The change of venu from the Sydney Cricket
so the Agricultural Ground proved of no benefit to the
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen, the meeting resulting in a
loss of about £lOO. Zimmermann's failure did the sport
a lot of harm, and later on the crowd would not stand
Platt-Betts and his exhibitions. The game requires a
few importations of the plugger-Martin type, who would
race a cross-cut saw to give it a fillip. Record-breakers
and machine-advertisers are not wanted by Australians,
who w p ould rather see a dead-game finish by a couple of
fat pigs than an exhibition-mile by Galtee More.
* • * •
The bike is an unreliable political machine, after
all. Labor-member Sleath, wheeling overland from Cobar
to Wiloannia and Broken Hill, came to grief near Louth,
with the result that all his meeting arrangements were
upset.
» * * *
Dear Bulletin. — Re the cycling animal and the
lady pedestrian. Other day I noticed a lady pedestrian
drop her boa on the tram-line when crossing Oxford-st.,
Sydney. She looked neither to right nor left, but darted
back and stooped, when the cycling animal sat on the
ground facing her, and thinking hard. He apologised,
but the lady fixed him with her stoniest stare, and strode
away indignantly. If a tram had run over her instead of
the bicycle, the driver would probably have to do time
for manslaughter.—T.D.
* * * *
Macgowan, of Melbourne, and Tweedie, of Syd-
ney, are to box for a £4O purse offered by the Q. Athletic
Club, Brisbane. The set-to should be one of the best seen
in Australia for many a day, but writerexpects Macgowan
to prove too much of a fighter for the very clever boxer
from Sydnev.
* • *
It is seldom the gift of boxing descends from
father to son, the most notable exception being the
English pugs “old ” and “young” Dutch Sam, both un-
beatable at their weights. They hailed from Petticoat
Lane, where “ young’ Sam was fairly idolised. To come
nearer home, it looks as if the old-time clever Melbourne
boxer, Peter Newton, has a good one in his son Joe. The
youngster, who has not yet met defeat, last week knocked
out Billy Smith, of Sydney, under four rounds.
* * * *
Kid M‘Coy has gone the way of all the big
latter-day pugs, his wife having obtained a divorce.
M‘Coy married again the day after the decree. Of the
lot, however, our own Bob Fitzsimmons takes the cake.
Bob was divorced from his wife and married a variety
actress named Rose Julian. Her brother, who is Fitz.’s
manager, then married the first Mrs. Fitz., and the whole
bilin’ now travel the country together a happy family.
Sydney football proper began last Saturday,
and a moist time they had of it. Great things were ex-
p.eted of the newly-formed Sydney Club, but they only
just won their match with Wallaroo, superior condition
pulling them through in the end. At half-time the game
stood Wallaroo 8, Sydney 3, and, for the first quarter-of-
an-hour when play was resumed, it looked Wallaroo’s
game, but Sydney lasted longest, and won by 9
points to 8. The Randwick-Paddington game on the
University Oval might have been changed with advantage
to water-polo—the ground was a lake. Randwick won by
8 points to nil.
* * * *
A not unlikely spec, of the near future is a
lacrosse team for England or Canada. The game has
made immense strides in Adelaide and Melb., and a team
from Melb. visits Sydney in July or August to awaken
more interest there. Already five clubs exist in Perth
and Fremantle, and in Adelaide there is a junior grade
of eleven clubs. A recent Canadian visitor was greatly-
impressed with the high standard of the game in Ade-
laide.
* * • *
“Coursing Chatter” in Melb. Paunch is ex-
quisite literature. The chatterer starts with the glad
tidings that he has recovered from his attack of tvphoid,
and then goes on in this style : “I was in hopes that by
the time I was once again about the parched earth would
have been thoroughly soaked, but such is denied us. . . .
This is a splendid programme, and I quite hope owners
wdl recognise it as such. ... It is my intention to com-
mence a round of visits to the various public kennels as
soon as possible. This should have received attention
ere this, but my readers all know the reason such was not
done. The Bendigo meeting is proceeding to-dav. I
should have liked to be present, but such was not'pos-
sible.” Such beingthe quality of “Coursing Chatter,” ft is
not surprising to read that the author intends to make
Paunch “ what he made it last season, the coursing paper
of Victoria." Anyway, Tiib Bulletin will always recog-
nise it as such.
* * * »
The weight-lifting feats of Klein, the German
athlete now showing in London, are the more astounding
in that he is a young fellow of only sft.. Biin. and Hist.
Squared on his hands and feet, face-upwards, he supports
a platform on which are five men and 4 half-cwts., and can
also sustain a 2561 b. bar-bell across his shoulders, with a
man hanging from each end !
Over the back-door of the Footscray (Vic.)
house, where the recent terrible domestic tragedy
occurred, was nailed a horseshoe, and in nearly
every room were hung religious pictures. But
the modern superstition was as powerless as the
ancient one against the devil of neuraligia.
We much regret that a paragraph appeared
in last Bulletin alluding to Mr. W. Hanson,
former N.S.W. Government printer, as “recently
deceased.” Mr. Han Son, we are glad to learn,
still lives, and, thanks to the care of a devoted
daughter, is quite likely to go on living for some
years. Possibly he may yet be able to write our
obituary, which, under the circumstances, might
justly afford him considerable satisfaction.
Overcoats, one guinea each. These first-class
garments are of the celebrated Federal Manufacture, and
are built of Blue and Brown Melton Clot.hs, with velvet
collar ; Grey Sergerettes and Fawn Sergerett.es, lined
throughout, (sleeves and body) with best Italian cloths.
The materials have been thoroughly shrunk before being
made up. Flaps on four outside pockets, a serviceable
inside breast pocket, deep, and properly finished. In all,
a thoroughly up-to-date, serviceable Winter Overcoat, for
one guinea. HORDERN BROTHERS, Federal Clothing
Manufacturers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211, Pitt-street (onlvj
Sydney.*
Moore, M.P., at, Bingara, enlightening
the electors. Unreportcd query: “You have
several times told us, Mr. Moore, that the Con-
stitution is for all time, and not a line of it can be
altered. What do you mean by ‘ for all time ?’ ”
Mr. Moore : “ I mean what Isay. The Constitu-
tion is for all time.” “Nonsense, nothing is for
all time, not even the drought and the present
price of wheat.” Mr. Moore: “ I mean that it
is for all time until it is dissolved.” “Exactly:
you mean that we are all immortal until we
die ! ”
The Agitated Female.
Editor Bulletin, —I ponder the mysterious in-
fluences of Moisture nnd Temperature. Our
Agitated Female is warmest where the weather is
coldest—down in Maoriland. Her Australian
activity begins in the cool parts—she was very
lively in Tas. last month, though as visitor rather
\than as resident. Then she seems to skip Vic.
(why does she skip Vic.?) and come to S.A.,
where she votes vigorously. But as you go
toward the tropics her vigor lessens. In N.S.
Wales her Agitation is spasmodic and ineffectual.
In Queensland you may say that every Female is
Calm. Is it partly due to this tranquillity that
the Q. birth-rate is highest in the group? Is it
partly due to this Agitation that the M.L. birth-
rate is lowest (bar W.A.). I fear so. Yet the
M.L. birth-rate is not too discreditable. The
M.L. Female is not all Agitated: quite a
lump of her must be Sub-agitated ; she must be
Calm in large sections at the right seasons.
* • * *
You pointed out the other day that M.L.
literary effort tended to the Average and Com-
monplace. As compared with Australian it
seemed less good and less bad. I imagine that is
partly a consequence of the more regular rhythm
of M.L. life. People proceed more equably there,
without our sudden elevations and depressions.
Too healthy, I judge, for the highest head-work-
eating and sleeping too well, encouraging temper-
aments ovine or bovine. From M.L. the histories
and biographies will come—the large, slow, low-
tension works .which argue an author’s capacity
for pegging-away. For acute spasms of creation,
poetic jets at high pressure, we must look to the
febrile Continent. And here please note that the
characteristic of the Agitated M.L. Female is a
moderate persistency. The N.S.W. Female
shrieks louder; but she shrieks spasmodically.
We have a week of welkin-rending followed by a
year of silence. Over in M.L. Moisture and Tem-
perature strike a lower keynote more continuously.
* * * *
For example : at the recent Female-eruption in
Tas. a certain Grand Kerosene-Tin Banger for
“ Purity’’—whatever that may be—was reported
as saying that “ persons who were leading impure
lives were unable to carry it on without frequent
use of strong drink.” But, as Mr. Chick sug-
gested when there was question of artificial
nourishment for the little Dombey, “Couldn’t
something temporary be done with a tea-pot?”
The Grand Kerosene-Tin-Banger's experience may
justify a different conclusion ; but mine goes to
show that the scientific rake must be as careful of
his liquor as an athlete in training. Didn’t
Balzac warn husbands to beware of water-
drinkers? In vino Venus, of course; but not in
much vino. Bacchus and Venus together are
harder to serve than God and Mammon. From
the general tenor of the Grand Kerosene-
Tin-Banger’s remarks I guess that she is
moderately young, about 23 or so. As she
grows older and tabulates her observations
1 think she will agree with Balzac and me that
women have little to fear from the drunkard, a
little from the moderate drinker, but most of all
from the total-abstainer. For -why : wine is a
stimulant; but in the end it is an assommeur, a
stupefier. So tobacco. Yet the “ purity ” erusa-
deresses wish to end the use of wine and tobacco !
Do they ever realise that—like -the man in the
fable who undermined hismill in search of imagin-
ary treasure—they are really endeavoring to
destroy the foundations of female “ virtue ”? The
man who drinks and smokes blunts his pas-
sions : the tea-person’s passions are edged like
razors. If I had my way, total-abstainers
would be legally compelled to carry a red flag by
day and a red lamp by night, so that at every
Sunday-school .picnic, every Factory Girls’ ball,
they could signal “ Danger ! Stand off ! I’m a
total-abstainer ! ’’—and the girls could get under
chaperon-cover. Not that they would, of course ;
their pluck would take them where the bullets fly
thickest. But at least they would be warned.
♦ * * *
Now, as I scan the report of proceedings of
M.L. National Council of Women, which met at
Wellington the other day, I cannot imagine one
of the speakers espousing the disastrous dogma of
the Grand Kerosene-Tin-Banger. Maybe one of
them would espouseit; but thereport, at least, gives
no warrant for thinking so. Thereport is Agitated
only by zephyrs : there is not a gale in half-a-
dozen columns. Mrs. Tasker considered there
must not be two codes of morals for the sexes.
Mrs. Shepherd wished for the repeal of the C.D.
Act. Mrs. Cunnington had two sons, who, she
proudly mentioned, were “handsome fellows.”
And so on—in the mildest way. As a mere male,
I protest that the M.L. National Council of
Women does not alarm me in the least. Its ob-
jects appear to be strictly honorable, and with
some of the speakers I would even trust myself
alone in a railway-carriage—and no man can say
more than that. Nevertheless, I think the
National Council is wrong in pressing for seats in
Parliament, as well as votes (the Council met in
M.L. Parliamentary Buildings, in order to get some-
thing like the desired atmosphere). For consider our
manly weakness. It is bad enough when female-
voters yield their reason to the charms of male
candidates ; but how will the country be governed
when male-voters are liable to be fascinated by the
blandishments of female candidates? What
chance will plain honesty, aged 45, in thick boots,
have against delicious, ambitious, incapable
Eighteen-or-so ? particularly if Eighteen-or-so
plays all she knows. Does the M.L. National
Council of Women wish to see the country ruled
by a Govt, named Flossie ?
* • * *
Take my personal attitude. If a plain woman
with large teeth wanted a vote I would un-
hesitatingly refuse her. But’ if it was a lovely
creature with small regular glistening teeth I
couldn’t refuse her anything—even if her teeth
were not her own and came unscrewed when you
kissed hard. Of course I would be wrong. It
takes a lovely creature all her brains to keep
lovely, and she has none to spare for the considera-
tion of the C.D. Acts. In politics she would
either be a failure or lose her loveliness. On the
other hand, to confine the plain women to domestic
life is to help perpetuate bony necks and dumpy
figures with flour-bag skirts, and so to ruin the
aesthetic ideals of the race. But how conquer
one’s natural inclinations ? Michael Davitt met
a S.A. village-settlement where the women were
given votes in a chairmanship contest bet ween (l)an
ordinary-looking male with a fine intelligence
and a fine policy, and (2) a male with no intelligence
and no policy and a splendid pair of moustaches.
The moustaches were simply irresistible —and the
women voted no more in that settlement. Now,
is Man less susceptible? For my part, I swear
that a dear thing in blue with languishing eyes
would get iny vote every time, though she had no
more brains than an atmospheric gas speculator.—
Yours, Brigham Brown, M.D., F.R.C.S. . :
The mining of Havana harbour was carried
out by Capt. Bustainento. The right name in the
right place !
Mr. Pilcher, Q.C., who spends about as
much of his time at one Antipodes as at the other,
complained, the other day, that Australia seems
to be “ rushing ” Federation. Seeing that Federa-
tion has had active life for 40 years and that it has
occupied the middle of the political canvas for the
last ten, the invitation to the people now for the
first time to express their opinion on a coherent
scheme doesn’t look like an evidence of mad haste.
By the way, The Bulletin hears that Mr. Pilcher
now expresses his regret at having voted for the
80,000-minimum clause.
One reason why N.S.W. shouldn’t feder-
ate, the Sydney Telegraph alleges, is the proba-
bility of increased postage rates. Which is very
likely theonesincere observation that paper has got
off its mouth since the scuffle began. The protected
Freetrade organ, which is now carried through
the post gratis at the expense of the taxpayer,
might then have to pay its way like tombstones or
whisky or boots or books or any other merchan-
dise. And it would heave Australia overboard
rather than sacrifice the bounty which it now
receives from the N.S.W. taxpayer.
Premier Reid, that tired wobbler on the
rail, in bis recent anti-Federal speech at Goulburn,
absolutely gave the lie to the Sydney Telegraph’s
invention about bow the Victorian Government
was scheming to grant a vast number of bounties
between now and June 30—after which date the
power of granting bounties is entirely taken from
the Provincial Governments :
There is no deep laid plot in Victoria to establish
bounties between the 3rd and the 30th of (he month, in
order to give them a start over their brother Australians,
because even if ttie vote in this province were in favor of
the Bill, Parliament has to pass the Address to the Im-
perial Parliament, and even if some of our provincial neigh-
bors are capable, which I do not think they are, of taking
an advantage of that sort common-sense would tell them
that we still have the opportunity of declining their
closer acquaintance.
The programme of Q. Ministerial oppon-
ents appears to be: Shortly after Parliament meets
Drake will move want-of-eonfidence in Govt. The
Labor-party and malcontent Ministerialists—now
clamoring and increasing—will lie low, and pre-
serve an eloquent and impressive silence. An
attempt will be made to keep Labor-men M‘Don-
ald, Hardacre and Dunsford in irons during the
coup, otherwise their dreadful habit of garrulously
“explaining themselves” might blow over the
show. Govt., being thus left with all the talking,
can’t orate perennially on its own virtues in the
face of opposition that is mysterious, stubborn,
and—silent. Hoped-for result: Defeat of Minis-
try by 10 votes, and collapse of the most slippery
political ring in Australasia. If something like
this doesn’t happen—well, it ought to.
New Guinea’s relation with the Australian
Governments has been crooked from the start.
The original <£15,000 a year subsidy was granted
by Australia for a protectorate over all save
the Dutch section of the island, and it was
not till he reached Albany that Scratchley learned
that Germany had made an annexation and that
Australia and he were both in the cold. A little
after Sam Griffith, who was then a practising
Q.C., overhauled Scratcliley’s commission, and
proved it was so worded as to leave that official
without status to make laws or regulations.
Scratchley himself admitted Griffith’s reading to
be sound. Then the Australian provinces began
to fall away from the subsidy. But they should
all have dropped paying till their joint control
and the extent of their rights were embodied in a
charter.
George Black, M.L.A. (N.S.W.):
Mr. Barton had called them all sorts of names for
altering the minimum vote from 50,000 to 80,000, hut he
wished, as there were nearly 300,000 voters on the roll,
that the minimum was 18<i,000: they should have an
absolute majority of voters on the roll.
George Black’s idea is apparently that if his
opponents have 17!),000 votes at the Referendum
and his own crowd has 500 or so, his crowd
should win. And yet George Black professes to
believe in the Referendum as a means of enforcing
the will of the majority! The N.S.W. Labor-
members all profess to believe in the Referendum as
a means of securing the rule of the majority ; yet
the very first time that there has been a Referen-
dum in N.S.W. a great part of it is loudiy de-
manding that its own view of the case shall have
80,000 votes or more the start of the other fellow’s
view.


A Govt, supporter will move N.S.W. Par-
liament early next session to get a full account of
how N.S. Wales became possessed of Norfolk
Island, and in what constitutional capacity it
affects to rule the community there. It looks to
this member and others that Reid, Hampden, and
Spalding worked, in conjunction with the Home
Office, a piece of island grabbing at the back of
N.S.W. Parliament and public. If, they contend,
a Premier and a Governor can, without consulting
Parliament, appropriate one island, they may ap-
propriate any number. Anyhow, the debate will
show by what constitutional tight N.S.W. can
ilow force Norfolk Islanders to obey its laws.
There is very little left How of Coghlan’s
famous calculations on Federal finance. They
were mostly based on the amount of customs and
excise revenue which each province would hand
over to the Commonwealth, the estimate being
necessarily built on these revenues as they were
last financial year and for a certain time pre-
viously. Now the Westralian revenue has dimin-
ished fully 10 per cent., and that of Tasmania has
increased about 10 per cent., and Victoria’s
revenue shows a large expansion, and the whole
calculation wants to be done over again. And
before the ink was dry on the new calculation the
rush of circumstances would probably have over-
set it also.
The Australasian has dropped an apology
and -£400 legal costs on account of a clumsy para-
graph allegation that a certain Vic. M.P. suffers
from a humpback. The journal paid full price for
its ‘‘fun,” considering that the member had no
apparent case. To call a man a “ humpback ” is
not holding him up to ridicule and contempt. It
is merely an unintentional means of inviting sym-
pathy for him, insofar that his feelings are sup-
posed to have been gratuitously hurt. But the
law doesn’t protect public men’s feelings concern-
ing their personal appearance. Uncalled-for
ridicule is left to condemn itself in the opinion of
the public.
Early one recent morning an official at one
of the Melbourne cemeteries was shocked to find
alow, unkempt drunk spread out on his back on
the well-tended grave of a gentleman who was
once of considerable local consequence. The
beat had his head in a white wreath under the
shadow of a most respectable monolith, and his
limbs were thrown far and wide over the sacred
lot, which was surrounded with the usual gilt
iron-railing. The official could not awaken the
new lodger, and the job gave a stentorian police-
man much trouble. The only excuse the man of
no importance offered was: “Well, it was the
softest bed I’ve had for years, an’ old W
didn’t object to my sharing it with him.” Old
W was the man down under.
GOOD! a Bicycle ......
BETTER !! a High Grade Bicycle
BEST!!! the MASSEY-HARRIS
BICYCLE.
MASSEY-H/RRIS 00. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA. ESTA^ 9HKD
Australasian Branch l 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 294 Bourke Street, .Melbourne; BW> (Jeoree Street. Sydney;
Queen street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogu c Posted Free upon Application.
• •
The King of the Road
Is without doubt the most wonderful value
ever offered to the World of Wheels, em-
bodying as it does all latest improvements
ih its working parts of construction gene-
rally. It is produced at a price which places
PRICE
£l2 lOs.
within the reach of the shortest purse a Machine far superior to most of the so-called extra quality
Machihes oh the market. Complete—with Spanner, Tool Bag, Pump, and Oil Can.
SPECIFICATION :
Frame ... Weldless Steel Tubing- throughout
Hubs ... Oil Retaining. ’9B Barrel Pattern
Wheels ... 28-ineh xl % back and front
Spokes ... Tangent, Half-plated
Hims ... James’, Resist’d., Divided Spoke Groove
Gear ... Interchangeable, 63, or to order
Chain ... Brampton’s J 4 Best Block
Plate Crown ... B.S.A. Pattern Parts
Ti/res Dunlop Principle
Pedals Rat. Trap or Rubber, Dust Capped
Handle liars ... Ramshorn, straight or upturned
Cranks Clinch Square, Detachable
Finish ... ... Usual parts (including chain wheel
highly plated, remainder in black.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 61 to 65 Druitt-st„ Sydney.
Mention The Bi'LLKTix.
Width of Tread, sin.
Weight, about 271 b.
Dear B. —Re use of schoolhouses, etc., in
elections. At last N.S.W. Parliamentary elec-*
tion, the polling-place at which I voted was a
squatter’s house —MacMisery’s, of Wahoo. The
squatters got grog and parlor ; O’Doolan’s cockies
tea and kitchen ; self with the shearing brigade—
rain and stand by the fence. No invitation to
shelter. Therefore, I claim she ter, without in-
truding on private lares et pcnatcs at next elec-
tion. — Phil Mowbray. >
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
‘ ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE < Kl>» DM,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
•• Ell V King-street toffee Palnce.” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
•J. F. McDermott,
Terms on General Agent. for Australasia,
Application. 48 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
TTTE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
' ' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT A. BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
&3T Agent fdr “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
“nRUNKENNCSS” CUR€D.
Lady having cured her husband secretly of in-
temperate habits, will gladly send particulars of remedy
to anyone forwarding stamped envelope. Write Mrs.
C. FORREST, Box 1412, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
/YF/BELL’S Dipped Wool trumpets its own fame
Realised top price, 12Jd., for N.S.W. wools at
Sydney Wool Sales.
“ DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
(jjolfflmerican High flrt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEAR WELL
fl
MACK LIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
2G3 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
Genuine Greener G™Sr£Si
Can now be obtained through all respectable Australian
dealers, and bear the W. W. GREENER name and marks
—proofs positive of Quality and Workmanship. Prices
from 10 to 80 guineas. Special attention to individual
requirements. Address your enquiries to—
W. W. GREENER, Box 320 G.P.0., Sydney ; or to
0. W. BUCKLANi), Vic. Rep., 16 Curral-road, Elstem-
wick, Melbourne.
bdßEiik ' ?■ V
.^n;
: y
se
w
*’ l!| l' llltui •
".'• I«i j ”Wli
m
Jijk,.
/ .
4^
W//M
S f’,* .
> »
j
ftfWvtti'- §LojW- J •
AN ABSOLUTE FACT.
PLAY ; in Three Acts.
PERIOD— 2Ist APRIL, 1898.
Act I.—The boss of Mohonga Station put down his paper with an anxious look
on his face. He was thinking of his wool on its way to ’Frisco and of the
Spanish cruisers on the Pacific. There was only one course to be followed,
. and that was to get a wire off to his agent immediately. “Whom shall I send
with the wire ? Of course, there is Bob and the brown mare ; but though Bob
is here, the brown mare was turned out into the horse paddock this morning,
and she is always bad to catch at any time. Then there is Jim with his brand
new ‘ SWIFT ’ bicycle that he is always talking about. Perhaps it would be
safest after all to send them both, and then it will be settled, once for all,
which is the most reliable—the horse or the bicycle.”
Act ll.—Jim gets away at once, and Bob proceeds to try and catch the mare,
while the boss shouts instructions in forcible language.
m.
* —y
crvv £u_o fct -o-rC
or
<©
Act lll.—Jim has returned with, the reply to the telegram before Boh is
through the slip-rail. However, as the brown mare is caught, the following
wire was despatched the same day to the Austr<l>l Cycle Agency
Ltd., 391 George-street, Sydney : “ Send by rail three ‘ SWIFT*
Roadsters, fitted with Dunlop tyres, to the Manager, ‘ Mohonga ’ Station,
Bourke, New South Wales.”
7
'SWIFTS" FOR SPEED.


Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral
For Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Sore
Throat, Influenza, and Incipient
Consumption, no remedy approaches
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral. It has long
been the most popular and successful
anodyne expectorant in Pharmacy,
and is everywhere approved and
recommended by the Faculty. It
soothes the inflamed membrane,
breaks up irritating mucus, allays
coughing, and induces repose. As a
family emergency medicine, Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral takes the lead. For
the relief and cure of croup, whoop-
ing-cough, sore throat, and all the
pulmonary troubles to which the
young are so liable, it is invaluable.
No household is quite secure without
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral.
PREPARED BY
Dr. J". O. Ayer <fc Co.,
LOWELL, MASS., TJ. S. A.
''A/VVWVW\AA/WV'iA/VvA'\/
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Kg' Beware of cheap imitations. The
name—Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
gECOND-HAND
ANI)
TCTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully f>o per cent, less than prices charged else
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georpe-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
■THE!
DEAF
KLEABI
tW“ “ Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness ami
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan
gerous) wire or metal attach
ment. Recommended by physi
cians. Write for hook. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent,
229 Collins-steeet, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
tf&turat Curly, from 3/6 each,
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, 6/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worited up, 3/6 per oz.
We are the cneapebtin Aus*
tralla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigzgll;
>lO William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe List.
Prompt attention'giyen to Country Orders.
From the Shield, Sydney “ Christadel-
phian ” magazine :
preceding one of the announcements of
the advent of Christ, allusion is made to “frog-like
spirils of devils’’ active in the preparation of the nations
for the war of the great day of God Almighty. Who can
be blind to the abnormal preponderance of French
activity in mixing the ingredients of the world’s disorder
just now ? Far and near, by direct interference or in-
sidious engineering, France is fanning the flame of
national hostility.
Let not the unregenerate laugh ! What more
natural than that God, as an undoubted Britisher,
should symbolically associate France with the
good old British frog-gag. Probably, if Revela-
tion had needed to refer to Germany, there would
have been something said about “ sauer-krout ” or
liver-wiirst.
Maryborough (Q.) is proud of several
things. In the first place, Maryborough is desper-
ately proud of its river, which is about the most
sinuous and cantankerous stream on the Q. coast.
Secondly, Maryborough is inordinately vain of its
member, the aitchless Jack Annear, Chairman of
Committees. But Maryborough’s chief crown of
glory is that it is “ absolutely the largest city in
the world, sir,” inasmuch as its 10,000 inhabitants
are spread over a municipality of 22 sq. miles.
And now some iconoclast has gone and dis-
covered that Maryborough’s claim is invalid even
as against Queensland, let alone the world,
inasmuch as Gayndah, on the Upper Burnett,
numbers 500 inhabitants on a municipal area of ’
31 sq. miles ! Poor Maryborough ! Ichabod !
Ichabod !
“ The Patentees—Macniven & Cameron Ltd. —
deserve a NATIONAL MEMORIAL
for their excellent inventions. ’’—Dover Chronicle.
The Waveeley Pen. The Pickwick Pen.
The Owl Pen. The Hindoo Pen.
Sold at all Stationers. Waverley Works, Edinburgh
To an inland N.S.W. district where spin-
sters predominate came, the other day, a new
Anglican curate handsome, bashful, and 23.
The dear girls were greatly excited, and enquired
anxiously if he would be present at the next local
birthday-party. He came, and the boldest girl
bagged him for herself at an early stage of the
proceedings, and fixed him in a small room away
from the large one where the rest were playing
forfeits. But that curate wouldn’t talk. He
was so distressingly shy that he blushed when-
ever the girl spoke to him, and her best efforts at
conversation only brought “ Oh, yes, Miss ! ”
or “ Oh, no, Miss ! ” At last she grew dis-
gusted and desperate. Drawing her chair up very
close to that of the young shepherd, who
shrank away in alarm, she suddenly squealed :
“ Oh, don’t, Mr. ! Please, don’t, Mr.
! ” The forfeits were suddenly suspended,
and every ear turned to the little room where the
curate was agonisedly searching for the reason of
tins remarkable conduct. But his hair stood
right up as the girl suddenly printed half-a-dozen
sounding kisses on the back of her hand, and fol-
lowed them up with a shriek of “Mother!
mother ! he’s kissing me! ” which brought the
forfeit-party in a rush to the room. The curate
didn’t wait to receive them. He ran out of
another door, dodged through a bedroom, and out
of the house —hatless and umbrellaless, but with
his virtue, thank God ! intact. That was two
months ago, and he has never been seen out of
church since.
Ladies.— Call and
see our CHEAP
MACHINES,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc.
's. ROWLEY & CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY^
THE FINEST TONIC!
FERBRAVAIS
TER BRAVAIS
FERBRAVAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood, j
and enabling the consti-
tution to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all cases ofJ
anaemia, Influenza and (
general debility.
Highly recommended for
weak and debilitated chil-
dren.
LANCET “ A beautiful and interesting preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. « It has all
the good effects of iron without producing consti-
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
, blacken the teeth.
I Sold by Chemists all the world over.
mm
A cup of van Houten’s Cocoa contains more digestible
nourishment than the finest beef tea.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155..
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
Send for Price List.
The Sydney Carriage M’n’f g Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Carriage Man’f’g. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
OGDEN’S
GUINEA-
GOLD
CIGARETTES.
STREET ARAB:
•• I say, Bill I—there's no mistake
about these, they’re OGDEN'S
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Smelting Co. or Australia
(LIMITED),
DAFU'O (Lalte Illawarra), near SYDWEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
1
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
. . BRANDS OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS JEWELLED’ SWEET*
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT. CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT and ASSAYS B
AH information regarding Rates, apply
REFINERS of SILVER, LEAD, BULLION-
THE MANAGER,
Smelting Co. Australia, etc.
“ Retained when all other
- Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
Infants
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized''
lins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
THE ACED.


• Herr Rassmvssen, Celebrated Herbalist.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE
Paline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS FOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagg-ei* in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE“ CURE
is found in taking the
Alfa line Herbal
Remedies.
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging 1 to
Business,
.1
derful virtues of th
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pius, which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING per box ; posted, Is. Gd.
health &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
whi c h keeps
them indoors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, they espy
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning np the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen's Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
HERR RASStyUSSCN’S Medical Page
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches —well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER KELT BETTER in their lives.
A
©
HI
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALFALINE
Blood Pills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
IP
m
n
L-\
‘HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfaline
Fat-Redacing' Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE ; packets, Gs.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheu mati s m,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twiteh-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
Vl
&
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfa-
line Worm Powdei* eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is. ; posted, Is. (Id.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying overeverylittle
disappointment or tiifl?,
their complexion suffer-
tm ®
m
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has- baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassmussen’s Alfaline Vitality Pills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
How to Obtain Free Book.
mr When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FBEE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies can only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
vj, *y
v M \'
Mmm l# 3 !
L
K
4-7.’
¥
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE POUND
The ALP ALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. Cd. All advice sent free
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and ail Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but, most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the .return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no mat ter how caused. Is. per
packer. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage—This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 68., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Allaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—- A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills -For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free. '
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteid
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney;
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade ;
Adelaide — 154 Rundle Street;
N.Z.— 9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A. :
Perth —Hay Street ;
Coolgardie —Bailey Street ;
Xalgoorlie— Hannan Street ;
Premantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOB FBEE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
t 3?” ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Blanches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street-
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thusforprivaey sake—
“PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office,
SYDNEY.”
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY, WITHOUT PAIL.


Amusements.
T»OTAL BTANDA RD TH RATHE, SYDNEY
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Cast.loreagh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henrv.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
1 HENRY’S \ 82 nd
WEEK f DRAMATIC COMPANY f WEEK
Tbe Relief of LOckfyoW.
Wed., N. Sydney; Thors., Waverlev; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
TTEU MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mussrrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST NIGHT! of LAST NIGHT!
Mr. WILSON BARRETT
AND HIS COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY.
To-Night (Thursday) Farewell Performance of the Season,
when will be presented Sheridan Knowles’ Great Play,
'XT'imG^XIXrXTJ’S.
SATURDAY, 21st May-THE SIGN OF THE CROSS.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
T H E A T RE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
GREAT SUCCESS of . .
BLAND HOLT’S
Second Melodramatic Attraction,
“A LIFE OF PLEASURE.”
FEAT OF HORSEMANSHIP!
CdF” REALISTIC BATTLE SCENE !
Prices—3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day tickets at Gunther’s Hotel Cigar Store, King-street.
TYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
“-■Under the sole direction of Messrs J. & C. MacMahon.
THE SHAMROCK AND THE ROSE.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING will he repeated this
most liberal and attractive production of a Delightful
Drama redolent of Irish Character and Wit, instinctively
illustrative of the traits and graces of the two great
Peoples who are as one,
THE SHAMROCK AND THE ROSE.
Dress Circle, 2s 6d ; Reserved Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is;
Family Circle, 6d. Box plan at Nicholson & Co’s.
/CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BRILLIANT RECEPTION! BRILLIANT RECEPTION!
| Mr. CHAS. CARTWRIGHT f
And his Complete London Company in the Wonderfully
Successful Comedy Drama,
“ The JVX Aclcll © m a n.”
By ARTHUR JONES. ENORMOUS SUCCESS!
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, and Is.
m I V O L 1 T HEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
READ OUR TREBLE COMPANY!
Miss Peggy Pryde Miss Lillian Trae
FOREMAN and. FANNAN.
MICHAEL NOLAN. THE TILLERS.
Tl>€ Three NcgelrpaQQS.
Miss LIZZIE KIRK, FRANK LEON, AGNES HAZEL,
WALLACE KING, and THE QUAKERESSES.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
"i'h© Kellino JF*aixiily.
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
BELLMAN & MOORE. Mr. AUSTIN RUDD.
WILL WHITBURN. FRANK YORKE.
LAST NIGHTS of the H TJT L I J\r El J 3
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s
tfIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■*" Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Ohas. Holloway and William Anderson.
SPONTANEOUS SUCCESS of
“Two Little VagaboodS.”
Enthusiastic Reception of Mr. GEO. TITHERADGE.
SATURDAY, 28th MAY,
First Time in Australia, Great Emotional Drama,
Shall We Forgive Her?
«ar* POPULAB PRICES i ... Plan at Allan’s.
___ Amusements.
FLORENCE MACK’S
CONCERT. TO-MORROW NIGHT, 20th MAY, at
CENTENARY HALL, SYDNEY.
Under the Patron aye of the Mayor and Mayoress.
Plan and Tickets—Ss., 25., and Is. —at Paling's.
rpOWN HALE, MELBOURNE.
8®” 21st and 28th MAY.
SATURDAY
SATURDAY
SHILLING
“ POPS.”
“ POPS."
NEWBURY-SPAR A COY.
GIGANTIC POPULAR PROGRAMMES.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
iJ U THiiA'i'iCE, WELIiUUKiNIi.
Saturday Evening, 21st May.
Re-appearance (after an absence of seven years) of the
POPULAR AUSTRALIAN ACTRESS,
Miss MYRA KEMBLE,
In the Incomparable Hilarious Farcical Comedy,
Dr. Bill. - Dr. Bill.
SUPPORTED BY A POWERFUL COMEDY CO.
POPULAR PRICES ! ... Box Plan at Allan’s.
CT. GEORGE’S HALL (Next to Theatre Royal),
w MELBOURNE.
For a Limited Season Only. Every Evening-, at 7.15.
PROF. D. M. BRISTOL’S
Marvellous Performing Horses, Ponies Sc Mules.
Family Matinee—Wednesday and Saturday, at 3 p.m.
Special Matinee—Queen’s Birthday.
MDLLE. ZIDONI, Trapezist, in her daring “Slide-for-
Life ” at Every Performance.
2s, Is, and Sixpence. Mr. J. B. Frasier, Bus. Manager.
T>RIN (JESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
“ Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
“A ROYAL DIVORCE.”
Saturday and Monday, May 21 and 23—THE MANXMAN.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day tickets at Stegmann s, and Princess’s Cafe.
A Silver Wateb
AST GIVEN AWAY.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at *2 10g.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to everv MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
V*T* F*R F*D*R*T*o*
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver
Chains to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
EXTRACT FROM LETTER RECEIVED.
I have just received the Watch and Chain, pei
terms of the Advertisement, in perfect order, and the
quality of which gives me more than satisfaction.—
Yours, etc., Mrs. W. M‘GARTHY, South Broken Hill.
Address-THE MANAGER,
The English Watch and Jewellery Company
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney :
and No. 28 (4th Floor), Tuekett’s Chambers, 359 Collitis-
street, Melbourne.
N.S.W. Government Railways.
QGeeO’S Birthday,
TUESDAY, 24th MAY, 1898.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION TICKETS WILL
be issued from all stations to all stations (except
for distances not exceeding 13 miles between
stations in the Metropolitan Suburban and New-
castle Suburban Sections) by all trains until
TUESDAY, 24th May, available for return until
TUESDAY, 31st May, 1898, inclusive.
CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS AT 2d.
PER MILE FIRST-CLASS return (minimum
Is.) and Id. per mile second-class return (minimum
9d.) will be issued at Sydney and Metropolitan
Suburban stations to stations outside the Metro-
politan Suburban area, and at stations outside the
Metropolitan Suburban area to Sydney (only) by
the undermentioned trains, AVAILABLE FOft
RETURN BY ANY TRAIN (Melbourne Ex-
press, and Northern and Western Mail trains ex-
cepted) UP TO AND INCLUDING TUES
DAY, 31st MAY, viz.
SOUTHERN LINE.
MONDAY, 23rd May : 5.15 p.m. from Sydney
(only) to stations Pieton to Moss Vale inclusive';
5.18 p.m., Sydney to Pieton ; G.lO p.m, Sydney to
Goulburn.
TUESDAY, 24th May : 8.0 a.m. Sydney to
Goulburn ; 5.0 a.m. Goulburn to Sydney.
SOUTH COAST LINE.
MONDAY, 23rd May : 5.30 p.m. and 7.30
p.m., Sydney to Nowra.
TUESDAY, 24th May : 7.30 a.m. from Sydney
to Stanwell Park, Wollongong and all stations
beyond ; 7.38 a.m. Sydney to Wollongong : 4.35
a.m., Nowra to Sydney.
WESTERN LINE.
MONDAY, 23rd May : 4.50 p.m. and 5.25 p.m.,
Sydney to Mt. Victoria; 9.20 p.m., Orange to
Sydney.
TUESDAY, 24th May : 8.10 a.m., Sydney to
Mt. Victoria; and 8.20 a.m. Sydney to Eskbank.
NORTHERN LINE.
MONDAY, 2.3 rd May : 7.35 p.m., Sydney to
Newcastle and West Maitland (7.40 p.m. from
Milson’s Point); 1.55 p.m., West Maitland to
Sydney.
TUESDAY, 24th May : 8.5 a.m., Sydney to
Newcastle (7.50 a.m. from Milson’s Point); 5.0
a.m., West Maitland to Sydney.
Hawkesbury River Excursions.—Cheap Excur-
sions Tickets to Hawkesbury River at ss. Gd. first-
class and 3s. 6d. second-class (return), including
journey by rail and trip on the s.s. General Gor-
don, will be issimd at Sydney and Suburban
stations on TUESDAY, 24th May, by train leav-
ing Sydney at 9.10 a.m., available for return on
day of issue only.
Specially low fares will be charged from Sydney
and Illawarra Suburban stations to Mortdale,
Oatley, Como, Sutherland and National Park.
Return fares, Is. 6d. first-class, Is. second-class ;
available for return on day of issue only.
Handbills and further particulars from station-
masters.
By order of the Commissioners,
EL MoLACHLAN, Secretary.
At Poverty Point.
Genuine letter recently received by the MacMahon
firm “Sirs I seen by the daly paper were you were
washing some lad.vs if you should want any of them to
joiny company just give me word. I want to tret out of
hear if poplise for the reson why my mother is such a
drunkard and does not giye me the life of a dog led alon
a child she told me to deer to hell out and I want to
taker her at her word it is not the first tine for her I an
only 18 yers of a but toll not shy straight fordward if you
should take me I would not be able to peform my jutys
stright of the real but would soom learm I can mow do a
hit o hie kiting I am very niozabule hoping that you will
comsider I remain Sarah .
While on tour once, a certain smart young Australian
comedian, convinced that he had impressed a young
wife staying at the same hotel, found the zealous supervi-
sion of the husband an effectual bar to personal address. On
Sunday, the husband was absent from tea, and the come-
dian promptly slipped into the vacant seat. The menu
was written on a piece of note-paper. This the charmer
absent-mindedly folded, and pushed along the table to her
neighbor, who, scenting a billet-doux, slil.v pocketed it,
much to the astonishment of the lady, who was greatly
embarrassed by queries as to where the menu had irot to.
Imagine the actor-man’s chagrin when, on retiring to his
room, he read “ Pig’s cheek, cold ham and tongue, salad,”
Ac.
The ludicrously gross personal abuse extracted from
toe actor-fraternity hy Nugent Robertson’s forceful and
good-humored criticism in Sydney D.T. of W. Barrett’s
Ilamlet lends color to the notion that an innate soul-vul-
ganty goes with the mummer temperament, and that an
essential pettiness of character is grained in the man who
takes by choice to the sham chivalry and footlight mag-
nanimity of the boards. And, after all, the only result of
calling N.R., in effect, “liar,” “thief,” “drunkard,”
“ coward,” has been to convince those who haven’t seen
Barrett’s Hamlet that all this screeching means simply—
“No case ! —abuse the other side.” But, anyhow—what
a clumsy figure the unghosted mummer cuts when he
engages in literary fence with a man who can write
with a knife!
H.M. : “The ‘pro’—so called because of his gro-
tesquely-evidenced distaste for the critical ‘ con.’ "
English-printed Melba story : —“ The diva was stopping
hi re last week at the Hotel Bristol, and from there sent
w rd to Mr. Henry Pierson that she would like to see
him. Although it. is customary here, as in Germany, that if
an artist would like to speak to the director of the Royal
Opera intendancy the artist calls upon the director, Herr
Pierson nevertheless obligingly enough drives up to the
h; tel on his way to his office after 11 o'clock in the fore-
Ti ° n ’ u^ e sen(^s I, P his card to the prima-ddnna, who,
through the bell-boy, informs him that he should call
again in an hour. She is waiting yet.”
Avon : “The third act of ‘Hamlet’ is the climax of
the world’s acting drama. Strange to remark, I liked
Bahdmann’s setting—the German setting—of the Cham-
ber scene better than any. The walls show life-size por-
traits of the kings. The late king and Claudius face
one another. Hamlet apostrophises the Usurper’s pic-
™re with ‘ A king of shreds ar d patches ! ’ Lights down.
The Ghost flashes from the picture of the dead king.
Apparently it supports the idea taken up by Miln that
the Ghost in this scene is only the Eidolon of Hamlet's
brain, wherefore Miln had no ‘Jhost there, only a kind of
spot of electric-light.”
T.D. : “ Conductor Hazon a tv. ays impresses me, at Syd-
ney philharmonic or orchestral concerts, as a sort of
embodiment of the human deity-ideal, wielding the
‘ stick ’ for angelic choirs. The Continentals, by virtue of
their tireless energy of limb, and facial intensity of ex-
pression will always boss musical Bull, and, also (it
seems), his Australian brood. Waving of arms will fire
the coldest—the musician's power is the orator’s strength,
and if he can stamp his feet as well (as Hazon sometimes
does) so much the better.”
. Jk seems to be the rule now for Australian musical
infants to play before the Queen directly thev set foot on
England’s frosty shores—although the very tired old
lady's musical opinion at the age of 80 cannot be worth
much. The latest aspirant is youthful fiddler Raimund
I eehotseh, who (vide private letters) hoped to play at
Windsor on Victoria’s return from the Continent. Young
Pechotsch has been eagerly taken up bv generous Ada
Crossley, and entrepreneur Vert is reported to have his
eve on the Sydneyite—about the best thing that could
happen him.
Tried Baith : “ How much more delightful is the
Variety Stage than the Regular ! Unless vou are a top-
svwyer the record of the utility actor is ‘mostly wasted
t me. The best part of the day you are dog-holed at the
playhouse for rehearsal, and have to hang about the
coulisses all the evening. Few can study at such times
even if there be aught to study, and the time goes in
Useless and not particularly entertaining cackle. The
Variety artiste averages possibly two hours’ real work a
day. The rehearsal is just a pleasant fillip with the whole
sf age and band or solitary fiddle ar. one’s mercy. And
only your quarter-hour turn at night.”
“The Firm” justly boasts of the splendour of its war
r-bleaux in a “Royal Divorce,” now being played in
Melbourne ; but the finest things of the kind the writer
lias seen were arranged by the ill-fated Arthur Daere in
ft production of Charles Reide’s “A Double Mairiage,”
ftt Manchester (Eng.), some years ago. When Dacre was
in Melbourne and felt, things giving way under him,
lie regretted that he had not brought out with
him the properties and scenery for this plav. and its
tableaux. If he had done so, the tragedy of '*acquarie-
street might have been averted.
Bert Gilbert and Ada Reeve, relieved from panto, work
were frequenters of Ben Tillett’s lectures in Melbourne’
Bert and Ben were hoys together in Cncknevlnnd, and
have a fond feeling for each other. Tiilett, bv the way
can sing a good “hall” song—“ Cockles and mussels’
alive, alive oh ! ” is his favorite. Ben may even yet
settle in Australia. He has undoubtedly “caught on”
in Melbourne, and says that if he finds his health doesn’t
keep up in London he will come back for good—or ill.
lie starts for ’Ome very shortly.
Clement Scott’s climb-down over his strictures upon
lady-mummer morality is straightforward and thorough.
He attributes his undue severity to temporary “ personal
s'rain,” and expresses his deep regret, for having said
things “ which I now realise must have inflicted infinite
pain upon many good women, whom I not only respect,
hut whose claims to the good opinion of all I freely and
frankly avow.” The “good women” may forgive
Clement, but they won’t forget!
What a number of young men who are not particularly
successful as lawyers take to the stage. Tenor Durward
Lely, whom Smythe is hoisting round Maoriiand and will
scon bring on to Australia, is a Scotch Writer to the
Signet, but abandoned law for music. John Peachey
1 he baritone of the Firm’s “ Gay Parisienne ” crowd, is an
English solicitor. Comedian Arthur Roberts was an
.articled clerk at Nottingham. E. J. Lonnen, of the old
Gaiety C o. (whose real name, hy the way, is Champion-
no relation to H. H.), was a solicitor’s clerk.
Melba is said to have made the hair of the Salt Lake
City people stand on end when some members of a depu-
tation, which went as far as Ogden to meet the diva, were
introduced to her on the train. “ She bluntly demanded,”
according to the Salt Lake Evening News, “ whether
they were Mormons. Receiving a reply in-the affirmative,
she dumbfounded her auditors by an exclamatory
use of the name of the Deity. She was very anxious to
know how many wives they had, and if she was likely to
receive any proposals of marriage while in Salt Lake. The
visitors were not ungallant enough to discourage her bv
n negative reply, but they might have very safelv assured
her that she could possess her sweet soul ’in patience on
that, score. She was curious to know whether there were
any Mormon ladies on the train, and, on being informed
t hat there were, she was asked if she would not like to
meet them, in view of the fact that they had come out to
welcome her. ‘ Oh, dear, no 1 ’ she exclaimed ; supple-
menting the declination with the confession that she was
entirely ‘too piggy ’—whatever that, may mean. The
acoustic properties of the Tabernacle were deplored, be-
cause, forsooth, ‘I won’t be able to say “damn” under
my tireath in the event that anything goes wrong.’ It is
i it fair t,o say that there was no appearance of studied
i :«ult—she seemed to believe she was actually jocular.
To her audience to-night there is the consolation that
t'leir tickets entitle them to hear her sing—not to watch
her rudeness nor listen to her conversation.” Which all
r ids like a very improbable Mormon joke.
B rtha Rossow (she who appeared at two 6ood Friday
concerts in London) is said to have greatly improved her
i oice under the tuition of Panzani, who was formerly
rnoftre d’tcole for Marchesi, but has recently started “ on
!is own ”in London. Melba has an hour's ooaching with
n m daily when singing in London.
Ilaresfoot: “ What an advantage original parts are to
t.n actor 1 Barrett luxuriates in ‘Ben-My-Chree,’ ‘Manx
nut*,' * Claud lan,’ hut as soon as he gets off the mono-
poly away comes a rush of Titheradge, Bentley, Inglis
Healey, Bucklaw, and what not, to dispute his Silver
King. In ‘Othello ’ Barrett, though not absolutely good,
is the best here since Brooke ; but the English stage
appears only to have had two mighty Othellos, Kean and
G. V. 8., while there is a basketful of fine lagos. As Vir-
ginias, Barrett romps over competition, of which there
seems to be none, except Tearle.”
One way to make a noble Australian living. From a
Lond. music-hall programme “ Herbert Shaw, 1 the
Australian Stockman,’ late Dr. Jameson s Regiment, the
M.M.P. Description of turn. Ist song—‘M.v Chum Dick.
Cloth rises on darkened stage. Discovered leaning on’
reversed rifle, in uniform of Jameson's Mounted Police,
over rough grave. Comes down and sings song describing
death of his chum. Chorus—
My Chum Dick was true as the steel he wore,
Never he failed hiscomradeas the battle brunt we bore ;
Fell like a soldier fighting, gallant and true to the end,
My Chum Dick died trying to save his friend.
After last cborus, kneels over the grave—picture ! Limes
shut off, and in darkness prop, is moved and singer
changes. 2nd song.—Lights up, full stage set, back
cloth and wings, forest. (Australian pastoral scene in
preparation). Introduction—orchestra. During sym-
phony enter L O.E. and gallop down to O.P. proscenium,
pulling up with a jerk, one stride from footlights, swing
and crack stockwhip (eleven feet long), and calls Coo-oo-
ee-ee-ee ! (Australian bush-cry). Song descriptive of life
of a stock-rider. Second chorus, accompanied by swing
and crack of the whip. Chorus—
Out in the wild bush riding, mounted on stockhorse free
Lightly bounding, stockwhip sounding, that is the life
for me ;
Danger ennobles labour, so have the sages told, ,
Hand, eye, and heart, each bear their part in the life of a
stockman bold.
Between verses, passage about stage, and gallop down to
conductor. After last chorus, swing and race off into
wings. Where circumstances allow, a hurdle jump will
be placed to exit over."
Its the fashion now in Melb. to advertise your encores
beforehand, whether they come off or not. It gives away
the show though, besides adding an inch to the import-
ance of the encore-fiend.
Holdar M.: “In the theatre, scenery, actors’ ‘ make-
up,’ lowered lights, &c., are all carefully calculated to
trick the observer’s eye, yet the powers who do this deli-
berately defeat their own purpose by leasing opera-glasses
to their clients, with which to dispel the illusion. More-
over, the play altogether is damaged by the distraction
of attention caused by the use of this remorseless disillu-
sioniser. I denounce the instrument as alien to the
interests of the ‘ perfesh ’ and destructive of the artistic
appreciation of the audience.” But how about people
who can t see ? And who can see anything through the
kind of opera-glass they lease at the theatre ?
Holdar M. : “ Sampled ‘ Hamlet ’ the other evening. A
Bulletin scribe anticipates me re the ‘lmmortal
William’s’blunder in making Hamlet talk about ghosts
that never return, so I hasten to point out another snag:
struck by the loquacious bard in the same play. Hamlet,
who, by the way, seems to have badly suffered from
‘that tired feeling,’ expresses a suicidal desire, but is
deterred by the ‘ Everlasting: having: set a canon Vainst
self-slaughter/ Now, William of Avon falls on his nose
again, for there is no prohibit ion whatever in the Bible
(the alleged mouthpiece of the ‘Everlasting’) against
self-slaughter."
“ The Geisha,’’ that naughty, but evidently nice, little
Jap whom we are going l to see—when ?—has caught on in
Paris, because French theatre-goers are so much shocked
at what, “la chaste Albion ’’ can do in the way of plot
that they are all rushing to see the opera. Figaro critic
Fouquier deals out beans liberally in his notice, and girds
at. “la prodigieuse indOcence de ce sujet.’’ By the wav,
with “The Geisha" are “The Tiller Troupe” of eiaht
girls. Did these include the four Tiller girls im-
ported here by Rickards V The Parisian critic fancies
their “ audacious cancan,” and winds up his screed thusly
—“lt is very indecent, with an air serious and correct.
Find there a symbol if you will.”
Bernard Shaw, in a late Saturday Review : “ Let my
readers spend a fortnight in going to the best London
churches, and a fortnight in going to the best London
theatres. If they find one-tenth as much boredom, hypo-
crisy, superstition, humbug, snobbery, stupidity, vul-
garity, foul air, bad music, draughts, late hours! stuffy
smells, and unhappi' and disagreeable people in the audi-
torium, not to mention professional incompetence on the
part of the performers, in the churches as they will in the
theatres, I will eat this number of the Saturday Review
unbuttered. ’’
Dear Bulletin.— Kindly add Ranji Wilson Barrett to
the list.—M.
Castor-oil Kennedy, during his last season in Melb.,
made the mistake of cutting his advt. in the dailies down
to one inch because they had given him meagre notices.
Showmen take an absurdly selfish view of their news-
paper transactions. A draper will buy eight columns of
space in one issue without asking for a jammy criticism
of his spring show. Where’s the difference between seats
for sale and socks for sale, as far as the advertising of
them is concerned ?
Holdar M. : “ Mummer Hodges’ recent haughty dis-
crimination, in Sydney D.T., between his ‘ profession ’
and the other fellow’s ‘ trade ’ is a fine study in sound and
fury signifying ‘ rats.’ Also, Mr. Hodges’ further modest
moan about his outraged ‘ art ’ and ‘ reputation ’ is
unique, even in its ‘ perfeshnal ’ way. And when he fur-
ther claims protection as a ‘visiting guest’ the top-note
of boshful bray is about reached. Truly the ‘ gag,’ as a
footlight. weapon, is a painless circumstance compared to
the mummer’s ‘gag’ in printed answer to his critic.”
Albani's “large airy" house in London is said to be
“ crowded with the costly gifts and photographs that have
been showered upon her, from time to time, by the Queen
and members of the Royal Family.”
A mature spinster from the back-blocks, who had been
“ doing" the sights and sounds of Sydney, was asked at
a concert, the other evening, how shp liked a certain
amateur’s singing. “ Very much indeed,” was the intelli-
gent reply, “ but I don’t believe I like her so well as the
woman we heard the other night in the Town Hall”
Acting upon perfectly independent methods, Miss Wav-
back and Queen Victoria arrive at a similar conclusion i'n
regard to Albani. Also : A gentleman (no relation to
Miss Wayback, but the owner of countless broad acres in
Maoriland) was much impressed by the sight of the
Electric Parlor in King-street, Sydney. “By Jove ! ” he
remarked with emphasis, “ that fellow Edison must, be
doing remarkably well. I saw his parlor in vour town
and he has another place in Napier. I saw* it coining
through.”
Holdar M.: “ Fancy there’s a merry little twinkle in
the mummer's eye as he severely repudiates imputations
upon the * perfeshun’s ’ morality. The spring of sexual
sentiment lies in propinquity, of which the ‘perfeshnal ’
variety is a pretty aggravated order. It is nonsense to
make the publicity of the footlighter’s career responsible
for a magnified estimate of his flightiness in this respect.
Off the boards the actor-person is niostlv a stranger to*
the bulk of citizens. He has no fixed status in the com-
munity, and no prying neighbors to spot his ‘ goings-on ’
—an espionage the ordinary man escapes with difficulty
His private movements are unobserved amid t the
activity of a metropolitan hotel or flashy boarding-house.
In any case, society still recognises in him something of
the vagabond, and as he cqntinually • moves on,’ he
gathers not the moss of Respectability.”
A gossip concerning Duse, Bernhardt’s rival orsuperior :
“ She is very sad, the saddest woman I have ever known
She cannot even bear people’s voices. After the si rain of
her performance she drives home quite alone, and sits
down to supper in solitude and silence. Duse, chez elle
dresses almost always in white satin. She wears no cor-
sets, and does not powder or paint, even on the stage
She bundles her pretty back hair up anvhow, and is quite
proud of the one startling white look that sweeps across
her temple. She is a charming woman, highly cultured
sincere, brave, and good.”
Did Olga Nethersole marry her American admirer, last
November? American papers to hand report, on the
authority of the lady’s brother, that “ a well-known city
man ” has arranged to launch Miss Olga as a London
manageress.
Melb. Age is so disgusted at the number of encores
called for at the Saturday Popular Concerts that it an-
nounces, with savage abruptness, that “no mention of
encores will—save on the most special occasions-be made
in our columns.’’ It gives as reasons for this new depar-
ture that the sordid audiences want to get 15d or IBd
worth of music for every 12d., and that the performer*
want to get a line in the papers stating that they were
encored. Well, if the performers are satisfied, what does
it matter to anybody else ? The Age would probably not
be so high and mighty if the Saturday Pop. advts. were
Of much value to it.
Theorbo: “I oannot help thinking how much better
Newbury would havyupported Albani than Harley did.’
Queensland is, as provinces go, a fairly
prosperous province, and yet it contains a vast
amount of poverty-bred misery within its borders.
A mother at Tsisford cut her baby’s throat, the
other day, because “ I am too poor to maintain
another child.” How often does a mother commit
this form of infanticide ? Not once in a decade.
George Black, M.L.A., on the unalter-
ableness of the Federal Constitution :
Mr. Barton had stated that the American Constitution
had been altered 15 times, but three of these amendments
were after the Civil War, when the N_>rth held bayonets
at the breasts of the Southern States.
Then it follows that the other 12 amendments
were made in time of peace, and the U.S. Con-
stitution is capable of amendment, and the Aus-
tralian Federal Constitution, being much more
elastic than the U.S. one, is much more capable of
amendment.
Premier Byrnes: — “l do not believe
that all the constitutional changes under the sun
would really increase the wealth, or the produc-
tion, or add to the ultimate happiness of the
people the true things for which a Government
exists.” Why. then, should T. J. Byrnes go
about humbugging his Irish supporters by advo-
cating Home Rule ? Surely that’s a constitutional
change—yet Byrnes says it won’t make Ireland
one whit the happier !
Hermes: “The glory of it! According
to Dr. Klopsch, editor of the Christian World,
who supervised the distribution of the American
relief to the reconcentrados, there were quartered
round Havana 250,000 reconcentrados, non com-
batants. including 150,000 women and children,
whose every scrap of food had to come from
abroad, and yet, knowing this, M'Kinley and his
Cabinet ordained a blockade of the island and
talk glibly of bleeding Spain white.”
“Old Jack” :
A former residence in Manila enables me to confirm the
assertion that the place reeks with sacerdotalism of the
rankest brand. Not only do the ecclesiastics import
their influence into the Government, but they constitute
a most mischievous social element. Their liv es are openly
corrupt, and when I was there a very high ecclesiastic
was daily seen driving abroad with his acknowledged
mistress a fat mestiza—by his side. And among the
sacerdotal rank-and-file are manv of (he type of Roderick
Random’s reverend pilot from Calais to Paris. If you
want to see a certain kind of “ life ” in Manila, you will
get your best gmde from the army of ecclesiastical
beggars that infests the place. For a dollar he will intro-
duce you to the local Tot-tie, and royster with you as long
as you like—at your expense. At the cock fights, huil
fights, and theatres, you will always see the shovel-hat,
or the cowl and shaven crown, well represented. The
apostle of ignorance and superstition and the exemplar
of gross immorality, the Spanish ecclesiastic will appear
to future historians to explain much of the rapid deei-
dence of the Spanish nation. To Manila, at any rate, he
has always been a curse. Of course there are exceptions
I have met some noble ones—but the rule is that the
ecclesiastic of every kind, as represented in the Philip-
pines, is a bad lot,. And yet, in justice, it must be
admitted that in cholera times, the priests and monks
and friars do fearless service in hospital and house. They
are, in a word, still exactly what they were in the days
of Torquemada and the Auto da Fe.


HELLIN'!!
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong' as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Best quality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &e.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LAQIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality; best manufacture, newest
design, 10 6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made
from own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 5/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings niade to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG <sTaITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
«8© A 08‘1 George Street, Sydney.
The Greatest Testimonial
Ever Given.
DR. STEVENSON MACADAM, Consulting
Chemist to the British Govt., writes as
follows:
‘•Analytical Laboratory,
“ Surgeon’s Hall,
“Edinburgh, 10th February, 1898.
“ I have made a careful chemical analysis
of a sample of “ Tonic ” sent me by the
Minerva Company, Manufacturing Chemists
and Food Specialists, and find such to be a
judicious combination of Iron, Phosphorus
and Alkaloidal Compounds, which will be
found highly serviceable as a tonic remedy
for the strengthening of the system, especially
in the case of invalids.
“ Stevenson Macadam, Ph.D., etc.,
“ Lecturer on Chemistry and
“ Consulting Analytical Chemist.”
MINERVA TONIC is on Sale by all Chemists
ihroughout these colonies.
DOUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Aon of your r Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am’novv in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, 'Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, winch was
i„ the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
■Slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne's Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Mycrs-street, Geelong, and 5J
0t prepared n otily and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
nrietor W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists-and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
Lazarus : “Again, re sleeping out, and what
not. lam scientific on the loafe. It is my grand
panacea, the fantee, for which see one of Kipling’s
yarns, the * Haroun Al-Raschid ’ business, getting
out of yourself, losing your identity, getting, as it
were, a pawn-ticket for yourself. Edmund Kean,
in America, disappeared for months. ‘ Where
have you been ? ’ asked an excited manager.
‘Been? Why I have been an Indian chief!’
And what a little giant refreshed he was, acting his
Othello, Shylock, King Dick. At the city loafe,
suburban loafe, and bush loafe I am equally at
home. They re-sane me, like a dog medicining
on grass. A glorious loafing book is_ Jefferies’
* Nature Near London,’ but, indeed, his inimitable
power is all in the gentle loafe.”
“By and by there was a result; and I
think it was the finest thing in Australasian
history. It was a revolution —small in size, but
great politically ; it was a strike for liberty, a
struggle for a principle, a stand against injustice
and oppression. It was the Barons and John over
again pit was Hampden and Ship-money; it was
Concord and Lexington ; small beginnings, all of
them, but all of them great in political results, all
of them epoch-making. It is another instance of
a victory won by a lost battle. It adds an honor-
able page to history ; the people know it and
are proud of it. They keep green the memory
of the men who fell at Eureka Stockade, and
Peter Lalor has his monument.” — Makk Twain,
in “ More Tramps Abroad.”
M.L. Police-Commissioner Tunbridge went
down badly before a cold-tea parson who, in
a certain small town, deposed before the Com-
mission of Inauiry that the police had winked at
the existence m a local pub of a second, and there-
fore illegal, bar. Tunbridge had meanwhile
quietly dispatched a constable to make inquiry,
and, when the officer returned with the assurance
that the illicit bar had not been open for 12
months, the Commissioner fired this trifling
“ fact ” into the holy man, who thereupon, amidst
“much amusement,” departed in apparent dis-
comfiture. In a quarter of an hour, however,
back he came, got himself re-sworn, and, when
everybody was expecting him to “take it all
back ” —popped upon the table a flask of whisky
which he had just bought at the illegally non-
existent bar. Tableau !—and a rough time for the
publican.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
A wealthy Sydney citizen (a British sub-
ject, by the way) is appealing to the courts to
have it declared that, because he is consul for
a one-horse foreign power, he is free from all
personal taxation, and needn’t pay his income-
tax like a common mortal. If he wins his case,
and it is more than possible that the law
is on his side, many other tieh men in Australia
will probably seek to be consul for some place
or other. To be a consul carries with it the right
to wear a lovely uniform and have the entree of
Government House ; and if it also means exemp-
tion from taxes the local capitalist will promptly
write to some impecunious republic and offer to be
its consul gratis. As far as The Bulletin knows,
Guatemala, Honduras, Monaco, Andorra, Bok-
hara, Abyssinia, Afghanistan, Baluchistan, Bul-
garia, Congo, Corea, Havti, Dominica, Morocco,
Servia, Orange Free State, Transvaal, &c., &c.,
are all unrepresented, and probably even the
tiredest of them wouldn’t be too poor or too tired
to let any gilded person (even if he could speak
no language but some sort of English) supply
his own uniform and office, and put his consular
shingle outside the door at his own cost, ana
escape his income-tax. The Bulletin has got its
own eye on the consulship of Baluchistan.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Satirical London Answers (12/3/98)
Beggars are unknown in Melbourne. The poorest part
of the city is the Chinese quarter.
For this do the Melbourne Chinese annually give
a carnival in aid of the local charities !
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. (id.
5J
"I’ll Try It.” Sole Agents : The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-652 George-st„ Sydney
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
wind IVEills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE. ruxATPQ
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
tEB
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Jhow long stand ing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
DEAF
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
TO FAT PEOPLE.
POWDERS. A Reduction of 61b. a week is guaranteed to
anvone, young or old, by their use. ,
PRICE, ss. and 7s. 6d. per Box > ■ Read ’
146 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
|/A£DICAI A\EN
'indication
AcifilTyg,
\is»]
H EAPACHE
©
PM.ROT j
BR6ND
WoONDC
(pVGHS (QLPS If
Beware OF
J/vMTATmS 1
MELBOURNE.
«!?
POST FREE
V&tciles-Clocks-Jevi/ellery-BirtH day*
Weddii\lg z CrißisTEflirlc Presents
H-NeM/lANI-1755177-ELIZABETH ST*
OPPOSITE G:P.O. *
MELBOURNE.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has restored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may he had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address
DR. IRVING GO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir,— -Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, Box 3ii Melbourne, Vic.
In use 50 Years bafora Victoria was Queen.
' Ladies should always Knit w.th
KNITTING
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino, Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
theworldfor quality, colours, softness and durability.
V
»£
SEI
: EI N ■ >
Trtule Mark Registered.
Ifiatub islicd 1785.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
AN’'“ Reeliive "
Hosier.v&Undei'-
• wrar lmnulao
tnrecl from i lie
‘oeeliive'Woois.
J.*J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
- ■
*wJ
y..
special
&
r J . NBii*£<lNj3&:
m
POWER WITHOUT GAS OR STEAM
THE
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(land or marine)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
Explosions Impossible
Always Ready for Use
We have one of these Engines running at our prem-
ises, where full particulars can he had on application
INSPECTION INVITED.
P. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
67 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, ami
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. — Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), <>-ivin<r illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address: —
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
fiS Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
J IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
volurrtarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
aanno
Afiisva
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizaheth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
fora COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
HcrVodS WcakQc&s - - -
AND
Ccrebro-SpiQal Disease^,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth. Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper when writing.
THE LAST OE SIX, by Ernest Eavenc; price'
1/-; posted, 1/3.


Latest London Designs.
6 old Bell and Chain Brooch, 12/6.
qaiSMli
Real Ruby or Sapphire Brooch.
9-carat gold, 13s 6d ; : 15-carat, 18s 6d.
Our Gold Novelty Brooch, 20s.
With Octagon Amethyst and Pearl Bird.
"3
efii
Gold 2-Bar Pearl Brooch.
9-carat gold, 10s 6d ; 15-carat, 17s 6d.
Gold B.eart and Chain Brooch, 9/6
Gold Buckle 2-Bar Brooch.
Pearls and Red or Blue Stones, 17s 6d.
Gold and Amethyst Shamrock
Lucky Wishbone Brooch, 20s.
22s 6d.
Children’s Size,
14s.
Our New
Gold
Bamboo
Bracelets.
Best Finish, and
secured with
.Safety Chains.
32s 6d.
Gold Amethyst ~~«art Brooch, 13/6
15c., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 255.
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
Gold Pearl 2-Bird Brooch, 17/6.
A
nil
Gold 3-Bar Pearl Brooch.
9-carat gold, 15s ; 15-carat, 22s 6d.
New Gold Bird Brooch, Bs. 6d.
Qliil
spa?
Pearl and K/üby or Sapphire.
9-carat gold, 12s 6d ; 15-carat, 21s.
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches.
Gold Mounted, 12s 6d ; Silver, 4s.
With Name or Motto, 6d. extra.
Gold Name or Motl'o Brooch, 8/6
Extra Strong-, Plain, without name, 7s 6d.
Post Free
Gold Ivy Bar Brooch, 10s. 6d.
With Looped Chain to Heart.
wf HAVF m L Sf jN Z f IZn II^ LUSTRATED SLIPS of LATEST NOVELTIES.
WE HA\E HUNDREDS Ob OTHER DESIGNS IN BRACELETS AND BROOCHES IN STOCK.
€o7*',.
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address — 90 KING STREET SYDNEY,
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article—
A. Soycr’s Bakifyg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article —guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES, HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiQgtOQ N.SoGI &Co.,m’sp.s.,
158, 160, and 268 Pitt-street, Sydney;
Clmroh.-atreet, Parramatta.
AND AT
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Asl£ lor
WHITE
heather
WHISKY,
POKER MACHINES.
CIGARS FREE
&S££U
312&&UU6
OROP3? IN THE SLOT
iiiii n 1111 mimi ii
aNo Extortionate Prices,
We give Value for Money.
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Value
in N S.W.
LAWRENCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter.
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
s
E
L
P
P
E
E
D
I
N
Gr
For
Counter
Use.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
P|ick Simmons, |aymarket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
Lb^/O-A-XJ
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
m
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
the MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IX THE WORLD
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES,
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
sold annually.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2/- each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIIJ.OCK & CO., KENT and IJVERPOOI, STREETS, SYDNEY.
5,
TiOOK OF NATURE
—and—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; Tiie Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s Od.
Wedded, by Paul de Kook, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is Od.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s (id. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s Od.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s Od ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Mai pin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is Od post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free IS. THE
Art of Wrestling, post free Is.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Tiie Works of Eabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
.Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
HOOKS ON A LI, SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE HOOK LISTS POST FREE ANYWHERE.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book
16 PARK STREET,
Depot,
SYDNEY.


THE MOST REFRESHING, COGGING) & HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE
fTirado Mark)
The “ LANCET ” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WAGES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of F ruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. ■ Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction it the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greates' confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mendit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofa good Cus ard. Given a trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL BACKHOUSE & CO. LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT an 1 LIVERPOOL S l REETS, SYD V
-riir5 r 5 r *
■
19
K
SEND YuLR ORDER TO-DAY.
We will more than please you.
Wj
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
)~m
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 ios., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 lo\ Description: Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, fo inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual of keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-toned r. eds, t 3 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £iq. Reference, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leader Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co„
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Fresh.
Cooling.
Sp arklizxg.
VELTEN LAGER
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
THE GRAMOPHONE
is the most recently - invented
“Talking 1 Machine,” and far
excels any other kind of instrument yet invented. Who-
ever buys a gramophone buys a box at the opera, rents
a pew in a city church, secures permanent admission to
the best music halls in the country, can order out the
most dashing military band our army has at a moment’s
notice, can make the great piano-players of the day his
obedient servants, and can do a great many other things
which would have put somebody in danger of being
roasted for witchcraft had they been attempted by our
forefathers.
PRICES :
Gramophones with Six Records and
clock-work motion £lO 10 0
Do. do. hand apparatus 7 10 o
Extra Records per dozen 2 8 0
A. P. SYKES, 227 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE
VISITORS TO THE
OLD COUNTRY.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the
midst pf the Fashionable Quarter.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W.
An Unsought Meeting.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The down-train had passed through Boltfon Junc-
tion and whirled on towards its terminus, and
there would be nothing further until the side-
line trains came in from Shawton and Holmby to
pick up stray passengers. So the station-master,
after glancing curiously at the two unfortunates
in the waiting-room, dropped in this waste by the
Central whose distant lights were fast disappear-
ing, pulled his collar up and his hat down, and,
with anathemas on the “ beastly night,” proceeded
to wade across to his own shanty, the light of
which gleamed like a star across the intervening
swamp:
It was a beastly night! Further up the swamp
one of the culverts had given way, and only the
slight elevation of the station protected it from
the flood. The wind shrieked and howled round
the little waiting-room so that other sounds were
subdued ; but between the gusts the rain could be
heard in a steady downpour, and some of it, fal-
ling down thachimney between whiles, succeeded
in partly quenching the fire and filling the place
with smoke.
Now and then a flash of lightning through the
unblinded window would make the quiet figure in
the solitary chair start and shiver a little in her
furs. An incongruous figure in that desolate
place, with a refined and delicate, rather than
beautiful, face, and a certain grace of movement ;
a figure indeed—somewhat strange to Maoriland
primitiveness—of a woman of culture and travel,
who had seen much and had not bought her clothes
“in the provinces.”
Her fellow-traveller, regardless of lightning-
flash, paced moodily up and down the room—up
and down, up and down, making his footfall
blend with other sounds of the night, in desolate
accompaniment to his thoughts.
Gray he was beyond his years, and with that in-
describable droop of the shoulders that brands the
man who has dropped out of the swim. Still,
spite of unkempt beard and slop-made clothes,
unmistakably a gentleman, but without any of
the old buoyant grace that had distinguished him
the last time these two had met. And so it is
not surprising that after the first involuntary
greeting of these two wayfarers, blown from the
train, as it were, into rude shelter by the storm,
his fellow-traveller had shown no sign of recogni-
tion. The soft brown eyes, the man remembered
with a pang, had not been wont to be short-sighted
in the past.
Fifteen years before, these two, fellow passen-
gers then from England to Wellington, had become
betrothed. But at Wellington there had been
some slight misunderstanding, and they parted—
she going to Australia, while he found his way
to Taranaki, where Te Whiti was playing Bible
stories with sticks and trumpets and things.
Had she ever cared, he wondered —for he had
known her at first glance. He rather fancied not,
but he did not blame her —women were made that
way, he supposed He had volunteered for the
“ war,” and afterwards “ gone the pace,” money
and prospects (he had been heavily gilded) and
self-respect fast vanishing ; and she had repented,
bitterly at first, and had then forgotten, and
married happily after all. Her present visit to
Maoriland was to her brother, a Wealthy run-
holder up the line; and her present uncomfortable
experience belonged to the flood —the train usually
reached Holmby long before nightfall. She was
glad, as she had to be locked up with him, that
this man was a gentleman, but she had not the
faintest remembrance of ever having seen him
before.
Suddenly the door opened, letting in, together
with a gust of rain and wind that extinguished the
light of the little swinging lamp, a Maori girl or
woman—in the dim light it was hard to distin-
guish which. There was an exclamation from the
man as he struck a match, and his eyes fell on the
new-comer. She grunted back something in
Maori, either of greeting or of ejaculation, and
then squatted on the floor in front of the fire,
drawing her shawl over her head till her face was
hidden. Gradually she sank forward and slept,
oblivious to all the sounds of the strife raging so
fiercely outside. As she lay there unconscious, her
shawl fell back, revealing in the flickering light
traces of rude beauty which must have at one
time been marked, but which was now marred and
disfigured by bad passions.
She had come from some neighboring pah—the
odoiir peculiar to the Maori whare proclaimed that.
The added fumes of stale tobacco and staler
whisky told that she was even now probably
sleeping off the effect of some late potations.
The man, after re-lighting the lamp, resumed
his march across the floor—a funeral march over
dead joys, dead ambition, dead passion, dead
A grunt of discomfort from the sleeper on the
floor broke in on his musing, and with a shudder
he passed out into the storm.
An hour later, as the station-master hurried
down to meet the incoming train, a dark figure
moved out of the rain towards the open door of
the waiting-room. It was, to eyes inured to dark-
ness, a blaze of light in which the two women
stood framed for an instant—the one drawing up
her shawl, with a gesture of disgust, ere stepping
into the rain ; the other pale enough, for the smell
of those wet garments before the fire had been
stifling, but, as she peered with short-sighted eyes
into rue darkness, unmistakeably an English-
woman of refinement —good and pure and clean.
On the steps she slipped, and would have fallen,
but a hand out of the darkness caught her, and,
with a muttered “ Pardon me ! ” guided her across
the platform. At the carriage-door he paused a
moment, and then, at last, in the light of the
train, she saw and recognised him. Something in
his attitude, in his haggard face, in the whole
hopeless appearance of the man, broke down any
reserve she might have felt, and she held out her
hand with the old winning graciousness. “ I have
only this moment remembered you,” she said.
“Will you not, for the sake of old times, let me
hope you are prospering and—and happy,” she
added, for the expression in the tired eyes shocked
her.
The window of a smoking-compartment in the
other train ran up with a bang, and the shawled
head of the lately-recumbent figure in the waiting-
room reached out into the night. “ Ered ! ” called
a voice, singularly sweet and refined. “Fred ! ”
she called again; “wherever are you? You’ll
miss the train ! ”
“Fred” stepped back, lifting his hat with a
strange smile, as he looked for the last time at the
kind eyes he had seen in dreams. Then he crossed
to the other train and rejoined the Maori woman
-.-whom, in a drunken fit, years before, he had
married.
And the two trains steamed out of the station —
one going east, the other west.
A.D.B.
Mates.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mick and Bob were mates. Mick was well-known
in the township—none better. The priest af-
firmed Mick “ the makin’s of a man, I tell ye ” ;
the flock, divided on most points, was unanimous
in declaring Michael Francis Casey a true imp of
Gehenna—a credit to his country, and a curse to
his locality. He was red ; red-haired youngsters
are always devils.
When Sunday eve’s church-goers were scattered
by old Nolan’s “ Cherry ” in full career through
Balbarrup’s only road, with all Balbarrup’s count-
less cows and curs full-tilt in close pursuit, they
“ wondhered ” whence she got that “ karosene-
tin.” But young Bob Nolan’s deep-rooted anti-
pathy-born of numberless milkings and drivings
in frosty winters—to the order of Ruminantia in
general, and to Cherry in particular, was well-
known to the “ old man,” who, partly from sheer
paternal affection, and partly from desire to be at
issue with ould Dan Casey, rejected Dan’s theory
(likewise influenced by paternal love), and main-
tained “’Tis my own Bob’s divilcraft; an’ —an’
Dan ! Howld hard ! mark me—after Rosary ! ”
Mick, too, “ wondhered,” and at nightfall am-
bushed in anticipation “near Bob’s place.” Nor
was the vigil vain. The whacking that awaited
him for being out late, being as yet but prospec-
tive, mattered little. Besides, Bob wouldn’t know,
while ’twould be sweet on the morrow to ask:
“ How d’ it fit lars nite, Bob?” At the gleeful
idea he chuckled.
Bob was Mick’s mate.
• * * *
Next morning Mick was late for school. “ Pie’,
sir, mother was bad, an’ I had to go to Mrs.
Nolan’s without no brekfust, sir.” He grinned,
and winked significantly as— scathless—he sat by
Bob. Then they yarned, each with a keen eye on
the Desk. “ Mother ain’t bad at all—on’y Spider
Brien’s Lass had pups ’smornin’ an’ so I went
t’ave first pick.”
“ Who’s their father, Mick ? ”
“ Think mine's by Bunny Gray’s Rajah ; he’s a
beauty, Bob—black, with brown spots over the
eyes. Goin’ to cut his tailnex’ week. The others
is all mongrels, tho’ —they all squealed when I
lifted ’em by the ears.”
“ Er ver crissened him yet ? ”
“ Think I’ll call him ‘Ranji,’ after that Injin
bloke that licks ’em at cricket.”
Bob was interested, and while Mick muttered
mechanically “ seven nines is fifty-four,” he hur-
riedly made a mental inventory of negotiable
assets; then broke in on the calculation. “I’ll
give yea knife, Scotch alley, ’n a bit o’ string.”
“No! wouldn’t take a poun’ for him; ye see
he’s .” He stopped abruptly, cast a searching
eye at the Desk ; then continued : “ Oh cripes !
didn’t the ole man lay it on lars nite, Bob? Ye
didn’t think I was lis’nin. Cripes, I did larf—
‘ Father, father ! I never done it, not this time,
father.’ Did you dive for the blanket ?”
Bob winced under the lash of Mick’s mimicry ;
but slowly his puzzled brain unravelled the tangle
of the mystery—and promptly up shot his hand.
“ Pie’, sir, Mick Casey’s mother ain’t bad at all ;
he jes’ tole me.” Mick, cornered, lied manfully,
but uselessly, to the joy of Bob, whose eyes glit-
tered supreme delight as his victim, mingling
howls with groans, wriggled vigorously into gro-
tesque yet protective attitudes.
The ordeal past : “ What yer rubbin fer,
Mick? Cripes, you can squirm—them pants is
pretty thin too! ” Mick, glowering revenge,
passed a sleeve across his now half-cleaned face,
and continued the ameliorating friction.
Mick was Bob’s mate.
* * * *
For a full week the feud flared —Bob ever on the
alert to evade the strategies skilfully laid by his
mate; the mate ever planning new plots to decoy
the wary foe. But as they met, one evening, the
energy usually bubbling in him of the red hair
seemed stilled and silent. Despondently he
drooped his head, and two white guttered streaks
contrasted plainly against the grimy cheeks.
“ Bob ! Bob ! Come here, I want yer ! ”
Distrustfully Bob neared—Cherry answering
the lever-like movement of her tail as a yacht the
helm. “Got’nuther hidin’, Mick?”
But the taunt brought no retort; and, his sus-
picions fast vanishing, Bob came closer —and
closer yet when bitter sorrow forced honest ex-
pression. Mick’s big blue eyes were set in crystal
lakes. Came the genuine query: “ What’s wrong,
Mickey ? ”
“ Ranji’s dead ! ” Mick gulped.
Cherry’s tail fell flick against her heels, and the
two mates slowly crossed the paddock, yarning
mournfully as they walked. Pulling two palings
off the fence, they squeezed through into the yard,
and behind the fowlhouse, to where Ranji, like a
pendulum, swung and swayed from the clothes-
line. A long silence spoke their sorrow.
“ Mother said he et th’ eggs.” (A pause.)
“ Hung ! ” said Bob, reflectively ; and then, im-
pulsively, “Don’t mind, Mick, yer can have one
of our Nip’s—when she has ’em. I don’t s’pose
she’ll be long.”
Then the tw'o mates cut him down, and buried
him.
W.A.
SPRAT.
Maurice Low, the brainy Washington
(U.S.) journalist whose articles on American
affairs in National Observer, and other front-
rank English papers, have lately attracted wide
attention, is a brother of EL 1. Low, of S.M.
Herald, and of S. Low, late editor of St. J ames’s
Gazette.
Chamberlain’s proposal that, in the event
of Federation being delayed, the permanent artil-
lery of all the Australias should be amalgamated
under the title of the “ Royal Australian Artil-
lery,” the force in each province forming a regi-
ment or battery of that body, contains the pith of
a sound Federal idea, but is inaccurate in the use
it makes of English words. Why Royal ? Is
there, or is there likely to be, any other Aus-
tralian Artillery from which this: one would need
to be discriminated ? To put the word “ Royal ’
before the Australian military body contemplated
is inane surplusage.
An eminent English doctor, recently de-
ceased, was once between the horns of a cruel
dilemma in respect of some hospital doctors, who
ha ving ignorantly treated for arsenical-poisoning
a man who hadn’t taken arsenic, but who never-
theless died—had afterwards pumped some of the
poison into the corpse’s stomach. The doctor in
question, having arrived at this conclusion from
the fact that no arsenic had passed into the intes-
tines, found himself compelled either to expose
the “cloth ” or to permit the ruin of the chemist
who had prudently palmed off upon the deceased,
as arsenic, a harmless drug. The “cloth’’went
down !


WIND, RAIN, COLD, all do a large share toward
BRINGING ON ILLNESS.
Bile Beans for Biliousness
WILL
Put the System in Healthy, Kegular Working Order,
and Fortify You against the Coming Winter.
Another Miraculous Cure Effected by Bile Beans.
STRONG PRAISE FROM A SYDNEY WOMAN.
NINE MONTHS’ CONTINUED SUFFERING.
HER MEDICAL ADVISER COMPLETELY BAFFLED.
B.B’s AGAIN TRIUMPHANT.
A “ Run-Down ” Patient Cured.
PRESSURE OF BUSINESS CAUSE OE HIS ILL-HEALTH.
~ 248 Cardigan-street, Carlton, Melbourne,
The Manager December 31, 1897.
Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir,—Owing to an exceptionally heavy and protracted pressure of business during the past
few months, I became very low-spirited, my whole system being fairly run down. I suffered a great
deal from insomnia, followed by loss of appetite, and in consequence my nerves were completely
unstrung; in fact, my nervous system was so much upset that I became totally unfit for business. A
few weeks back a friend recommended a course of Bile Beans, and I am pleased to say that after using
them for a short period the insomnia entirely disappeared and my appetite returned. Since taking
this medicine my weight has increased nearly a, stone, and I am now in the best of health and spirits,
and have no hesitation in recommending them in all cases similar to my own. —Gratefully yours,
(Signed) T. A. CHAPPELL.
To anyone having the care of a large house on their hands, and whose household duties claim
almost their entire attention, it is hoth inconvenient and annoying to be in a continuous state of ill-
health. This is what Mrs. M. Petersen, of 150 Woolloomooloo'-street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney, had
to put up with. Hearing that this lady had suffered for a long time in a most distressing manner,
and had at last been cured almost miraculously, a reporter called to get particulars of her case, and
the following is the lady’s story :
“ I had been very ill for a long time, suffering from loss of sleep, continuous headaches, and sharp
pains in my chest and between my shoulders. I was so bad that I found it impossible to get through
[/X /
/? ! A x-
my household duties, and was compelled to obtain assistance. I
suffered in this manner for over nine months. My medical adviser
recommended a change of air, but that was impossible under existing
arrangements, as I couldn’t leave the house for any timo. I tried no
end of so-called specifics, but none of them did me any good, and I
might as well have kept the money. I kept on getting worse, and
the pains became almost unbearable, causing me so much agony that
I could hardly stand. I can’t describe the sufferings I went through,
and I was beginning to feel seriously alarmed about my condition,
for I was rapidly losing weight, when my husband persuaded me to
try Bile Beans for Biliousness ; and it was a happy day for me when
I did so, for I commenced to experience relief at once. In a day or
so I noticed a decided change in my condition, which was materially improved, so I naturally con-
tinued with them ; and now, after taking five boxes, I feel as well as ever 1 did. The pains have left
me, my sleep has returned, I can perform my household duties with energy, and at times am positively
ashamed of my increased appetite. My friends and acquaintances say lam looking wonderfully weli.
That my recovery is due solely to Bile Beans there is no doubt whatever, for I have taken no other
medicine for some months ; and, in conclusion, I may add that should you desire to publish this
account of nry illness and recovery you are at perfect liberty to do so, as I know Bile Beans cured me,
and I’m not ashamed of it.”
LE
EflMS
FOf^
ILIOUSNESS
BILE BEANS
Are an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous
Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Female Weakness,
Pale-faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples, Blotches,
Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dyspepsia, In-
fluenza, Colds, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and Side,
Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn, and
that Tired Feeling.
Bile Beans are obtainable from all Chemists and Store-
keepers generally ; Australian Dep6t of the Bile Bean Manu-
facturing Co., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney ; Victorian agents,
Rocke, Tompsitt and Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne; S.A.
agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., King William-street, Ade-
laide ; W.A. agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., Perth ; Queens-
land agents, S. Hoffnung and Co., Brisbane. Bile Beans are
not an ordinary medicine. They are manufactured in one of
the best fitted and equipped laboratories in the world, at
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A., and they have been used through-
out that country by the best physicians for years, and the amount of time and labor expended
in compounding them would, even if someone had the formula, exclude them from selling them, as it
is only on account of the sales being in the millions annually that they can be sold at the low price,
owing to the great cost of the ingredients.
Remember ! Bach box bears the signature of the proprietors, The Bile Bean Manufacturing Co.
A Maoriland Slaughter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I'he Maoris had been giving the Government a lot
of trouble in the Upper Thames district. They
had hampered the operations of the men who were
doing the triangular survey; indeed, they had
gone so far that shots had been fired, and some of
the survey-party had been wounded.
It was Easter-time, and the Government ar
ranged that the Waikato Cavalry—about 200
strong—should ride through the disaffected coun-
try down to the Thames to take part in the
Easter encampment, thus killing two birds with
one stone. The troopers would get a fortnight’s
training, and the Maoris a fright.
We started on our 200-mile ride with fresh
horses and light hearts. Everything in proper
military style ; advance and rear guards, baggage-
waggons, and all the rest of it
W® marched by way of Te Aroha, but, as the
golaneids had not been discovered, there were no
bridges over the rivers, and the roads were little
better than Maori tracks.
We were expecting to be stopped in some of
the many bushes and defiles on the way, and when,
after passing through the old mining township of
Uhinemuri, we reached the scene of the native
trouble we were more than ever prepared for hos-
tilities, because at camp the night before we had
been visited by natives, both men and women,
who, we learnt afterwards, had come to ascertain
it we were too numerous to deal with. They evi-
dently us so, for when we passed
through their village next day not a Maori was
to be seen. The whole place was given up to
Oaptain Cook pigs and mongrel dogs.
We arrived at the Thames in due course ; and,
when the manoeuvres were over, started on our
homeward ride. On coming again to the border
ot the native country the alarm was given. The
advance-guard had been stopped by an old chief
and a whole tribe of Maoris, and word came
hastily back to the main column that the Colonel
was vvanted at the front. A halt was called, and
we all made ready for the fray. We were ordered
to advance in single file, and moved forwards in
a long line. “ Halt! Dismount! Couple horses !
Draw swords ! Attack ! ’’-and slash went two
hundred sabres, cutting and thrusting like mad,
tor we had got so worked up with excitement that
we were determined to give no quarter ; and pre-
senthy on all sides lay our victims—shedding the
life s-blood with which our swords were also drip-
ping. But worse remained—for we now proceeded
to make preparations for devouring the slain—
water-melons !
Yes, there they were; one for each man in the
troop, and placed about six feet apart in a straight
line, along which we had been drawn up. Only
those who have had a long and dusty march can
tell how we appreciated the result of that skir-
mish.
The Maoris were our guests at a dance in camp
that evening.
That was the only time my sword was drawn on
active service.
RANGI.
The most fetching printer’s error up to
date comes from a Victorian provincial paper.
I* rom an obituary : “ His endeavor was always to
make Ins wife a useful one to his neighbors.” The
wretched editor wrote it “ life,” of course.
The Writer’s Dream-
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A writer wrote of the hearts of men, and he fol-
lowed their tracks afar;
For his was a spirit that forced his pen to write
of the things that are.
His heart grew tired of the truths he told, for his
life was hard and grim ;
His land seemed barren, its people cold ;— yet the
world was dear to him ;
So he sailed away from the Streets of Strife, he
travelled by land and sea,
In search of a people who lived a life as life in the
world should be.
And he reached a spot where the scene was fair,
with forest and field and wood,
And all things came with the seasons there, and
each of its kind was good ;
There were mountain-rivers and peaks of snow,
there were lights of green and gold,
And echoing caves in the cliffs below, where a
world-wide ocean rolled.
The lives of men from the wear of Change and
the strife of the world were free : —
For Steam was barred by the mountain-range and
the rocks of the Open Sea.
And the last that were born of a noble race—when
the page of the South was fair—
The last of the conquered dwelt in peace with the
last of the victors there.
He saw their hearts with the author’s eyes who
had written their ancient lore,
And he saw their lives as he’d dreamed of such—
ah ! many a year before.
And “ I’ll write a book of these simple folk ere I
to the world return,
And the cold who read shall be kind for these—
and the wise who read shall learn.
Never again in a song of mine shall a jarring
note be heard:
Never again shall a page or line be marred by a
bitter word ;
But love and laughter and kindly hours will the
book I’ll write recall,
With chastening tears for the loss of one, and sighs
for their sorrows all.
Old eyes will light with a kindly smile, and the
young eyes dance with glee—
And the heart of the cynic will rest awhile for my
simple folk and me.”
The lines ran on as he dipped his pen—ran true to
his heart and ear—
Like the brighter pages of memory when every
line is clear.
The pictures came and the pictures passed, like
days of love and light—
He saw his chapters from first to last, and he
thought it grand to write
And the writer kissed his girlish wife, and he
kissed her twice for pride:
“ ’Tis a book of love, though a book of life ! and
a book you will read ! ” he cried.
He was blind at first to each senseless slight (for
shabby and poor he came)
From local “ Fashion ” and mortgaged pride that
scarce could sign its name.
What dreamer would dream of such paltry pride
in a scene so fresh and fair ?
But the local spirit intensified-—with its pitiful
shams —was there ;
There were cliques wherever two houses stood
(No rest for a family ghost!)
They hated each other as women could —but they
hated the stranger most.
The writer wrote by day and night and he cried
in the face of Fate—
“ I’ll cleave to my dream of life in spite of the
cynical ghosts that wait.
’Tis the shyness born of their simple lives,” he
said of the paltry pride—
(The homely tongues of the simple wives ne’er
erred on the generous side) —
“ They’ll prove me true and they’ll prove me kind
ere the year of grace be past,”
But the ignorant whisper of “ axe to grind ! ”
went home to his heart at last.
The writer sat by his drift-wood fire three nights
of the South-east gale,
His pen lay idle on pages vain, for his book was a
fairy tale.
The world-wise lines of an elder age were plain on
his aching brow,
As he sadly thought of each brighter page that
would never be written now.
“ I’ll write no more ! ” But he bowed his head,
for his heart was in Dreamland yet—
“ The pages written I’ll burn,” he said, “ and the
pages thought forget.”
But he heard the hymn of the Open Sea, and the
old fierce anger burned,
And he wrenched his heart from its dreamland
free as the fire of his youth returned :
“ The weak man’s madness, the strong man’s
scorn—the rebellious hate of youth
From a deeper love of the world are born ! And
the cynical ghost is Truth ! ”
And the writer rose with a strength anew wherein
Doubt could have no part;
“I’ll write my book and it shall be true—the
truth of a writer’s heart.”
“ Ay! cover the wrong with a fairy tale—who
never knew want or care—
A bright green scum on a stagnant pool that will
reek the longer there.
You may starve the writer and buy the pen—you
may drive it with want and fear—
But the lines run false in the hearts of men—and
false to the writer’s ear.
The bard’s a rebel and strife his part, and he’ll
burst from his bonds anew,
Till all pens write from a single heart! And so
may the dream come true. ”
“ Tis ever the same in the paths of men where
money and dress are all,
The crawler will bully whene’er he can, and the
bully who can’t will crawl.
And this is the creed in the local hole, where the
souls of the selfish rule :
Borrow and cheat while the stranger’s green, and
then sneer at the simple fool.
Spit your spite at the men whom Fate has placed
in the head-race first,
And hate till death, with a senseless hate, the
man you have injured worst!
“ There are generous hearts in the grinding street,
but the Hearts of the World go west;
For the men who toil in the dust and heat of the
barren lands are best!
The stranger’s hand to the stranger, yet—for a
roving folk are mine—
The stranger’s store for the stranger set—and the
camp-fire glow the sign !
The generous hearts of the world, we find, thrive
best on the barren sod,
And the selfish thrive where Nature’s kind (they’d
bully or crawl to God !).
“ I was born to write of the things that are ! and
the strength was given to me ;
I was born to strike at the things that mar the
world as the world should be !
By the dumb heart-hunger and dreams of youth,
by the hungry tracks I’ve trod—
I’ll fight as a man for the sake of truth, nor pose
as a martyred god.
By the heart of ‘Bill’ and the heart of ‘Jim,’
and the men that their hearts deem ‘white’;
By the handgrips fierce, and the hard eyes dim
with forbidden tears ! —l’ll write !
“I’ll write untroubled by cultured fools, or the
dense that fume and fret —
Por against the wisdom of all their schools I would
stake mine instinct yet!
Por the cynical strain in the writer’s song is the
world, not he, to blame,
And I’ll write as I think, in the knowledge strong
that thousands think the same ;
And the men who fight in the Dry Country grim
battles by day, by night,
Will believe in me, and will stand by me, and will
say to the world, ‘ He’s right! ’ ”
M.L.
HENRY LAWSON.
Captain Phillip, Australia’s first Governor,
owes his reputation as a naval commander to his
prowess in the war between Portugal and Spain.
He hired himself out to Portugal, and in a num-
ber of engagements so acquitted himself against
the Spanish enemy that the British Government
later on selected him to found the colony of
Botany Bay.
A discussion as to whether Clough’s “ ’Tis
better to have fought and lost than never to have
fought at all,” published 1849, was cribbed from
Tennyson’s “ Better to have loved and lost,” &c.,
published 1850, was enlivened by a quotation
from Campbell (“ The Jilted Nymph ”) —“Better
be courted and jilted than never be courted at
all.” And it was irrelevantly observed that
Tennyson just managed to miss the point. What
is really better, is to have been loved, not merely to
have loved.
A recent smellful and unsuccessful court
case against a N.S.W. policeman is said to have
originated in the animosity of certain brothers in
blue. The constable’s transfer was consequent
upon another serious charge brought against him
a year or two back, and whatever the merits of
either prosecution, the readiness with which his
comrades—usually so prone to “stick” to each
other—came forward to bear witness against him
was really astonishing. Meanwhile, residents of
the district—the scene of more than one recent
police scandal—are sighing for the appointment of
John Norton’s inquiry commission.
Anyone, either lady or gentleman, living
in Sydney or country districts, should get one of
our Dr. Jaeger’s Illustrated Clothing Books, sent
free by sending us a Id. post-card with your
address. Hordern Brothers, Nos. 203, 205,
207, 209, 211 Pitt-street, Sydney.


AN INVALID FOR FIYE YEARS.
Pale, Emaciated, No Appetite,
COULD NOT WORK.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla Cured Him.
Edward Graham, Collingwood, Melbourne, Victoria, writes
Gratefully of His Cure.
&
$
WVvy
“In 1890 I had a severe attack of typhoid fever, and for nearly five
years after the fever left me was a confirmed invalid. I had no appetite;
became pale and emaciated, and was unable to work. I tried various
remedies b.ut found no relief until I began taking AYER’S SARSAPA-
RILLA. This medicine greatly improved my appetite, restored my liver
and stomach to a healthy condition, and now my food digests perfectly
and lam better than ever I was in my life. For this I am deeply grate-
ful, and take pleasure in making known to others the value of your Sar-
saparilla.”
The wonderful success of the great blood purifier
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
has led to numerous imitations. The name— Ayer’s Sarsaparilla— -is
prominent on the wrapper and is blown in the glass of each bottle.- Re-
fuse all substitutes.
Highest Awards at the World’s Great Expositions.
FOR
23 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
'Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
bbjuta
'jQmglWc
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much, safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. 1 id., 2s. 9 d., is. 6 d.,
and Us., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
ceryßiaHT.
SOLD BY TIIE LAYERS MANUFACTURING GO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Worth a Guinea a Box
has passed into a proverb
expressive of universal approval
concerning a medicine of rare value.
This Notable Verdict,
justified by a sale of 6,000,000 boxes yearly,
must secure the confidence of sufferers
in all climes an:’ countries,
and
ever-widening fame
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Of
ever-widening fame
and
in all climes and countries
must secure the confidence of sufferers,
justified by a sale of 6,000,000 boxes yearly.
This Notable Verdict
concerning a medicine of rare value,
expressive of universal approval,
has passed into a proverb—
orth a Guinea a Box.
I®“' Poverty Pointers
Fo«»- Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
V&T A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of tliese grand medicines have not neen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, THY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxeord-st., London, Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 52:5 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
' BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS,, L+.d.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd. , Hobart.
Visitors to
- Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence jfil per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
TbeStiffieidCas?.
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING FULL
EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OF SCENE of
alleged Outrage. Price Sixpence.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George-st., Sydney.
stop tliat Cougii !
Don’t Delay.
TAKE
faington’s
IRISH moss
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s. Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Ealing, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from'Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu.
late. Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. IQorac.


“OLEAC
.Discovered by Christopher
Mndd, F.L.8., Botanist to
H.H.H. the Brinceof Wales
ECZEMA
%
Permanent Cure, Self Applied,
3oz. Jars 2/6 By post 3A
OLEAC”
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
f S
‘ SAIVIBULINE,’/^/
Or Elder, Glycerine and Honey Jelly.
For allaying Irritation caused by Heat. Chafing through
Cycling, Riding, Rowing; Exposure to the Sun at Seaside,
Fishing, Cricket, &c.; Sun Blisters, &c. Delightfully Cooling
and Refreshing. In Metallic Tubes 1/-
“IMAFATHA SOAP,” Regd.
DISINFECTANT SOAP, specially prepared for Tender
Feet, &c. Most Useful to Travellers for arresting Gnat,
Mosq .i to, and Insect Bite Irritation. Recommended by the
Medical Profession. Wrapped Tablets, 6d.
The above sold by Chemists and Stores. Sole Manufacturers :
OSBORNE, BAUER &CHEESEMAN,
L Perfumers to the Queen ,
19, Golden Square, Regent St., London, W. A
58
TEARS DTEING
FOR THE LADIES,
w_ c. &c co.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
WortbiQgtoQ P(in)pii)g Eijgioc Conjpaoy.
'Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll 33rOtlierS* (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTOM
THAOS MARtSfr
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. .Tohns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
BZept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
What is Health?
Jfheumatism, Sciatica,
' - Lumbago, &c,,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PA It HER, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
N.S.W. FR
OD
ICE CO.. LTD.
Pioneers
<r* the Country Milk Trade; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)—32 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE —for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is
WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE:
SEND ORDEI
_ “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATES ON, Manager.
PARKE&
60 CLARENCE STREET,
CO. LTD.,
SYDNEY.
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
Ill]
*
$
&
&
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
THE - -
ALE 81 AGEE SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE
CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s
Baking Powder
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. # 345 Bonrke-st., Melbourne.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
& Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price .£B, reduced £2 17s (id each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut, stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price i. 10 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £6 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge maehinesandcleaners complete. Usual price s 21, reduced £7 lOsea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at (L (Id per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Orders must be made payable to Wcadon, Thomas <fe Co.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent Spokes (all Nickle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2/8 gross), Rim Washers (lid. gross),
Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12,6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s
Saddles 60, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips (10/- doz. pairs), B.S. A. Racing Sets 90/-. Semi for trade Illustrated Price
List Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES
up to date £7 £B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
BLAKE’S
Steam Pumps
uflk.ro the J3©st».
We have them in Stock :
SINGLE and DUPLEX,
up to
50,000 Gallons Imp. per Hour.
SEND FOR CIRCULARS & CATALOGUES.
Piping, Valves, Boilers, Hose,
and every other description of PUMP SUPPLIES
in Stock.
