

The Bulletin
Voi. 19.—N0. 942. i
[Saturday, March 5, 1898.
Pegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
f
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
11 The Standard
of Highest Purity
* at present
. attainable,”
lancet.
R. G, WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BBIS
DBYSDALE
& CO.,
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND—
-1,000 Tons “ Ort) ” ana “ Pyramia ” Galvanlzea Iron.
10,000 Casks Knight Sevan’s Cement.
■ FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
za
o
O
0
X
<RAckA^ocK>
&
O
o
o
*4
o
V
o
R. A. HER VBY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydnby.
GIBSON, BATTLE 4. Co.
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Port-able, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best; manufactured by Ri ston,
Proctor & Go., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROAD BENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam • driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbext & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-lIOPKINSON ” and
•< MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured bv Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecuical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing's Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on hn.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
Amlcl see that you get it.
m
m
PROOFS
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bllgh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
PRO
m
Mini s EIEBiIETTES
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
What is Health?
J>h eiimo tiam, Sciatica,
1 ' - - Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FA it 1< lilt, 145 Victoria Paradh,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
Bffore visiting the Qty writefo the Manager for
Ora of Tariff. Correspondence promptly attended to.
THE
Notsl,
Grosvenor Square,
S-3r333XT3E3"Sr.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
7/cU^M
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING'
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
TTISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
* should note that the
. Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
0. FOX, Proprietor.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
EDI SWAN
_ -fA-
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
MSI&SMN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch —l6 Carrington-etreet,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
0T Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
——
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
Tales of the convtct system, by
Price Warung. Is. 3d.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and Hew Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney* N.S.W.


THE RED PAGE.
SOMEBODY writes oomplaining of * the fre-
quent sex-references on the Red Page.
Can’t I,’he says,‘ take my dose of litera-
ture without admixture of the woman-element ? ’
One reply is that a statistical comparison shows
such references are not very frequent—certainly
not unduly frequent. When, however, they do
occur, they make probably a more marked im-
pression on the reader than sexless references
make; for Sex, apart from its aesthetic value, is
a cardinal human fact, and sex-hunger ranks next
to food-hunger as a human stimulus.
The point is strongly put in Maupassant’s ‘Le Vaga-
bond.’
In the same way, the good people who
oomplain that Bulletin stories run to sex-
motifs and death-climaxes are surprised to find
themselves in error when themes are counted.
The reason is that the sex-and-death stories
make strongest impression upon the aver-
age reader, and linger longer in the memory
than do stories woven of tamer threads. Litera-
ture is and aims to be for the most part a more or
less ideal representation of life; and death is the
most natural and most effective literary-climax
just as it is the most natural and most effective
life-climax. Whenever the literary artificer stops
short of ‘death,’ the reader feels there is still
something to be said. Even children will meet
‘ Arid so they married and lived happily ever
after ’ with ‘ But how did they live happily ever
after? and what did they die of ?’—and adult-age
is more exacting. Marriage ends the movement,
but death ends the music;—and the intelligence,
like the ear, rests unsatisfied with a final pause in
the middle of the bar. Injudicious workmen even
go past death—into heaven cr hell; but h. and h.
are anti-climaxes, though useful in humorous
verse. Serious verse or prose they weaken : the
average person of good taste does not picture
them as clearly as he pictures death ; and the
power
Not the value ; we measure power by the standard of
actual accomplishment, and value by the standard of
possible accomplishment.
of an artistic stimulus depends, of course,
upon the audience’s capacity for response.
Thus Paterson’s comic rhyme of ‘ Old Pardon, the Son
of Reprieve,’ closes effectively with a picture of Pardon
careering round celestial courses ; but Lawson’s tragic
rhyme of ‘ Marshall’s Mate ’ closes ineffectively by trans-
lating the hero to
‘ that Loving, Laughing Land where life is
fresh and clean—
Where the rivers flow all summer, and the grass is always
green.’
The idea is staled, anyway; and even a good thing
is artistically spoiled by staleness —by the want of
that ‘continual slight novelty’ which divides dreation
from imitation. And the idea is inartisticaliy used be-
cause it drops the mind more or less abruptly from
the climax of a strongly-pictured, thoroughly-realised
tragedy to the anti-climax of a dimly-realised, rather
weakly-pictured “pretty ending.” (Where his tragic
effect is still greater, as in ‘ Out Back,’ Lawson himself
can see that taking it to heaven would spoil it: it is only
occasionally that his feminine-elements obscure his male
vision.)
[it would be interesting to traverse the field of fiction
and show the singular force of the death-climax where
the plan permits it to be used. (In panoramic novels,
like ‘Vanity Fair’ or ‘ Middlemarch,’ it cannot be used
with advantage ; and the ending in such novels is the
weakest part of the story.) One might refer to the mag-
nificent close of ‘ Beauchamp’s Career,’with the picture
of the great Lord Romfrey thundering on that black
river-side where the idealist threw his life away for
an insignificant bit of mudbank humanity. Then
there is ‘The Story of an African Farm,’ with worn-
out Waldo sleeping into death—Em bringing him
milk as the chickens climb about him: ‘ He will
wake soon, and be glad of it ’—and the superb clinching
sentence, ‘ But the chickens were wiser.’ (This though
Olive Schreiner in her preface repudiates ‘ the stage
method,’ and professes merely to paint life : her artistic
sense impels her to close with the dramatic climax which
she disavows.) Then there is the even more thrilling
crisis of ‘ Madame Bovary,’ where the impression is in-
tensified by the contrast between the miserable woman
on her deathbed and the miserable woman chanting
beneath the window a gay song which puts the keenest
edge oh the tragedy. And so on.]
Apropos the Bovary ending. There is somewhere in
French the story of a woman to whom came a man who
had eaten of the insane Amor-root that takes the reason
prisoner. She stroked his hand soothingly, and told him
that she would be a sister to him, and he might kiss her
on the cheek (in the usual considerate feminine way).
When the man went away and thought it over, he laughed
mirthlessly—he had eaten a good deal of root, and the
woman’s conduct impressed him like the story of the
Macquarie-street lady who rushed out, with a bedroom-jug.
to extinguish the Garden t alace fire. In the next chap-
ter, the man happens to mention that he laughed ; and
the woman is shocked. ‘ You laughed ! ’ she says and
the story goes on. Point is concealed in the woman’s
total inability to conceive the depth of tragedy in that
laugh. So the average woman quite fails to realise that
the best of what pathos there is in Fildes’s stagey picture
of‘The Widower’ is brought by the contrast between
the grief of the father and elder child and the glee of the
younger children. The feminine mind always wants
its moods arranged tidily, like doormats and anti-
macassars, according to the conventional notions
embodied in that useful but inartistic proverb, ‘A place
for everything, and everything in its place.’ For some-
thing approaching the conclusion of the whole matter
See De Quincey’a essay “ On the Knocking at the Gate in
Macbeth,’ ” with the pregnant sentence: ‘ All action in
any direction is best expounded, measured, and made
apprehensible by reaction.’ Cf. Amarinth in ‘The Green
Carnation,’ which by no means faiis in truth by sue*
oeeding in being paradoxical: ‘ The highest humour often
moves me to tears. . . . The high.st comedy verges
upon tragedy, just as the keenest edge of tragedy is often
tempered by a subtle humour. Opr minds are shot with
moods as a fabric is shot with c lours, and our moods
often seem inappropriate. Everything that is true is
inappropriate.’ ... ‘I know,’ said Reggie Hastings.
‘That is why I laughed at mv brother’s funeral. My
grief expressed itself in that way'. People were shoe ed,
of course, but when are they not shocked? There is
nothing so touching as the inappropriate.’ Also, there is
Ambrose Bierce’s statement of the converse in ‘The
Damned Thing ’: * Against a sombre background humor
shows high lights. Soldiers in the intervals of battle
laugh easily, and a jest in the death-chamber conquers
surprise.’ And dozens of similar illustrations of an
interesting and obvious psychical fact—possibly depend-
ing on the physical fact that all motion tends to rest,
with its corollaries : the greater the speed the greater the
friction ; the higher the pendulum-swing the nearer to
reversal; the acuter the tension the closer to snapping-
point; and so on.
* * * •
Another reply to the sex-referenoe complainant
would be that it is quite time literature devoted
more space to the intelligent consideration of sex
questions—divesting the nude of the crude. I
agree with Havelock Ellis when, in the just-issued
first volume of his ‘ Studies in the Psychology of
Sex,’
[Pub. The University Press, Watford, London; price,
10s. posted. This is in many ways an admirable book—
not so good on the clinical side as Moll’s ‘Perversion,*
but broader yet compacter. If it fails anywhere, it is by
lacking stimulus, fire. Ellis is getting through middle-
age now ; he is a strenuous worker ; and presumably his
brain has lost elasticity in the continual strain of reading
and writing. One does not want rhetorio, of course, but
that heat of thought which kindles the mind. You can
say the same thing passively or actively—in this ‘ Inver-
sion ’ book Ellis says it passively; he is not dynamic. His
conclusions are right, of course, and are hereby com-
mended to Q. Chief-Justice Griffith (in view of secs. 216,
216, 218, of his new legal code) and to other Australian
jurists. E.g., ‘society . . . might well refrain from
crushing with undiscerning ignorance beneath a burden
of shame the subject of an abnormality' which, as we have
seen, has not been found incapable of fine uses. Inver-
sion is an aberration from the usual course of nature.
But the clash of contending elements which must often
mark the history of such a deviation results now and
again—by no means infrequently—in nobler activities
than those yielded by the vast majority who are born to
consume the fruits of the earth. It bears for the most
part its penalty in the structure of its own organism.
We are bound to protect the helpless members of society
against the invert. If we go further, and seek to destroy
the invert himself before he has sinned against society,
we exceed the warrant of reason, and in so doing we may,
perhaps, destroy also those children of the spirit which
possess sometimes a greater worth than the ohildren of
the flesh.]
he says—
I do not wish any mistake to be made. I regard sex as
the central problem of life. And now that the problem
of religion has practically been settled, and that the pro-
blem of labour has at least been placed on a practical
foundation, the question of sex—with the racial questions
that rest on it—stands before the coming generations as
the chief problem for solution. Sex lies at the root of
life, and we can never learn to reverenoe life until we
know how to understand sex.
And there is as much room for propagandist
disciples as for student saviours ; for the common
ignorance, fostered by ‘ morality,’ is an awful
thing to contemplate. One. has only to look at
the newspapers, for example, to see that Dr.
Schenk’s reported discovery is vulgarly regarded
as semi-miraculous—though long before the dawn
of human history the bees had learned how to
develop sex by regimen of diet. In every hive
the queen is elevated from neutership to a throne,
per medium of regular meals and by while snacks
that there may be fulfilled the word of the
prophet Tennyson, saying—
I hold it truth, with him who sings
To one clear harp in divers tones,
That bees may rise on stepping-stones
Of their dead sex to higher things.
And no sooner do you abstract the queen from a
hive than the bees will feed you another —and no
error. And that human sex depends chiefly on
the nourishment of the embryo has been for
several years a familiar theory. Sums-up that most
able and interesting book, ‘ The Evolution of Sex ’
(1889): ‘Nutrition is one of the most important
factors in determining sex.’ Of course, Prof.
Schenk deserves every credit for tethering the
theory to solid facts of food—if he has tethered,
which is likely enough, for there was merely ques-
tion of experiment.
* * * »
And yet another reply to the sex-reference com-
plainant would be that the New Woman has lately
made Sex so prominent in English that you can’t
avoid running up against a lightly-clad bugbear
(or bare bug) half-a-dozen times a month at least.
And the Baby has become quite a feature of
fiction and poetry —the woman-writer takes sim
into the harvest-field and rooks sis cradle with
one hand while she gleans with the other. (Miss)
Laurence Alma Tadema, for example, who was
last week quoted, has this in her new book of
verses—
TEE EMPTY HEARTH.
As I sit beside the empty hearth, there’s silence all around,
But I hear the rocking measure of a cradle on the ground :
My little baby sleeping draws her breath with gentle sigh,
And my son, of play now weary, nestles close with droop-
ing eye.
His hand is warm within .my hand, his head upon my
breast
Is sweet with the scent of childhood, of the young bird in
the nest;
His face is hidden from me, but his eyes are strange and
bright,
And he whose eyes are like them walks towards me thro’
the night.
I soon shall hear his footstep—oh ! his footstep l —on the
stair,
The door will open, he will come and stand behind my
chair . , .
—God! save me from those dreams I The hearth is
empty, far is he :
And his little children lie asleep on another woman’s
knee.
And ‘ M. A.R.’sends these sincere and oharm-
ing lines to The Bulletin—
And it would be easy to collect dozens of
similar yearnings from the work of recent women
story-tellers—from Ella Dixon past Sarah Grand
down to George Egerbon and back again. The
New Woman evidently means to eat her cake
and have it—she wants the babies as well as the
books. Well . . .
* • » *
A woman—possibly a New Woman—struck
Redfern station the other day just as the 5.25
p.m. or ‘fish ’ or ‘ honeymoon ’ train was about to
leave for the mountains.
The'honeymoon' reference is easily understood, and
has been not unprofitably utilised by a couple of ‘ Bulle-
tin ’ versers (‘ And the gate of his hope is the honeymoon
train,’ sang Randolph Bedford, whose book of collected
rhymes should be nearly ready for issue in Melbourne
now); but ‘fish ’ has a darksome origin. The story goes
that when the train wasfirst put on the time-table the engine
driver was named Herring, and his fireman (or guard)
was one Pike (or some such marine cognomen)—whence,
obviously, ‘ fish train,’ a convenient label still tagged on
all the way from Penrith to Mt. Victoria.
She had a baby : and she
trundled a bike.. At 5.20 she had settled her baby
in a carriage-corner, and was settling her bike in
a cloak-room. At 5.23 she was still lovingly
bending over it, and apparently explaining things
to a porter who wanted, like Budge in ‘Helen’s
Babies,’ ‘ to see the wheels go wound ’ —or merely
liked, with S. W. Foss and Paris Nesbit, ‘ to see
the thing go on.’ At 5.25 to the tick the train
started. It was a sad but liberal education in
Lavater to see comprehension of the situation
slowly spreading over the possibly-New Woman’s
countenance. . The Old Woman rose rampant in
her. She shrieked. She ran towards the moving
carriage. Seven porters, a platform inspector,
and a guard shouted in a hostile manner, and
waved forbidding arms. The carriage moved
on. She beat the air despairingly. A
trousered apparition came to her assistance,
scurried along the platform, and demanded of the
Universe, ‘WILL NO ONE STOP THIS
TRAIN?’ The Universe smiled cynically—the
train moved off. There was one pathetic glimpse
of an Old Woman in her agony; and the baby
was clattering on to the mountains in the (alleged)
fastest regular train in Australia—34 miles in
46min., Sydney to Penrith.
Query: Is this the fastest train in Australia, for,the
distance? Also, wanted answers—as truthful as possible
to a previous query: ‘What is the record Australian
“ perish ” without food or water, or without both? ’
* * * *
This little anecdote has parable-value. For
‘ bike ’ read ‘ book ’; and decide that, if the New
Woman is to take her baby along with her, she
mustn t bother about the book—or vice versa it is
sufficient if she satisfies the creation-urge in
a single sphere, and ‘ a ’ owers is vice,’ as
George Black would say. And si exempla
ake those mentioned—Dixon, Grand, Egerton •
t 9
add ‘John Oliver Hobbes;’ compare George
Eliot, George Sand, Charlotte Bronte—all makers
of fairly live books, and no or dead babies.
Exceptions? None—in the first rank ; doubtfully in
the second. Mediocrity manages both, of course—the
less strength in the writing the more strength for the
other. Quote Mrs. Oliphunt—a hooks-plus-babies woman
—whose babies are all dead and books all dying.
The men? Well, the men are men, and that
is all about it. As I)r. Schenk points out, they
have five million red corpuscles in their blood,
against the women’s four —or thereabouts. Yet
the rule holds for them also, as Bacon long ago
observed. ‘ Certainly the best works . . . have
proceeded from the unmarried or childless men ’—
and so on : it’s in the essay ‘ On Marriage and
Single Life.’ Yet the men fare better in propor-
tion to their red corpuscles.
This is what makes it possible for Presbyterian Rev.
Dr. Geikie to work off an elaborate Sootoh joke on Syd.
‘ Telegraph ’ regarding one Marmaduke Constable, de-
ceased (a parishioner and manse-fund contributor?). Dr.
Geikie rings in eleven inches of matter headed ‘The
Constable Family ’—on the ground that—
1. Sir Walter Scott was—Sir Walter Scott (the Great
Flea).
2. Archibald Constable was Sir Walter Scott’s publisher
(the Little Flea).
8. Marmaduke Constable was the youngest son of
Archibald Constable’s large family (the Lesser iftea).
4. Marmaduke Constable was acquainted with the Rev.
Dr. Geikie (the Ad Infinitum).
And the notice meanders down seriatim to this luscious
peroration—‘ One of the last links which recalled the
mighty novelist and his great publisher is thus gone ,
and our severance from that time with its literary splen-
dour is greater than ever. He had much to tell us, and
he was an admirable companion. The colony lost much
when Marmaduke Constable ceasedJo move freely in it.’
O Scotland ! Scotland 1
*». • - *
Obvious enough, all this ; yet continually over-
looked in life and literature. And the pity of the
New Women’s position is that the more they
can’t get the more they want. E.g., our own Miss
Dunne, who married someone whose name isn’t
handy, and writes very cleverly as ‘ George Eger-
fcon.’ The review notices which Shave seen of G.E.’s
new book, ‘Fantasias,’ are all rather deprecia-
tory. Imagine the reviewers haven’t understood :
it seems possible that G.E. would prefer ‘Fan-
tasias ’ to any other of her books : there looks
more of herself in it. That doesn’t mean that the
unimpressed people are wiong: the book an
author likes best is not always the book best in
literary quality, the book others should like best.
| Fantasias,’ in truth, is weaker as literature than
its predecessors; but the personal revelation is
sometimes very charming. For example, ‘The
Well of Truth ’ dreams of G.E.’s ideal—the Man-
Phcenix and the Baby. From ‘ The Well ’:
. . . ‘StPaulsays ’ She listened patiently to his
homily (although she had a womanly grudge against Paul,
and a conviction that someone had jilted him as Saul).
* It gave her pleasure to see his eyes return to her face
when they marked her handiwork in the house. Women
seldom value the simplicities of life until the complexities
of their nature have played them false.’
From other of the ‘Fantasias ’—
‘ It may be a tragic calamity in a man's life to have to
live with a certain kind of ear, in the same way as life
may be a perpetual comedy in company with a certain
curve of mouth.’
‘Lyrics . . . pungent as freshly-plucked garlic, gener-
ative as sun-glow.’
‘ There are always people to whom original expression
must be cousin-german to original sin.’
‘ The great man is the individual who forces others to
see through his eyes, who uses the common sight
of humanity merely as an occasional gauge by which to
test the development of his own vision.
* the essential calm that is not stagnation, and is in it-
self an element of joy.’
On the whole, one is sorrier for the New Woman
with the romantic yearnings than for the Old one
with the tram-diseases. She talks about herself
more interestingly. Expression is a great gift.
CHILDLESS.
Lend me your bonny boy —
Just as he is—Ah, so !
Lit me a feast enjoy—
You will no hungrier go t
Made for clasp and kiss!
Nor have 1 to learn —
You were taught of bliss,
1, by famine stern.
Fresh from sponge and puff ;
Scenting like some sweet flower
That has had dew enough
And sunshine for an hour t
Give him all garmentleu l
Let no insensate vest
Dull the deliciousness
Of Love’s haunts all confessed !
I have him now—the dove—
Cpgathered, unalarmed l
And round him and above
My body draws touch-charmed I
Now palms forbear ye not 1
Now drink deep draughts, 0 mouth l
Ye parched and overwrought
With child-love’s passioned drouth /
“ ffIHE ANTIPODEAN No. 3. An Illustrated
X Annual. Edited by A. B. PATERSON (“ Banjo ”)
and GEORGE ESSEX EVANS. Bvo., wrapper, 1/- ; post,
1/4. Table of Contents :
The Chamber of Faith (Poem), by J. Brunton Stephens.
Black Trackers : a Bush Sketch, by Rolf Boldrewood.
Golden Syrup : a Story for Children, by Ethel Turner.
August, the Maori Girl: a Sketch of Maori life, by
Henry Lawson. Saltbush Bill’s Second Fight, by “The
Banjo ” ; illustrated by Frank P. Mahony. The Fos-
sickers, by Edward Dyson ; with illustrations by Alf.
Vincent. The Savage'Art of the Pacific, by Charles
Hedley, F.L.S. A Gulf Idyll, by George Essex Evans.
On the Dividing Chain : a Story, by Roderic Quinn.
Mining in West Australia ; with photos, by Glentag-
g-art Bogle. Australian Aborigines : a Sketch of the
Customs of the Blacks. A Day at Shingle Hut, by
Steele Rudd. Letters of a Legion : Out-back Life of
Bushmen and Miners ; with illustrations. TiieCry of
the Curlew (A Poem), by J. B. O’Hara. Sport in Aus-
tralia : a Chatty Article. The Ballad of the Cal-
liope, by A. B. Paterson (“ Banjo.”)
GEO. ROBERTSON & CO., 361 and 363 George Street,
Sydney ; Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and London.
A G. STEPHENS,
' AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All ivork involved between Author and Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address: GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
Mo more Or
We now return to business
and
Do you smoke “ Cameo ” Cigarettes ? ■
cket!
No more sprained ankles;
No more strained sides;
Goodbye to Ranji;
Adieu to “‘l,’ said the fly;”
karewell to heat and smoke;
No more cricket for the present.


CONSULT...
Drs. meeniß * mime,
The World-famed Specialists,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
PR ° FESSI ° N is no longer a question of doubt. That
RECXlBdj'lUGtrr experience's H^Tong^'andTTHElll
A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
Our va luable treatises
NERVOUS AND PRIVATE
DISEASES,” Post Free on ap-
plication.
Our New Medical Work
RESCUED AT LAST,” over
SOU pages letterpress, 16 pages
colored plates, 60 engravings, full
cloth bound, is now ready. The
Largest Medical Work of its kind
ever published in Australia. Price
10s.
In the Laboratory.
To ensure prompt attention,
forward .£1 by mail, and full
description of your complaint,
and we will at once send neces-
sary remedies for treatment of
your ailment.
Nine Diplomas and Certifi-
cates of Qualification and Regi-
stration throughout Australia
open to inspection at the Con-
sulting Rooms.
youDC men, piidoeeuged s old men.
If you are troubled with Pimnles. RnshfuWco 4j ...
/ - - —’ -w mm hp ■ - h w M B •
Eneriry s AmWtiorf°and e Splf r^fiH* raP^eS ’ ? a * S i^ U i* neS , 8 ’ Avers ' on to Society, Stupidness, Despondency, Loss of
afflict yo7taXX d <£?r , f ° r Stnd * BusineB8 ’ or Marriage P-if you*™ thus
and Sediment in^Urfne^anr/nth!>J roU^- e i?i W^v!iW^ a * c ’ A°hi n K Backs and Kidneys, Frequent Painful Urination
this difficulty Ignorant of S1 ~ nS °j Nervous Debility and Premature Decay. Many die of
OASES OF TTrfe pmnUv™, 18 the second state of Seminal Weakness. rr,TTr ' ” r ' ol -
V ■ ■ U 1 THIS CHARACTER TREATED WITH UNFAILING SUCCESS.
UIC AAC«JOi < y. XU 0/11 V UIC ut
THE MOST OBSTINATE
PRIVATE COMPLAINTS:
nflammations, Hydrodcele, Varicocele and Kindred Troubles QUICKLY CUBED
without Pam or Detention from Business.
itN7lMCvSP£f£l
All Trams stop at the Door.
CORRESPONDENCE DEPARTMENTS AND
MEDICINES BY PARCEL POST.
Ou,^ arran f rernen ts keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to that lanique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given m the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence, which is universal, without the Type-
writer, for speed, legibility, and secrecy are
obtained by its use. City people who may not have
the available time, and those who, through false
modesty, refrain from personal consultation, should
c^/lrrw»T antagre of treatm ent by PARCELS POST
Y&IEM, as all medicines are securely packed and
forwarded, screened from observation.
if
RE. Wi*jj
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney. [Correspondence, 8.0. Box 1359.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
the AN FLA h IN FACTs/ThT'oLD^SECRETS 0
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
' TRIUMPH,' P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“A Bori> PbySkiai).”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
But few of noted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston, a
resident and practitioner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne.
His name has. become almost literally a household word;
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physicians have failed. He addresses himself in particular
to cases that have baffled the skill and science of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
cure of every case he undertakes. Consult him this day.
It may save you much mental and physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
YOUNG MEN. You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
of energy, which impair both your body and brain,
and absolutely unfit you for study, business, or the
proper enjoyment of life; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist
who thoroughly understands your trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
physical power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
young men, his success has been' almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call mav
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B. The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments?
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
U pURmER BLOOD SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL Iml
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is 3d
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses!
R. RAFF AN, Proprietor, %
55 E'gin-st., MELBOURNE.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE.
Safe*
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy (or COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOMOHITIS,
DIAEEHffiA, tkc., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
‘lf I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
JOHfJMD U R AMTI
mm
3>r
FULL DIRECTIoSsSS
* . ENCLOSED? 'JI
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4/6 per box. Sold bv
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0.. Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
RUFTITRE.
If raptured, you naturally hope to obtain re-J
lief from pain; security from Strangulated f
Hernia, and a permanent cure if possible, i
Please investigate “Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic/
Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at/
what you will learn. This Truss positively/
does the work, and is worth £lOOO to any/
ruptured man or woman. If you want the/
BEST, call or send 2d. in stamps for free 1
Pamphlet No. 1. It contains full information. NAGNETIO
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H.
SOUL & CO., 158 and 208 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies.
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife's Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
oost free.
mm
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the Enedish and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and syrest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young 1 Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow daring' sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, Ac., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he -will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. G BJBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE'
Dr. SPEER,
■7 York Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
of N.S.W. and N.Z.)
whose New and Scientific Treatment, by purifying ana
enriching the blood, gives new life and tone to tne
whole nervous and muscular systems, and builds up a
new constitution in the most enfeebled. The first week of
treatment brings glad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
Should try Dr. SPEER’S celebrated Remedies, which strike
at the root of the disease. The symptoms gradually dis-
appear, vigor and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
their old lustre. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
cine secures a healthy appearance, the patient finds
himself gaining in weight and flesh, hollow and sunken
cheeks become rounded ; the weak and shattered consti-
tution is restored, and the former sufferer finds himself
permanently cured with all the animation and vigor of
life.
ALL consultations free.
Persons residing at a distance can, by describing their
troubles in detail, be treated at home. The course of
treatment will not in any way interfere with their
business.
Every person applying to the Doctor will receive a
straightforward and candid opinion of the case, and the
possibility of a cure. If the patient is curable, he will tell
him so ;if not, he will also tell him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
and Old Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and success.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
7 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Dr. CARTWRIGHT’S
FEMALE TABLETS
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly-
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Price 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
7 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favencj price
1/-; posted, 1/3.
A Liberal Discount to the Trade.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. .It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice* and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic? No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. fiEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your * Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
tor Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
l quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it.. The Medicine quite cured me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, hate had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. ” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the.pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Tl r
Sheer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920.
7 York Street* Sydney.
♦
m
j
Ip
OLD
RMS
SUNBU
fiwg
xS>
HA
&iC
J*
2>Vr
n
Y
J*'etors .


9
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTBRSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
NEWCASTLE C. March 17.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me , ' shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
£ S :
HAWKESBURY H.
April 2.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
£,
Address
SYDNEY G
April 11.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in. the above.
N ame„
Address
:
BIRTHDAY C
May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
SILVER CITY C. March 23.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me : 1 °res in the above.
Name. '
Address - -—:—
:
DONCASTER H
April 9.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in the above.
Name j_ —
Address
£ * s
ADELAIDE C. May 11.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name..
Address.
ELLESMERE S. June 4.
25,000 Subsoriberß at 5 a
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame.
£
Address.
s
a
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony Hordern’s
NEW
CATALOGUE
a s „..
/ill be sent anywhere
. FREE on application.
GET ON€ !
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
Mrs, E.
LYNN
LBNTON,
The Famous Authoress
writes —
Brougham House, I
MaIvVERN, I
January 16th, 1896.
“ I have used your'KOKO’now since
June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex-
cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling. Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing' tor the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair. I=, 2 16 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS GO,, LTD,, ♦
16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
USE
Spooler's
-oONtfrfc
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS Si SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC I lONS FOR USE
ammammmtmii
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning-and Polishing Boots j
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is. i
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS !
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation. .
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
po YOU SHAVE?
THEN TRY the
Thistle Razor.
This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
pered Razor ever offered to the public. Every RAZOR is
GUARANTEED in perfect order, as it is SET and
SHAVED with in my SALOON before being sent out.
Price, in Black Handle, 10s. ; pair in case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, 12s. 6d.; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS,
3s. 6d., 65., 65., 7s. 6d., and 10s. 6d. Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
post free throughout the colonies from ANDREW
McGEE, Hairdresser, &c., 6 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Bards of the Bacteblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OUTSIDE.
h The boat has her nose to the nor’ard,
f And the bands of the western rails gleam,
I While we watch on the fo’castle for’ard,
j Or damn the old kettle of steam ;
• For we’re off to our home in the Westland,
: : And its sail it, and rail it, and ride :
Well the men who are men know the best land,
Due west of the fences—Outside.
| Three months have our horses been spelling,
| While we at our vices worked hard ;
! Lord ! won’t there be racing and yelling
Till the blacks get ’em safe in the yard !
I We’ll need to look after our gearing—-
Show Longreach that rovers can ride—
l Down rails, and then, steadily stearing,
Ride west of the fences—Outside.
Ah ! sordid the ways of a city,
Too worried and hurried to live,
i With never the time to take pity.
With never the means left to give;
[ Living down in a hole between houses,
And in things that should shame taking pride,
j White-faced and sharp-practiced—it rouses
■ The scorn of the men from Outside.
They beat us in town when we gamble
(Inside ’tis the crafty man thrives),
But luck’s not so bad when we ramble,
i And the stakes that we play are our lives ;
And sweeter and stronger and stranger
Than the kisses at eve of a bride
Is the thrill of the nerve that in danger
Stirs the heart of the rover Outside.
How the blood beats the rally to battle
At the sudden short rush of the black,
And races along with the cattle,
And sings when they wheel on the track ;
And pulses with pride when firm faces
Prove courage that’s constant and tried ;
How it yearns for mysterious places
That are farther and farther Outside.
Let who will hunt their poor El Dorado
In the smoke and the stench of the towns,
Ours to follow the cloud and its shadow
Speeding west on the silver-grey downs.
We track up the day on his sun path ;
When we fail in the strength of our stride
We know that of rovers each one hath
His place—west of fences—Outside.
Q.
R. A. FAIRLY.
SIMPLE LIVING IN THE HUT.
There are banquets, there are dinners, suppers,
luncheons, and that ilk,
Where both holy men and sinners skim the cream
of Nature’s milk;
Where epicures are sated with the choicest
dainties—but
Give me the simple living in the roomy harvest
hut!
The men who drive the waggons with their loads
of yellow sheaves ;
The men who build the haystacks from the levels
to the eaves;
The men who drive the binders in the “late-
stuff ” on the hills,
A-cutting down the six-foot at a pace which fairly
thrills ;
These all are very busy, and their knives they
quickly cut,
For they love the simple living in the roomy har-
vest hut.
And it’s “Pass the brownie, Johnny!” and
it’s “ Have a drink of tea ? ”
The men are very willing, and as friendly as can
be ;
The cook is Lanky Davie, and he suits us all, you
bet !
He’s a cook who knows his business, and we boys
are in his debt;
For if work is ever welcome, it’s when you have a
cook
Who feeds you up on tucker that will stand the
second look.
Lanky Dave is called a sinner by the parsons
round about;
But if ever lived an angel, it is Dave, without a
doubt!
When we bite into his brownie we clean his slate
anew;
And we hail him King of Glory when we taste
his Irish stew.
Dave wears no shining halo ; with women he's
a nut; —
But he gives us simple living in the roomy harvest
hut.
We are working for a farmer, and this farmer
treats us well;
3o we’ve done our best to please him ’neath a sky
reflecting hell;
He’s not a cut above us; he’s “a master and a
man ”;
And has treated us as “ditto” since the season's
work began:
Of course he pays us wages which could be much
better —but
There’s also simple living in the roomy harvest
hut.
G.H.C.
A small sign of the times :—The woman’s-
club idea rapidly gains ground in England. The
membership in London alone is now estimated at
10,000. Some of the best are quite abreast of their
masculine rivals in excellence of cuisine and
general comfort: and, whilst men’s clubs are and
always have been chiefly valued by many for their
gambling and drinking facilities, the women value
and run theirs for their social benefits alone.
Case of wife-desertion in Brisbane. Argued
on behalf of defendant that plaintiff had no case,
inasmuch as “ there was proof that complainant
was not without means,” and, according to inter-
pretation of the Act, complainant had therefore
no redress. (Case of Kelly v. Kelly, p. 32, No. 6,
Queensland Law Journal, quoted in support of
this.) According to this remarkable Act and still
more remarkable precedent, if a woman goes out
to support herself by honest labor “she is not
without means,” and consequently cannot sue for
desertion. Surely the Law in this case is even a
bigger ass than usual!
155235H3
m
G-O TO HBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Grt.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
11. SILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-st Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Springs, etc.
laddies or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to he seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Send for a Catalogue.
Positively the Best Dressing
EDH»RDS>UJUR
EME*
H
Ki
o
, v -O
FOR
PRESERVING Si BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“HARLENE”
WORLD- RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes. Pre
■serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to he devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson's Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract. —The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will be pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/C size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn LONDON, W.C.
HOMOS IDarvellous MIR RESTORER
±> e
ft
t
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
*
%
52
Eead the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
An Australian lady, now residing in England, says : “ Truly, Mr. Holland, my hair
is a walking advertisement for your Hair Restorer. It gives me pleasure to recommend it
everywhere I go. All my friends who are using it through my recommendation speak most
highly of its wonderful hair-producing properties. It is so pleasant to use too. And it
keeps the head free from scurf.”
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the IT ATP, AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “ Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. Gd., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LOOK _A_T OXJR JPRICES l
We beg to notify customers that by buying; from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, 16 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, 126. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
hoards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
Note Our Only Address: N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney.
Send for Ou.r Illustrated. Catalogue.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
Dr. Mackenzie’s Soap is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most
lovely Complexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously and
expensively perfumed. ONE SHILLING PER TABLET. Doctor s certificate with each cake, certifying
to its harmfessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imitations. MADAME
ADELINA PATTI writes : “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” This Soap
cures shiny and greasy skins. , . ,
Dr. Mackenzie’s Face Lotion Is not greasy,does not .contain Glycerine,and is absolutely harmless.
By tightening the skin it quickly removes all wrinkles, lines, crowsfeet, or pufliness under the eyes, it
keeps the skin soft and velvety, and in summer will entirely prevent and quickly remove freckles;
whilst for excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. Price.3/6 per bottle; large
bottles, 5/-. This Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs on the face. Delicious in hot climates.
S. HARVEY, 5, Denman Stieet, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists and Stores.
CUSTARD
SCUSMRD
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED!
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard and Bird's Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.


TlOstraliai) MCittial D rrr 1 ? . .
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established I VICl® ly C O I€t y
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
DmBCTORS :-The Hon Sir J. P. ABBOTT K 0 M G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
ABBOTT, Esq.; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Ehc«.
j. WAiiHiLK. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., FS£-
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797, vieldin
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000. ~
Head. Office : 87 Fitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Sfcrbtab.y-
mmmm
Rates i2/cxda?6UP¥APDS
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “Builders’ Boon”
t . because of use in so many ways.
Tis cheap, cool, clean ; and its weight (3-10ths that of iron)
shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the railway,
■thei thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
HOUSE.
Ss
111
f >t R
*n<i
When purchasing P&B Buberoid for your residence, get a
little extra for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Every Variety of
*
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
flfcfierley and Oauison, limited,
257 George Street, Sydney.
bPECIAL VALUE EOR CASH. T£&
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
tO "SSSf E SrA talS!l 0 s [ r e E6 H’ '* LESS TIME AMO AT HALF THE PRICE.
i.w cl II KJIIUS
Proprietors • onnnf i i ofa «'°' sd Cns : >rd. Giveit a trial.
Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK &CO KENT a,U LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each
JOSHUA ’
BOOMERANG
BRANDY
As Supplied to (lie British House of Commons War Office t n t- n
Asylum, and many of the fading Hospitals'in GrSifaiil’td A^SuST' 1
ANTWERP EXHIBITION 1804 -
BORDEAUX EXHIBITION 1805
AMSTERDAM EXHIBITION 1805
BRUSSELS EXHIBITION 1897 -
ODtalnaDie of a,]
GOLD MEDAL.
BRONZE MEDAL.
GOLD MEDAL.
2 GOLD MEDALS.
-W"A-sno & Spirit Merchants.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
■ OR. S. LEVER, j MR. S. D. ASHER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery Surgical and Mechanical
and Prosthetics. I Dentist.
'T'HE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
■ with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised m
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy.
Mnminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Elates, hy means of llridt/eieovk-
■-oid and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased,Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FF,EE.
P'ease Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
-93 HSZ±aa.jHf-str._„
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
MEL BJD UR NE .
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Rooms. . . .
Two Dining- Rooms ; and Oaf 6 open Day and Night.
A GREA T TRIUMPH . . .
IN •'
. . . ELECTRICITY !
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
S 3. J. & D. CTJRRatt,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst,
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
D.RINK
far
m*
IW
SPECIAL
l.y |j.
MlantJi!
mm
WMki
Public Comijanles.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
| payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
I makes <£106,067, divided in cash between
I Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. P. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed t 2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring- £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Gtiarantee
Co. lAd. of T.o>''‘ n.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, cic.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
| Facts Respecting pson’s Tobaccos.
DIJRIMG 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TOMS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
yaijkes Poodle.
The >Sales of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
Cban)pioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Blug.
Coijqti?ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
CeQteQQial-
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
Imported). The Club Favorite Ifoiiopole, Rothschilds.
4-H«rM ana and Amen Can ClgarS retailed at
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 942.
SATURDAY, MARCH 5, 1898.
Price, 6d.
/a
, /f
■ '■
n'Mlfh l
K'flp k <%%\
“fe;. f /
* -TV V* °£ uS
v luVf^lnO
\! f s u
LAN ?HU™BSra™.i T raoNs. iN °
> rrr;»C"*“'«»• —> -
not been able ■ to Lonsdale,
tj/g ' epeaKing on the debate' ensnrf,
reeretted that such a reason tor the
: merc7 on the mean soul of the subscriber.
Kflr '^%UL
V air u l^
/f tf'Wu Kf jf
r «r‘ ,lt l fyfirejeijt-Sitt.
Vv jO ' knlwiW bleu'*)
cina^hriver, fr 0 i V a HVliyl**")
hear 6f rude fffVie j J ft>e i ’*/editor of r /
*4 v,,<4 d f ;.,^)’4y
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
** Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Armum ... ... ... £1 0 &
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note ,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed'to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and aclcnowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Made and. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous wr-
oth er topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. A ny picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
t.andon, E.C.; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgatc Circus; Street
,f- Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. II.
Sdemon and Co., 32 Uout.-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. —W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and ATaoritand.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
; ostage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£1. with 3s. 3d. added for postage. England £1, with
c.x. i:d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edi tion of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, MARCH 5, 1898.
Some Reflections on Immorality.
The scheme of the R.C. Church authorities
for building a new and capacious foundling-
hospital in the neighborhood of Sydney, the
old one not being large enough to hold the
nocturnal infant on the doorstep, has
naturally aroused the elderly unmarried
female of both sexes to make severe remarks
about the “encouragement of immorality.”
The elderly unmarried spinster of both sexes
views the question of immorality in a severe
frame of mind through a pair of blue goggles.
And one point on which that person takes a
firm stand, with the bulgy gamp of rectitude
in her hand, is that any institution which
takes in the casual infant without question is
putting a premium on vice. It encourages
vice because (so it is claimed) the woman who
is about to fall may be led to fall more if she
knows that the possible consequence can be
easily got rid of. This pre-supposes a vast
amount of cold calculation, and takes it for
granted that the girl who falls does it by
arithmetic instead of unreasoning passion,
but that is a side issue. Anyhow, it is held
to be the duty of every virtuous community
to pursue and overtake the unmarried
mother, and find out exactly how she fell,
and why, and with whom, and expose her
as a horrible example to the girl who hasn’t
fallen yet, but who may be going to. And
any institution which passively aids her to
go on looking “respectable” when she
isn’t, and connives at hypocrisy, and doesn’t
actively reprove sin, and softens the way of
the transgressor, instead of strewing spikes
on it, is held...to_bji,.deeply reprehensible.
• * * *
The chief objection which this paper has
is that the proposed institution doesn’t seem
nearly large enough. The Bulletin’s idea
of a foundling-hospital is one with space
enough and money enough to accommodate
every infant that may be left on its hands.
It should have, after the French fashion, a
wicket in the big front door, tlr 1 High which
the casual human waif can be handed in at
night without any remark on either side.
And, if it is to be perfect, it should have, a
vast maternity-hospital attached which will
take in the mother, also without question,
and where every woman who wants to be
anonymous when she becomes a mother can
call herself Ann Smith if she so desires.
And, if the casual unmarried mother dies in
the course of her trouble, this paper doesn’t
see any positive reason why she shouldn’t
die anonymously also, if she prefers to do so.
* * * *
Undoubtedly there would be much more
illegitimacy—in the official statistics —under
this system. Whether there would be more
actual immorality is quite another matter.
The system would do away, to a great extent,
with the abortionist, the advertising “special-
ist,’ - the harridan who runs a private hospital
for the lady from the country and gets rid
of the infant afterwards, the baby-farmer,
the infant found dead in the harbor or on a
vacant allotment, the infant found alive on a
doorstep, the infant that is not found at all,
and other things. All these influences keep
down the illegitimacy statistics —but they
don’t keep down immorality. Possibly the
existence of foundling-hospitals on the plan
suggested would increase immorality some-
what ; quite as possibly it wouldn’t. In the
first place, the woman who falls does it
mostly on impulse, without looking ahead,
and without considering whether there is an
easy way out or not. In the second place,
there are already so many ways out, almost
all ending with a dead infant, that the exist-
ence of another way out wouldn’t necessarily
make much difference. Probably the found-
ling hospital would get ahead of the abor-
tionist and the private hospital harridan as
much through its superior cheapness as from
any other cause.
.
If it did lead to an increase of immorality
the net result might be evil—or it might
not. There are a number of reasons why,
as matters now stand, immorality is objec-
tionable. The small citizen with an un-
married mother and no lawful father is
generally poor, ill - clad, ill - educated,
neglected, and taught no useful trade, and
gets no chance to become <a valuable citizen.
The foundling hospital, if it had sufficient
resources, would do away with much of that.
He starts life at a disadvantage, inasmuch as
an unreasoning snuffledom holds him partly
responsible for his origin. As a ward of the
State the stigma would at least be shadowy
and indefinite ; he would have no known
origin—good, bad, or indifferent. In very
many cases, even as regards the offspring of
parents who were duly married according
to the rules of an orthodox creed, the advan-
tages of not knowing anything about one’s
origin are sufficiently obvious. Assuming
that the existence of a foundling institution
which would take in without question
all the waifs that came in its way, led
to the existence of more unmarried
mothers, it would also cause there to be
far fewer of them with infanticide upon their
souls, and one thing would probably counter-
balance the other. It is just possible that
some few women would fall because there
was an easy and convenient method of getting
rid of any possible consequences. It is also
quite as possible that many women who had
fallen, and who would have fallen in any
case, might, by getting rid of the incon-
venient evidence of the past, be enabled to
rise again, when they would otherwise have
had no chance of so doing, and be white-
washed and highly-respectable sepulchres for
ever afterwards.
* * * *
The Bulletin doesn’t suppose for a
moment that immorality (the term is used in
its purely conventional and pious-she-cat
sense) can be abolished. But it is possible,
in a great measure, to abolish the abor-
tionist, the advertising expert, the profes-
sional child-murderer, and the baby-farmer.
Also, there is no reason why the average off-
spring of conventional immorality should be,
as he or she mostly is, a member of
the unpicturesque guttersnipe fraternity,
and grow up to be a coarse and unedu-
cated member of society, and a cause of
much wear-and-tear of the boots of the police.
There is no reason, either, why the unmar-
ried mother, if she has any capacity for
reform, should not, by judicious secresy,
have a chance to be a respectable social lie
for the rest of her life. There is absolutely
no need for the publicity which so often
causes her to become, in the end, a touzled
and inartistic nuisance who calls out “ducky”
in the streets at night. All these things
might be, to a great extent, done away with
—also the battered saints who talk so much
about the social evil ; likewise the “ homes ”
where the forgiven Flossie is put to hard
labor at the wash-tub ; and other outward
unpleasantnesses as well. And if these ob-
jectionable signs and symbols of immorality
can be done away with, and the price of the
improvement is a certain limited increase in
the amount of immorality itself, the bargain
looks quite good enough. The exact sinful-
ness (as distinguished from the unpleasant
evidences) of what is commonly called im-
morality is difficult to decide. Compared to
the sin of being a hot person who doesn’t
wash regularly, it might fairly pass muster as
a virtue, anyhow.
* * * *
One thing is reasonably certain—if every
Australian city had a foundling asylum and
a maternity hospital, where absolutely no
questions were asked, it would save a vast
amount of infant mortality. Therefore it
would incidentally serve to increase the popu-
lation—and the increase of population is one
of this world’s particular fetishes. The
country where population is increasing fast is
supposed to be prosperous ; the one where
it isn’t is going to the dogs. ’lt is the
business of every well-ordered community
now to show a diminishing death-rate
and a growing birth - rate. These pro-
vinces got this complaint so badly that at
one time they piled up huge debts merely
that they might buy ready-made population
in Europe with the money. And, mean-
while, possible inhabitants are allowed to go
to waste on rivers and on vacant allotments,
saying nothing of burial expenses and the
cost of arresting the unnatural parent , and
in almost any daily paper may be found,
almost any day, a dozen advertisements from
people who offer to prevent the increase of
population for Is. 6d. All of which seems
woefully incongruous somehow.
Bull’s Wool.
After many days of bitter howl and curse in
the Convention, the railway question has got
very little, if any, further advanced. The
different claims are so utterly irreconcilable
that it can’t get any further unless a more Aus-
tralian and less provincial spirit is infused into
the discussion. Several apparent settlements
have been arrived at, but next day the old
volcano started again as vigorously as ever, and
promptly blew out the feeble little cork of com-
promise that was inserted in the funnel. The
first beginnings of the trouble lie in the fact
that not one of the States is really willing to
hand over the railways as Federal property.
If the Commonwealth became sole proprietor of
the existing railway's it must obviously also
look after the construction of new railways.
If construction were left in the hands of the
States and management was left to the Com-
monwealth, then the States might construct
hopelessly unpayable lines for log-rolling pur-
poses, and leave the Commonwealth to work
them and to stand the annual deficit on them for
ever afterwards. Also, the States might, and
probably would, keep on building their lines
from the old provincial standpoint, with a view
to dragging the trade, not to the most con-
venient port, but to the province’s own port.
And the Commonwealth can’t take over the
existing railways and leave the States to boss
the new ones ; no railway system can serve two
masters.
• at * *
No scheme for handing over the existing
railways has come to anything because each
province asks an impossible price. Westralia
wants its lines valued on the assumption that
they will always yield the present 9 per cent. —-
which every one knows they won’t. N.S.W.
wants its railways valued on the basis of its
own Statistician’s figures and the figures of its
railway commissioners, which show it to have
the second-best paying system in Australasia,
whereas the Auditor-General’s report regularly
upsets this pleasing delusion, and accuses the
N.S.W. lines of the biggest accumulated deficit
and the second biggest annual shortage in the
Seven Provinces. Victoria won’t have its lines
valued oii their present returns at all, on the
ground that these returns are affected by the
“ depression ” —and so on. Each province
holds that under Federal management it would
be the one province that wouldn’t get a fair
share of new railways, and wants to know if
Federation would guarantee to immediately
build the line to Jones’s Ruins—or some such
place.
* * * *
This leaves only one other expedient—to
leave the railways under State control, with or
without certain limitations. And both the limi-
tations and the want of them seem impossible as
tilings are going. One alternative is to provide
that all goods-rates shall be uniform and be
fixed solely by distance. In that case exports
would naturally go via the nearest port, pro-
vided there was a railway to take them there,
and a lot of the Riverina trade would naturally
go via Melbourne. The same lot goes there
now, but the N.S.W. railways cut rates down
to zero to drag it to Sydney, and the Victorian
lines cut rates again to drag it to Melbourne,
and the results are that the trade pays neither
party. Still, each party hopes to get it all by-
and-bye, and hangs on to the job with its teeth.
Six out of the seven lines with which N.S.W.
reaches out for the Riverina trade are worked
at a heavy loss. Four of the Victorian lines
which touch the same district are run at a very
heavy loss. These losses are largely caused by
the fact that both systems carry goods at in-
finitesimal rates to prevent the other fellow
getting them. If there was a uniform rate ac-
cording to distance the same traffic would pro-
duce a larger revenue, and some of these lines
would pay a great deal better, but the fear that
the other fellow might get the bulk of the
advantage stands in the way.
* » * •
The N.S.W. Premier’s attitude is that he is
perfectly willing to accede to any system of
uniform railway rates which will not take the
N.S. W. trade away from Sydney. But, owing to
the ridiculous location of certain artificial boun-
daries, nosystem of uniform rates can prevent the
far west and far south trade going to Adelaide
and Melbourne, simply because these places
are only half the distance. The far-back trade
can only be forced to travel over the enormous
mileage to Sydney by carrying it t here at losing
rates, and charging the people who live nearer
to Sydney exorbitant prices to make up the
loss. A dozen or two of amendments have been
submitted to the Convention, with a view to
devising some scheme by which the Federal
Parliament is to be instructed (1) to make the
iates uniform and show no preference to one
place over another, and (2) at the same time
to do nothing that will divert the trade of one
province to another. They have all failed, for
the sufficient reason that nobody can walk
rapidly in t wo opposite directions at once. At
the same time, the power of fixing rates can’t
be left to the provinces, else th* alleged free
trade and intercourse which is to be the prin-
cipal advantage of Federation is a howling
mockery. It is no earthly use decreeing that
one province shall not put 10 per cent, cus-
toms duties on another province’s goods if it
can put 20 per cent, on them by special railway
charges ; or that no province shall offer a bounty
of, say, Is. per ton to encourage its new coal in-
dustry if it can take 2s. a ton off the freight on
coal, and do the thing that way. And it is
absurd to decree that, say, N.S.W. shall have
no power to levy an overland export duty on
wool to prevent it finding an outlet via Mel-
bourne, if it can make the freight southward
towards the Victorian border three times what
it is northward towards Sydney. The differ-
ence is an export duty, whatever it may be
called, and the beautiful policy of Freetrade
and intercourse within the Commonwealth goes
broke right there. Again the beautiful policy
goes broke if railway construction is left in the
hands of the States. It is no earthly use
asserting that the pastoralist at, say, Hay is
equally at liberty to send his wool to Sydney,
Adelaide, or Melbourne, if the State offers him
a railway to the far-off port, and won’t make a
line, or allow anyone else to make one, to con-
nect with the two nearer ports.
* • * *
There is so very little in the weary squabble
after all that the difficulty is all the more aggra-
vating. It is almost entirely a struggle for the
wool-trade. More than a fourth (28J per cent.)
of N.&.W. wool was shipped, in 1896, from
Melbourne and Adelaide —which is more than
went that way any year since 1890 ; therefore,
despite the ruinous border railway rates, the
N.S.W. wool-trade isn’t saved for Sydney, after
all. Victoria now competes by cutting rates
for the wool-trade of more than half N.S.W.;
if uniform rates by distance w’ere imposed it
could only compete in those districts which are
nearer Melbourne than Sydney and which also
have railway communication with Melbourne—
in other words, it could only compete over
about one-fifth of the province. It couldn’t
then grab more than a fifth of the N.S.W.
wool-trade at the most—perhaps not nearly
that much, for the area it could reach in-
cludes some of the most barren regions of the
west—and it has more than one-fifth (64,000,000
lbs. out of 297,000,000) of the N.S.W. wool-
trade now. Where it would profit is that it
would get less trade at full railway rates in-
stead of more trade at one-half or even one-
third the regular rates as at present, But, oil
the other hand, N.S.W. would get full rates
for its share of the trade, whereas it now
carries a lot of it at a heavy reduction,
and it would probably have more of its
own wool-trade than it has now. On the
present basis the border trade isn’t worth
fighting for on either side, but both sides fight
like demons all the same. Uniform rates by
distance would certainly mean that the trade
of certain N.S.W. districts would be “sur-
rendered ” to Victoria —which is one of the
points on which the Little Cornstalk crowd
curses most bitterly. Yet it wouldn’t be sur-
rendered any more than it is now—probably a
good deal less. The demand for purely pro-
vincial railway control in order to preserve
N.S.W. trade for N.S.W. would be under-
standable if the provincial system ever had
preserved it. But it never did. The Separa-
tist party insists that the old border war
shall be kept up indefinitely to save something
that is lost, and has been lost all along, and
which shows no sign of even being anything
else than lost.
* * * *
In any case, the wool-trade doesn’t matter
nearly so much as it appears to do. It
passes mostly through the hands of a few
big firms which have branches in all the
Australian cities, and whichever city it went
to it would pass through the- same firms,
and the same shareholders —mostly Eng-
glish—would get the profits. And it is a pain-
ful fact that a very large proportion of Aus-
tralian pastoral properties are owned by foreign
institutions, and that a large proportion of the
Australian people are taxed in order to carry
Bull’s wool for him at losing rates. Consider-
ing how many of the pastoral properties are
owned or mortgaged abroad, and how much of
the selling commissions goes to foreign firms,
and that the wool is brought to the ocean from
far-back stations largely at the cost of the
Australian people as the result of mean
provincial jealousies, and that it is humped
away from these ports in Bull’s ships manned
by Dagoes and Dutchmen, about all that the
provinces are really struggling for is the privi-
lege of seeing the greasy sheep’s-hair going
through their streets to the wharf. This paper
votes for railway amalgamation or—failing that
—for uniform rates all round. It is about time
this country was tired of carrying so much of
Bull’s wool for him at a dead loss.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Recreant Native.
The Australian Star has apparently decided
to throw Federation overboard and go bald-
headed on the Provincial ticket. At least, it
the amount of space it gives to the dreadful
maunderings of A. G. Taylor is any criterion,
this is what it has done, and a paper can often
be judged better by the people it allows to
maunder in its columns than by its own edi-
torial statements. Taylor’s arguments go on
the old, threadbare lines that there is aeon-
spiracy among the other States to rob N.o. W.
—the idea that “ our province ” has enormous
wealth concealed about it, and that someone is
always trying to break in and annex the annua
shortage, or the big debt, or the regular rail-
way deficit, or the drought, or something, being
a fixed delusion with the narrowest and most
ignorant and pig-headed variety of local patrio
And his “facts” are about the most brassy
fictions on record—nevertheless, they will pro
bably find credence among a section of the
community. A few of Taylor’s arguments
The dominant Legislature is to be two new Houses of
Parliament, of which New South Wales representatives
are to constitute a fourth or fifth, according to the colo-
nies which decide to seek admission into the eonfedeiaev.
. Its application to have the capital guaranteed ac
Sydney has been peremptorily refused. The Parllgniera
of the Commonwealth is to decide that question afiei


“ mother colony ” is roped into the federal group, and on
that and all other questions the little duck-pond, Tas-
mania, is to have as big voting power as New South
Wales. It is an open secret that Sydney is not to he the
capital of the Commonwealth, but that Melbourne is.
• . . Sydney has already been the capital of Australia
for over a century. . . . After this grab at our rivers
it is not wonderful that the Convention should next pave
the way for the taking over by the Commonwealth, with
the consent of the State, of the whole or any part of the
railways, as may be arranged between the Commonwealth
and the States. “The whole of the railways,” as the
term is in the bill, is very good. New South Wales now
owns the best part of them.
“ Sydney has already been the capital of Aus-
tralia for over a century ” is a fine hunk of
dementia, considering that everybody knows
that this continent was never sufficiently
united to have any capital. Sydney was once,
certainly, the capital of about half Australia,
because N.S.W. was then a great deal more
extensive than it is now, but that was all—and
it was only the capital of half Australia for a
comparatively short time very long ago. It is
38 years since Sydney ceased to be even
the biggest city in Australia. The tale
about N.S. Wales owning “ the best part of
the railways of the Commonwealth ” is an
equally stupid invention ; Victoria has a larger
railway system, and Westralia has a far more
profitable one. The Commonwealth can only
take over the N.S.W. railways with the con-
sent of N.S.W., so the wild tale of robbery
told by A. G. Taylor is wholly ridiculous.
Tasmania, as everybody is aware, will not have
the same voting power as N.S.W., and if five
provinces come in N.S.W. will have a great deal
more than a fifth of the voting power. No one
can tell yet whether Sydney is to be the capital
or not; that matter is to be decided by the
Commonwealth Parliament, and as that body
doesn’t even exist now, and no one knows who
will compose it, no one can tell what it will
decide. And the constant plaint of the paro-
chial party about N.S.W. having only a
minority of representation in the Federal Par-
liament is melancholy drivel ; if there are to
be three million people in the Commonwealth
there is no fair means by which 1£ million of
them can be otherwise than in a minority.
In this particular case A. G. Taylor himself
matters very little ; his inventions are so
intensely clumsy that they can only make an
impression on the most hopelessly ignorant
class. But the fact that the Star publishes
this awful rot seems to show that it, at all
events, is against the movement for making an
Australian nation, and means to back up the
old policy of Separatism. It also seems to
show that the Parliamentary Protectionist
party, of which the Star is the alleged organ, is
on the same side—which is a pitiable circum-
stance, considering that the Protectionist party
is mainly the native party, while the Foreign-
traders represent principally the imported ele-
ment, in the population. If the native Cornstalk
won t stand by the national cause who else is to
do it?
Down with Members’ Salaries.
Editor Ward, of Brisbane (Q.) Courier, is
reaching out to abolish the payment of M’sP.
His first alleged argument—
Ot]l,\ of late years has the propriety of payment of
members been discussed or acted out, and that it is still
unrecognised in Britain’s supreme legislature suggests
that these principles support it much more feebly or place
it on a much lower footing than that of Ministers.
In short, Bull hasn't got it, and therefore it’s
of 7 small good. But Bull hasn’t got editor
Ward ; therefore he is of small good, by the
same process of logic :
Why is it that we have not yet proposed salaries for all
our aldermen and members of divisional boards? .
The main reason is that the honor is looked to more than
the remuneration.
(1). It is the creed of the democracy to pay
e\ ery State servant State value for State ser-
vice. The franchise for electing aldermen and
local boardsmen is not yet democratised. De-
mocratise it, and payment of aldermen and
boardsmen will follow. (2). The main reason
is not ‘‘honor,’’ but “loot.” Who have the
best lamps near their residences, in their streets,
in the lanes where lie their properties from
which they draw rents, and the best asphalt-
mg, kerbing, guttering and drainage, right
along the said thoroughfares? Aldermen
W ho, in editor Ward’s own Brisbane, gets the
hoise-feed contract with ’bus proprietors, and
the patronage for ditto from private cabmen
spnng-vanmen, &c. ? An alderman. Who
supphes the sanitary contractor'to the Brisbane
City Council with horsefeedand all necessaries?
An alderman of said Council. Aldermen may
look to the “honor,” but they do look to the
other thing:
The element of honor suffices in proportion as a man’s
means of living are not interfered with. It has, therefore
considerable force with private M’sP. ; so much so that
members with fair_incomes, or with businesses that do
not suffer from their Parliamentary duties, display little
eagerness for a Parliamentary salary. 1 “
Of course, they don’t. They want to close the
preserves against outsiders. They want to
keep themselves a closed guild, available only
to their own caste. They have objected to
every extension of the franchise for this
reason. Fortunately, Australia has had un-
forgettable experience of how these patriots
ravished the country, robbed the people of
their own wealth, gave great concessions out of
the people s property to syndicates, and co-
partnered with the robbers, helped themselves
to what they chose with none to say to anv of
them—“ What doest thou ? ” Australians of
to-day see the tracks of the wholesale spolia-
tions effected by these unpaid patriots who
looked more to the honor than the remunera-
tmn ha !ha !—th e great South Australian
co the “big ’ Clarices in Victoria, the
Wentworths, the lesser John Davies and
scores of others in N.S. Wales, the Darling
Downs dummies in Q. ; and, even with our pre
sent apparently broad franchise, the robbers
get there just the same. Yet, says editor
Ward, placidly blind and deaf and dumb to
history and present-day evidence around him •
The ideal Parliament, one cannot help sceinq ('), is that
composed of men of means and leisure, and of the cul-
ture which attaches in highest perfection to both This
is what obtains approximately in England ' 3
the reluctance of the House of Commons to introduce
payment of members is due to the fact.
The fact! Why jumps Ward’s cat this way’
Because—
Too large a salary has been given in Queensland. .
We suppose that it has just about doubled the income of
most of the members of the Labor-party. They have
made a great mistake both in their own and the public
interest in helping to raise members’ salaries to £3OO.
And there you are !
Prisoners in the Witness-Box.
Dear Bulletin, —The passing of theN.S.W.
statute granting accused persons the right to
give evidence on their own behalf was con-
sidered by many a great advance in the ad-
ministration of justice. After seven years’
experience of this Act, it must be confessed
that it is one of the worst instruments of op-
pression ever used against an accused. Despite
the proviso that no arraignee can be compelled
to give evidence, the Supreme Court decided that
the Crown Prosecutor and the presiding Judge
are entitled to comment on the fact that the
accused has not gone into the witness-box,
and the Privy Council upheld the decision.
Again, the Act provides that the accused, when
in the box, cannot be cross-examined as to his
character without the leave of the presid-
ing Judge. This, before most of our
Judges, is no protection at all, for they al-
ways give their permission, and in addition
it has been decided (R. v. Nelson 10 W.N.)
that it is not necessary to expressly obtain this
permission from the Judge—it is enough if he
does not stop the cross-examination. All this
presses with great severity on a prisoner, and
hampers him in his defence ; but worst of all is
that if the jury finds a man guilty after he has
given evidence in denial of the charge, some of
our Botany Bay Judges will add to his sentence,
alleging that he has practically been found
guilty of perjury. Yet if he is acquitted, the
equally obvious fact that the Crown witnesses
have been practically found guilty of perjury is
never even mentioned. It seems that the protec-
tion the Legislature intended to give a prisoner
in the witness-box has been frittered away by
judicial decisions and by the conduct of the
Judges sitting in criminal cases. Take the case
of an old offender charged with a crime ; the
evidence is weak, but what is he to do ? If he
does not go into the box, the Judge tells the
jury he might have done so, and leaves them to
draw an inference unfavorable to prisoner
on account of his refusing to testify.
If he does give evidence, the Crown-
Prosecutor wastes little time in cross-
examining him, but asks about his pre-
vious conviction. The usual result, of course,
is conviction. Last week, at Quarter Sessions,
I heard a case tried. The Crown evidence was
by no means strong, and the accused did not
give evidence, which fact was remarked bv the
Judge. Yerdict—Guilty. On being called for
sentence, and his record read out, the man pro-
tested his innocence. “ Why did you not give
evidence on your own behalf? ” asked his Honor.
“ Because I was afraid to go into the box,” was
the reply ; “ had I done so the jury would not
have believed me after they heard my record.”
“ Well, probably they would not,” admitted
the Judge. The main effect of the Act now is
to bolster up a weak Crown case. After some
years’ of experience of it, the legal profession,
as a whole, is bitterly opposed to it, because, as
construed by the Courts, it is more likely to
aid in the conviction of innocent people.—Rus
Roberts.
Women Doctors.
The committee of middle-aged ladies who have
scornfully refused to appoint qualified female
doctors to vacancies on the staff of the Women’s
Hospital, Melb., are, perhaps, so far blinded
by sexual prejudice that they can’t as yet
perceive the fix it has placed them in. The
average middle-aged matron, like the average
middle-aged man, is incapable of uprooting
her early convictions, and from the lessons of
experience she learns nothing. A few weeks
back the scandalous behaviour of two male
students at the Women’s Hospital was a sub-
ject for enquiry—rather unwilling enquiry
by the committee. It transpired that the
two offenders were addicted to beer-parties in
their room, where the housemaid discovered
an awful condition of “ filth ” and empty
bottles. Which incident in itself was no more
than an ordinary reminder that male medical
students are less decently behaved mortals than
female ditto. These two young men, who,
being unable to persuade their rowdy guests to
clear out of their room at closing time, were
compelled to accommodate them with “shake-
downs ” among the bottles, didn’t appear pecu-
liarly undesirable residents of a Women’s Hos-
pital until “one of the doctors said the
students had assisted in certain cases on
Wednesday night. They were not drunk, but
they were not perfectly sober.” Whereupon
the committee rustled its skirts in a tone of
disgust and expelled the bacchanalians forth-
with. The student is father to the doctor, or
mother to the doctoress, as the case may be,
and a taste, or distaste, for beer and tobacco,
and late hours and other old-established vices,
is apt to run in the blood of the rival sexes.
The dissipating side of the male character will
always be a strong argument in favor of admit-
ting women to the medical profession. Lady
doctors are, at least, steady, sober, and
painstaking practitioners, well qualified in
every respect to attend the particular
class of cases dealt with at a Women’s
Hospital. The unwritten social law against
the presence of a husband at the birth of his
child—a concession to the assisting midwife’s
sense of decency—almost amounts to a protest
against the presence of any men, “ strange ”
men especially, provided that the services of
a woman-doctor are available. On the score of
sex in the first place, then, the present medical
staff at the Melbourne institution is open to
objection ; and even though Mrs. Bishop Goe
and her female colleagues may deny this fact,
pleading that the old order of things is sancti-
fied by the immodesty of their maternal ances-
tors, they cannot deny that the present system
of management exposes patients to an unneces-
sary risk of outrage in the mere handling and
eyeing of their bodies by “ not perfectly sober”
male students.
1 he plethora of law'yers, budding and withered,
now bent on sitting in next N.S. W. Parliament
shows that this section of the community is
determined to maintain its present dispropor-
tionate hold on the Government of the country.
Some of the best patriots have been lawyers,
it is true, and some of the best services in the
interests of legislation have been performed by
lawyers. But those of them who have benefited,
or who entered Parliament to benefit, any in-
terest but their own, make the merest fraction
of the brassy troupe ever haunting the polls
at Australian elections. When elected they
stand together as a compact body, a talking
thorn in the side of every plain-speaking re-
former, and a solid wall of obstruction to the
simplification and abbreviation of tediously
prolix legal procedures. Bacon, himself a
lawyer, argued against the presence in Parlia-
ment of an undue number of the class. In
1307 the Commons ordered that “no man of
law ” should be looked favorably on by the
shires, and that if returned he should receive
no wages, England at that time enjoying pay-
ment of members. Australian politics have
been crowded in the past with lawyers whose
principles, like their tongues, were purchasable
quantities—and both commodities are still on
sale.
The attention of the N.S. W. Attorney-General
is directed to a decision given by Sydney
stipendiary magistrate Addison in the Water
Police Court on Feb. 26. On Feb. 24 a man
and wife named Williams, against whose
character nothing could be alleged, took lodg-
ings with one Mary M'Donell, in Palmer-
street. They inspected a room offered them,
approved it, paid a deposit, went away and
returned with their luggage and their little
child. During their absence M'Donell says
she missed 17s. 6£d. in money, which she
alleges she had placed in a purse under a
bed in the room; and on their return she
gave them in charge for stealing it. Beyond
that of prosecutrix there was no evidence
that the money ever was under the bed ;
even prosecutrix couldn’t swear defendants had
stolen it—all she did allege was that the
money had been there before defendants came
and was not there after—“ she kept other
lodgers, but they were all out, and she was
positive nobody else could have taken it.” Also,
there was apparently no identification of the
money. There was, to say the least, a strong
doubt in the matter ; the charge was certainly
not satisfactorily proven ; nothing corroborated
prosecutrix’s statement ; the appearance and
evidence of the defendants left the reporters
in court with a strong impression of their
innocence ; yet Mr. Addison fined Wil-
liams workless, almost penniless man—
£2 for himself and £1 for his wife, which was
an asinine distinction in any case. As the
ordinary punishment for such larceny is gaol,
not fine, it is evident that the magistrate was
doubtful, and split the difference against the
accused. But as the Williamses had no
money to pay the fine, Mr. Addison alterna-
tively awarded (as reported in Sydney Evening
News) two weeks’ imprisonment to the man,
and three to the woman—which was reversing
his own peculiar distinction ! The case strikes
The Bulletin as a most shocking illustration
of the Botany Bay tendency to make an accused
person prove his innocence, instead of forcing
the prosecution to establish his guilt.
The story of Paris Nesbit’s imprisonment at
Adelaide for contempt of some local Bumble
is rather pitiful. Nksbit, Q.C., one of the best
and cleverest men in Australia, had one of his
occasional fits of derangement as the result of
the recent heat-wave. He was shunted into an
asylum, which was probably the best place for
him under the circumstances. Then he was
shunted out again two or three days later while
still, apparently, as mad as ever. He made a
disturbance in a police-court, and the bile of
the little farthing official in charge arose, and
he sent Nesbit to gaol for seven days. In
the lock-up the deranged Q.C. wasn’t at all
respectful to a policeman, and that officer
manfully bashed him in the face. The fact
that Nesbit is one of the most brilliant men
in Australia makes his affliction all the
sadder, and the small, mean officialdom of
Adelaide ministers to his diseased mind by
throwing him into gaol and having his eye
blackened by Policeman Something-or-other.
Also, the daily papers report the assault com-
mitted on him by the policeman in a comedy
strain as something especially hilarious. It is
only in a very mean city of very mean saints
that they could seem actually proud of such an
episode. In any other place, if one of the best-
esteemed men in the community was gaoled
and assaulted instead of getting the medical
attendance he required, the matter would be
kept as dark as possible.
Q. Attorney-Gen. Byrnes astonished some of
the Kanakaland natives by deciding to prose-
cute the Q.N. Bank directors and auditors for
alleged conspiracy to defraud in connection
with the recent shameful swindling of private
persons and the public—say, for the present, by
the Man that’s Dead. Byrnes is not popular ;
but there was a momentary revulsion in his
favor—soloathsome has the Q. N.B. stink become;
and murmurs of “ Good boy, Tomjoe ! ” were
heard in trams, and streets, and pubs. But the
prosecution looks like flam. It’s carefully
brought under a section which makes alleged
crime a misdemeanor : so that if any defendant
is found guilty he won’t be gaoled as the Glas-
gow Bank directors were gaoled, but will be
let off with a fine and a dignified rebuke. Or
if he is gaoled he will be gaoled in the cheer-
ful G. R. Dibbs fashion, along with his turning-
lathe and his big cigar, and permission to see
his lady friends when they come along.
+
When that Sydney jury found Holmes (who
attempted to shoot his wife) guilty of murder,
and the Judge ordered sentence of death to be
“ recorded,” Judge and jury knew well that
verdict and sentence were empty formalities.
And though neither Judge nor jury is to blame
for the law that permits such an outrage on
common sense, they should certainly not thus
have stultified themselves without a word of
protest. Until the wheels of procedure—in-
stead of having thus first to work one way
and then the other—are marie to work right
from the start, verdicts and sentences in all
such cases should be accompanied by an
emphatic condemnation of such a fantastic
anomaly.
The inhuman punishment of solitary confin'e-
ment seems to be coming into fashion again
with Vic. administrators of so-called justice.
At Sale Assizes, the other day, one Arm-
strong, found guilty of stealing wattle-bark,
was sentenced by Judge Hood to three months' 1
hard labor—the first three days of the second,
fourth, sixth, eighth and tenth weeks to be
spent in solitary confinement. If the stolen bark
had been intended to tan the hide of a Judge
the sentence could not have been more brutal.
The Bulletin believes that Judges who impose
such sentences are at bottom average human
beings with the average allowance of human
feelings, and not mere accidentally-ermined
wild beasts. So it is of opinion that the soli-
tary-confinement-ordering Judge, not being a
small Caligula who loves cruelty for its own
sake, but a person who, by luck, or the grace of
God, or favor of the devil, has never had to
personally suffer solitary confinement, should
be made to try it, if only for two days, before
being allowed to inflict it so lavishly upon the
poor wretches who are delivered into his hands.
If he were not tired of his own company after
the end of that time, he should take a further
dose of his own medicine. He would find him-
self the centre of plenty of extraneous company
before a day and a night had passed over his
head. And the company would not have
entered his cell through the door, either.
Subjoined is a quotation, which will emphati-
cally bear reprinting in Botany Bay. Com-
menting on criminal trials, the late Sir James
Fitz-James Stephen, a Judge of the English
High Court of Justice, says, in his history of
the English criminal law :
On this last point, I may observe that the rule which
prevailed then, and long afterwards, of finishing all
criminal trials in one day, must often have produced
cruel injustice. Many of the cases I have referred to
were tried in a superficial, perfunctory way, and many of
the Judges played their parts little better than Baron
Hatsbll (who, in his summing-up in Spencer Cowper/s
case, for murder, said : “I am sensible I have omitted
many things ; but lam a little faint, and cannot repeat
any more of the evidence ”). Few Judges are able to do
justice to a complicated case after a sitting of more than
eight hours, and it is still more unusual for jurymen
(quite unaccustomed to sustained attention, which in-
volves a greater physical effort than those who have not
tried it might suppose), to attend to what is said and to
deliberate on it to any purpose after ten hours.
The question of bounties, which cropped up
the other day in the Convention, set provincial
jealousies raging in an unspeakable fashion. A
clause in the Constitution provides that bounties
may be given to assist mining for “ gold, silver,
or other metals.” Gold and silver don’t matter
much, as these industries mostly depend on
themselves. But N.S.W. wants to develope
its iron industry, which would come in under
“metals.” S.A. and Victoria, which have no
known iron deposits of any size, are trying to
create a coal industry, and coal not being a
metal, any State assistance to it would be pro-
hibited. Therefore, Turner wanted either to
have the whole clause left out, or else to have
coal put on the same level as iron, but the
N.S.W. crowd stood firm and he was badly
left. Whereupon Turner lost his temper, and
intimated that Victoria was more than half-
inclined to pick up its carpet-bag and quit
there and then.
How unconsciously the London “ star ” actors
expose the hollowness of “representative”
criticism ! Clement Scott, in the words of
Beerbohm Tree, is “ a man whose livelihood
and position have depended so largely on the
profession, who has been received for years into
comradeship with us.” Poor Scott ! Put the
case in this way : For years he has written
unnecessarily flattering remarks about plays
and players in the ordinary course of his duty
to certain newspaper editors. He didn’t depend
on the precious “ profession ” any more than a
writer of political articles for the Daily Tele-
graph depends on the British Government, or
a Turco-Russian war correspondent depends on
the Eastern Question. As a matter of fact,
Scott and Beerbohm Tree have both depended
for their income on the same power—viz., the
General Public. But because he persistently
flattered actors, they graciously “received him
into comradeship ” — i.e., courted his goodwill,
with a view to getting further flattery—and
now speak of him as an ungrateful recipient of
gratuitous patronage. Moral for theatrical
journalists : Avoid the society of actors.
Ever since Majah Reay returned from his
Jubilee trip, he has, as editor of Melb. Evenin’
’Erald, been bursting with “loyalty.” Noting
Lord Raneurly’s whoop in Auckland the
other day about Australasians being ready to
conquer or die in defence of Imperial interests,
Reay wants
“To ask His Excellency what else he deems it, in the
faintest degree, possible for the colonies to do ?
What Lord Ranftjrly and other men of his class seem to
have a difficulty in understanding,” goes on Reay, “ is
that the islands of Australasia are in heart and sentiment
as much parts of the British Empire as Middlesex or
Yorkshire.”
And what Mr. Reay and other men of his class
“ have a difficulty in understanding,” is that
what they take for “ patriotism ” is merely
flunkeyism—one of the meanest human emotions
masquerading as one of the noblest.
The Age has made an ass of itself fussing
over the Australian Premiers’ direct message of
sympathy to America in respect of that
marine disaster. There has been a gross
breach of etiquette, says fhe Age ; the Gover-
nor ought to have sent the message. The truth
of the matter is that the Age was angry because
the Argus got hold of the reply of the U.S.
President, and published it, whilst the Age was
“ left.” On its merits, the complaint is ab-
surd, and, from a professed democratic paper,
simply contemptible. The Premiers were able
to send a message on behalf of Australia ; pom-
pous old Brassey would only have sent it on
behalf of the little bit of Australia which is
stupid enough to employ him.
Sun Johnson, editor of the Kwong Yir
Wah 80, in a letter to Brisbane Courier, slates
the Q. Govt, for inhuman administration of the
new opium law by cutting off the supply of tho
drug without giving warning to its votaries.
Tozer has made some concessions on the lines
suggested by Mr. Johnson, who is now, in conse-
quence, quite a demigod amongst his Queensland
compatriots.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's. “The Manxman.”
Lyckcm “ A Terror of Paris.”
Opera House “ Thou Shalt Not Kill.”
Tiv01i...... Rickards’ Combined Co.
. MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The French Maid.”
Bijou “ Charles Cartwright Co.
Opera House •* Jack the Giant-Killer.”
Royal... “ Shadows of a Great City.”
Alexandra Dan. Barry’s Dramatic Co.
An enormous audience attended at the first
Albani concert, on Wednesday, 23rd—an audience
that waited an hour and a half for the Town Hall
doors to open, and then was carried bodily up the
Bteps, after which its component parts scrowged
each other round the ticket holes, and tore off each
other’s frills and damaged each other’s hats and
back hair, and struggled to its seats so vigorously
that the hall at the finish was strewn with wreck-
age. And when reserved seaters strolled leisurely
up at 7.45, with the proud consciousness of having
taken out their three half-crowns’ worth of loyalty
to the Throne and Person, they had to chase
wildly round from door to door to find an entrance.
The second concert was much better managed,
and the vast hall full of women—about 3 to 1 was
the sex proportion—was seated without much
friction. Financially, the brief Albani season has
been a boom. About Albani, the singer, the public
is still riding on a rail. The general feeling after
the first Concert was, “ We’re all disappointed but
we’re too frightened to say so.” The wicked,
iconoclastic Australian public has a bad name for
shattering imported idols, and refusing to listen to
the trumpet of fame, however loudly tootled from
old-world shores. Therefore, before the advent
of any celebrity, the irreverent public is now con-
sistently educated up to the star, with irritating
condescension for its ignorance of Art. The
Bulletin objects to be educated into admiring
anything or anybody. Albani’s voice, though still
pleasing, and never harsh, shows unmistakeable
signs of a quarter-century’s wear and tear —25 years
during which she has been fetching the great B.P.
with her top-note. Sister Mary Jane’s top-note is a
great British Institution. Albani is Albani, and
one of the greatest vocal artists in the world, but
her vocalisation in “ Ah fors e lui ” and “ Casta
Diva ” showed that if she didn’t sing so well, she
wouldn’t now be able to sing at all.
* * * •
The end of the century is the baritone’s
day. He has quite supplanted as an idol the sil-
very tenor of yore. Mr. W. Pauli has caught on
more than any other member of the Albani Co.,
and his ballad singing has become a popular suc-
cess. Miss Sarah Berry, the contralto, reached
her best in “Caller Herrin,” at the first concert,
and her fish melody was sung as well as that
hackneyed warble needs to be. Miss Clench is a
useful and sympathetic accompanist on the violin,
but her solo playing is mediocre, and Mr. Or-
lando Harley’s sugary tenor is just now sadly out
of form.
* * * *
Her Majesty’s is closed at present, but in-
side preparations are in progress for putting on
Wilson Barrett upon a very large scale on Satur-
day. The Barrett season will probably in-
clude seven productions—“ Manxman,” “ Ben-
my-chree,” “Hamlet,” “Claudian,” “Silver
King,” and the soulful Roman play of “ Yir-
ginius.” The “Manxman” will open the season,
and The Bulletin will endeavour to give another
carefully matured opinion thereon in next issue.
* * * *
Unless something unforeseen dynamites
present arrangements, “A Terror of Paris” is
due at Sydney Lyceum on Saturday. The new
piece is understood to be a bloodstained moan in
many instalments, with the cold blast of retribu-
tion blowing the dust of the innocent victim
through the fleshless skull of fate—or d.t. to that
effect. For the present, however, “Nancy and
her Sailor ” draws big houses, and the partially-
masticated pea-nut still aceumu l ates largely in
between the acts. The Bulletin begins to sus-
pect that “ Nancy ” is a very ordinary melodrama,
after all, and that it looked better than it really
was on the opening night, because the worst parts
of it were obscured by the pea nut aforesaid. The
nautical person who delivers the long speech to
the villain in the flattened hat about how much
England owes to her ‘ ‘ common sailors ” is a trifle
ridiculous anyhow, at a time *vhen the English
sailor is mainly Olaf Swenson and Hans Schmidt
and Emanuel and Demetrius Popomichselopoulos
and Pompey and Abdullah ben Sulieman and Bang
Cat. * Miss Lilian Wheeler looks very pretty in-
deed when she walks in her sleep at midnight,
but wild horses wouldn’t persuade this paper that
the lady had been in bed with her shoes and that
elaborate white confection on. The evidence on
which the wrong girl is arrested for the butchery
of Maud Williamson is just as unconvincing as
usual, and the same flowing brown cloak which
the fallen girl repents in is becoming a very
monotonous tog indeed. The evidence, by the
way, is the weakest part of every melodrama.
Since the appearance of the “Silver King,” there
have hardly been half-a-dozen dramas in which
the corpse was deposited at the door of the wrong
man in a really convincing fashion. Generally,
there is no evidence at all, except the bare state-
ment of the villain, and that assertion mid nodings
on lacks realism. In fact, a week’s reflection has
convinced this paper that the brightest feature of
“ Nancy ” is the big shipwreck, and the spectacle
of Diver hauling his boss ashore, and bumping his
head on a rock, and throwing him in again to pre-
vent him auditing the books and discovering the
cash shortage.
* * * *
“ Shamus O’Brien ” still leads a somewhat
precarious existence at Sydney Opera House.
Everything at the Opera House is more or less
precarious, but the fact that “ Shamus ” has got
into his second week is a matter for congratulation.
The average show in the York-street establishment
begins with a faint roar on Saturday night, and
pegs oat on or before the ensuing Friday, with the
leading lady in hysterics over the ungentlemanly
conduct of the band in wanting something on
account. Therefore, it is just possible that there
may be hope for “Shamus,” and that the eighteen-
penny speculation is going to hang out a little
while longer.
* * * *
Nothing of a revolutionary character has
happened at Sydney Tivoli during the week. So
long as the Hegelmanns and Phil Newbury are on
deck there is no reason why the management
should burst its managerial soul in search of
further novelties for the moment, so the big
entertainment flows on its successful way very
pleasantly.
* * * *
Addie Conyers continues to lather Lauri’s
tonsils at Melbourne Opera House, and the pros-
perity of “Jack the Giant Killer ” is proceeding
as before. Another heat-wave dashed in upon
Rickards’ panto, co. last week, but these repeated
onslaughts by the weather make no perceptible
difference to the Tiller Quartet, or Lottie Moore’s
somersault, or the Giant. The hotter the night,
the closer the company sticks to its work. Woot-
well, whose good humor had made him a particu-
lar favorite, departed for his Cockney home on
Saturday last, and Will Whitburn reigns in his
stead. Whitburn, with the blacking rubbed off
him, is an extraordinary circumstance, anyway,
and as a humorist of the exactly opposite kind to
Wootwell he would, in his present billet, be a
suitable subject for an essay on the Ethics of
Wholesome Fun.
* * * *
“ The Streets of New York,” being Bouci-
cault’s “ Streets of London ” dissembled by Dan
Barry, took the floor at the Alexandra on Satur-
day, when, by the way, Augustus Glover didn't
play the part of Badger, as per programme. J. F.
Keogh acted very fairly in the place where
Augustus’s tremendous voice ought to have been,
and the fire-scene was much more imposing than
Daniel’s recent display of burning bush. Also,
the dialogue had some bright points, and if Alex-
andra audiences care for flashes of an author’s
wit (which they probably don’t), “Streets of
New York ” should fill the gallery with satisfac-
tion for six nights.
* * Ne #
Wilson Barrett and Co. were to conclude
their heavy labours at Melbourne Princess’s on
Wednesday night, and judging from the rush of
populace to sample “ Hamlet ” last Saturday,
the end of the season was a huge financial triumph.
Public opinion on Wilson Barrett is so distinctly
mixed that the present writer begs to say nothing
one way or other concerning the Hamlet of that
persevering tragedian. His friends, in England,
have charged the press of the great metropolis
with a conspiracy to kerrush Barrett in the
interests of Irving, when he comes to play
famous characters; so by way of proving
there is no Australian conspiracy to that end it
seems advisable to quote from the rival Argus
and Age notices of Saturday’s show. The Argus
said : “ That the Wilson Barrett of Shakespearian
tragedy differs materially from the Wilson Barrett
of nineteenth-century melodrama must be appar-
ent to all who witnessed the actor’s performance.
The grandeur and pathos of the story, &c., &c.,
seemed to have lifted the actor into the atmo-
sphere of the play, and to have refined
away a certain tendency towards undue
vehemence, &c., &c., which was noticeable in a
previous performance. . . Mr. Wilson Barrett may
fairly be complimented upon a representation
which fully deserved the unstinted applause with
which it was received.” The Age said “Mr.
Wilson Barrett’s Hamlet did not satisfy expecta-
tions. Possibly the sultry, oppressive weather
reduced the large audience to such a condition as
to preclude fervid or enthusiastic views upon any
subject. But, making ample allowance for this
adverse influence, the solid fact remains that the
performance was a disappointment. Mr. Wil-
son Barrett’s Hamlet is most wanting in
breadth ; it is unintellectual, and only reaches the
commonplace level of melodrama. It did not
excite ; it moved neither to terror nor to pity . . .
it was lacking in fire, in vitality, and suffered
seriously from staginess. . . . The general cast of
the tragedy was also mediocre.” Is manager J.
C. Williamson listening?
* * * *
On Saturday they will restore ‘ ‘ The
French Maid ” to Melb. Princess’s, and the
ordinary frivolous section of the local public will be
glad to see the cheerful young woman once again.
“ The French Maid,” however, can only fill in a
limited number of nights prior to a Melbourne
production of “ Babes in the Wood.”
# * *
Melbourne Bijou didn’t thrive on “The
Squire of Dames,” so the management rather
hastily abandoned that respectable comedy and
put “ Moths ” in its place. “Moths,” as many
Australians will remember, is a vigorous adapta-
tion of Ouida’s naughty novel, containing much
romantic passion, and pain, and high-toned
wickedness. It might have become an old favorite
play by this time, but for the trouble in providing
an effective cast of characters. All the people in
“ Moths,” bar one, belong to Ouida’s smartest set
and are qualified to play baccarat with Albert
Edward. The one exception is a gorgeous operatic
tenor, and even he is able to settle a million francs
on his best girl. A play of this sort needs a
glamour of female beauty and Paris fashions in
the performance. It must seem to smell of the
latest perfume, and be edged with real lace
throughout. The first Australian production of
“ Moths ” was admirable all round, or nearly so ;
the present result is a piece of patchwork, very
striking in some places, very weak in others. The
best effects, however, are crowded together within
the last two acts, and the finale is impressive.
* • • V
Charles Cartwright has improved on his
previous rendering of the Russian Prince Zouroff,
particularly in the third act, where his autocratic
soul feels a passing pang of remorse, and again
when he lapses into brutal jealousy. Arthur
Styan, as Lord Jura, confirms the good impres-
sion he made in “ The Squire of Dames,” likewise
Hartley Manners, as the Duke of Mull, acts up to
his name. He is a small, unpretentious duke, to
be sure, but the same remark would apply to
several of them in real life. Charles Thursby is a
passable Correze. Laurence Cautley, of old, was
a more romantically stagey and yet a more natural
suggestion of the operatic idol. Miss Beatrice
Lamb has to struggle with the part of
Vere Herbert, in which Miss Nethersole was seen
at her best. Miss Lamb at the outset is a buxom,
gracious lady, treating her juvenile character as
quietly as possible, and when the character has
grown a few years older and bursts of matronly
feeling are called for, the actress meets the demand
with spirit. Her performance is uneven in
strength, but always tasteful. Miss Rosa Conroy
gives valuable assistance in the stately capacity of
Zouroff’s sister, and would be much more useful
in the shoes of Miss Katherine Stewart, who
amounts to a decided failure as a wicked duch-
ess. Miss Nina Osborne (Fuchsia Leach, the
rapid young Yankee heiress) is another hopelessly
misplaced performer, whilst Miss Darragh, who
could shine as the Yankee girl if she had the
chance, is a disappointing Lady Dolly. The first
night of “ Moths ” left “ so much to be desired ”
that the show can’t fairly expect to fill the Bijou
on B. and B. terms. Why not make some altera-
tion in the female half of the cast, and try a second
week at popular prices ?
## * *
Grattan Riggs, in his famous tight-fitting
suit and six other disguises, brought “The Irish
Detective ” back to Melb. Royal on Saturday.
Long ago The Bulletin decided to forgive all the
sins of this drama for Riggs’ sake. The heavy
villain and his myrmidons, Thug and Slug, are
generally recognised nowadays as slaughterers
whose sole ambition in life is to be huuted d,,wn
by Tracey the detective. Victims are slain
in order that Tracey may find a clue to
the mystery, and put a cheerful character
sketch upon the corpse’s track. Nothing serious
ever comes of Tracey’s tracking. Sometimes he
lodges a bullet in the murderer’s heart, but the
patient recovers consciousness before the next act
opens, and goes on wading in blood as usual.
' Tracey is an amusing, but utterly futile, detective
dedicated to the glory of Grattan Riggs aforesaid.
He will appear for a few nights only at the Royal
on this occasion, and be followed by “Shadows of
a Great City. ”
AT POVERTY POINT.
B.E. : “ A recent Bulletin opinion that it would now
be almost impossible to arouse any great enthusiasm over
the ‘ starring’of Titheradge as ‘The Silver King,’ seems
to emphasise the difference between Australian and Eng-
lish audiences. Here a popular favorite ‘ drops out ’ after
a time —people cease to feel any interest in him when he
has once become habitual to them. In England men like
Irving, Toole, Terry are ‘ institutions,’ and still favorites
at 60. The Australian’s craving for novelty is the root-
cause of that charge of lack of reverence so often levelled
at him by visitors from ’Ome.”
During a very rough passage on the M.L. coast, the
steamer was facing a fierce gale doing its best to get off
the lee-shore, when, up on the bridge, appeared a married
member of a mumming co. on board—bearing the bass
drum, to which was lashed his heir. Clasping his hands,
he fell on his knees before the wondering old skipper, and.
yelled, above the shrieking of the gale, “ Captain, for the
love of Christ, who loved little children, put me ashore.
Anywhere ! anywhere ! Only put me ashore where I can
get a cab t ” This, off a rock-bound coast, a hundred
miles from any town.
It seems that Maud M‘Carthy did not care to play
second fiddle to Albani in her Australian tour. She
means to come here all by herself with an English co.,
who will pay homage to her as their bright particular
star.
A leading Sydney singing teacher constantly takes les-
sons from his professional rivals—following the plan of
violinist Allpress, who is said to have modified his method
seven times before hitting upon the right one. Con-
sequently, nearly every teacher of any standing may
just now be heard whispering to his acquaintances that
“So and so’s coming to me for a few lessons next week.
Wants to know how I get ’em so full and round in the
upper register.” An intelligent man should be able to
show his pupils many excellent points—both to imitate
and to avoid—when he has gathered the fruits of all the
opposition men’s experience.
Ovide Musin writes a friend that he is quite happy in
his new and peaceful sphere—that of chief violin-in-
structor at Li6ge conservatorium.
Adelina Patti has a staff of more than 100 servants at
her castle in Wales. But, just a little whisper in the ears
of ambitious Australian song-girls. Patti, a prima-donna
at 16, has systematically safeguarded her voice for the
past 35 years. She didn't arrive at her castle after a short
course of “tuition” and half-a-dozen amateur-concert
“ triumphs.”
Dan Barry’s advts. of the Melb. Alexandra show start
with an announcement that the theatre is “deliciously
cool.” But not cooler than Daniel’s ads.
Jack Falstaff Bryan, as Cabby, was the only one of the
original Melb. cast of “Silver King” in the recent dis-
tribution.
“ I had nothing in me hands but me two fists.”—
Cassidy, in “ Relief of Lucknow.”
An Academy critic says Barrie’s “Little Minister’
bids fair to rank as the best play of the London year.
“ This popular actress has returned from Europe with
new hair.”—Ambr.
A movement is afoot amongst Sydney organists with
respect to civil servants accepting organistships at less
than half the salary asked for by professional applicants.
Alleged that the other day, when a city church advertised
for an organist, a youth with a Govt, billet asked for just
one-third the salary previously paid. Of course the
parson jumped at the offer, and the youngster was duly
appointed.
Dear B.—Be the morality of the actress, a small but
significant contribution to the discussion. There is a
rather smart young woman appearing at an Australian
metropolitan theatre, and within nine nights five men
have gone out of their way to assure me that she is quite
virtuous. — Skoll.
It was supposed that Card. Moran’s series of Lenten dis-
courses, com nenced last Sunday in St. Mary’s, would begin
by the usual condemnation of mixed marriages. As Mine.
Albani belongs to the “ mixed,” and had intimated that
she would likely attend the St. Mary’s service, the rumor
that a perspiring showman ran round the Cathedral on
Saturday requesting all and sundry of the authorities
“ to cut every allusion about mixed marriages out of his
Eminence’s part ” may have some small foundation of
fact.
Cockaigne: “ Albani being accompanied by her hus-
band, Ernest Gye, a little about the Gyes may be timely.
The first recorded Frederick Gye was a small
printer, in London early this century, when he had an
astounding stroke of luck. He printed tickets for Bish, a
foreign lottery-agent, and a ticket which he subscribed
for won a £30,000 prize. Thereupon he entered, with
success, into both the wine-trade and tea-trade. His next
move was to become proprietor of Vauxhall, which he
bought from that singular character Tyers, who com-
bined piety and frivolity in an amazing manner. His
estate of Denbies was stuck all about with emblems of
Death, in the way of statuary, and, while managing gay
Vauxhall, he led the life of a melancholy recluse. At.
Vauxhall, Gye greatly developed ballooning, with
Green, Coxwell, the ill-fated Cocking, and other
professors. Gye died in ’69, aged 88. Towards the
end of his active career he was most unlucky,
Vauxhall being ruined by wet seasons. However,
Frederick Gye the second, father of Albani’s husband,
and of other sons, developed considerably more genius
than his father. He is chiefly recalled as the brilliant
operatic entrepreneur, in rivalry of Lumle.v and Mapleson.
His worst stroke was letting Covent Garden Theatre to
Wizard Anderson, on the eve of Anderson’s departure for
Australia. Anderson held a sort of orgy, the perform-
ances lasting two days and nights, including his Bob
Roy. The wind-up was a Bal Masqud, which eventuated
in the burning-down of the theatre. The re-building ol
the place hung fire, till Gye made himself responsible for
something like £120,000. After this, he had ups-and-
downs, but the last eight years of his life were highly suc-
cessful. A shooting accident proved fatal to him, in 1878.
The mantle fell on Ernest Gve, our visitor, but Augustus
Harris was too strong in opposition. Patti was the grand
card of Frederick Gye, with the rising star of Albani.”
Paradis: “ Apropos Dreyfus, the best spy play,
‘ Diplomacy,’ is revived. Sardou took the original,
‘Dora,’ from a singular affair with some points now
agitating the world. Col. Jung, a valued French officer,
had the misfortune to meet a beautiful Austiienne,
Madame Kaulla, during the war of Solferino. He married
her. She became a German spy. Valuable documents
were stolen from Jung, who was honorably acquitted,
after a painful inquiry. Mme. Jung extended her
blandishments to General de Cissey, the Minister of War,
who was a little humiliated. In the play' of ‘ Diplomacy,’
Countess Zicka steals, for the Russians, a plan of the
fortifications of Constantinople from the despatch-box of
Julian Beauclerk, whose wife is accused. His brother,
Henry', tracks the thief through a peculiar scent, usedhy
Countess Zicka, clinging to the plans.”
Wonderful how easily the reception of a new perform-
ance can be misunderstood by the people chiefly inter-
ested in its success or failure. The first night of “ The
Squire of Dames” at Melb. Bijou was celebrated by a
supper-party at Menzies Hotel, and a number of unpro-
fessional boarders who had attended the performance
were astonished to hear the festive gatherers congratu-
lating themselves on a “ splendid triumph,” &c., as they
wished one another good-night in the corridor. The
comedy had fallen flat, but the actors felt no misgiving
as to the result.
Adelaide Royal has been absolutely shut since Jan. 17,
and the only amusements in the city of the missing local
preacher are the Cyclorama and a weekly “ continental.”
It is, however, rumored that Wilson Barrett intends to
have a season of one whole week, but the statement was
made by a mining-director and lacks confirmation.
Paradis: “ Barrett distributes his casts on Bernhardt’s
principle, ladling out the fat, the turtle callipash and
callipee, impartially, so that no actor—save himself—has
any claim to a particular line. Sarah had four leading
men in Australia, and they had to fill up anyhow. There
cannot be much swelled head in Barrett’s co. If a man is
King Dick this week, he will be “ Charles, his friend,”
next. How all the old lines of acting have gone into the
melting pot. Heavy man, juvenile lead, first low, second
low, first, second, and third old man, first light, and so
on. All utility.” i
Haresfoot: “ Mr. and Miss Belmore, in the Wilson Bar-
rett co. recall their parent, Geo. Belmore, one of the finest
character actors ever seen in London. He first emerged
as the Softy, in “Aurora Floyd,” this impersonation of a
secondary part overshadowing everything in the drama.
As Silas Wegg, in the “ Golden Dustman ” (from Dickens'
Mutual Friend), the late Belmore made a great hit at the
unfashionable Sadler’s Wells Theatre. He was the
original Cromwell to Irving’s Charles I, and had acted
Sam Weller in Pickwick, at the Ly'ceum, on the first
night of “The Bells,” when Irving transformed himself
from Mathias to Jingle. No comedian of his time had a
better record as a “creator” of popular characters.
Cartwright or Richards, or both, displayed fearful judg-
ment in putting forth “ The Squire of Dames ” as the first
effort of the imported co., and, as a consequence, the
new carpet in the long Bijou vestibule shows no signs of
wear and tear. “ The Squire ” depends for success on
the quality of the back-talk, and, although it is good,
cleverer conversation has often failed to fill the Bijou.
Wanted a professional adviser, an expert, to read through
a company’s repertoire and advise the manager how to
deal them out after inspecting the company. The writer
knows several first-nighters whose tip would be worth a
tenner to a showman about to storm an Australian metro-
polis. The danger, when the actor directs, lies in the fact
that the pro. plumps for his pet part. An actor, in nine
cases out of ten, should not meddle with his own business.
The statement that Wilson Barrett “ will be 41 during
next May ” seems to have been sent to many weekly
papers besides The Bulletin. Now, who was the author
of that interesting intelligence, and why' did he spread it
with so much zeal ?
Almost every second woman in Richmond (Vic.) claims
to have gone to school with Madame Melba. And these
ladies don’t seem to glory over the fact to any great
extent. “Nelly” Mitchell, as they familiarly call her,
was, they say, nothing to boast about when they knew
her. Many of them hint broadly that if their fathers had
been as rich as David Mitchell they (the old girls) would
have had the crowned heads of Europe falling at their
spacious feet at this present moment. As it is, some_ are
keeping fifth-rate hotels; some are taking in washing;
and some occupy their time chiefly in getting drunk and
fighting with their husbands.
(Continued on page IB).
Proposed in the Federal Convention “ that
ths Federal Parliament shall have power to pre-
vent a State giving preferences and discrimina-
tions as regards railway-rates by which another
State would be injured.” Whereupon Premier
Reid replied that in that case “it would be mere
waste of time on the part of the N.S.W. delegates
to stay there any longer.” Apparently George
Reid holds that it isn’t worth while having Federa-
tion unless one State is permitted to injure an-
other.
“Dick” O’Connor, by common consent,
is the sub-leader of the Convention. He does a
lot of the work for which Toby Barton gets the
credit, and is scarcely ever absent from the table
by day or the drafting-room by night. Barton,
however, easily holds first place among the
several delegations for his general grasp of every
aspect of the matters dealt with in the draft-bill.
To Captain Pasco, R.N., recently demised
at 81, in Vic., was virtually due the extension of
the P. and O. service to Australia. A letter of
his on the subject to a Hongkong paper, as far
back as ’46, set the ball a-rolling ; and, about six
years later, Pasco, who had left the navy, was
astonished to find on the London berth for Mel-
bourne a P. and 0. steamer, in which he imme-
diately resolved to take passage. When they
found out who he was, however, the directors
made him permanently free of any of their vessels
to any part of the world. Capt. Pasco was the son
of Nelson’s flag-lieutenant at Trafalgar.
Bishop Julius, of Christchurch, M.L., has
much annoyed the local Tories, who accuse him
of “moulding his eloquence upon the oratorical
flourishes of Ben Tillett.” This because of his re-
cent declaration that —
Behind the hig struggle in the British labor war was
the intense, deep, growing realisation of and demand
for equal rights and equality of consideration. ... It
had been said that unions had created discontent. Well,
he was glad to know they had, for, when people were liv-
ing more like pigs than human beings, the sooner they
got discontented the better, and —er—and —the refusal of
unionists to work with non-unionists at lower wages was
to be commended.
Vic. artist Longstaff had a warm time in
Gippsland the other week chasing bush-fires. Con-
flagrations are scarce since rain fell, and Longstaff
had to rush hither and thither for the particular
bit of burning bush his artistic soul coveted.
Finally he did light upon a fine lurid spectacle of
falling trees, &c., and he came back to Melbourne
with scorched cheeks, singed hair, an inspiring
odor of burnt wood, and—the germ of a picture.
The cost
of Boots
should be considered only in
conjunction with quality . . .
There are lower-priced kinds
of Boots than ours.
There are none better, but many that are poor-wearing at the same
price as ours. We urge you to try a Callaghan Boot.
We want to doable the
number of our customers
before January, 1899.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-street, Sydney.
Tlk SCiffi'ld Cast-
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING FULL
EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OF SCENE of
alleged Outrage. Price Sixpence.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George-st., Sydney.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
After all the legal opinions, said to be of vast
professional tonnage, which the Q. Govt, alleged it had re-
ceived, all declaring that there was nothing criminal
about the wrecking of the Q.N. Bank, it is suddenly an-
nounced that the late directors and auditors of that
mournful affair are to be prosecuted. When all
the delays and all the mental zig-zags are taken into
account, this sudden development makes one wonder
whether some unexpected axe requires grinding. Has it
suddenly been found necessary to squash somebody ? Or
are there political troubles visible ahead which make it
advisable to have the old board honorably acquitted
before another Government comes in and wades in to
prosecute in real earnest ? An acquittal is often a very
handy thing to have about the house. Or is it a straight
proceeding with no axe in it at all, and does the delay
simply arise through the natural tiredness of the Nelson
Ministry ?
* * » *
The subjects of the Q.N.B. prosecutions ini-
tiated by Q. Attorney-General Byrnes are—Directors :
Frederick Hamilton Hart, M.L.0., chairman; Arthur
Hunter Palmer, Lieut.-Governor (!), President of Legisla-
tive Council, &c. ; Boyd Dunlop Morehead, M.L.C. (from
June, ’96, only); A. B. Webster, merchant; Auditors :
Francis Q. Southerden (in Gibbs, Bright and Co.’s office),
W. Robertson Strong, C.A. (of the quondam firm of
Turner and Strong, accountants. Hart has always had a
white financial name in Queensland, but then he was
chairman of the bank, and he is also the man in Gibbs,
Bright and Co.’s, so that practically one of his own em-
ployes was a bank auditor. Old Palmer wasn’t the man
to over-scrutinise the books of a quasi-public institution,
managed by a man whom he entirely trusted. It will
take all Old Bully’s well-known grit to stand this shock at
his age. Morehead’s troubles run mostly towards over-
drafts (the writer fancies), though counterpoised by the
fact that he had such faith in the bank that he would not
sell a single one of his numerous shares, but continued to
purchase more shares when the bank was in the slough of
Public execration. Morehead’s ill-health has become
chronic, and at times critical. Webster lies under the
disadvantage of being told that he was an auditor when
“ these things -were happening,” and that he “accepted a
seat on the directorate ” —never saying anything as audi-
tor) and still less as director. Auditor Southerden is an
old gentleman who dots his i’s and crosses his t’s with
methodical regularity—an accountant of the Tim T,inkin,
water sort—immersed in addition and subtraction and
otherwise out of the world. Moreover, he was practically
Harts J. Robertson Strong is a certificated
accountant, and has been, for some time, an uncertifi-
‘ ated absentee. Somebody told somebody else who told
another fellow who told the writer that Strong was seen
m Monte Video months ago.
* * * *
Some curious statements were made at the Q.N.
Bank meeting. One was that the properties realised during
the half-year fetched £10,929 over book values, and as
net profit for the half-year was set down at only £BOOO
this looks as if the ordinary banking business hadn’t paid
expenses and depreciation. It was also stated that the
growing confidence of the public was evidenced by the in-
crease of £31,327 in private deposits during the half-year.
This statement can’t be checked by the balance-sheet, for
the June, 1897, report didn’t show new private deposits
separately from Government ditto. All The Bulletin
knows for ■ ertain is that the figures were :
Depoj.ls and other Liabilities.
June, 1897 .. £2,610,770
Do. Dec., 1897 .. 1,837,803
Apparent Decrease £772,967
Again, with regard to the fact that the directors had
accepted the surrender of 9841 shares and released the
, I 0 r L f J o U. their lability of £2 per share unpaid capital
.u 18 reported “there was £2 due, but against
that the value of the securities which the bank took over
m final settlement of the whole debt was now some
£50,000 surplus—probably more. The whole of the calls
I’ ald up to date.” If the Q.N.B. actually got
£50,000 worth of securities in settlement of £19,682 pos-
future liability, what a glorious patch it has struck !
And if the report didn’t mean that what did it mean ?
It was further pointed out that the expenses
had increased over I'SOOO in the half-year (there are said
to be ten directors now at £3OO a year each, and no less
than five of them are in London). The chairman refused
• k r jy e an .y promise that the old custom of directors grant-
mg themselves overdrafts would not be resumed ; it was,
he said, “ a matter entirely for the directors.” And when
it was pointed out that the aggregate expenses of the
Gommercial Bank of Australia were £482 for each office,
rfxr I, ?' Se the Royal of Queensland £4BB, against the
Q.-N.B.s 813, the only reply was that the Commercial of
Australia didn’t do anything like the business in Queens-
land that the Q.N.B. did. This is wholly beside the
question—it makes no difference whether the business is
m Queensland or Timbuctoo. The Commercial of Australia
might just as well claim that its expenses should justly be
the larger of the two because it does far more business in
Victoria than the Q.N.B. does. And the Royal of Queens-
land, at all events, does its business in the same province
as the Q.N.B. at £325 less cost per annum for each office.
Anyhow, the figures are striking. Commercial
of Australia, 92 offices, half-year’s expenses, £45,779;
Queensland National, 47 offices, 1 38,512.
* • * *
Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank (Melb.)
snows a visible improvement for the half-year, the profit
being £losl—equal to nearly 4s. lOd. per cent, per annum.
Some recent figures are :
June,’94—Profit .. £5097 June,’96—Profit .. £69
Dec., 94—Loss .. 5632 Dec., ’96— „ .. 978
June, 95 „ .. 7566 June, ’97— „ .. 911
Dec., 95 „ .. 2616 Dec., ’97— „ .. 1051
1 he re-arrangement made in Oct., ’95, saved about £9OOO
S e arly m interest, and, as the present half-year is
£B61 1 better than the first half of ’95, the saving hasn’t
swallowed up by the usual mysterious “ deprecia-
tion. During the year the old deposits have been reduced
by some £3soo—at which rate they will be all paid off in
about 100 years. Judging by the gross revenue ob-
tained, however, the assets (nominally worth £1,477,093)
r'iV'TOK Ver - y , ”ad state. They produce a gross return of
£10,725, and if that represents 4 per cent, on their net
value (and a co. doesn’t, as a rule, lend money on mort-
below 4 per cent.) the present selling-price
of the lot is £536,250. If the interest represents
U'b’ P er pent, on the real value of the assets
the whole lot is worth even then only £715,000. The
probability is that on present values there is barely
enough to pay the outside creditors, and the capital is
wholly lost. Still, as long as there is a small balance to
the good things are improving, and there is a chance that,
during the long years covered by the reconstruction
scheme, the bricks and mortar may so far revive as to
put the Australian Deposit and Mortgage ruin on its feet
again. One bad feature of the outlook just now is that
the repayment of deposits doesn’t decrease the burden of
interest. Under the last reconstruction three-tenths of
the deposits are repayable by three instalments before
1901 —these bear no interest; the other seven-tenths at 34
per cent, are extended for 15 years. The result is that
while the whole amount was owing the average interest
was £2 9s. per cent. When one-tenth is repaid the aver-
age interest on the balance is £2 14s. sd. per cent. The
payment of the second instalment raises the interest to
£3 Is. 3d. per cent., and the third one leaves it at £3 10s.
per cent. Just now the bank is paying £2 14s. sd. per
cent, all round to its old creditors, and isn’t doing any too
well even at that figure. How it will do later on appar-
ently depends on the restoration of confidence.
* * * *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria —one of
the three land banks which contrived to keep afloat in a
badly-dismasted condition when all the rest went down
like an old heavily-insured coal-ship—has struck the first
streak of good-luck since ’94. The ordinary business, it
is true, is still a losing concern. The gross receipts for
the half-year to 31st Dec., ’97, were £11,628. Expenses
and interest on borrowed money absorbed £16,026, and
losses on properties sold amounted to £4llO, making a
total loss of £B5OB. Even this, however, is a great deal
better than recent results, as shown below :
June, ’94—Profit .. £260 I June, ’96—Loss ... £9,696
Dec., ’94—Loss .. 6038 | Dec., ’96— „ ... 10,494
June, ’9s „ .. 6617 I June, ’97— „ ... 14,425
Dec., ’9s „ .. 8847 I Dec., ’97— „ ... 8,508
The half-year just ended is thus the only one since the
bursting of the boom when the loss hasn’t been larger
than it was the half-year before. But, in addition to this,
the bank has bought up £116,905 of its debentures under
the provisions of the new agreement, and as it got them
at a little over 15s. in the £, it made an immediate profit
of £25,706, in addition to saving nearly £4OOO a year in in-
terest. This transaction reduces the accumulated deficit
from £57,369 to £31,663.
Even this is a very small streak of luck, how-
ever. The Land Mortgage concern made a call of £200,000,
and is authorised to use the proceeds in buying up deben-
tures, but, even if it gets in the whole £200,000, which it
won’t, it would only reduce its debentures from £900,000
to about £620,000, and it isn’t earning enough to pay in-
terest even on that. The debenture-interest is now 34 per
cent., but the rate reverts to the old 44 per cent, at the end
of 1901, unless some further concessions can be secured.
And there is always the same old trouble that, out of
£1,136,526 of nominal assets, over £1,090,000 are more or
less mythical, consisting almost wholly of properties
reckoned at the old boom valuation. If it is assumed that
genuine assets should pay 4 per cent, gross, on their value,
then the real present value of the Land Mortgage co.’s
possessions is £581,000, and on that basis (as it owes its
debenture-holders £783,000) it is utterly insolvent. Still,
if it can raise enough money to gradually wipe off
the debenture incubus, there is no reason why it
shouldn’t write off its losses, in course of time, out of
revenue, and nurse its assets till values improve, and
gradually work its way back to solvency. But the neces-
sity for making more calls and getting rid of the debenture
burden is painfully obvious. Once free of that load, there
is no reason why the Land Mortgage Bank shouldn’t come
round in time—a large amount of time.
* • » *
The United Australian Mutual Insurance Co.
presents a tolerably sick report. Said co., however, is an
unhealthy-looking and pimpled concern at the best of
times. The year’s business resulted in a net loss of
£l5OB. This reduces the profit and loss balance to £9OB,
which is all there is to show for a scrambling existence of
18 years. The United Australian has no reserve fund, no
re-insurance fund, and no provision against depreciation.
Out of £60,793 of assets, over £44,000 consists of “ free-
hold property at cost ” —presumably the fine old boom-
time cost; and said property is staggering under a
mortgage of £24,000. This might easily be its full present
value ; lots of properties which cost £44,000 a few years
ago are not worth £24,000 now. Other assets include
fixed deposits, building society shares (what kind of
society ?), debentures (what debentures isn’t explained),
mortgages, also “other debts” £3271. What kind of
other debts they may be is uncertain —anyhow, this hazy
item, which has helped to balance the accounts for years
past, represents one-tenth of the paid-up capital. “ In-
terest and fees ” for the year are set down at £462, and,
supposing the whole of this was interest and none of it
was fees, it would represent less than fifteen shillings per
cent, per annum on the alleged value of the assets. Pro-
bably if they were overhauled and written-down to present
values the United Australian Mutual would find that a
good deal of its paid-up capital (which only amounts to
£31,407 at the best) was gone. The premium income
(£18,955) is £3OOO less than it was six years ago. The
management states that it yearns greatly in its innermost
soul to build up a reserve of “£lO,OOO at least.” Why the
management didn’t think of this five years ago is a mystery.
But what is wanted, first of all, is a fund to cover depreci-
ation of the assets, and then a reinsurance fund, and then
a reserve of £50,000 “at least.” A £lO,OOO reserve isn’t
much more than a decent-sized postage-stamp, anyhow,
and, if the look of things counts for anything, it might
take all that, or more, to put the securities on a
thoroughly sound basis.
* • * •
The little Perpetual Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co., of Tasmania, looks rather better. Half-
year’s profits £465, against £349 for previous half ; 6 per
cent, dividend absorbs £315. Capital paid-up, £lO,OOO ;
reserves, £3950.
* * * *
The Equity Trustees co. (Melbourne) continues
its mild existence, or whatever it calls the thing. The
net profits for the last half of 1897 were £486, as com-
pared with £759 for previous half, and, as the 5 per cent,
div. swallows £625, it naturally goes £139 to the bad.
The Equity Trustees is now 10 years old, and has accumu-
lated a reserve-fund of just £750. When times were good,
it blewed its profits royally in paying 10 per cent, divs.,
and, as a consequence, it is now a feeble little concern
with very small profits and few resources, and no imme-
diate prospects worth mentioning.
* * * *
Melbourne Gas co.’s half-year’s profit, £35,310,
as compared with £36,444 last half-year. An 8 per cent,
div. absorbs £34,288, leaving a weak little trifle to carry
forward. Melbourne Gas co. is a bigger affair than the
rotund Sydney monopoly, but it suffers from too much
borrowed money, having £857,000 of debentures, as com-
pared with about £300,000 in Sydney. Also, it has only
£30,000 reserve against the Sydney concern’s £llO,OOO.
The Melb. co. had a reserve of over £53,000 in 1892, so
things appear to have deteriorated a lot of late years.
* * * »
M‘Cracken’s City Brewery (Melb.) shows a
profit of £lOO2 for 1897 —Bs. per cent, per annum on the
reduced capital of £250,000. Even this is a streak of mar-
vellous luck compared with what the great beer-mill has,
been doing of late :
1893—Loss .. £4,636 1896—Loss .. £35,874
1894 „ .. 10,406 1897—Profit .. 1,002
1895 „ .. 22,923
This alarming co. lately wrote off £250,000 (one-half its
capital) to cover accumulated losses and depreciation.
Its great trouble is that, when the brewery was first
floated into a co. six sizes too large for it, £500,000 was
borrowed in England on debentures at 44 per cent, (in-
terest £22,500 a year), and the co. has wept at the deben-
ture-holder’s door for three years asking in vain for a
reduction. It is also loaded down with over £147,000 of
mortgages and overdrafts, and the concern which works
on £250,000 of its own and £647,000 borrowed at steep
interest hasn’t much show.
An official of the A.M.P. Society writes:—
“ Re your paragraph touching the rates of interest em-
ployed by sundry Life Insurance co.’s in estimating their
liabilities, there seems to be some little confusion. The
New York Life, according to a statement made by ‘Seton
Lindsay’ in the Manchester ‘Policyholder’ of 12th Jan.
last, is about to use the 3 per cent, rate throughout with-
out any increase of premium. The Melb. Argus of 19th
inst., however, is ‘informed’ that the N.Y. Life ‘does
not intend to make any alteration . . . the major
portion of its new business being now accepted with a 3
per cent, basis of valuation in view.’ The other two
American offices doing business in Australasia, the Equit-
able and the Mutual of New York, have only announced
their intention of valuing all new business at 34 per cent.
The Equitable has already some 3 p.c. ‘ accumulation
policies ’ which will continue to be as heretofore valued at
3 p.c. The Mutual Life Association of Australasia valued
at its last investigation on 31st Dec,, 1894, at 4 per cent.,
and has not publicly announced any change. The N.Z.
Govt, at 31st Dec., 1896, valued on a 4 p.c. basis, but re-
tained out of the resulting surplus a sum estimated to be
sufficient to bring the reserve up to that required on a
31 p.c. basis. The A.M.P. Society has at 31st Dec., 1897,
valued at 3J p.c, throughout—both old and new business
—except a few unimportant non-participating policies. It
has been using the 3| p.c. rate in connection with
its new business since 1894.” The Bulletin’s state-
ment about the New York Life Co. proposing to value all
its policies on a 3 per cent, basis was made on the com-
pany’s own authority. The statement that the Mutual
Life Association was reducing its estimates to a 3} per
cent, basis was made partly on the authority of the report
for 1894 and partly on the authority of the management.
The Maoriland Govt, department last year reserved
sufficient to put its estimates of future interest on a
basis of £3 12s. 6d., and the A.M.P. made its last pub-
lished report on a basis of £3 12s. 6d. So far as concerns
the former, the allusion to 3J per cent, was inaccurate.
* * » *
Jacob Garrard, chairman of the Atmospheric
Gas myth, told a gathering of disconsolate shareholders
last week to hang on to a "straw of hope; “ there might
still be something in it.” Alas ! the only thing in it is a
lot of good Cornstalk legal tender and some of Jacob’s
whiskers, blown off in that famous explosion.
* * * •
The story of one meeting of the Sydney Atmos-
pheric Gas co. (now employed chiefly in pursuing two “ in-
ventors ” of the atmospheric gas with a view to gaol) as re-
lated by a director —“ A remarkable scene occurred at
the termination of a meeting of members of the syndicate
at Messrs. Laurence and M‘Each]arts office. There were
about 80 shares unallotted, and this circumstance was
mentioned at the end of the proceedings. It was pro-
posed that the shares should be offered to the gentlemen
present. Immediately there was a scene of the wildest
confusion. Excited and eager men tore out their cheque-
books, and the air was rent with a frenzied demand for
pens. Actually, in less than six minutes, cheques for
over £BOO were on the table. [lt recalls the first Mount
Hoaxley meeting at the Hotel Australia.] This shows
what the members of the syndicate thought of the bona-
fides of the concern.” “And you?” asked the reporter.
“ Yes,” was the sorrowful reply, “ my cheque, I regret to
say, was the first handed in.”
* * * *
Dear B. —Seeing that Major Neild, with the
best and most honest intentions, led people to put good
money into the Atmospheric Gas swindle, and received
£3OO commission therefor —when does he propose to
refund it ?—Mug.
* * • *
Victoria Coffee Palace (Melb.) breaks a long
spell of ill-luck by showing a profit of £690 for the past
year—equal to nearly 3J per cent, on the capital, which
has been written down from £40,000 to £20,000. Gross
revenue is £6OO more than for 1896, and £l2OO more than
1895, and a possible resumption of dividends is dreamt of
—a thing which hasn’t come within the bounds of any-
body’s imagination since ’92.
* * * *
The Tarrawingee Flux Co. will probably
close up and go into liquidation at an early date. The
gradual removal of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co.’s
smelting operations to Port Pirie is the cause. The B.H.
Prop, is the Flux Co.’s one big and reliable customer, and
when it leaves the business is about over.
* * * *
Lake George mines, N.S.W. In giving the cost
of mining and smelting lately no allowance was made for
transport, realisation and other necessary charges. The
directors now say the exact cost cannot be given—it is not
known, but may be approximately taken at 7s. 6d. to Bs.
per ton of crude ore. That, added to the other, does not
show a substantial profit margin. More money has been
provided to increase production. Is it to be spent by the
increase of smelting plant alone? If so, these charges
will always remain. A big low-grade mine should do its
own refining.
• * * »
Yet another attempt to resurrect the Brown’s
Creek mine, N.S.W. The Compagnie des Mines d’Or put
up a 60-head mill that shut down after the first month’s
run. It is a sort of mud-mine, and might be made to pay
by some system of puddling and crushing combined ; but
running 4-ton heads on ore mostly mud played the devil
with things generally.
* * ♦ *
Some of the finest hauling-gear made in the
world has arrived to the order of the Sydney Harbor Col-
lieries co., and is being put in position. Two splendid
shafts are going down, and there is other proof of Bull’s
confidence and cash to shift mountains or sink holes
3000 ft. to prospect for coal. The coal in one of the only
two bores which preceded the shafts was worthless, hence
the whole scheme can only be regarded as a prospect
which will cost about half-a-million to prove a success or
failure.
* • * *
The 40-head mill on Menzies’ Barossa mine near
Gawler, S.A., is to start this or next week. Admittedly
low grade, sdwts. will pay, and it is expected to run
Bdwts. Menzies, the finder of the W.A. field bearing his
name, has put much money in, and the price of shares
shows no way out but by getting gold.
* * • *
Nasty, spiteful persons are beginning to ask
what is the connection between several much-boomed Vic.
shows, all more or less bearing the name of the parent
(alleged) mine, and the Last Call salted mine, Queensland.
m m m •
Re the mild public scramble for the Mt. Lyell
reserves. What is its object—mining or flotation ? Very
much of one, and very little of the other. There is no
surer thing on earth than the awful collapse of the Lyell
copper-boom, and it is not far off. It may not break
another Tas. bank, but it will smash a heap of Tas. and
Vic. men. N.S.W. will escape ; having had none of its
fruits, it will have none of its bitters. The mines produc-
ing anything are insignificant to the number floated and
the money spent. The nature of the country is the worst
in the world for copper-production. In several instances
the enormous lodes, on the strength of which mines were
placed, have been proved to be no lodes at all. Crosscuts
and tunnels, driven to strike them at lower levels, are
still in country rock long beyond the points where the
ore bodies should be. Many are tilted deposits. A plain,
with pools of water here and there, is not a bad illustra-
tration of them, and their occurrence in this form is re-
markably common with copper all over the world, as
people in the Lyell boom will know when it is too late.
Why is it the founders of the Tas. copper-industry have
fixed on Queensland for their next big copper scheme if
there are many more Mt. Lyells in that province ? The
boom will last just as long as Bull furnishes working capi-
tal for prospecting mines. The moment he stops—well,
stand from under !
Sheepstation, Gippsland, Vio., has suffered
another horrid shock in the dead failure of the Eureka
tunnel, one of the gamest ventures in the chronicles of
Gippsland mining. The Reynolds brothers, two successful
local prospectors and demon grafters, started through
the hill to try the deeper ground for an old shoot of gold,
the richest hit on Sheepstation. The work was begun
close upon three years ago, and, within a month or so, the
two men, working on their own, were into birds-eye
granite as hard as the hobs of Hades. Every inch had to
be shot out, and the game couple went broke at the end
of about two years, when there were indications of the
lode in the face. Recognising that success meant the
making of the place, locals lent a hand, and the Reynolds
brothers belted away. Then the Govt, chipped in with a
£lOO grant, which was soon shot out. At last they got
the reef, but it had suffered the fate of every reef in the
district —it had gone hungry and mean as it went down,
and wasn’t worth eighteenpence a ton. The brothers llave
lit out, and Sheepstation is in sackcloth and ashes.
* * * *
The London and Globe Corporation has, no
doubt, been shuffling over the issue of the 50,000 shares
in the new Ivanhoe Co. to the old shareholders. Heaven
knows when the scrip would have got on to the Austra-
lian register had not the committee of London Stock
Exchange, when asked for a settlement in Ivanhoe new
shares, demanded to see the contract of sale, and then
would not grant a settlement until everything was clear
about the Australian register and the issue of scrip thereon.
In the case of the Lake View, Symon, Q.C., was very par-
ticular to provide that scrip should be issued in Adelaide
and London simultaneously, which was done. Bull always
wants to put vendors’ scrip in a box, and sit as long as he
possibly can on the lid thereof. [Memo, for Australian
mine- vendors.]
• * * *
Great mining news by wire, and, alas ! small
cakes by escort continue to come from the Norseman;
W.A. If the mines were only half as good as the news-
paper accounts —but that is an old story.
* * * *
Hannan’s Reward—472 tons, 1460 z. London
management cannot possibly stand this. Well-named,
for, like Pat. Hannan’s, their reward is low-grade.
* * * *
What, again?—“lt is rumored that the Mt.
Charlotte has cut a rich lode in the western crosscut at
400 ft. No particulars are obtainable.” There is some-
thing to be thankful for in that!
* * * *
Several interesting items came up for explana-
tion at the last meeting of the Plunderderry; co„ held in
London. Chairman Fingall explained that the exes, of
management in London had been reduced from £4318 for
18 months to £944 for twelve. Gold since the co. took
the mine over —’95-6, 832 tons, 21240 z.; ’96-7, 690 tons,
4910 z. Since ’97 accounts were made up—677 tons,
11320 z. Total, 2199 tons, 37470 z £13,676. Trans-
pired that the Australian vendors are claiming £150,000
as damages for the non-issue of their shares at the proper
time. As to the return of promoters’ profits, Fingall said
a compromise had been practically agreed to with Colonel
North’s executors, but at the last moment a difference
arose. Any decision, he believed, would be subject to the
result of the action by the Australian against the English
vendors. His own special refund consisted of a4O per
cent, interest in the Australia United, a mine that had
already crushed 360 tons for over 1200 oz. of gold, and had
£30,000 in sight. Mr. T. Hewitt, Myring (ex-rabbit-
inspector in N.S.W.), referred to what he had done.
They—who are they?—“ had invested £5OOO apiece in
some mining securities in W.A., but these had not
shown a profit on the deal up to the present. He had
invested an amount of money in mining properties,
not in scrip, so that they would not be able to say that he
had invested in something for them in which he had
hesitated to go himself. He had invested in a mine in
N.S.W. with the result that it had developed a large
quantity of very good ore. Labor was cheap, and water
plentiful. Six dwts. would pay all exes., and there was a
large body of ljoz. stuff.” Where is the mine ? Myring
also said he had got an option of a mine in Victoria which
he believed would have a successful result. Rabbits !
• * • »
The prospector of theMaritana mine, Hannan’s,
writes in condemnation of the management. Over
£20,000 has been spent with little to show for it. The
Melb. office has, he says, cost £l9OO a year ; 46ft.. of
driving and sinking represented the work of nine men
for four months ; and at the time of his last visit four men
were working and a manager and consulting-engineer
were looking after things.
• • • •
At latest advices the Westralian miners steadily
refuse to take any notice of Minister Wittenoom’s regula-
tion that no alluvial must be dug at more than 10ft. from
the surface on any reefing claim owned otherwise than by
the digger. The centre of the row is the Ivanhoe Ven-
ture lease, Kalgoorlie. As fast as one lot of miners are
summoned for going beyond the limit another lot takes
its place, and the present difficulty is that there aren’t
gaols enough to put all the offenders in. Also, if they are
fined they are so numerous, and the police force so small
by comparison, that, supposing they refused to pay, they
could simply walk over all the collecting power on the
goldfields. As to shifting them off the leases by force,
it would be just about as easy to shift the accursed drink
bodily out of the country.
» * • *
J.; “Be working-miners’ mateship, how’s this :
Not long since, after a party of four or five had put a 50-
ton lot through, one (the expert of the crowd) went ‘ on
the tear.’ One of his mates was asked to take care of
* the expert’s’ purse, which, upon examination, was found
to contain Mint-receipt for soz. of gold extracted from
wells by expert ‘ on his own ’ whilst ‘ watching ’ the mill’*
* * * *
Clarke and Co.’s (Adelaide) Feb. circular deal-
ing with Kalgoorlie mines“ Up to the end of ’96,
although large and valuable ore bodies had been consider-
ably developed from the surface to a depth of 150 ft., and
in a few cases to a depth of 200 ft., there existed a decided
nervousness and hanging back in attempting to prove the
continuity of the lodes and the value of the same in
deeper ground. In most cases the large and rich oxidised
ore bodies showed no particular lines of occurrence, and
this, to many, caused a feeling that when the harder and
settled country was reached they would be found either
to become exceedingly small or die away in the country
in the form of small droppers. This feeling was not alto-
gether unnatural, as there existed in one mine at a depth
of 180 ft., where a change occurred, an example decidedly
unfavorable. However, finally the three leading mines—
Lake View Oonsols, Great Boulder, and Ivanhoe—set the
minds of the doubtful at rest by sinking to the 300 ft.
level, the result being that in each case the lodes were
found to be of good size, well-defined, and of pay-
able value. The character of the ore bodies had entirely
changed, having become hard, and of a highly sulphide,
nature. . . . Water-supply : As yet nothing definite has
been done, the mines depending solely upon the salt-water
supplies obtainable on the field, from the mines mostly
situated near Hannan’s Lake, and the low-lying country
to the east and west of the gold belt. The present supply
is very inadequate and very costly. What difficulties and
inconveniences an increased population will have to put
up with are evidently scarcely realised. . . . Although the
progress and development of ’97 have proved of such vast
importance to the gold industry of W.A., those of ’9B will
place this field on a much firmer basis, as the sul-
phide and telluride ores (which all the mines will ulti-
mately have to work) will be treated in a large way on
the field, and a very heavy increase in output may be
looked for from this source ; at the same time, many of
the new plants will be on a large scale, and the mines
must be given time to erect them. If this can be done
during the year, the monthly output should approach
70,0000 z. towards the close of it.”
SIR JOHN
POWER’S
Whiskey.
R. BELL & CO.’S VESTAS
—ARE—
BRITISH VESTAS.
Aus. |
Reps, f
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Building's, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Causti n & other Sodas,
Borax Litharge, Chlorate Potash B'.ttO Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
178 William-st., Melbourne ; 14 CJurrie-st., Adelaide.
Tl)€ R€ALMACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
Simpson’s Sulkies
No Horse-and-Oart Motion!
The Best of Stuff well put together.
You have never seen one broken down.
SIDNEY SIMPSON,
Newtawn, Sydney.


Society
Bastille
COGNA[?]
Curious how every Respectable daily paper
in Sydney has come out with a sympathetic
article on Dreyfus, the man convicted on no
visible evidence to whom the French Government
persistently refuses an enquiry—and not one came
out to say anything on behalf of Suffield, the
man convicted on no visible evidence, to whom
the N.S.W. Government persistently refuses an
inquiry ! It is so easy to be impartial and fearless
by speaking severely about the iniquity that is
16,000 miles away, or a little further.. If there
was only a, gross miscarriage of justice in Jupiter,
probably even the S.M. Herald would say some-
thing harsh about it.
* • * *
“ The white wonder of womanhood has
been a natural and rare birth of all the centuries.
She lightens through the dim vistas of tradition ;
she flashes not frequent, but marvellous, in all
the pages of history ; and happily she fails not in
the times of which the record is now made.” Thus
Sydney D.T. scribe’s preliminary slop-over about
the first Albani concert, and thereafter, for a
column and a-half of ecstatic idiocy, this mis-
guided man flounders complacently in a swamp of
about the most gorgeous literary slush that ever
saw type. And all this magniloquent tommyrot
about a well-worn artist for the former marvel of
whose voice Australia sadly finds itself compelled
to depend upon the assurances of those who heard
it in its prime.
* * * *
Australian bodies interested in the matter
were, some months back, instructed to cease the
export of fledgeling missionaries tc China, until
towards the close of this year at any rate. One
of Melbourne’s little-known institutions is a train-
ing-home for these fledgelings. It hasn’t any
regular revenue, but depends on casual contribu-
tions in money and kind ; and when the cupboard
is getting empty (it has been bare more than once)
the bell rings and the candidates are called in to
special prayers.
*' * • *
T.D. : “N.S.W. shops and factories legisla-
tion remains strangely ineffective. A Sydney
cafe, affected by foreigners, pressmen, and youth-
ful art students, keeps its waitresses at work from
8.30 a.m. to 10 or 11 at night, and oyster-saloons,
hotels, and other refreshment-places are worked
on the same lines.”
* * * *
The Brisbane unco guid are cooing because
Capt. W. H. Blake told a local press interviewer
that the missionaries in China did a lot of good.
All that Blake said (as reported) was that they
were good doctors, and doctored both yellows and
whites when no other western doctor was avail-
able. Palpably, he referred to the male parson
with forceps, lancet, sedative and sleeping-
draught. Wonder what Blake thinks of the
abandoned young ladies who go out to China to
be sneered at and, if chance offers, maltreated?
* • • •
Cairns (N.Q.) storekeepers combined not
to give any Xmas - boxes to their cus-
tomers. The Chinese storekeepers were included
in the league, and said, “Welly goo’; all li’.”
The Chows stuck honorably to the letter of their
bargain, but they sold their customers whole
hams at 3d, apiece ! Cairns doffs its cady to a
Chinaman more reverentially than ever.
• * * m
Some Q. Anglican marriage-celebrants wil|
not accept a bride's, or a groom’s, say-so as to he
or his age, but require to see birth-certificates,
from which the ages are copied into the marriage-
certificate when filled in. T’other day happened
a C. of E. marriage, the groom, 27 years old, un-
derstanding that he was wedding with a bud,
aged 20. When the marriage-certificate was
handed to him with Myrtle’s age set down at “ 31
years, as attested by birth-certificate,” he started
at once round the corner to buy a special brand of
tobacco that can only be procured in Klondyke.
Sweet 31 shows her wedding-ring, sighs, and has
a good time.
° * * *
Dr. Jock Thomson was the obstetric sur-
geon who attended Lady Lamington, the other
day. Dr. Marks used to be Guvmentouse medico,
till the Governor objected to the size of an account
(£25, for an accouchement and after-attendance),
and sent for the Sergeant-Major of the Q.D.F.
By the way, when is that talked-of pamphlet to
apuear ?
" * * * *
The martyrdom of man. Sydney railway-
station. Gentleman just opening door of suburban
train. Lady excitedly rushing up to him and
clutching his arm. “That’s not our train, you
stupid!” (Gentleman turns round.) “Oh, I
beg your pardon ; I thought it was my husband.”
Gent, (taking off his hat and bowing low): “Sol
concluded from your matrimonial accent.”
* * * •
For every man employed on the Brisbane
(Q.) wood-blocking works, 20 unemployed gaze
wearily agape at the operations. Now that the
works are in Queen-street, official notices of the
“move-on” regulation, with threats of a £2 fine
on anyone refusing to move at police request, stare
the unemployed in the eyes at every third
verandah post. But it doesn’t matter. The
crowds still stand and stare, on both sides of the
streets. The police would have to rope them in
by the hundred, or take down false names by cen-
turies, and then not one of the poor wretches
AN INCIDENT OF TRAVEL.
COOKIE (who wants the coach-driver to take a stale
cow-hide to market for him): “Will yer
take this ’ere ’ide ter town fur me?”
DRIVER : “No; passengers object.”
COOKIE: “If none of yer (scented) passengers
ain’t more ’bjectionable nor this ’ere ’ide,
they must be puffick violets.”
cAild get <£2 squeezed out of him and all that is
his. The regulation is one of those impossible
farces that the unemployed relish.
* * * •
Some Q. divisional boards are recommend-
ing teetotallers for appointment as licensing
magistrates for ’9B. If teetotallers, why not
brewers and wine-merchants? Which recalls
that when Aid. John Clarke was Mayor of Bris-
bane (and often sat on the Licensing Bench as a
member ex-officio), he used to decorate his little
home entertainments with fancy bottles of zoe-
done, which were made up to resemble small
bottles of chain., while the zoedone itself was, in
tint and creamy top, similar to the real, effer-
vescing exhilarant. At one of these family parties
some gay and sprightly lads smuggled upon the
table a couple of dozen of real fizz. During a
spasm of drought Mayor Clarke walked to the
table, took a corkscrew and a small bottle of
“real stuff,” opened it, filled a large tumbler, and
drank the contents down with hearty approval.
And he didn’t know that it wasn’t zoedone !
Rap : “Was over St. Kilda
cemetery to-day, and was struck by
the fact that the majority of the
graves with the inscriptions “Gone,
but not forgotten ” on them, were
the most neglected in the whole
plantation.”
* * *
Bear Bulletin, — Do Austra-
liennes in general take kindly to the
diurnal tub? To judge from the
statistics of public baths, and the
fact that most of the Sydney baths
are only open to the sex for a few
hours once or twice a week, it is a
tolerably safe estimate that not more
than 5000 Sydney females go in for
even an occasional salt-water dip.
Half the smaller houses in Sydney
are unprovided with bath - rooms,
and I know of more than one case
where the bath certainly is in con-
stant use—but merely as a recep-
tacle for the “ old man’s ” gardening
tools and much of the household
rubbish. The “ old man ” himself
can, of course, go out for his wash,
but the missus and daughters and
the maid-of-all-work either damp
themselves very inadequately from a hand-basin
or a clothes-tub, or swear off altogether.—T.D.
♦ * * *
The Pine (S.Q.) divisional board, bossed
by fanatical teetotallers, has or had a clerk, who
also had to inspect the board works over an area
of over 200 square miles, and got just—<£l3o a
year, no quarters, no horse, no forage allowance,
no nothing extra ! He asked for an increase of
salary. They sent him out of the room and re-
solved : “ That tenders be invited for the position
of clerk and inspector of works, and that (until
the applications are received) the present clerk be
continued in his present salary ; also that tenders
must be in before the next meeting.” Nigger
driver land !
* * * *
A swell Australian lydy recently negoti-
ated with a fashionable registry-office for a house-
maid for the station which her sons run as a
bachelor establishment. A woman about 38, with
first-class references, was sent up, the legistry-
keejier thinking an engagement certain. The
lydy, however, promptly said that applicant
wouldn’t suit —“You see, my sons like cheerful,
young people about them.” “But, madam, as
you say there is no mistress there, and the place
is lonely, surely, as a mother, you couldn’t ”
Tinkle-tinkle! “ Show this person out! ”
* » * *
R.C. Bishop Crane, of Bendigo (Vic.), in
his Lenten Pastoral, says his church teaches that
“ a state of virginity is the happiest—more noble,
meritorious and more acceptable to God than that
by marriage.” The simple answer to all which
rubbish is that but for breach of virginity there
would be in existence no virgins to commend, and
no Crane to commend them !
* * * *
Again the superiority of the Australian
female: —Excellency Lamington, distributing
prizes, t’other day, at the Brisbane Technical
College, had to specially notice (with suitable
compliments) the vast preponderance of lady
prize-takers. The boys were simply nowhere.
Their zeal for study totally vanishes when they
sniff a cricket-ball, and, when they do study, little
Miss Blue-stocking beats ’em in a canter. How-
ever, most of Miss Blue-stocking’s virtue is in
memorising facts and dates; and when puberty
comes 90 per cent, of her turn as dull as the re-
mains of a dead ruminant.
A Sydney
D.T. corres-
dent:—
Naturally Card.
Moran would re-
gard the more
rapid spread of
his faith than of
Protestantism
among semi-civi-
lised and savage
peoples as aproof
of superiority,
but opponents
might argue
that, granting
his facts, they
only prove that
the religion he
supports is of a
lower or less spi-
ritual type than
that of its rivals.
According t o
which reason-
ingthereligion
of the highest
and most spiri-
tual type
should make
the fewest pro-
selytes of all.
Lovely specimen of hard-pushed
sectarian logic !
* * *
A Sydney D.T. apology :
We are asked to explain that -———,
who died suddenly at from a
ruptured blood-vessel, on , was not in an hotel at
the time. The fatal occurrence took place in the street,
opposite an hotel.
There is an essential difference nowadays between
dying in a hotel and opposite one.
Cairns takes off its hat to the Chinaman.
The Japanee woman collects the rest of its outfit.
THE MYSTERIES OF THE BOARDING-
HOUSE.
CUSTOMER : “ Er, waiter, I’m afraid I left a tooth
in the steak you have just taken away!”
WAITER: “Never mind, sir; cook'll find it when
she’s a-making the ’ash fer dinner to-night,
sir! ”
A certain rather fashionable Anglican
N.S.W. sin-shifter serves two churches some dis-
tance t< He isn - t wildly pop ular in either of
hig twQ districts—in fact, ‘he has confined his
ministrations for some time to one of his churches
- n or d e r to give time for things to blow over at
t h e other On a recent Sunday, however, he
drove over to his outlying tabernacle with a
mounted constable in attendance to keep off any
possible rush of the local Christian. As a
further precaution he left his buggy a mile
f rom the township, and walked in unobtru-
sively and held service before a thin con-
gregation. When he returned to the vehicle
ft was tarred outside, and inside it was full of
enthusiastic testimonial, presented by the flock,
Said testimonial consisted mostly of fertiliser for
the rev, gentleman’s garden, and, judging by the
footmarks around, most of the people who hadn’t
been at the service had been humping the testi-
monial. Now relations are more strained than
ever, and a horrible odor of bonedust pervades
the straight and narrow way.
“MAN’S LOVE IS OF HIS LIFE A
THING APART.”
“ Your face is perfectly familiar, but I can’t
remember where I met you.”
“ Dear, dear! Why, I was a co-respondent in
your first divorce case! ”
THE SECRET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ll tell you, ye flow’rets, ye will not betray me,
But cherish my secret amid your perfume ;
I’ll tell you my sorrow—ye will not gainsay me,
For Pity must blend in the pure of your bloom.
When softly ye lie on the breast of my dearest,
Ope gently each calyx in jubilant glow,
And tell her—O Rose, to her heart that is nearest:
“ He loves thee and bids us go whisper thee so ! ”
And when ye have faded and fallen from splendor,
If light she reject you and think not of me,
Float down on some brook to a grave-bed so tender,
And bury the tale I have told—in the sea.
Brisbane.
P. LUPTIG.
d
if
ORIENT
CLOTH IN 6
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOE
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits,- 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR. SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
Opposite j
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/G ; Drab, 25/6 each.
' Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOU.NTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
A
SNAP-
SHOT
The
Victor
Camera
21/-
n>
Duplex
Camera
i
plate,
25/-
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
PHOTOGRAPH 10 MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
See our Advertisement on Page S 3.


Not long ago the
/nembers of a S.A.
‘ ‘ water - rat ” Church
had prayers for rain,
and when, the same
night, the wind began
to howl and dense
clouds to scud across
the sky, the congrega-
tion was getting ready
to snort at unbelievers.
But not a drop of rain
fell, though the wind
blew harder and har-
der, till away went,
first the parson’s roof,
and then the church’s.
Not another building
suffered damage.
Omen ?
• *
The Wesleyans
are up in arms about
Salvationist Herbert
Booth’s proposed raid
on Fiji. Booth can’t
understand why his
predecessor, Coombs,
gave such a tangible
undertaking to a rival
shop, instead of send-
ing the fiery jackets
and scuttle-bonnets to
Fiji, where there is
such a wide opening
for them. The Army
never pioneers any
savage place. The
blaek-and-tans them-
selves, of course, are
all agog for the para-
phernalia and phantas-
magoria of the Harrny,
nor can one quite ac-
cept the dictum of
their spiritual farmers
that Fiji is heaven al-
ready. Besides, they
admit that only 90 per
cent, are Christians,
and Herbert may go for
6he Submerged Tenth.
Apropos of the formal ‘ { annexation ” o f
Tahiti as a French colony : The gallant sons of
Gaul do not stand very high in the estimation of
the female natives. A recent visitor states that
in the course of his dalliance with one of the
dusky daughters of the isle the following conver-
sation took place. He : “You like Tahiti man ? ”
She: “Tahiti man no good.” “Frenchman?”
“Frenchman no good.” “Englishman?”
“Yes” (somewhat dubiously). “American
man?” “American man very good! (with
animation) You American man?” He had to
disappoint the charmer by confessing that he was
an Australian, when she indicated that she had
not yet sampled that type of the genus homo.
Probably she and her sisters will not long have to
deplore their ignorance of the Cornstalks.
* * * *
At a Northern court, recently, the sergeant
of police despatched a constable to hunt up a
second magistrate, as only one beak was on hand.
The officer accordingly applied to a neighboring
shopkeeper J.P. “ What are the cases ? ” asked
the latter. “ All troifling offinces, sor, ’cept that
Mr. Sugarcane is summonsed for a breach of town
bye-laws.” “What, Mr. Sugarcane of Dooley -
buek ! Well, I can’t sit. He’s one of my best cus-
tomers ! ” When it had been hinted to the dis-
penser of justice, however, that he might he able
to do his customer a good turn, he consented to
sit, and the defendant was fined Is. Ghastly
abuse of justice to put hucksters on the bench.
* * * *
An impressive “ scene ” occurred at a Vic.
police-court, the other day. The solicitor for
plaintiff in a debt case objected to one of the
justices, on the ground that he had never before
been known to sit upon the local Bench, whereas
it was well-known that he had often been
seen drinking at defendant’s house. The insinua-
tion of magisterial bias was repudiated by de-
fendant’s lawyer, a gentleman who, at present,
stands committed for trial on a curious criminal
charge, and a general interchanging of nasty re-
marks terminated in plaintiff’s defeat.
* * * *
The J.P, jealously guards his exclusive
right to be an ass in his own court, and deals out
stoush to the unwary wretch who dares even to
act the goat in emulation. At Prahran, Melb.,
the other day, the performing Jay-P. was clumsily
funny because all the names that had cropped up
in a case ended in “son.” “Any more?” he
asked, and a witness, delighted to carry on the
“goke,” fairly yelled, “Nicholson ! ” The Jay-P.
froze hard, and congealed horror sat upon his
brow, and he presently jumped on that flabber-
gasted witness, accusing him of contempt and
“rude and vulgar” conduct, and gave him cold
cells till “the rising.” Justice in the lower courts
has renounced her bandage for a fool’s cap.
* * * *
In Brisbane (Q.) Supreme Court. “Is
this man an American negro or a Kanaka?”
“He says he took a water-melon to a certain
house.” “Ah ! negro, of course.”
- ♦ * * *
When N.S.W. Marine Board enquires
into the loss of the Atacama it will be well, The
Bulletin hears, to take evidence regarding the
seaworthiness or otherwise of the missing boats.
According to one of the survivors, the captain’s
boat Was the only one fit to be put into the water.
Re recent Bulletin par., Mr. Courtenay
Smith writes to say that though Echo Inebriate
Home, Sydney Harbor, was closed as far back as
’95, its place was supplied by “ Rest Haven,” still
in existence—and crowded. Public support, it is
added, is not solicited, nor does Mr. S. (whilecon-
sidering alcoholism only curable God) scorn the
aid of medicine, as has been asserted.
* * * #
Big inter-
provincial meat
dealers aver
that the coining
winter will see
beef Is. per lb.
in Tasmania.
* m
A new crime
has been dis-
covered by a
lone Essendon
(Vic.) widow.
She prosecuted
a neighbor on a
charge of in-
veigling away
one of her hens,
“ and working
it to death by
false pretences
—namely, by
continually set-
ting it on duck
eggs. ” Repeat-
ed disappoint-
ments in seeing
chickens with
webbed feet
creep out of the
eggs she had
been hatching
had, so the lone
widow stated,
soured the na-
ture of the un-
happy fowl, and
caused her to
become the vic-
tim of a settled
melancholy
which had re-
duced her to a
mere handful of
bones and fea-
thers. The lone
widow wished
the Bench to
severely punish
the man who
had thus heart-
lessly led her
biddy astray.
The brutal
Bench dismiss-
ed the case with
a burst of horse-
laughter.
The recent Noble divorce-case and the
ending thereof were comments printed in letters
as big as a pyramid on the hull-headedness of the
law. Both parties applied for a divorce —which
was good evidence, to begin with, that their
marriage was as completely at an end (except
in an ink-record on a leaf in a book
somewhere) as if it never existed, and all
the court could do by refusing a legal separa-
tion was to force them into immorality if they
were not fitted for celibacy. If either party had
let the other’s application go by default then
both would have got the separation they
both wanted. But as each party wanted
the divorce granted on account of the badness of
the other, they fought the matter out, and each
one disproved the other’s charges so thoroughly
that both cases were dismissed. The only result
is a staggering bill of costs and the recollec-
tion of the awful things they have said about each
other, and now that each has publicly called the
other some of the most dreadful facts in the
Australian language, they are naturally expected
to live happily together ever afterwards. And, if
they were to do the only thing the law has left for
them, and go and live happily with two other
people, the law would be quite shocked at the sin-
fulness of it.
* * * *
A recent cablegram—“ Mr. Smalley, the
Times special correspondent at Washington,
states that the magnitude of the Maine disaster
has quite sobered Congress ” —recalls the legend
under a picture which appeared in these pages
years ago, when The Bulletin was a small, dis-
sipated infant. Two firemen are gazing medita-
tively at the smoking ruins of Sydney Exhibition
building. First fireman : “My word, Bill, that
war a fire ! I can tell you it sobered me.” Bill
(gravely): “ Then it war a fire.”
* * * *
Melbourne enjoyed a hearty chuckle at the
expense of a vigilant policeman in plain clothes
who charged a pair of professional “palmists”
with obtaining money by false pretences. The
vigilant one gave evidence that he had submitted
his large, unhorn y palm to the female prisoner,
and she examined it, after which the male prisoner
gave him a chart to the effect that liis intellect
qualified him “to pass an examination for a
policeman.” The palmists, as everybody outside
the fooree was glad to see, escaped without a
stain on their mystic character. Their “offence ”
gave only one little cause for public regret. They
might have enlarged the joke by letting the chart
predict that their visitor would shortly cut a
ridiculous figure in the witness-box.
* * * V
D.F. : “Re recent Melb. palmistry prose-
cution. If palm-reading means ‘ false pretences,’
so do physiognomy, phrenology, and all the other
quasi-sciences, honestly believed in by so many ;
while, as to the assertion that some palmists are
pimps for brothels, as well suppress artists’ studios
on account of the occasional ‘ shaky ’ model.” [ln-
sofar as palmistry is an attempt to deduce from
certain physical appearances certain mental and
moral characteristics, it stands on the same foot-
ing as phrenology and the rest; but, with the pro-
fessed ability to foretell, from the appearances in
question, the future course of events, there comes
into the connection a very impudent pretence
indeed.]
THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE.
A Port Darwin Chinaman, his love for art aboriginal girl being unrequited,
threw dynamite at her and was Committed for trial.
Owing to everyone supporting the fashion-
able Lord-and-Lady-blessed opposition show in
the proposed N.S.W. “Victoria” home for con-
sumptives, Thirlmere home, which has done all the
good work and which was established and nobly
supported for many years by Colonel Goodlet, of
Sydney, is next door to closing for want of funds.
As the Victoria home movement has not panned
out so well as expected, what is wrong with sink-
ing the “needful” collected in the Thirlmere
home and running one good institution? The
name could be changed to the “ Jubilee Victoria
Guelph ” or anything of that sort, if that would
help matters along.
AND HE DID EAT
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/&/' Anol he did ■\j //
jealous <a o d defied ; 1 |//j( '// f
Who guessed that woman would /
Mis power div'cte
If not' defeat”,
Mind; heeding nor the threatened cot,!,
£ye to fiis bosom sfhained-
What was the 'Parad'Se *^ e lo^
Pjesrde (he one he gamed?
And he did eat.
Up* woman templed mtand
mSf/// • " 4oesi *.
W/[/'/// /, act 111, S>ctn?i
!Irm.II/ 1
he did eat
{J[p''XzX' c * tkank the fate.!, twas ■bo
r "p'orall joys transcending that
we knovp |
\j And To greet
The woman tempted him - the
• ,
>-/¥ 2ire wriT,
And thut, he fell away-
foo, with beams.of beauty.wilej of wit,
\ Her clauohter;, Tempi" to-day .
And we'olo eat.
lyT he did eaf-,
' cD° '*•1’ ui tiSS die ,
And thank old Adana that today
we lie
raptures sweet.
What would we give for suc-h another
curse f
Who aught above ?
What profits it Idgam (he universe
And te»ste not womans love 2
we do cat.
Monfagire Grorep
KN
O
'Si7> ’!/ tuftflrb
You
FoROOJTE^I
CaledonianLiqueur Whisky
TJOSE’S CELEBRATED
SJY3E3 LOTIOK
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustrutin.
Patterns and Measurement Korins on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
LiQuorice.
Absolutely Pure. Obtainable from all Chemists and Con
fectioners and Wholesale Grocers. Wholesale only from
HY. MARKWALD, 11 Pitt-st., SYDNEY
and at ITS William-st., Melbourne ; Adelaide ; Brisbane
Wellington, N.Z.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
Cadogan : Legible enough till you come to the
point. Then drunken smudge M.A.O. :No room for
long, moral essays—especially when written in faint
pencil tracks on green paper W.E.O. : You are an
Australian. The man who said you weren’t must have
been drinking W.E.E. : No show for flea literature
and bug erudition Reporter : Good subject not treated
so well as it deserves David G. (Prahran): Not good
enough Pickwick : Dog in fit duly received For-
bidden Fruit: Did you really expect us to print that ?
Justitia : Will use B.S. : You say that prophets
like Henry George are scarce, while brilliant, honest,
democratic statesmen are plentiful. Well, if you count
the great democratic statesmen who get a chance to act,
and the prophets who get an audience, this paper
reckons there are about two prophets to one states-
man G.H.C. (Vic.) : Alternates between cellar of
poetry and roof of doggerel. You can do better
Rocket: Won’t go up J. Jin. : “Cherchez” too long
for interest. Dog-yarn funny but flabby Roger:
Gender is a matter of syntax—not of sex. English has
special gender for sexless things, and Latin tongues make
sexless objects all syntactically masculine or feminine
H.E.R. : Quality of stuff is what concerns readers—not
age of writer. Still, you have promise, but should wait
until you can spell .... Bullet: Not found billet this time.
Thirteen : “ Drunk Again ! ” Looks like it. “ Inter
the fence he went, and got eaugt under the necke.”......
Araby: Not the “blest”; the d—d, in fact! In-
victa: Your satire needs a touch of the grindstone.
Jinda : Gory, but good Sapphire : Mean Sap-
phira, don’t you? And it isn’t even a new lie
Dargo : Will print both. Simple and good
Mallee M. : Too obvious —merely policeman wouldn’t
arrest brother because he liked sister—which isn’t a
story F.J.K. : Thanks R.C.O. : Humor trickles
about as fast as frozen treacle P.T.F. : Considering
C. : Not force enough for B E.M. : Sorry can’t assist.
J.F.D. : Not up 6 x 8: Verse not quite “A
Poem ” : Just a modest, shrinking, little flower in 19
stanzas, without a signature—and planted with the
others Philodemus : Big name—little wit Plantaga-
net: Off our crimson path—let ’em shine in local paper’s
milky way Quill Pen : Worthless Alley Bard : You
don’t sally in our alley, bard R.W.C. : Standpoint too
local H.E.G. : Merit; not enough Ivo D. : Unfair
to put your ideas into the mouth of the lightning-struck
little girl E.W. : Declined W.A.K. : Considering..,..
D. : Don’t set any value on petitions—the average man
is so flattered at being asked to sign his name (especi-
ally if he can’t write) that he’ll endorse anything
£46: Take a little more space, and put in a lot mor j
humor John Galliard : Give it up J.B. : Thai ks ;
will look up W.B. : Not up Louis M. : Par’d......
C.P. : So you “ wear her imagine in my breast,” do \ ou?
Ethele : Declined Lou 6: Reoeptacled....Athelsti ne:
How would you like the job of spelling “Basket” differ-
ently a hundred times a day? B.E. : Good idea— to>
dull W.C.A. : Not up Swagman : Very far off ou'
beat Stretsam, or Strelsau, or Streisand, or Stretsand
or Simpson, or something : Declined Scapegrace :
Humorous, but otherwise unsuitable Carroli: Please
call P.J. : Too vague and fragmentary Oakleaf:
Lacks concentration. You make a gallon of half-a-pint....
F.B. : Sacrifice of sense to sound. ..Louis M.: “Wages’’in-
teresting, but too circumlocutory for B. Other may trim up
and use . S.C.R. : Will print Galleon: A total wreck...
W.E.A. : Also “ K.” Bunny : Consider yourself ex-
terminated E.P.L. (Yic.): Thanks Billigoter: It is
to comply with recent S. A. advertising legislation. How-
ever, English papers and magazines containing similar
matter are circulated freely through the S.A. P. Office.
... A.B. : “ What are the duties of an elderly, married
chaperon where there is no mother and a young gover
ness ? ” The first duty of the chaperon should be to get
the governess promptly and inexorably sacked, or vice
versa. The master of the house to be umpire. The above
maxim may not be strict etiquette but it’s the only one to
fit the case Carbine : Thanks. We aren’t taking any
transparent criminal libels.. ..Civic: Bogus difficulty.
In case of interim-death of nominee, common-sense course
is simple non-inclusion of name in ballot-paper ....Ned
K. : Primitive Christians buried with feet towards east;
custom not now universal. It appears to be the same in
the Greek church ...Maori: “ What are you giving us !
Victor Emmanuel has been dead 20 years. No use fo(
panorama-lecture, anyhow. “ Sandstralia ” duly copy-
righted H.S. (Surry Hills): Your P.O. string story is
hopelessly entangled. Which G.P.O. expects to save £5OO a
year? Foe : Possibly a spiteful fabrication by one of the
lady’s lady friends. Who is the vocalist— i.e., by what name
was she known in Australia ? And isn’t it always under-
stood that Italian audiences hiss an incompetent singer ?
......A.8.G,: Hopeless drawing P.R. : Randolph Bed-
ford wrote “The Christs of Trade.” He is now publish-
ing (in Melbourne) a volume of verses, including those
lines Eldo: The secret of animal courage is lack of
imaginative power. Men who can’t realise the possible
consequences of following an impulse are apt to act
heroically, brutally, or criminally as the case may be
Isis : Pretty idea ; workmanship crude B.W. :No per-
formance, though some promise 5.0.8. : “Mala’’very
unequal Sinker :No ; but, as has been pointed out, a
light line could probably have been got to the wrecked
Amy by attaching to a stick or ramrod and firing latter
from gun Ray: Not an X-ray, by any means
Percy A.: Will use Kohinoor (M.L.): Thanks
Claudia: Neat and natural. Will print Pelican : Will
print “In Vain.” P.M. : The best way to live down a
good reputation is to try and live up to it .... Fossieker
(Murchison): Have mislaid address. Please re-supply....
Norty : Very likely, but that is because you are out of
gaol, whereas Suffield isn’t .... James G. : It made the
whole office yell with delight; but we aren’t game to
publish it. No one in Australia dare print it -except
Jos. Symes Jones: We get, say, 1000 letters a week,
You think we have time to waste on three-page volleys of
labored insult? If you want pa_v send to accountant
with details. We don't propose to go a yard out of our
wav on behalf of anyone who accuses us of deliberate
theft —H.C. : Why, we hear of one N.Q. sugar-mill
chiefly worked by Asiatics, some of whom work stark
naked—not even wearing loin-cloths W.L.B. : “ A
fair gorge ” d la the late Peter Lalor, whose great diet
specific against everything was hot bread-and-milk ...
B B.D. : Advertisers who don’t name the value of the
billet they hawk about but who coerce applicants into
humility with “ State salary expected,” ought to be fined ,
£lOOO for the first offence, and gaoled for life for the
second. They are mere cannibals R.F (Gladstone):
Thanks; dimly remember “Outlaw,” but don’t recollect ’
fate C.A.C. : Unusable. E.M.N. : Worthless ..... •
C.R. (Port Darwin): Sorry can’t use ...Marie: Possibly.
? (Croydon): Pointless Wonga : Tame as —an
Atmospheric Gas director Hermes : The Dreyfus affair
is the Parisian Dean case—only more so .... C.C. : Too
late, too long, too. heavy .. Buck: Yes, it threw us all
right Elsie M. : 'Considering L.M.D. : Good refrain
—verse not up John M. : Seems nothing hs< than an
auger will let light into yqur skull J.O.T. (India): Not
in our line Alone : That sex is determined chiefly by
nutrition has been an accepted scientific, theory for a
dozen years and more. Schenk seems to have experi-
mentally proved the theory J.T.J. : No, thanks
C.W.G. : Tie the doggerel to the dog and shoot the dog.
II.J.M. : Can’t print re that steamer’s boilers without
sworn affidavits based on personal knowledge—and doubt-
fully then M. Ney. :No use for B. Vide K. Langloh-
Parker’s “ Australian Legendary Tales ’’—any bookseller.
A.V.G. : Flat A.L.C. : Fire-poem is in its element.
A.A.K. : Conditions were plain enough ; and you
don’t say they’ve been broken. Why notNapply to
advertiser?....E.R. : Score off your own tiat .J.L.K. :
Unsuitable .. A.M.M. :No capacity Negus : Which —
port-wine or Abyssinian ? Verse gives no clue Malua •
Received J.L.C. : Old bathos shaft -5000 ft.-level
L. (S.A.) : Yearning too vague and mystical. Give
us moo-cow—roast bullock—in a word, BICEF.. ....
M. : Why don’t you send print along with comment?...


A WOMAN’S LETTE R.
Sydney, March 1, 1898.
Mt Dear Myee—
Ladies of the perfeshun, who aren’t above
taking a modest little tribute now and then from
some admirer of dramatic talent, declare that
Sydney men are very mean. The fact usually is
that the stage-door haunters are so impecunious
that they try to run their behind-the-soene flirta-
tions at cut rates, greatly to the disgust of the
stage-girls who love a cheerful giver above all men.
One not-too-much-gilded youth gives small ward-
robe etceteras to his chorus-girl chums. The
other day he was rapidly proceeding down the
street with a soft paper parcel in his hand. Two
fellow clubmen came along, and notwithstanding
his explanation that the wrappings enclosed a
small present for a lady, insisted on tearing open
the parcel—two pairs of stockings !
A lately-departed comedienne was, just before
leaving for’Ome, anxiously collecting souvenirs
from her different admirers, and was looking for-
ward to something extra special from the richest
of the crowd. But no offering made its appearance
until the night before sailing day, when her
moneyed adorer took her aside, remarking that he
would like to give her a small keepsake, and ex-
plaining that he had thought of a bangle, a brooch,
a diamond swallow, and various other glittering
adornments, but had finally chosen what he was
about to give her. After this high-priced list, the
eager girl smirked sweetly in expectation of some-
thing very valuable, and absolutely gasped when
the youth placed in her palm a battered “ lucky ”
dollar. With a sniff she remarked that she wasn’t
running an admission-by-silver-coin show just
then, and walked off in disgust.
A kind of international importance sheds a
glamor over the Albani visit, as if the advent of
the songstress to this benighted land would draw
closer the silken bonds. The people who over-
filled their slim Austrian chairs at the first con-
cert looked as important as if they fancied all
their names would be recorded to Queen Victoria
at the earliest opportunity. Albani bounded on
to the platform extending her arms as if to
embrace the multitude, and bowed for several
minutes to the applause, turning round to all
parts of the huge “house.” She. smiled a smile
which in its staginess has never been surpassed on
the sawdust-track, and Gyrated in a perfect frenzy
of obeisance, and the back-kick she gave to settle
her train was generally regarded as quite worth
the 7/6 it cost for a reserved seat. In turning she
displayed her French chiffon sash over her green
silk ; her hair was worn with a door-mat fringe
and back knob, in the way all the royalties dress
it—no touzled-out side-pieces or combs. On her
chest shone many orders, and her diamonds made
sunshine in a shady place, for the artists’ faces are
in strong shadow on that platform.
The audience, as loyalists, showed that they were
all there ; but, as musical experts, gave themselves
away by starting the clapping and flower-procession
prematurely in two items. Miss Clinch held her
violin gracefully, and wore a skimpy and cling-
some pink gown limply draping itself in folds
round her feet like an angel on an aesthetic Easter-
card. Miss Berry, the contralto, was concealed
inside an immense festoon-pattern over a hand-
some cream brocade. The dressiness of the
ground-floor occupants right away back to the
gallery gave a brilliant tone to the hall, but,
taken singly, the gowns showed that the summer
sales had been ransacked for the occasion. There
was one particular shade of gay crepe—it glowed
conspicuous all through the great bargain-hunt at
a big drapery, and, scissored to make a festival
blouse, it was indifferently decorative on dozens of
backs at the first night. The singing of “God-
save ” was an episode. Instead of a’hurried four
bars, the strain was sung in various keys by all the
co. as soloists, and then, with an “Auld-lang-
syne” grip, they all sang it together. It was
indeed a beautiful and touching manifestation of
loyalty.
Close season for weddings began on the 23rd
Feb., Ash Wednesday. Religious folk won’t wed
in Lent. Albani, who is a strict R.C., was much
disturbed when her first concert was fixed for that
fast-day. Miss Lilian Turner, sister of Ethel,
was married on the day previous to Mr. Lindsay
Thompson, at Gordon church.
The criticisms of London ways and doings,
lately published in S.M. Herald by a well-known
Sydney lady, who signed under a pen-name, share
honors with Albani and test-cricket as an after-
noon-tea topic of discussion. Her discovery of
the cheap (or rather dear) and nasty restaurant
with nothing but cold pie for lunch is scouted, as
indicating an enthusiasm of economy, or a remini-
scence of the American Horace Bream’s strictures
(in “ Sweet Lavender ”) on the little gin-shops in
the Strand, “where they sell flies and other
candies. ”
The only local musician ’cute enough to snatch
a personal advt. out of the Albani season is the
bright-haired composer of some tuneful lays. At
concert No. 1, he advanced on the platform with
the first contingent of performers and turned over
the music for the piano-part of the initial duet.
Miss Clinch, of the limp and clingsome skirts,
and he were fellow-students at Leipsic. Hence
his appearance.
Govt. House is to see another shuffle of the
cards. Her Ex. ought to be here at the
end of this week per India. The baby will be
christened soon after Grandma Hampden’s
arrival, as his other grandmother, Lady Paston,
and his uncle Ivor mean to leave for good
on 18th to catch the outgoing Oruba at Adelaide.
Lady Cooper, during her tenancy of Woollahra
House, has been a social leading light, and there
have been many entertainments given at that
harbor mansion, of which the most-remembered is
one in which a little awkwardness occurred
with the caterer, and the supper was consequently
a Barmecide feast.
Hotel-waiters profit by the universal Ranji wor-
ship, which is as rife among silly-minded women
as ever. Among the ceaseless rain of pretty little
notes which pours upon the dusky batter every
day, he lately opened one out of which a diamond
pin tumbled to the floor. This trinket he be-
stowed carelessly on the waiter. The letters he
mostly glances casually over and never notices
again.
At the ’9B Memorial Concert at Sydney Town
Hall the Celtic enthusiasm of an old lady in the
gallery was a feature of the evening for by-sitters.
The dame worked herself up to an excited pitch
over every patriotic song, rolling up her sleeves
and screaming defiance to the Saxon —she was
spoiling for want of,a fight. Somebody near her
muttered an angry reference about “ a copper to
keep order.” This was the treading-on that her
coat wanted. “ Where’s the copper who’d dare to
arresht me?” she queried indignantly, and nobody
produced him; she looked so very fierce. To
Augusta Dargon’s voice she listened reverently.
Mrs. Piercy, in flowing robes, recited impressively.
Her style is of the sombrely-classic dramatic
school, and somehow reminds you of the pictures
in “ Inchbald’s British Theatre,” where the
heroines wear “ looks commercing with the skies ”
and waists under their armpits.
_ The recent “ continental ” held at Manly muni-
cipal baths was a large and parti-colored success.
Over half a hundred couples frisked about in the
water at this aquatic shivoo, under the shaded
light of many fairy-lamps. A little girl, Connie
Stennett, exhibited some clever fancy swimming.
The lady bathers looked damp, but quite decent,
and their hair kept surprisingly in curl. One large
Juno-like lady in a serge gown and much stocking
took her immersion as solemnly as a baptism.
And the whole party looked not unlike a Baptist
Chapel on tub-night, plus laughter and chatter
and minus the gasp and gurgle of the immersed
one when he is suddenly plunged backwards into
his watery cave.
A Sydney church-choir, until lately of “mixed ”
variety, has now advertised for boy-choristers to
supply the places of deposed trebles. I hear that
certain impressionable sopranos were given to
making eyes at the best-looking tenor, and when
they weren’t gazing at him they passed sermon-
time in discussing him in shrill whispers, while
the young man responded to the attention by
handing round chocolate caramels. One evening
the parson, being off duty during the curate’s
watch on deck, observed proceedings quietly from
behind a massive pillar, and the frivolity of the
girls moved him to such wrath that he stepped up
to the choir after service and promptly eliminated
therefrom all the female voices.
The hitch in Sydney Liedertafel hasn’t as yet
unhitched itself. In musical circles various keys
to the deadlock are offered, but the general
opinion inclines towards ex-conductor Ashcroft
Edwards, who has shaken his stick at both the
local stag-societies, the “Sydney” and the
“ Metropolitan,” now defunct, and who is most
competent but even more cantankerous than the
average gifted harmony-producer.
The first day of the test-match brought out such
a vast crowd that it was easy to understand the
harrowing tales that are going the rounds of over-
full hotels and poor, homeless country folk wan-
dering bedless about the streets. Cricket and
Albani together are the cause of the crowding.
The women in the members’ stand devoted them-
selves entirely to the game, and those who had
seats kept in them all the time, while a fringe of
women dangled their feet along in front of the
stone coping, and a few used the backs of the
chairs as footstools, which dog-in-the-mangerish
proceeding kept other women off the aforesaid
furniture. One Sydney matron (a cricket enthu-
siast), wtih her family gathered round her, sat in
the front seat which she fills at every match.
Several of the men supposed to be conventioning
in Melb. appeared on the scene. Government
House box was well filled. The Hon. Dorothy
Brand made her first appearance since her
return, and looks the brighter lor her trip.
A few bilious effects in bright orange fore-
shadowed the threatened boom in that tint
for winter frocks, probably because this is ’9B, and
the green shouldn’t have it all its own way.
Nobody thought much of frocks, though—the
cricket-match girl was there in her thousands, and
she isn’t a critic. Where do they come from, the
rows and rows of bright-faced, smartly-muslined
maidens who sit so patiently through every
match and are never seen again till they come out
of their shell next cricket season ? Even the
cheaper subscription dances know>them not. They
aren’t in society and they aren’t in shops, but
steer a middle course between the two extremes,
and, on the whole, I think they have the best
time of the three classes. On Saturday the band
came out strong in “ Traviata ”; on Monday it
took a Scotch turn and brayed forth wailful bag-
pipe airs and reels which made all the parasols in
the stand tap on the floor in sympathy.
The very latest dodge. I am told that a girl
who lately advertised for a position as governess
was called upon next morning by a well-dressed
dame who, after engaging her, was about, by the
way, to furnish her with her fare to the engager’s
somewhat remote suburban residence, when she
(the engager) “ discovered ” that she had forgotten
her purse and so could not pay her own fare home.
The girl immediately tendered her only remaining
half-crown, but when she made her way next day
to the address given she found she had been simply
hoaxed and swindled. Woman’s inhumanity to
woman !
The daughter of a Southern Governor struck
a J)25 tote div. at the races the other day,
and to see the lengthy, short-skirted damsel dart
round for the money was a treat. She was so
excited that everybody in the stand enclosure
knew all about the event inside 3min, and the
crowd most loyally and good-humoredly shared
the joy—or pretended to. Despite hereditar-y
instincts, the young lady didn’t really gallop up
to the pay-window “on her own.” At the urgent
request of pa’s private secretary, who had been
instructed to sprint after the excited maiden, she
stopped short at the entrance to the gangway, and
was prevailed upon to let the local banker collect
the cash on her behalf. But it was a close shave.
In about another second she would have elbowed
her way past the common herd to the window,
and have exclaimed “ Gimme me money ! ” just
like any ordinary human being.
Lady Lamington’s latest baby is the second
vice-regal girl born at Brisbane (Q.) Government
House. Lady Bowen, in the early sixties, perpe-
trated a similar feat.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Mrs. Premier Turner’s account of how she met
the Princess Christian in England is very quaint.
There was a large party of Premiers, Royalties
and such, to visit some cottage homes. At the
function Mrs. T. was engaged in conversation for
about half-an-hour with a stout, florid, dull,
stodgy sort of person whom she took to be the
matron. Afterwards, a duke, or something of the
sort, asked her how she enjoyed her conversation
with the Princess. ‘I haven’t seen her yet,’
replied Turner’s missis. ‘ Oh, but you have been
talking to her for the past half-hour.’ ‘Have I,
really ! And, oh dear! I didn’t curtsey to her.
I must go and do it at once.’ ‘And I did,’ says
the beaming Premieress, with the air of knowing
how to do precisely the right thing in the best
society.
“At Flemington, on sultry Saturday, race-
frocks looked better than they felt. Something in
the light set off colors to perfection, and grass-
walkers showed up splendidly on the not over-
crowded lawn. Mrs. Freeman-Thomas wore the
big black hat and pale-green silk strewn with lacey
love-knots which first saw the light at the last
Y.R.C. Spring meeting. To suit prevalent
weather conditions she had discarded a collar, and
a single string of pearls tempered the sunshine to
her smooth, round neck.
“ Gov. Brassey’s womenkind were palpably
giving the ruddy potentate ‘ a little bit of temper’
at the races, on Saturday. When he wanted to
take an exercise canter up and down the terrace,
or elsewhere, he had to go ‘on his own’ and
pick up a companion by the way. And if, in
returning to his vice-regal pen, he happened to
encounter Lady B. or his festive married daughter
coming down the steps, the cold stare of those
ladies was calculated to freeze papa’s marrow.
But his Ex. didn’t seem to mind. The day was
oppressively hot, and every now and then he took
his hat off as though he found the domestic breeze
refreshing.
“ Lady Brassey, in a greeny gauzey gown,
looked cool and graceful despite woodeny, red
roses disfiguring the eaves of her hideous little
toque. Her fluffy parasol was black and white,
like most of its neighbours, while a choice and
extra smart few were bright green. Dashing Mrs.
Baronet Clarke carried an emerald one, the most
conspicuous sunshade on view. Her palm leaf fan
was the same color, so were the narrow velvet
Vandykes on the trailing skirt of her bright forget-
me-not blue brocade.
“To my mind, not a creature at Saturday’s
races could hold a candle to Maud Jeffries. Such
a tall, finely-developed woman, all sweeping lines
and rounded curves, and except for her slightly
swaying gait, a mistress of pose. Nothing could
have become her better than her flowing race-frock
of cream muslin over pale-blue silk, with white
feathers curled softly round the brim of her shady
hat. All day she and her brother, who hasn’t Sissy’s
looks, walked the lawns together, making com-
paratively short work of a would-be friendly outer
world.
“ Despite critics to the contrary, stageland, in
spots at all events, seems a ferociously ‘ proper ’
place. Wilson Barrett’s leading lady is a case in
point. She minds her p’s and q’s from dewy morn to
dusky eve, and even unexceptionable travelling
acquaintances barely begin to plume themselves
on having received a few smiling responses to
their civilities, when she rises and sweeps to her
sitting-room. Wilson Barrett himself plays the
downy peach no less convincingly. Why ! he
averts his gaze and looks pained if he finds himself
alone in a lift with six strange women !
Even the Cartwright principals, up to now, have
not been taken wholeheartedly to the bosoms of
their old London acquaintances, the ‘ Claudian
mummers. Look at the ‘ Sign of the Cross ’ com-
pany ! Throughout the Maoriland trip, so tour-
ists tell us, Ada Ferrar read, sewed, and ‘kept
herself to herself ’ all her spare time. Certainly,
Julius Knight has trotted at Miss Elliott-Page’s
heels all along, but everywhere that ‘ Daughter ’
went her Ma was sure to go. In fact, this pink of
motherly propriety never ceased from troubling
except once or twice when the young folk went
riding. And ‘ Mommer,’ with all her zeal, drew
the line at horse-flesh.
“ Wilson Barrett, as Hamlet, is pleasant to
look upon. Black becomes plump people, and,
attached to his papa’s portrait, he wears the
sweetest gold ‘ muff-chain, ’ long enough to go
round his neck more than once, and ending mys-
teriously at last in the region of chest-preservers.
Lilia M'Carthy, as the incorrigible Queen, has
lashions and lavings of delightful clothes, especially
mantles. Amber brocade and crimson moire are
as common with herasflannelette with otherpeople.
King Carter-Edwards is dressy, too, obtruding
his arrogant chest contour and high-stepping
brown boots, just as he did when he was Appius
the Proud. A fanciful friend tells me those boots
have ‘got on her nerves.’ She recognises their
cold-blooded tread before ever the weaver heaves
in view, and guesses that bold, bad stage-doings
are in store. Maud Jeffries, as Ophelia, seems
such a fine, strapping girl in her magnificent pink
brocade, that one wonders at her hysterical to-do
over the returningof heartless Hamlet’s love-token.
“ The first night ‘ Hamlet ’ audience was simply
huge. The Bijou, too, had a bumper house on
Saturday night. Four men were helped out of the
d.c. in a state of over-excitement, one sufferer
coming from a very high-toned box indeed.
“The night of the Austral Salon farewell to
Charlotte Hemming turned out so stifling that
enjoyment was marred by misgivings re apoplexy,
and suchlike. Miss Hemming, looking particu-
larly plump and comely in a low-cut cream satin
frock, faltered a few felicitous words of thanks for
the presentation dressing-case, bouquet and com-
plimentary chorus of ‘ For she’s a jolly good
fellow.’ Kind Dr. Neild, wound-up to speech-
pitch, treated exhaustively of the heroine of the
night in her character of ‘a nice girl.’ Did you
ever yet encounter the old doctor when he wasn’t
putting in a well-meant, if long winded, good
word for some ‘ girl ’or other—to quash the youth-
ful effect next minute by announcing that his lips
are sealed re the years since ‘ they two ’ first met ?
That pretty youth, Walter Kirby, sang a couple
of love ditties at the Salon that night in his own
sweet little way. For ages people have said of
Mr. Kirby that ‘as soon as Lady Holled-Smith
had time to see about it ’ she meant to send the
only tenor whose voice had ever touched her
*Ome to be trained.’ Now his benefit concert is
announced and her ladyship is a prominent pro-
moter, so his patroness has been as good as her
word. Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis cheered up the
parched audience by a fine rendering of ‘ Lorraine,
Lorraine, Lorree.’ As an encore she recited some-
thing about a kind-hearted lady, with a house
surrounded by throngs of homeless dogs. Char-
lotte Hemming displaced a neat brogue as the
priesht in ‘ Banjo’s ’ ‘ Bush Christening.’
“It is unlucky for the new team that the
Nethersole - Cartwright production of ‘ Moths,'
with its superb cast, is so fresh in Melb. folks'
mind. Languid Olga, with her slim figure and
her nineteen years, was already so well-equipped
by Nature for the post of Vera Herbert that the
buxom Beatrice Lamb coming after her—act she
never so artistically—has an uphill fight to sup-
plant her predecessor as naughty Dolly’s immacu-
late daughter. To add a convincing touch of
youth, Miss Lamb during the first two acts wears
her hair in a pig-tail and the most girlish of frocks.
As Princess Zouroff she indulges in two sumptu-
ous gowns—white, of course; one a satin even-
ing-dress, very dicoUeti, the other a tea-gown
of velvet and white fur. Miss Katherine Stewart,
however, carried off sartorial honors; her after-
noon-gown is a perfect example of smart dress-
making for seasons to come; Over an undress of
lilac silk fell a petticoat of lustrous silk muslin; a
perfect rabble of tiny flounces began at the hem in
front of the skirt and spread themselves all
over the back in cunningly - arranged rows.
The bodice and sleeves were much shirred
and puffed with mauve silk, and the perfect whole
was beautifully finished with rich lace. Her
evening gown of black net with sequins and touches
of cerise velvet, though handsome, was not sensa-
sationally new in mode, but the purple velvet
pelisse lined and trimmed with ermine and topped
with a snappy beefeater, also of ermine, is em-
phatically the most interesting incident the
fourth act, though it must have been little short
of torture to have worn the garment on such a
melting evening. Miss Darragh, as Lady Dolly,
looks delightfully girlish throughout the piece,
and displays in the third act one of the up-to-date
sun-pleated skirts, veiled with gauze of a soft yel-
low shade. Miss Osborne, as the Yankee heiress,
chases the accent vigorously throughout the four
acts, and never manages to overtake it once. One,
however, overlooks any shortcomings this young
lady might display when one reflects that accord-
ing to the book she is condemned for life to the
Society of Hartley Manners and his weird brogue.
At the smart Steel-Parker wedding, at the Aus-
tralian Church, last week, the pretty bride intro-
duced an entirely novel and charming mode in the
bridal floral decorations. In addition to a huge
shower-bouquet which, when carried, shrouded
the entire front of the skirt, she wore a boa
composed of white flowers and asparagus fern.
This sat prettily on the bare shoulders and hung
down below the waist, giving to the dainty wearer
the appearance of being completely covered with
delicate blooms. The well-gilt bridegroom is one
of Melb.’s prominent yachtsmen.
“A clerical widower departed from Southern
shores with a heavy heart last week. Even the
offer of a local bishopric could not tempt him
to stay—he gratefully refused it, and departed
shaking the dust of Australia off his patent-
leather boots. The cause of the good man’s
chagrin was the conduct of his one-time fiancee, a
bewitchingly-pretty, but absolutely penniless,
girl, who jilted him with a sudden jerk for a
wealthy youngster 20 years his junior. A local
Adonis, it is said, is also talking of flight fcom his
native land and highly-lucrative billet on account
of the same beauty. His idea is to busy his sorrow
in oneof the Westralian mines.
“ Gov. Brassey, with melancholy Dick Neville
in tow, runs Harrison Moore close for the most
regular attendance in the Speaker’s gallery at the
Convention. The financial debate has choked
Moore off, and now His Ex., who was invariably
obliged by the learned and youthful professor with
a marked book of the words and songs, has to fall
back on the humble Sergeant-at-arms for the
number of the clause and the bowler’s name.
“The effect of the prevailing Vic. drought is
being felt in most unexpected quarters. For in-
stance, at Sunbury Asylum the superintendent is
obliged to pay <£l a day to a local farmer for
water. The asylum supply has, up to now, been
considered inexhaustible, as no less than three
bounteous creeks are available. This year all
three are dry, a circumstance quite unheard-of be-
fore in Sunbury history.
“ An eccentric professional man startled Collins-
street, the other afternoon, by walking down
dressed in bell-topper, kid-gloves—and pyjamas.
“Some absurd persons who are seized with a wild
desire to wear kilts, have asked leave to form a
‘ Highland Volunteer Regiment.’ The Highland
spirit, of course, is likely, to be nourished drilling
on the lofty altitudes of the mole-heaps in Albert
Park, and the rugged fastnesses of St. Kilda Road
Parade ground. Minister M‘Culloch is inclined
to sit heavily on the proposal. It is to be hoped
he will. Otherwise it simply means that Collins-
street will be paraded by vain, knock-knee’d, snub-
nosed; pallid-legged bounders with red hair,
and wrapped round the middle with bits of tartan.
Mankind having evolved up to trousers and
Erard grand pianos, degeneration into kilts and
‘ bogpeeps ’ should be sternly resisted in the in-
terests of the race.
Yours faithfully, CLEO.
A contingent of Sydney “bummers are
attending the Federal Convention in Melbourne.
They are “biting the lugs” of the delegates,
having successfully done so in Sydney.
All Drapers Everywhere.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND, &0.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
A Mother’s Wish.
A mother’s proudest and happiest wish is to help
an ambitious son in his early struggles to attain
eminence in his chosen walk of life. To such a
son a robust mother with a healthy mind in a
healthy body is the best councillor, and the best
spur. Many mothers are sickly, fretful, helpless
creatures, tortured beyond endurance by the pains
of their own wrecked constitutions. Most ill-
*o
/
N /
L - '
health among women
is due to weakness
and disease of the or-
gans distinctly femi-
nine. If these parts
are weak anddiseased,
the entire system suf-
fers. Many remedies
act in such a violent
manner that their use
is more harmful than
beneficial. Bile Beans
aot in a gentle, sooth-
ing manner, and they
will be found an un-
doubted specific for Headache, Indigestion, Bilious-
ness, Constipation, Pimples, Fulness after Fating,
Dizziness, Female Weakness, Heart Palpitation,
Liver and Kidney Troubles. Bile Beans tor
Biliousness are a well-established remedy, an ”; ”
a quaok preparation of mushroom growth.
are made in one of the largest and best-equvppe
laboratories in the world, in the oity of, {,
Michigan, U.S.A., and have been used in than
country for rears by the best phy^oiam l -
- at all chemists. Australian Dep6t,
quarie Place, Sydney. Yiotorian Agents: Koc ,
Tompsitt and Co., Melbourne.*


Personal Items.
Jncle Tom’s Cabin—Yic. Govt. House.
Through the intervention of G. R. Dibbs,
W. P. Crick and John Norton have shaken hands
and buried the hatchet—in Jack Want ?
On 21st Feb. no quorum of Brisbane (Q.)
City Council could be made up; five aldermen
were “ camped ” with the fashionable dengue
fever.
Bad accounts come from England re the
health of Louis Becke, who is suffering severely
from eye-trouble in addition to a peculiarly dis-
tressing form of neuralgia.
The prosecution of Q.N. Bank ex-directors
and other officials acts as a prod to the yawning
surplus of the Laws’ imps in Sydney. A migra-
tion to Brisbane is setting in.
Howard Willoughby takes the Argus
editorship with E. Cunningham as assistant-
and E. W. Haddon fills the late Gowen
Evans’ place in the proprietary.
There is in Australia a medical practi-
tioner who has beaten Henry VIII.’s connubial
record, and is again a married man. Three of his
six departed wives died in childbirth.
One of the sorest troubles of the Conven-
tion delegates is the incessant stream of applica-
tions begging them to accept bottles of quack
tonics, and write “ just one line in acknowledg-
ment.”
T. H. Howe, M.L.C., one of the S.A.
Convention delegates, was once in S.A. mounted
Police, and, years ago, when stationed at Morgan
(S.A.), had Jenkin Coles, now Speaker of S.A.
Assembly, for a colleague.
The placid cow-intellect of N.S. W. Colonial
Secretary Brunker, the droning Sabbatarian, saw
nothing incongruous in wiring congratulations to
Parnell, M.P., on the success of the Thetis trawl-
ing cruise, though on that very cruise the Thetis
put into shelter and spent the blessed Sabbath
mending its broken nets.
ABRAHAMS’ LITTLE ERROR.
MR. ABRAHAMS ( who wonts solatium for damages to
his arm in railway accident): “I can't raise
my arm any higher than this. ”
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT: "How high could you
raise it before this accident? ”
MR. ABRAHAMS : “As high as this,”
Colonel Home's irrigation report, which
has, so far, cost N.S.W. over =£3ooo, has gone
through the crucible of a series of departmental
reports, and, on latest appearances, threatens to
reach the same end as Lusk’s school history. Col.
Home was a G. H. Reid appointee, and when
doubts were raised as to the likely practical value
of the ex-Indian’s opinions on Australian water-
works, Reid’s replies were contemptuous.
News has reached Sydney from China of
the death there of Yuck See, the first editor of the
Chinese Australian Herald. Our late fellow-
craftsman had a wide reputation as a litterateur
and poet, and when he cracked his pigtail in fine
poetic frenzy over his fellow-countrymen they
would send him tit-bits of roast pig and handsful
of melon-seed, to show their appreciation of his
genius. He had made a vow that he would never
converse with Europeans, and, while in Sydney
adhered to the national costume and wore finger-
nails at least 3in. long.
Old Squatter Ogilvie of Yugilbar, N.S.W.,
insisted upon visitors to his homestead appearing’ at
his table in evening-dress. He kept 20 or 30 suits
of assorted warpaint for the use of guests who had
come unprovided sartorially.
DAVID SYME.
Syme of the Age is he—
Hard man to gauge !
He does not choose to be
Syme of the age.
No w that the committee of Melb. Women’s
Hospital is becoming notorious for its anta-
gonism to female doctors, it is time to ask the
question—how many of these committee-women
are connected by blood or marriage with male
doctors ?
“Your party was completely overthrown
at the Boyne, I believe ? ” said Purves, Q.C., to a
witness in the Brunswick (Melb.) Orange-and-
Green case the other day. “ Yes,” was the reply,
as completely as you were overthrown by
O’Hara.” Woosh !
The Westralian Premier’s wife is engaged
on the last sheets of a treatise on the aboriginals
of her province.. Originally she thought of work-
ing up the aborigines generally, but wiser counsel
influenced her to limit her sphere to her own im-
mediate experiences.
The Bulletin hears that “Lady ’’Munro,
who lately painted Albury red, had previously
undergone a “ scientific ” drunk cure. Anyhow,
the alleged chloride-of-gold people say they cancure
anybody. The Bulletin challenges them to per-
manently cure Lady Munro.
The Kingston Govt. (S.A.) has made so
many J’s.P. during its term of office that the sup-
ply0 * adult males is running short, and a start
wot'it have to be made on the women. The
YV.C.T.U. and other such organisations are grow-
ing quite hopeful on the subject.
Melb. Age has recently adopted the direct
“ Governor Brassey,” “Lawyer Geake ” method
of referring to individuals instead of the round-
about style of “ His Excellency the Governor,
Lord Brassey,” “the defaulting lawyer Geake,”
as of old. The Bulletin’s poison works.
Rev. Haweis, the queer little parson whom
Smythe imported to lecture on Music and
Morals in Australia, lately celebrated the
30th anniversary of his entrance
into holy orders by a fancy-dress
carnival at the National Skat-
ing Palace, London. Very
appropriate. Little Haweis
the fiddler has all his life
been skating over the thin
ice of theology. The Bul-
letin remembers him for
one bold, and probably
true, declaration: “This is
the Golden Age of Music
—and we don't know it.”
Haweisestiinatesthe length
of an artistic “ age ” as 300
years, and makes out that
the great musical period is
approaching its climax.
One of the best things that
clever Paris Nesbit, Q.C., has
ever said in defence of his eccen-
tricities was said to a friend at the
time when he (Nesbit), returning
per steamer from Melbourne to
Adelaide, under restraint, jumped overboard as
soon as the boat had got fairly away from the
wharf, and swam ashore. This pro-
ceeding was held to be conclusive
evidence of his mental unsound-
ness at the time. But Nesbit
argued : “ I had the strongest
possible reason for wishing
(there was a lady in the case)
to be back on the wharf, and
I took perfectly sane mea-
sures to get there. Now,
if I had climbed to the
top of the mast and at-
tempted to fly ashore, it
would have been the act
of a lunatic.”
In those dark ages, ere
the platypus was found to
be related, in a way, to the
domestic hen, a fellow of the
Royal Society of Tas. sent a
full-grown specimen to Profes-
sor Owen, of London, intimating
that he had at last exploded the
grand mystery ; in proof of
which the prof., on examination,
would find eggs in the ovary of
the animal forwarded. Prof.
Owen replied, thanking his
brother naturalist for his good wishes, etc., but
stated that the specimen at hand had spurs, and
was therefore a male, and didn't lay eggs.
Mr. H. I. Pilcher, a son of the acute Mr.
C. E. Pilcher, Q.C., was admitted to N.S.W. Bar
during the present term. The young man has
fair prospects before him, for, when he starts
work, he will no doubt hold many a brief as
junior to “ pa.” Pilcher, junior, will not, how-
ever, begin practice at once, for the associate of
Manning, C.J. in Equity, is retiring in a month
or two, and His Honor has conferred the billet
upon j'oung Pilcher.
Last week, Australasia went into mourning
for the late Miss Willard, whoever she may have
been. Anyway, a certain Mrs. Nicholls, on be-
half of the W.T.C.U. of hereabouts, replied to a
cable announcement of Miss Willard’s decease
with this historical message : “ Australasia
mourns.” From which it would appear that
teetotal enthusiasm and “ loyalty ” are worked on
much the same lines. When the Duchess of Teck
died, the other week, the cable conveyed several
assurances that our side of the world was deeply
affected. The death of any sort of representative
person is a huge joke in its immediate results.
HOWARD WILLOUGHBY, the new editor of
Melb. “ Argus ” — as depicted by Phil May.
Count Strzelecki (who claimed to be the
first discoverer of gold in Australia—lB3B—and
was prevented, he alleged, by Sir George Gipps
from making the matter public) stated, at a
dinner in London, that he “ had never met with a
country that showed such poverty in respect to the
precious metals as Australia did ! ”
David Syme has given £27,500 for the
block adjoining the Age office, now holding the
premises of the Vic. Permanent Property Invest-
ment Building Society. David intends to reach
out and develop; £948 per foot frontage is the
rate paid. The enlargement is much needed.
There is now no room on the Age premises to
swing a politician.
The only barrister engaged in the recent
manslaughter case at Sydney Central Criminal
Court was the Crown-Prosecutor ; four attorneys
appeared for the accused. Does this mean that
there is very little money in the defence, or are
the attorneys determined not to “ whack ” the
spoils with their brethren of the “higher branch ”?
Those who profess to be “in the know” regard
the latter theory as the more likely.
The indignation with which a prominent
N.S.W. politician, on finding himself an atmo-
spheric-gas victim, denounced the pusillanimity,
purblindness, or corruption of the Sydney Press
for allowing such a barefaced swindle to be perpe-
trated on “honest citizens” excited other victims
to laugh, for has not that very politician been
loud in advocating that the current libel law does
not hold the press sufficiently tight ?
Wired from Westralia that Attorney-
General Pennefather and his business partner,
Horgan, have been wiping the office floor with
each other, and pouring dirty water over each
other, and committing assault and bash. Penne-
father is from Victoria, and he took the sinful
vigorous habit of stoush over to the West with
him. Before the great Eastern irruption no
W.A. Minister would have dared to wipe up the
floor even with his dearest friend unless he first
got John Forrest’s permission. By the way,
what rough customers Australian Attorneys!
Generals are, taking them all round !
Lovely item from Sydney Truth’s report
of the Norton political prosecution :
Mr. Norton : Your worship, I object to this person
(pointing to George Black, who was standing up in the
court) taking notes in this fashion in the court, although
he is a member of Parliament.
Mr. Black : Mind your own business.
Mr. Norton : I don’t want any altercation with you :
I suppose you’re taking notes for the Labor organ. ‘You
are not on the stump now. It’s very irritating to me,
your worship, to see this notorious man standing up in
this way in front, of me taking notes ; a man who had a
libel-action against me and lost it. Those pea-green
features of his offend me. I think your worship might
put a stop to this sort of thing.
Mr. Edwards (to Black) : Stand on the other side of the
court.
GET BEHIND ME, SATAN !
Mr. Norton (to Black) : Get behind me, Satan ! Your
worship must think I have iron nerves to stand that sort
of ordeal.
Satan is generally supposed to be black.
Related that, one night, when G. Repub-
lican Dibbs was at a British Royal shi voo-party, a
certain Brincess, who perceived that he had
noticed a lady smoking in the palace grounds,
asked him whether he approved of women smoking.
“Madam,” replied the long man, “1 think a
woman’s lips could be better employed.”
The late Father Hayes, of Windsor,
N.S.W., was not one of the cheerless, cold-tea
brigade. His first of many gifts to the Pitt Town
settlers was a cask of beer, and many a bottle of
“ the real stuff ” was placed by his reverence where
it would do most good. He was of burly physique,
and will take a pair of “ made-to order ” wings.
“ Mr. George Reid, a whale among min-
nows.”—Mell. Paper.
A whale he is. The obvious
Not one of us is doubting.
The whale is noted for two things—
Its blubber and its spouting.
Rumored that, when a row occurs in th
British Royal family (for instance, when Tummj,
who is sometimes allowed a latch-key, stays out
over-late), Madame Albani, the family’s closest
friend, is invariably called in to square the trouble
up. Australians will be angry to hear that the
services of a certain soprano hailing from this
country are never invoked on these occasions.
Mr. Percy F. S. Spence, who has just
left Sydney for London, marked his departure by
an exhibition of his pictures at Callan’s gallery.
The most noteworthy of the young artist’s works
was a large portrait in oil of ex-Premier Dibbs, in
peaked-cap and artisan’s dress, posing near his
lathe. Spence’s portrait is a splendid likeness, far
better, in fact, than the one exhibited in the
National Gallery. It is simple, natural, and not
without a certain rugged dignity. Another capi-
tal portrait is the head of Mr. E. A. A’Beckett,
which is crisply painted and full of expression.
A portrait of Mr. J. P. Wright is also good ;
but the artist is not so happy in his portraits
of himself and of Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald. Mr.
Spence is fond of painting well-groomed men and
well-dressed women, and his pictures are dainty
and delicate. At his best he is pleasing in the
expression of grace rather than of strength and
his sphere is distinctly the drawing-room In
London he should certainly meet with the success
he deserves, for the life of society and fashion
should be able to furnish patrons as well as sub-
jects, and Mr. Spence is a remarkable combina-
tion of energy and culture. If he accomplishes
only half The Bulletin is prepared to predict for
him he will do a very considerable deal indeed
White-man W. O. Hodgkinson, who has
been vegetating in Sydney for some months past,
is off again to Westralia, with an eye on mining
speculations. The young man is,now grey-headed,
and 63, but as full of life as his pet kitten. Yet
he has gone through enough to kill half-a-dozen
ordinary fellows. Born in ’36 ; came to Australia
as a middy in ’5l : deserted to goto the goldfields,
and became assistant-commissioner in charge of
Tarnagnlla field at the age of 17 ! Returned to
England in ’54 : clerked in War Office and Trea-
sury ; back to Australia in ’59 —was sub editor of
Melb. Age, member of Burke and Wills’ ex-
pedition, and second in command of M‘Kinley’B
ditto, which landed him in Queensland. There
Hodgkinson edited Roekhamptoi Bulletin,
founded (defunct) Rockhampton Glo t>a, then the
Mackay Mercury. I’hen he went mine-floating
machine-owning, and gold-digging all over Q. ;
was returned to Parliament for the Burke •
headed the Q. N. W. exploring expedition ; became
goldhelds warden, then M.P. again, then Minister
for Mines and Education in Sam Griffith’s ’93
Ministry and was persuaded by Slippery Sam
into a black-labor advocacy which he has bitterly
regretted. Then over to Westralia as mining-ex-
pert and speculator ; and now—back again Good
Grit in a man that can go through all this and look
as lively as a three-year-old. And, in the interests
of the embryo Australian nation, The Bulletin
pedestals St. Grit as the best saint in a country’s
calendar. J
The late NATHANIEL KINSMAN.
Nathaniel Ivinsman, the Melbourne marry-
ing parson who pegged out last week, aged 75,
may be said to have died in harness. The eccen-
tric old reverend lately fell and broke his leg while
rushing to the door to admit two customers. All
the same, he stood up manfully, and married
them, and collected the money, before he had the
injury attended to-in fact, he didn’t evenaseer
tain that the leg was broken till after he had fixed
nn his two customers and collected the money
Very few parsons do their last wedding ceremony
at the age of 75, and with a broken leg. Then
Kinsman laid up and d.ed, and his old story of the
1i 2v!v K S of a ppy couples who had sat on the
shabby horse-hair sofa in the room where he tied
people up, will never be related again
Liverpool apd Lopdop
#6lobe IpSCirapce Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Pounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1553.
Empowered by Act N.S.VV. Vic. 28, 1865.
FIRE INSURANCE
On EVERY DESCRIPTION of PRO-
PERTY, RENTS, and INTEREST.
LIFE INSURANCE
IN ANY FORM. See Prospectus and
Special Table D.
Local Directors:
Walter Cummins Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. 11. E. Katbr, Esq.; and
Eric H. Mack ay, Esq.
M. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Office Australasia —
-62 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
K uppers Elberfelcl Lager.
TIEIIE] Is SHIPMENTS
*os
m
m
—OF—
FOSTER’S AT-E
JUST ARRIVED BY STEAMER.
IN SPLENDID CONDITION
. . LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W BALCHTN, Agent, SYDNEY.
You Realise
hSsiSvHasrsiiift* *—>«•» -*■
w^^-n^ve f rx7o'\tr t sf. r ;“*
„„,\ d i d you also know tJ’at there is but one
wE&teS “7“ for tl,e ”•“<*«->
If you have peculiar pains in the bock, or any-
'"I 1 " 6 body. tihey probably come from
disordered kidneys. If you are weak, sickly, and
do not know the cause, the chances are it is liver
trouble.
When the groat and only cure is so easily
obtained, are you, perhaps, not wasting time and
running a great risk if you do not secure it?*


A borginalities.
Dear Bulletin. —Go on the land. A
mate of mine went down Kiama way. After two
or three months he got back this way again. He
said: “I was going to work (ploughing) one
morning at half-past four when the boss (the
farmer, I suppose) said: ‘ Sneak down by the
fence ; if the other chaps see you they will be
wanting a half-holiday too.’ Another time I was
coining home from Kiama rather late at night.
As I passed through the paddock I came up to
the boss driving the cows in to be milked. Said
he : ‘lf I’d known you were out for the cows I’d
not have left my bed so soon.’ This at ten bob a
week.”—H.F.M.
* * * *
La Perouse aboriginal asks boss Chow,
standing on doorstep of fan-tan shop in Goulburn-
street to “Gib it penny, boss.” Chow, with super-
cilious wave of the hand : “ Klee put.” L.A. :
“Well, gib it bit o’ bacca.” John (crescendo):
“ Klee on’, I te’ you.” L.A. : “ Well (Chow was
smoking a cigarette), le’s try a seegrette.” Chow
( altissimo ): “Klee out, you black awi’!
Klee out.” S.A. (con expressione) : “ Glong, yur
plurry mongrel; you no black —no white 1 Licks
me ’ow Misser ’Ampden allow sich dam yaller
■ come in my goundree 1 ”
* * * *
Deai Bulletin. —Record load of wool
mentioned in “B.” of Feb. 12 is badly beaten by
a load taken, in ’93, from Thurlagoona (Q.) to
Bourke, N.S.W.—IIO bales scoured. Counted’em
myself !—Thomas M'Guire.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin. —Near Corowa, the other
day, I saw the champion swag—fully 4ft. 6in.
long, 18in. diameter, and carried by a grey-
bearded old man. Nose-bag, a 701 b. sugar-bag,
full to the top, yet the old boy was humping the
lot as if it was nothing particular. Now, where
was he “ riz ? ” —G. H. Risby.
AN INDUCEMENT.
SHIVERING JIM (to doubtful Jack): "( I bet yer six kicks
it ain’t cold in !”
Dear B.—lsn’t it nearly time the swag-
liar got a show ? What’s the longest distance a
swagman has walked in a day—say of 10 hours,
and what weight was his swag ?—Dickolt.
* • * *
R.H. : “Met an 8 or 9-year-old boy the
other day driving 18 bullocks and waggon on a
heavily-timbered track. His father, the driver,
was lying dead drunk in the back of the waggon.”
* * * *
A pathetic sight is afforded by a solemn
crank under the delusion that he is overlanding on
the hoof. He may be seen humping bluey in
Collins-street, and trudging patiently on an end-
less journey that leads him up and down lanes, but
never gets him out of Melbourne. Writer met
him lately on a fearful afternoon (temperature
about 160 deg.) pulling up Collins-street hill, carry-
ing an enormous swag, a well-filled nose-bag, a
big billy, and other camp ware, and staring
straight ahead over the great grey plain that
spread to the horizon, unspotted by the Treasury
buildings and parson Bevan’s fat, red, ungainly
church. He speaks to no one, and apparently
hears nothing and sees nothing to dispel the im-
pression that he is Out Back, travelling for water.
* * * *
Bill and Jim—the same dear old Bill and
Jim —were mates on the track. Bill is now doing
three months, and Jim hasn’t yet got tired of
telling how Bill got them. It seems they were
both doing the usual perish, somewhere up near
Creswick (Vic.), and wanted dinner. Jim said he
would try a handy farm-house. Harvesting was
on, and when he got to the big kitchen he saw a
long table carrying the sorved-out rations for all
hands. Jim seized two plates-full and joined Bill
to enjoy a good square feed. When they had
finished Jim started to talk. “My oath, Bill, the
woman who gave me that dinner was real white.
She reminded me of my mother. Ses she, ‘ Give
you a dinner ! Of course I will. I’ve got a boy
of my own. And, what’s more,’ she ses, ‘when
you’ve finished bring back the plates and have a
cut at the plum-duff ! ’ It’s up to you, Bill, to go
an’ get that puddin’,” Jim finished quietly.
“ ‘ Cert’nly ! ’ says Bill, marching off with the
plates. That’s the last I saw of poor Bill,” con-
tinues Jim. “ When the fellows saw him coining
back they pounced on him to a man and hauled
him off to the police-station. He got three
months. Poor old Bill! ”
*** ' *
Dear B. —Re fly-bunged eyes. It is merely
theory that the eye is poisoned by the fly, for the
effect of the sting never extends beyond the eye-
lid, and only one part —the inside corner, and just
under the meeting-point of the two lids—is
affected. The severe itching makes recipient rub
vigorously, with the natural result that the eye
immediately puffs. I have seen them close com-
pletely in an hour. -To stop itching and prevent
swelling, dip the point of the little finger in
whisky and touch the afflicted part. Tobacco-
juice is equally good. Bushmen frequently
amuse themselves _by poisoning flies with the
latter. A little is put on the back of the
hand, and the moment the fly dips its trunk
into this it begins to stagger, and gets more
and more groggy till it rolls over in a fit,
from which it will recover presently if left alone.
To keep the flies away altogether, anoint the face
with salad-oil. You soon get used to it, and the
peace thus acquired is delightful.— Werrimee.
B. H. Purcell: “An aboriginal
boy I once had on the Paroo was won-
derfully expert in recognising individual
tracks. He was once deputed to look
after the shearers’ horses, and, when
two of them got away through their
hobbles breaking, I sent him after
them. He started, with only a tom a*
hawk, a bridle, and rations for two
or three days, and, after being away
exactly eight weeks, and following the
horses 430 miles on foot, he brought
them back in splendid condition.
Same boy I once sent to Melbourne,
in charge of fat sheep, with a drover,
who left him stranded there, and for
12 months I heard nothing of him,
intil he turned up one day as faithful
md attached as ever.”
# * * *
“ I’ve just read the 87th admir-
ing paragraph about the gigantic un-
dertaking of running a telephone-line
from Sydney to Newcastle, a hun-
dred miles or so,” a Bulletin corres-
pondent snorts from the Way-Back.
“ Pooh 1 Why, out here there’s a tele-
phone-line from Euriowie (the God-
and-man-forsaken tinfield where J. S.
Reid, of the Emu Bay railway and
other things, dropped a pot), out
through Sturt’s Meadows (the satire
of the man who named that track of
abjectj barrenness !), to Langawirra,
along Nundora, and so to Mt. Arrow-
smith. That’s about 150 miles. The
fence-wire (mostly the wire next to
the top) carries the current, and, under
fair conditions, it carries well. Any-
how, it often carries well enough for the
listener to be able to recognise the
speaker’s voice at the other end before
he declares himself. However, don’t
think that all the telephones in the
Never Never are in connection with
boundary fences. There’s the line from
Nuntherungie to Grasmere, 40 miles,
all on poles ; and on Peter White and
co.’s vast Momba station, poled lines
now connect most of the out-stations with the
home-stations.”
* * * *
According to an Eng. paper, a man who
had travelled in Australia recently told a mixed
assemblage who were gazing at an exhibited
dingo :
Even in Melbourne, and other large towns in N.S.W.,
it is unsafe to go out after nightfall in the suburbs, owing
to the dingoes.
Why did the gentleman confine himself to half-
truths ? Not only is it unsafe to go out after
nightfall in the suburbs, but in the main streets
of the city of Melbourne (N.S.W.) itself. There
the dingoes are busily engaged emptying the rub-
bish-boxes —and sometimes they actually climb to
the top of the post-office tower in search of officials
who have taken refuge there after their com-
panions have been eaten. Then there are the
tiger-cats, armies of them, in the streets. Not
long ago one cat of unusual size and ferocity
killed four armed men. Also the bears-—native
bears. Though slow, if they get a hug on you—
Heaven help your ribs and throat ! The bandi-
coot, the triantewontegong, and the whizzleduffle
all have their terrors, and an Australian citizen
has to be wary indeed and of high courage—
especially if he has a lady with him after dark.
*** . •
The writer isn’t one of those who can’t
swallow “S.O’B.’s” fish-yarn. Travelling down
NOT TAKING ANY .
PALMIST : “ Yes, you’ll strike a reef very soon .”
CLIENT : “ Hope not, you old crone!”
PALMIST : “ What! Why, every miner hopes to ”
CLIENT: “ Yes; but I’m the skipper of an Island coaster.”
the then almost mythical Murrumbidgee River
during the last big spell of hot weather, I came
across a party of blacks chopping and splitting a
huge hollow gum log, and taking therefrom splen-
did specimens of the Murray cod (don t know his
M'Cooey name), which had left the water and
taken refuge in the log during the heat-wave
They were all beautifully cool and fresh, and would
be quickly disposed of in Hay. Wouldn’t be sur-
prised to hear of the cod making out to the freez-
ing works at Carrathool —distant about three
miles from the river- if hot weather continues and
log accommodation fails on river-bank. — 7--20.
* * * *
South Australia has lost its best-known
female aboriginal—Emily—an old, one-legged
warrior. In Emily’s unregenerate days she was
occasionally overcome by the derrink fiend, and
once behaved so uproariously on the banks of the
Torrens that a constable arrived to arrest her.
Thereupon the very portly lady whipped off her
wooden stump and threw it overboard; and as
the officer couldn’t either carry her or run her in
on one leg, the now sobered Emily gained a vic-
tory. It was this resourcefulness as much as any-
thing else which, in later years, made Emily the
most influential member of the miserable rem-
nants of southern South Australian aboriginality.
Dear Bulletin,— Talking
of queer accidents, truth is
stranger than fiction. Pitch-
dark night, and the sky over-
cast with heavy clouds. Squat-
ter and friend driving a light
buggy and pair at a good pace
across an open plain get some-
what out of their bearings,
come violently into collision
with something, and are thrown
violently out on to the ground.
Getting up they grope about and
find themselves beside a clump
of half-a-dozen inulga—but nary
trap, nary horses ! So they
have to camp till morning, when
they find the buggy roosting
safely on top of the mulga trees.
The horses had made for home !
“ Well, I’m d—-d ! ” was all
the squatter could say.
« * *
Paddy B , a one-time
Swan Hill carrier, once employed
a tenderfoot, fresh from ’Ome,
to help him with the teams, and
as the young fellow turned out
very handy and adaptable, Pad-
dy took to him kindly. But
one day a sinister rumor got
abroad that the new chum was
in the habit of cleaning his
teeth, and Paddy watched and
caught him in the act. “I’m
sorry for this,” said he, mourn-
fully ; “ but there’s only one
gintleman in this camp, and
that’s me, Patrick B , Esq.,
and I never cleaned my teeth in
me life, and, plaze God, Oi
niver will. You must give it over, me boy, or
we’ll have to part.” And they parted.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— lie jackasses and snakes.
When I was a schoolboy, I once saw a blue-
winged jackass, perched on a tree, with about
30in. of snake hanging from his bill. Per cata-
pult, I persuaded that jackass to shift ; but no
sooner did he try to fly than he came headlong to
the ground, snake and all. I caught the snake by
the tail (he was down head-first), pulled him out,
and found him about 4ft. long, and apparently
just dead. The jackass flew off, evidently glad to
be rid of his encumbrance. Whether he had
killed the snake or not I do not know, but the
swallowing contract was evidmtly too much for
him. The snake was of the green-and-yellow
“tree” variety.— SPOKESHAVE, Bundaberg, G.
* * * *
Dear B,—That ram that charged the old
man wasn't the only curiosity on our farm. About
four years ago we imported from Maoriland a
prize Alderney cow, which gave birth on the pas-
sage to a bull calf. That calf, right from his birth
up to his death, two years later, was never free
for one minute from tin; rolling motion of the ship
—not occasional lits of the “staggers,” but con-
tinual lurching, for which reason lie would take
a couple of hours to walk a mile. His condition
in this respect got so continuously worse that he
was ultimately destroyed. Only case of the kind
I have heard of. if this is common with regard
to cattle, it wouldn't be a bad excuse to tender to
an irate beak when you were hauled up for having
found the footpath too narrow. —J.F.D.
It was at a
shearing - shed
up Bourke
way, during
the ’94 strike,
ard one big
duffer from
dovvn South,
after hacking
and slashing
his sheep all
over the place,
started to pull
him across the
wool - room.
Boss comes up
—“ Hey, No.
10, what the
devil are you
doing with
that sheep ? ”
“You give £1
a hundred, sir,
don’t yer 1 ”
“Yes, £1 a
hundred for all
sheep shorn.”
“Well, just
put this big
bloke on the
scales ; he’ll
go./irehundred
at the least.”
“ It’s i>l per
hund r e d
sheep, you mi-
serable city in-
sect, not per
hundred-
weigh t.”
“Lor’,bli’me!
J>l for a hundred of them big brutes! I’ll go
and sell fish again ! ”
“T.D.,” to The Bulletin :
Though Sydney D.T., by way of footnote to a cor-
respondent’s plaint, helps the carrier to explain away all
allegations of sweating in the Sydney parcel-delivery
business, the real facts are notorious. The employers’
assertion that work is not begun until 8 a.m. or 8.30
means that their men are not in the city yards before
that time. As most of them have to live in suburban
districts, where accommodation is provided for their
carts and horses, to be in the yards by 8 o’clock entails
the previous cleaning of horses, stables and vehicles, per-
haps the delivery of an odd parcel or two left overnight,
and then (say) an hour’s journey into town. The state-
ment that employees are idle most of the day, because
parcels are not available, is an outrageous shuffle ; they
are engaged in furniture-shifting, removal of luggage
from trains and passenger - boats, and other special
jobs, and afterwards in the collection and sorting of
parcels for suburban delivery. The rule is to have two
deliveries daily, and it is impossible for the last to be
started before 6.30 p.m., many carts quitting the city
yards later than 8 o’clock. The D.T. remarks that
“if two men each get the same number of parcels
to deliver to about similar distances, one will probably
be finished long before the other, merely because he is
quicker ; while the other would be late, in consequence of
his showing no disposition to hurt'V’ The quickest man
amongst them can’t get through, the average, before
8.30—a good 13)4 hours per day—and the man who shows
LUXURIES OF THE SYDNEY ’BUS-HORSE.
“ Accident?”
“No, natural causes. Overwork, penny fares, cricket-matches,
starvation, wet blocks, broken shoulder, policeman’s
bullet, and want of breath!”
no disposition to hurry is usually sacked. Of course they
are conceded all holidays, and Sundays as well—after the
horses have been looked to and the stables cleaned.
Another responsibility may be mentioned : the carter’s
wife has to remain indoors all day to receive parcels for
conveyance into town.
+
One ©f the most notable features in the
cargo of R.M.S. Moana was a shipment of 160
National Cash Registers (worth over =65000) from
the factory of the co., at Dayton, Ohio, U.S.A.,
and consigned to the Australian general-manager,
Mr. W. A. Lingharn, 393 George-street, Sydney.
These machines are now unpacked for inspection,
and among them are some specially novel in con-
struction. One machine not only adds up the cash
sales, but prints a dated and numbered receipt
with the advt. of the storekeeper; at the same
time it prints a list of all the sales on a strip of
paper inside the register, and also looks after
credit-sales, moneys received in payment of
accounts and accounts paid out. It is perfectly
marvellous, and well-worth while seeing by any
business man.*
“A NIGIIT CAP”
Of cotton or wool is a relic of the past, but of
“D.C.L.” Scotch (Black Bottle) Whisky is the
up-to-date comforter, and is a boon to all who
suffer from sleeplessness.
THE BROTHERS DE REZCKE
are said to enjoy only Ogden’s Guinea Gold
Cigarettes, the fashionable English Smoke. None
better made.
• • •<mvaoN3 ki aaviv ' *
« SOJXEIHi PTPTVrTT.T.
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
Holbrook’s
Worcestershire
Pure English
Pure Malt
Sauce
Pickles
Vinegar
68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook’s Sauce H * s b£ en awarded more Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
IS JBREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
FRANZ JOSEF .
E»IX.SEI\I EH
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Q uo I dies.
me
22


“To what base uses,” &c. There are travelling round
Yic. country race-meetings a not unintelligent-looking
showman, a barrel with both ends knocked out, and a big,
brawny gentleman of color, who sticks his head in one
end of the barrel and grins, whilst the agricultural youth
of Victoria throw things—mostly old eggs—at him at 3d.
a time. The showman’s formula is : “ Now then, gentle-
men, here y’are—four shots a shilling at the bloomin’
black prince, and y’ win a bob every time y’ cop old
Ranj-i Sing-i on the’ead.” And the agricultural youth
aforesaid bares his arm, parts up his coin, and proceeds
to pelt things at the dusky man.
Grattan Riggs is quite a serious R.C., and when he first
read “The Shaughraun” in 1881 he felt conscientious
scruples about producing a play with a “wake” in it.
Riggs was under a vague impression that the wild Irish
“ wake ’ is an ancient Roman religious exercise, but after
consulting a priest, who assured him that the waking of
Conn was an inoffensive joke, he laid himself upon the
stretcher and poured whisky into his corpse without
compunction.
Our old friend Courtneidge is among the most indignant
railers against Clement Scott’s recent essay, or whatever
he called it, on theatrical immorality. But, then, Court-
neidge’s female relations belong to the class which Scott
exempted. Mrs. Courtneidge and her sister, Ada Blanche,
are the daughters of an actress, and their father was a
music-hall proprietor and manager.
“ Beerbohm Tree, who has had it rather frosty with his
new theatre, Her Majesty’s, is now,’’ writes The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent, “ playing the dual part of
blackguard spy and respectable merchant in Buchanan’s
adaptation ‘ A Man’s Shadow'.’ Seen at a matinee the
massive star capitally represented the combined mean
thief, blackmailer and murderer, but was only a clumsy
wholesale butcher in his acting of the other'part. The
contrast was, however, striking, and the stagecraft of the
rapid changes was admirable. Mrs. Tree, as the stage-
wife of the merchant, perhaps accounts for much, for her
physical thinness is painful. And, as is usual, the friend’s
wife who would tempt the merchant is a graspable
dream of loveliness—Miss Lily Hamburg, a large-sized
temptress whose roundness of flesh, rich, red voluptu-
ous lips, gold-glinted hair, coaxing mesmeric eyes and
generally exuding seductiveness, would have dissolved a
gun-metal Anthony. Lewis Waller was her w'ronged and
invalid husband. In the court-scene, where he discovers
he is defending for murder his wife’s old lover, he elocuted
and acted superbly.”
Dear Bulletin,— Why go so far away as Clement Scott,
of London, for views on the morality of mummers? Is it
not written what Vie. Chief Justice Madden said two
years ago ? “ Actors, a class of men often attractive, and
not unfrequently lax in their views of sexual morality.”
Apropos, do you recollect Horne Tooke to this effect :
“Women value themselves on their chastity, men on
their courage. Why ? Because of the rarity and diffi-
culty of these virtues. They are both contrarvto Nature.”
Also Beaconsfield: “The woman who is talked about is
generally virtuous, and she is only abused because she
devotes to one the charms which all wish to enjoy.”—
Norty. j j
Hall Caine, author of “The Manxman” and “The
Deemster,” is said to be piling up a huge fortune. His
annual expenditure is not a tithe of the income he draws
from the publishers, and he must have made a consider-
able sum, one supposes, from Wilson Barrett’s production
of aforesaid novels in dramatic form. Apropos of for-
tunes, the murdered Terriss left 160,000. He was draw-
ing £BO weekly salary when he died.
H. : “A critic properly objects to Wilson Barrett, in
Ben-My-Chree,’ that he ought to descend to an un
shaven, or bearded, haggard state to be more convincing,
and not preserve his blooming dressing-room perruquial
appearance. It is like the diamonded actress as the
starving woman.”
Mrs. Potter and Bellew are likely to make good money
m England with “Charlotte Corday.” Meanwhile the
Broughs, as all Australians will be glad to hear, have
made good money in India.
Melb. : “ Hamlet raises his head above the waves again.
Let churchyards yawn. A few Hamlets seen in this city :
Adams, Anderson, Bandmann, Bentley, Brooke, Miss
Cleveland, Oreswick, Defries, Dewhurst, Rose Edouin,
Rose Evans, Fairclough, Heir, Clarence Holt, Hoskins,
Howe, Ireland, Maddocks, Montgomery, Louise Pomeroy,
Stark, Sullivan, C. Warner, H. N. Warner. As to the
MonWomerv"" betVVee ” Ed "' in AdamB a ' ld
„ 8
Robert Brough ought to make old bones. His paternal
& r^ n d m other died lately at the encouraging age of 95,
an . pother, Miss Romer, was a particularly young and
active elderly lady the last time Tiik Bulletin saw her.
, en there's Lai. Brough, who has fairly outlived his
former contemporary, J. L. Toole, on the London stage,
How many pounds avoirdupois has Addie Conyers
dropped since she made her first appearance in Australia
with the Lonnen-Courtneidge Gaiety crowd ? Her figure
retains its juvenility even better than Nellie Farren’s^did.
The Providence that shapes our ends was very unkind to
Miss Conyers the first time she faced a Melb. audience,
The burle que was “Faust Up to Date,” and, owing to
the illness of Marion Hood, shapely Addie filled the un-
congenial part of Marguerite for the opening week of the
season. Then the real Marguerite took up her position in
the cast, and Miss C. gave utterance to her historical out-
lines as Faust.
The Flying Jordans fairly boomed in W. A. Moneyre-
peatedly turned away. Once the V.R. party, who
economically refrained from making previous arrange-
ments—Jerri' is unco’ carefu’—shared the fate of the —
aw—common crowd, and were sent off empty. On the
goldfields people cheerfully paid 7s. 6d. and brought their
own chairs !
A long person with a deep, bass voice, now at a Sydney
theatre, was, until a few months ago, engaged at driving
a cart for a suburban baker. He would most likely have
continued to dispense the necessary loaf as aforesaid had
not one of his customers—a musical person—noticed a
latent sweetness in his rendering of “ Bake-o ” in the
mornings, and asked him if he could sing. He sang, and
the aforesaid musician was so pleased with his voice that
he took him to sing before the manager of the theatre,
who immediately engaged him.
Miss Edie Haytor, the vera massive pantomime boy
an^ne'woul^take^herTofthe
& U * li^ erB '^ r College.
Nellle stewart has been a London interviewer
“some of her amusmg experiences in AustraJia.” Quite
as lf Ne,lle had been on a lon B' VlSlfc to this barbarous
country.
Cockaigne : “No use for those players who are essen-
tially Londoners to come to Australia in the sere and
yellow. When once a performer has made an impression,
London calls for little more acting, and indeed it is
understood throughout the profession how low-toned,
subdued, and reserved London acting is as corn-
)’ared with that demanded in the provinces, America,
and Australia. London is the most considerate of all
P laces - Ifc s Buckstones, Websters, Phelpses, Tooles,
Wyndhams, and ladies whom it is kinder not to mention,
may a et as mossy as they like as long as ever they can
l ine their flats— i.e., talk without their teeth dropping
out -”
Dear Bulletin, —Strange that the name of Miss Heath
(Wilson Barrett’s wife, who died some 11 years ago)
should nowadays lie identified only with the character of
dane Shore. She was already getting to be a veteran
a 'Aress when she reappeared in London (the Princesses’
Theatre) as the heroine of W. G. Wills’ play. Her right
to “ star ” ha( l been earned long, long before then, and
indeed the production of “ Jane Shore ” was identified at
thafc tilne with the revival of Miss Heath. The writer
remembers the J.S. performance very well. Miss Heath
was a tall, graceful lady, with a face that had seen trouble
a ? d a w u ealfch of yellow ha> r -her own, or otherwise. In
the llghter scenes of the drama her nlethod was un ‘
naturally mannered, but when Jane Shore had been
turned loose foodless, and the “ rats” gnawing within
her compelled the wretched woman to cry at large—
“ Give me to eat! ” then the younger section of the audi-
ence understood why Miss Heath’s name figure- large
type on the bills. She was a fine tragedienne, capable of
thrilling an audience.— Shoreditch.
Binoc: “ When you come to think of it, it’s another
good mark to Harry Roberts that, despite his good looks,
he isn’t one of the nmch-photographed young actors. In
most city photographers’ show-cases you find both the
imported and the native mummer in vast quantities.
H.R. goes alcne on his versatile talent. Yet when Aus-
tralia is federated, Roberts will be a ‘foreigner!’ He
comes from Maoriland ”
Asserted that at least 13 theatres are yearly destroyed
by fire in England. “All carelessness!” said a stage-
mechanist, the other evening. “ A theatre is as safe as any
other building, if people are ordinarily careful.” He was
heaving upon a rope, and, just as he spoke, it suddenly
gave way, and down he went upon the boards. He had
held the rope, drawn taut with his weight, in an unpro-
tected gasjet, which had promptly burnt it through.
“All carelessness!” he repeated, as he gathered himself
together, and put out the gas. “ Letsgonavadrink ! ”
Haresfoot: “Ooppin was born the same year as Brooke
and Queen Victoria. He was so preposterously young
when he engineered a theatrical co. in V.D.L. and
fetched it to Melb., that nobody, until he trembles on the
verge of the octave, has believed but that he post-dated.
At 23, young enough to be Dan Barry’s child, he came
solemnly upon Melb., as full - fledged manager, the
youngest of his whole crowd, save Mrs. Charles Young,
then only 17. Such a Long Agoer is he that scarce one
remembers Mrs. Coppin, the brilliant actress, who is
starred on a pink satin dress-circle programme, of the
Queen’s Theatre, Melb., now in the glass case of the
Public Library. But stay, there is Charley Walsh Pugh,
landlord of the Hen and Chickens.”
Westralian theatre rents are atrociously high. A
Sydney manager wired to a W.A. town asking the rent of
a playhouse, and got for answer—“ £l5O a week, but. we
do the cleaning.”
“Twenty-two pantomimes in full blast here,” writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent. “Drury Lane is
worse than usual, and the others are most magnificently
mounted, to make up for their incoherent feebleness. At
the Grand, Croydon, Grace Palotta apr-.ars in tights for
the first time, and displays nothing that merited such
conventual seclusion. The dancing of Teddy Royce, jun.,
is worthy of the best days of his 1 tooral-i-addity ’ father,
who, by the way, is ‘Gasparding’ in ‘ Les Cloches,’&c.,
in the provinces. Lionel ltignold also takes a hand in
this panto, of George Edwardes’s, under Teddy Sass’s
management, and the ‘ Spider ’is happy. Sophie Harris,
of Sydney, is 1 principal boy ’ at Brixton.”
Hope—The paint on the face of existence.
—Byron.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
“ SURPLUS.”
The term “surplus ’’ is applied, tn life insurance
affairs, to the balance, ascertained periodically,
between the assets and the liabilities. Out of this
balance or surplus, distributions of profits are
made to the policy-holders entitled to participate.
The natural tendency of distribution is to diminish
the surplus for the moment; but in the case of a
prosperous company, the decrease is speedily more
than covered by aceessions of profit from various
sources. It is clear, however, that the more
liberal the periodical distributions of profits, the
more gradual will be the growth of the surplus.
Conversely, if a life insurance company with ho ds
from its policy-holders the full benefit of the pro-
portion of profits immediately available, and
prefers to accumulate in the 'interest of future
participants, it follows that the surplus will in-
crease more rapidly in proportion. Of course it
is easy to keep in hand more than the future will
require under any possible circumstances ; and,
when that course is followed, injustice to present
participants is inevitable.
Now, The Mutual Life of New York, while
careful to make abundant reserves for future
bonuses, has always been equally careful to dis-
tribute to its policy-holders the full immediate
benefits which they are entitled to claim. The
Company has never sacrificed the interests of
policy-holders entitled to immediate participation,
to the formation of an imposing but empirical
surplus, never likely to be required even in the
remotest future. The surplus shown by The
Mutual Life at the end of 1896 was <£6,105,444.
It is a steadily increasing surplus, which, need-
less to say, is more than ample for all the
demands for which it has been created.
But, supposing the Company had, throughout
its history, acted on the * principle which
has been adopted in, at least, one prominent
instance—of reserving a large proportion of the
surplus at every distribution, and, in addition,
reducing the surrender-values allowed for discon-
tinued policies, what does the reader suppose
would have been the amount of The Mutual’s
surplus in 1896 ? Not six millions, but upwards of
2// millions sterling ! This is not guesswork. The
figures are based upon the official report issued by
the In.sura.nce Department of the State of New
York, which gives annually the exact record of
every company doing business in that State.
Since itsorganisation, The Mutual Life has paid
in bonuses and surrender values to its policy-holders
<£44,445,244, which is more than twice the amount
paid for similar items by the next largest company.
Observe, then, what a magnificent surplus The
Mutual could have exhibited to-day, had an
illiberal policy been pursued in relation to the
assured —a surplus exceeding that of any other
office by more than 150 per cent. But, fortunately,
the Company preferred to sacrifice a mere useless
and vainglorious display to the solid interests of
the policy-holders. Who shall say that, in taking
thiscourse, the Mutual Life of New York has
not chosen the better part? and that, in so doing,
it has not well earned the high reputation which
it has attained in every part of the world as “ the
Policy-holders’ C 0.,” “ the Co. which does the most
good ? ” The intelligent reader will not allow him-
self to be misled by the parading of sums of no
use to the present generation, and in excess of
any possible needs of the generations to come.*
OVERHEARD AT THE A.N.A. MEETING.
“Do you know, doctor, whether any of these men ride 'SINGER ’ machines?"
“ I cannot say, your Excellency ; but why do you ask?”
“ Well, you know, I ride a 'SINGER' myself, fitted with Dunlop tyres."


MELBOURNIAN A.
A NUDE ADAM LOOKING FOR EVE.
Constable J. Gleeson, while on duty in
Studiey Park, Kew, on Saturday, came
across a man, about 40 years of age, in an
entirely nude state. He was a long way ,
from the river, but the'constable’s idea at
first was that the man had been bathing.
“What were you then?" queried the officer.
“An atomic globule, if you'll believe it.
Then I developed, and became man, and
they called me Adam —old Adam. By the
way, I’m looking for Eve now. Have you
seep her?"
■fjn Old Offends*.
Tie Constable. • r// ' e
? /A/IT.' be me Soz<rl t
3‘ll tun n-Ljfe*
sAteat 7*l ' / t «
a/t/> tesf
\3OSK
rlelief.
Tvimd,
\
4 uW&t'X
°/ , / ** 4? ’ °<» y/( v
%vv
S CHflllTf AT if. ?er.
reutkti xvv* “Weil w*H) seC '
m ka 7/^'-* u " i
Even the Postmaster-General himself a greed I
that this was so. ami lie became, for him,*
unusually grave as be sought to excuse the
Government for the severe retrenchment it
had brought about. Later he.brightened, >
and his audience grew merrv " heir lie
wound up by observing "that the worst, if
not all, the retrenchment was now over;
that fhe country was emerging from the
valley of the 6hadou f of death, and that
there was a good time coming for n\i) ser
vanta.
Tje C<n*
Aexs Aclc7 e?iox4.fiA <yf e/s-aA
c/e rixoC'-aCyO r /" }s
7‘nie. t yba/Tifed S^/////
a 7 ‘/////////
Clfß M 0
I HwW**
I'JtoceiVojv'
f/V'f-M/HS
ted
fid Iliiw.i/J.i it Jill. . ..tl.
Jr ORANGE AND GR EEN.'^=
I LEGALITY OF PARTY PROCESSIONS J
= the test case. ■•§
i The question whether the.parading ofp
= public streets by the members of the Vie* -
Ptoria Jubilee Orange Lodge on Sunday, July C
E,' '® 97 - was legal occupied the attention of.S
pjho lsninswirk Bench ' 11 ‘P
yys /7 shvz/Id
1
\ '• ■ o *
"Uncle Sm rrij $ /
house. oru i f t
LX
MR. M'MILLAN AT THE WESLEY
CHURCH.
Mr. M'Millun, who was received with*
loud applause, said that throughout life he!
had made it a rule every day to read!
several pages from that book known as'
1 he Daily Life,’* yet he would not say he.
was a perfect Christian. He would be 1
sorry, however, to banish the devil and thei
fear of hell from his theology after jvhatL-
he know of politics. /
ml y~ |j j a
'Ae T J j i I Ilf Iff
j |j | H IflSgj
|k4, Ul. I! gl
m^.Sn an/ <s ||pY7j
f it ‘ a/^% l vjfy
I y | ‘’jAfei’Lmß/mke/soKattJj me./
***■/'. . Avf/i* r s'
,/1 _ / ynG-‘"
r /* _ |||§
//fui tm han
/ r/«£p
/fb urttf* X.
cA * j|
1 lor
Tnrr^ d&% xlililpl
Uncle sarn~-
S/V«.n«fe*-W
'urka.l's the jj
-ynarttei- IvtHi fl
ike Sink? i
WfITHRwicL.S
HIIUSMfIN 1
Tee 2.*- A
/Sf 6 II
/JSt/n/~ So
Lord JTrassey’s steam yaeht, the Sunbeam,
was again in trouble yesterday morning,
having taken the ground at Davey's Point.
Frankstori. ' “
.. fnany remarks of a not alto-
gether complimentary character were heard
in the streets yesterday concerning* the ae*
tion of the Australian Premier# irt com*
municating directly with the head oi a
foreign State, instead of forwarding the
message of sympathy through the. recog-
nised ' constitutional channel, namely, her
Majesty’s representative in the colony,
to be transmitted by the Secretary,
of State. Hill 111 II


THE NET RESULT OF THE N.S.W. TRAWLING SCHEME.
Mr. Frank Frank proves beyond a doubt that there are fish in the sea.


The Great Dental
Divorce Case.
ft
%
ITEMS FROM THE EVIDENCE:
Did you suggest to R ds that he should take
some Kola Nut Tonic?
Witness : I may have-; I think he was taking it
at the time. I think that is in answer to a tele-
gram from him saying he could not come up that
night. (Laughter.)
Another Witness.
Have you had a drink to-day ?
Witness : Nothing but a glass of water.
Mr. W 1: Perhaps some Kola Nut Tonio?
(Laughter.)
Witness: Yes.
Do you find it good for you ?
Witness: Yes, it is fine and strengthening.
(Laughter.)
The Foreman of the Jury asked the witness
several questions about the size and architecture
of the petitioner’s house at Strathfield.
FISHER and CO.,
Manufacturers and Proprietors of the Famous
Kola Nut Tonic
Which makes you Eat and makes you Strong, beg to
intimate that in addition to the present form of their
Tonic, which is a Bitter One, they have placed on the
Market the same Tonic with all its virtues and pro-
perties in a
SWEET FORM.
This will be known and distinguished by the name
“ALOK ”
(REGISTERED).
Waiter : What can I serve you with, sir?
Customer: “Oh ! my favorite reviver—
-1 ALOK,” with a little soda water.
ASK your CHEMIST, ASK your GROCER,
ASK your HOTELKEEPER
a
All OK.”
Mighty “ ALOK ” is a Mighty TONIC.
This Form of our Famous KOLA NUT TONIO
is exceedingly
Palatable and Strengthening.
You are conscious of its BITTERNESS, but
can barely discern it.
IT GOES DOWN LIKE MOTHER’S MILK.
If You Do Not Specially Order
“ALO K,”
THE TONIC WILL BE SUPPLIED AS
HITHERTO—
IN ITS BITTER FORM.
tN EVERY HOTEL and REFRESHMENT
ROOM,
WITH SODA WATER,
‘UtOK,’ 6dper GUSS.
2s. 6d. & 4s. 6cl. per Bottle.
—ASK FOR—
“ALOK”
(REGISTERED).
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
PHARMACY:
337 George Street
(NEARLY OPPOSITE G.P. OFFICE),
SYDNTEY.
*
In the Morning—
Before going to Fisher and Co.’s for KOLA
NUT TONIC.
Scientific Examination of “ALOK.”
Dr. Helms, M.A., F.C.S., Consulting and Analytical Chemist,
8 Bridge-sti-eet, Sydney, Feb. 1, 1898.
Messrs. FISHER & CO., 337 George-street.
Gentlemen, —I have examined your preparation Mighty “ALOK,” and find that it contains,
besides Kola Nut, only pure vegetable drugs having well-known tonic properties.—Yours faithfully,
A. HELMS.
Mr. J. L. Jacobsen, Champion Chess Player of Australasia, forwards unsolicited the following
testimonial, which speaks for itself :
28 Bossley-terrace, Lower Domain, Sydney, Jan. 10, 1898.
Dear Sirs, —As a cure for brain weariness and lassitude I have proved “ ALOK ” a marvellous
tonic. A dose before commencing enables me to endure the arduous strain of match-play with little
fatigue. I consider it a boon to brain-workers, and heartily recommend it to all chess-players.—
Yours faithfully, J. L. JACOBSEN.
(COPY.) What Henry Bracy, Esq,, says about FISHER & CO.’S TONIC.
HENRY BRACY’S ENGLISH AND COMIC OPERA COMPANY, SYDNEY.
Messrs. FI SHER & CO. Lycuem Theatre, March 6, 1897.
Gentlemen, —It is with much pleasure that I testify to the merits of your Kola Nut Tonic. In my
professional vocation I am very often tired and fatigued after long and worrying rehearsals, and I find
great benefit at the time from a dose of your Kola Nut Tonic with a little sodawater. It invariably
has a most reviving effect, and I have got quite fond of it.—Yours faithfully, H. BRACY.
XJNTEQXJA.LLEID.
from F. J. Williams. Police Station, Reefton, via Temora, July 28, 1896.
Sirs,—Please post me an amount of Kola Nut in the form prepared for taking.—F. J. WILLIAMS.
Sirs, —Please post me another bottle of your Kola Nut Tonic ; I believe it to be without an equal.
August 9, 1896. Yours, etc., F. J. WILLIAMS.
Woodberry, Tarro, October 29, 1896.
Dear Sirs, —Kindly send me another bottle of Kola Nut Tonic. It is an excellent tonic, and I
strongly recommend it to all suffering from indigestion.—Yours faithfully,
H. MACKAY.
Memo, from W. M. Maclardy & Co., 82 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—l have been using your Kola Nut Tonic for a number of years, and find it a grand
appetiser. I still use it, and find when low down from the worries of business its effects are grand, it
having wonderful reviving and stimulating properties ; it seems to aot on Brain, Liver and Kidneys.
—Yours faithfully, W. M. MACLARDY.
COLA ACUMINATA
WHAT MR WM MARTIN, the
AMERICAN CYCLIST, s»y« about
FISHER & CO.’S “FAMOUS
KOLA NUT TONIC.”
KOLA NUT TONIC increases the Expansive
power of the chest, makes the Breathing
deeper and more vigorous. Chest-expansion is a
measure of the general strength.
lj
** Melbourne,
“ 24th September, 1897.
“To MESSRS. FISHER & CO.
“ Gentlemen,—
“I have much pleasure in testifying to the
excellent properties of your FAMOUS KOLA
NUT TONIC. I attribute my phenomenal suc-
cess in Australia as a cyclist to the use of it. The
staying powers it possesses have been well illus-
trated in some of the races I have won, and I still
continue to drink it. —Yours, &c.,
“W. MARTIN.
“American Cyclist.”
Fisher & Co’s Tonic
—IS THE--
Greatest Pick-me-up and Appetiser
IN THE WORLD.
It makes you EAT, and makes you STRONG.
TAKE A LITTLE EVERY MORNING, and
your Liver and Kidneys will always be healthy.
ALL HOTELS, with Sodawater or Lemonade,
6d per Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. Gd. per Bottle.
(Ask for, and have no other than, FISHER and
CO.’S). Also at all Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
ASK A POLICEMAN —No ! No ! ASK
YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE.
PHARMACY, 337 George-st.
(Nearly opposite General Post Office),
SYDNEY.
AGENTS for QUEENSLAND, Messrs. Elliott Bros. ;
SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. H. Paulding & Co.;
WEST AUSTRALIA, Messrs. F. 11. Fauldixg & Co. ;
VICTORIA, Messrs. Fulton, Grim wade Sl Co.
Pil-kola
(Registered),
Fisher & Co's Tonic in Solid Form.
These Pills contain all the properties of the
famous KOLA NUT TONIC in a solid form.
The principal ingredient of these Pills is the
famous Kola Nut, to which are added valuable
medicines, which make them an invaluable remedy
for all diseases arising from Weak Nerves, Muscu-
lar Weakness, Loss of Appetite, Depression of
Spirits. Constipation, Palpitation of the Heart,
Bad Circulation, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Flatu-
lence, Nervous Headache, Loss of Memory, En-
largement of the Liver, Kidney Diseases, Boss of
Nerve Power and Youthful Vigor, Locomotor
Ataxy, Partial Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, and Seasickness.
DIRECTIONS—-One Pill three times a day
half-an-hour before taking food. Children half a
pill. For INDIGESTION, FLATULENCY,
GASTRIC TROUBLES, or CONSTIPATION,
it is better to take them after food. PRICE,
2s. Gd. PER BOX, POSTAGE FREE.
It is not claimed for Pil-Kola that it can do
what Physicians and Hospitals L- .-mot do. Physi-
cians and Hospitals are the people and places for
those to go who wish to be cured of disease, and
the man or men who imply otherwise are frauds
and imposters, not fit to take an honorable place
in society or in the commercial community. It is
not claimed for Pil-Kola that it can make the
dead speak or repair broken limbs. Pil-Kola will
not do sensational wonders and impossibilities,
but it is claimed for Pil-Kola that it consists Of
the finest Pills ever placed on the market to cure
Indigestion, cleanse and revive the Liver, clear
the Brain, and sustain and invigorate the Human
Economy. It is a wonderful Pick-me-up, and a
splendid preparation for Strengthening the Nerves
and Heart.
Cyclists, Singers, Auctioneers, and Publio
Speakers swear by it.
These Pills are beautiful. and pearly, and plea-
sant to take. No pink die is used, which irritates
the stomach, and does more harm than enough.
One Pill taken three times a day will keep the
system in thorough order, giving tone to the body
and beauty to the faoe.
One great advantage of Pil-Kola is that it can
be posted free to every part of the world, and
another advantage is that the box can be carried
in the pocket and the Pills taken regularly as
recommended.
PIL-KOLA cures Indigestion and makes you
eat. A splendid preparation for strengthening
the Nerves and Heart. PIL-KOLA revives the
Liver and Brain, and restores vigor.
To be obtained from all Chemists and Store-
keepers.
Post Free. Post Free.
5
BUY A BOTTLE OP
Fisher & Co’s
Famous Kola Nut Tonic.
A Sure Jtemedy for Seu-sideue.s.s.
1®“ Makes you EAT and makes you STRONG.
Ask your Chemist; Ask your Grocer Ask your Hotel
for a Bottle.
2s. 6d.. and 4a. Qcl. ALL COLONIES
Also at the
Pharmacy, 337 George Street,
SYDNEY.
The Talk of the Joan.
The Qrink of the Season
UNINTOXICATING.
IT IS NOT A SWEET, BUT
BITTER DRINK,
CLEANSING the PALATE and
REVIVING the LIVER
and BRAIN.
This TONIC acts with the most remarkable
rapidity in restoring a weakened Stomach, Im-
paired Digestion, Torpid Liver, Debility, and in
Reviving the Brain from the effects of Overwork
and Fatigue. It stimulates and strengthens the
entire Muscular System, acting like magic, and
rouses into Vigor and Health the whole Physical
Energy of the Human Economy. To enable one
to enjoy a meal, a dose taken an hour or so before
immensely sharpens the appetite. With Soda
Water, before breakfast, it is the most beneficial
drink in the world. It has a most marvellous
effect in Checking the Craving for Alcohol, in
many cases having restored Inebriates to their
Normal Conditions of Life.
AGENTS FOB NEW SOUTH
WALES:
TOOTH & CO.
J. T. & J. TOOHEY.
CORNWALL’S AUSTRA-
LIAN BREWERY.
RESCH’S WAVERLEY
BREWERY.
CASTLEMAINE BREWERY
and WOOD BROS., New-
castle.
MAITLAND BREWING
CO., Maitland.
E. ROWLANDS, Darling:
Harbor.
ELLIOTT BROS.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN &
SONS, Hay market.
CIVIL SERVICE CO OPER.
SOCIETY, Pitt-street.
F. LASSETTER & CO.,
George-street.
STEWART & CO., Kent-st.
SANDEMAN, Pitt-street.
D’ARCY & CO., George-st.
SAYWELL & CO., York-st.
DE LISSA & CO., Barrack-
A. THOMPSON & CO., ‘
Pitt-street.
A. SHELLEY, York-street.
TUCKER & CO., George-st.
COOPER, NATHAN & CO.,
Clarence-street.
B. B. NICHOLL & CO.,
Deans-place.
J. LISTER & CO., Spring-
FESQ & CO., Pitt-street.
LUCAS BROS., Macquarie-
place.
CIIAS. BATH & CO.,
Bridge-street.
BROWN & CO., Spring-st.
TILLMANS & CO,. Clarence-
HUDDART, PARKER and
CO., Pitt-street.
SEGUR, Pitt-street.
P. McMAHON, Macquarie
Bond.
HOCKING & CO., Pitt-st.
RENARD & CO., Kent-st.
HOFFNUNG & CO., Pitt-st.
C. & J. B. WATSON, York-
D. COHEN & CO., Spring-
street and Newcastle.
HALL & SONS, Newcastle.
WOLFE, PRENTICE & CO.,
West Maitland.
E. RICH & CO., O'Connell-
FELDHEIM, GOTTHBLF
and CO., Barrack-street.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
Clarence-street.
MYERS & SOLOMON,
Market-street.
JNO. CONNELL & CO.,
Kent-street.
JULIUS LEVY, Angel-place.
TILLOCK & CO., George-st.
COHEN & LEVY, Tamworth.
HOLDSWORTH, MAC-
PHERSON & CO., George-
HANKS & CO., George-st.
S. BENNETT & CO., George-
JAMES ’ KIDMAN, George-
HART et ‘& FIRKIN, New-
castle.
MELBOURNE FACTORY:
384 FLINDERS LANE.
Victorian Agents:
MESSRS. FELTON, GRIMWADE and CO.
Queensland Agents:
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS.
MESSRS. TAYLOR and COLLEDGE.
Central Queensland:
MESSRS. WALTER REID and CO.
Northern Queensland:
SAMUEL ALLAN and SONS, LIMITED
South Australian Agents:
MESSRS. E. H. FAULDING and CO.
MESSRS. A. M. BICKFORD and SONS.
West Australian Factory:
107 WILLIAM ST., PERTH.
Agents :
MESSRS. E. H. FAULDING and CO.
MESSRS. A. M. BICKFORD and SONS
Manufacturer's and Proprietors:
FISHER & CO.,
CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
337 GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY
(Nearly Opp. G.P. Office).
the AF’ ERNOON—
;o Fisher and Co.’s for KOLA
NUT TONIC.


SOMETHING NEW
UNDER THE SUN.
The
latest
CURE
And
GREATEST
FOB
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Bruises, Cuts, etc.
Post Free ... ... 2s. Bottle.
The DON CASH TRADING 00.,
206-214 Johnston-street, Collingwood,
MELBOURNE, Vio.
David graham g Co.
. . HAVE OPENED THEIR . .
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
<s*Qtl*nxo’& —H —
ri— Soitipgs
For the Coming Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Free
by post.
Vickerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOK
Cellu.la,x> Clotliing.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets).
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
and BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
Clothing 1 in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
}
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors.
,' s , perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from anv
Material, £3 3-. To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line-
very good patterns, 12,6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84,'-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £ 5 . Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Riding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
V\ oollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21 -. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25 -
Sei gerette Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11.
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
white Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs.
2/-, 2/11,3/3. Warm Travelling Rugs!
13/ •. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
_ , surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order from any part of Australia, giving ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with perfect safety
tor if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned
We have built-up our immense business by being tho-
rougMy STRAIGHTFORWARD WITH our CUSTOMERS
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
...Though our Premises have been Destroyed by
u/rl’cSr ? ln^ s Wll! , be carried on as usual at 14 and 16
RUSSELL ST., and 234 FLINDERS ST
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/fe each.
PLAITS and TAILS,'
20in. long, f/6. # H rea l hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, per ozT
we are the cheapestin Au*
trail a for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hajr.
W. H. Wigzell,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street.
SYDNEY.
Ca,ble Tram will stop at Door..
Send etamps for full Prioe UaO
Prompt attentioo'gjven to Countly Onto*
tanglefoot 1
H
Tanglefoot
American
Sticky
Fly Paper
CHEAPEST,
CLEANEST,
NEATEST, and
MOST EFFECTIVE
Fly - Catcher.
0. &V/.TILM CO.,
MICH., U.S.A.,
M’f’t’rs.
Sold Everywhere.
LAST OF SIX; TALKS
THIS AUSTRAL TilOl'ICS.
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
•S
2S.
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &e. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It Is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS GREAT VALUE IN KEEPING THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT,’I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. By
the use of ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT’ he now ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro bono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK.-1 remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.”— (From the late Rev. J. W. Neil , Holy Trinity Church, North Shields.)
WEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.— “ After suffering for nearly
two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO’S ‘ FRUIT
SALT,’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now I am RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
—Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. - Ex,-mine each Bottle, and see CAPSULE is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT.*
Without it, you have been imposed on by a WOE THLESS imitation. Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
warranted
Finest Hand-made BRIARS.
s Agents—S. HOFFNUNG & CO, BRTS^ANK
VXCTQHIA Til&ivAAi^iA.
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT X LIFEBUOY
ending December 31,1897,
and March 31, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
£5OO
IN PRIZES GIVEN FREE
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Compe'itions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “Premier”
‘ . Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman s Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 4s.
j 2 ” , Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 25."
30 Sets of Carvers „ jdi i s ”
Cloth Bound Books „ £|QO * ”
JjENDTriisTorroßriON
wf
l
Dots
' t A WOMAN
Lodk-oib"'
SObW/tfirAtf
Full particulars, Rules, &c., in circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or can
be obtained by application to BURGESS BROS., HOBART.
J. mckenzie & co., launce ston.
The Smelting* Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
-A t,
.....
ppfL,,
iul
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
Gold, Silver, [ead m Copper gres m products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTQ (Lake lllawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING
SUL! HURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc
under direct supervision of G. 11. Blakkmohk, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works being m the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions., I'rompi Cash SeU'ement on ayrccmcnt of Assays.
Rates quoted, anti all information supplied on application to
JOHN H! WILL,
(late Genera) Manngcr of Broken Mill Proprietary Mir.
.1/r nuii:in : / Director,
•Mcu.m. Liiic Luilmnlis, MARTIN FLACK, SYUNKY.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in tlio World!
Bar Wone.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the prod action of the colony, com posed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ’
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.— There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
Fot General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half tne quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman saya
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of you*
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them mo-tfc
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilins’—
~~ r " Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Qhronio
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. :—The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. Ithas a remarkable influence on tha
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, apd correcting it
1 when deranged, ai d restores healthy evacuations in oases
I of habitual costiveners.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB— I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
. Facts Speak Louder than Words.
1 _ Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:— *
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
| • •; '■ ' j J — 1 r ,fT
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
I All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will'gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
1 BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
| before meals. *
: Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonio, with a tumbler of
I water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
I Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANET WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to a(
delicate persons. Young Ladies can tako this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonio. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invcnled
TONIO answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION.—When you call for these ask fo<
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW A CO.,


POLITICAL
POINTS
It is notorious that all the minor billets
in connection with the coming Parliamentary
(N.S.W.) elections are filled by Freetrade para-
sites.
When is the Griffith statute, enacting the
imposition of compulsory military service, to be
enforced in Queensland ? Has it been repealed in
camera ?
Anti-Semitic agitations in Europe are
partly “ the secret of England’s greatness.” The
alliance between the Anglo-Saxon and Jewish
races is mightier than the sword.
John Norton, if he contests a Sydney elec-
torate for Parliament, may fall between two stools.
The devout R.C., instructed by the priest, will
vote against him, and the loyal Orangeman is his
bitterest foe.
MARRIAGE UP-TO-DATE.
PIPPO: “ Marriage is a dead crook name, you take
it from me. ”
SLONKEY: “ What did you. git married for? ”
PIPPO : “ Or, just ter nark the other bloke !”
When Q. Premier Nelson visits British
Papua, in April, Tom joe Byrnes will be Acting-
Premier. If he can’t manage to manufacture
popularity, then the coming elections will be
” Not for Joe.”
Significant and depressing these continual
“ Wales cheers” and “Victorian
cheers” in the daily-paper Convention reports.
And once when S. A , Tas. and W.A. broke out
it appeared as “ small State cheers.”
How certain potentates do yearn to gaol
John Norton before the N.S.W. general election
and before the re-trial of the C irruthers libel-case!
But it is a shocking error of judgment to allow
this fact to become so glaringly apparent.
The setting-up in type of the proclama-
tions necessary for the operation of the latest Q.
Land Act, on March 1, exhausted several founts
of type at the Brisbane Government Printing
Office—a thing that has never occurred before in
that usually over-stocked department.
Q. Editor Buzacott, M.L.C. (Rockhamp-
ton Record), gave Agent-General Tozer the fol-
lowing testimonials, after his famous Gympie
speech :
1. Good-natured perverter of the truth.
2. Tozer’s drafts upon imagination.
3. Flitting romancer of the Cabinet.
“ I would be sorry,” said ex-Treasurer
M‘Millan, of N.S. W;, at a Melb. Pleasant Sunday
Afternoon,. “ to banish the devil and the fear of
hell from theology, after what I know of politics.”
It is, indeed, a peculiar mental twist that inspires
the politician to condone for injustice done to the
people by giving the devil his due.
Latest estimate of Q. population puts the
figure at 484,700, an increase of 12,521 on the esti-
mate for ’96. In the year ’97 Queensland attracted
779 more persons into her bounds than did N.S.W.
Unmarried males in the Northern province number
5844. Death-rate—ll‘33 per thousand—the low-
est of any province except Maoriland, which figures
out 910 per thousand. Queensland had for ’97
the lowest Australian death-rate and highest birth-
rate.
AT THE CAFE.
“Hello! Have you taken a half-holiday?”
“No; why did you think so?”
“Because I once heard you say it was a mystery
to you how people could keep awake after
dining at mid-day.”
“Ah! that was before I got LOASBY’S
‘WAHOO.' You see, I was a dyspeptio
then. Now, I dine when I like, and eat
what I like; but always with my eye on
the ‘WAHOO’ bottle.”
No journalist has ever been Mayor of
Sydney, and, with the exception of free-lances
like Black and Cotton, there are no working
metropolitan pressmen in N.S. Wales Parlia-
ment. No man can work on the daily press and
forward any political ambitions which may be
left to him after observing the emptiness of public
life.
There was lately a little scheme on for
sending the chief reporter of the Age to England
to represent the Government, as a kind of puff-
paragraph scribbler to. Victoria. But Turner sat
upon it, after it had been all nicely fixed up.
People are saying in pretty plain terms that this
circumstance, and the curious recent attitude of
the Age towards Turner personally, are not utterly
unconnected.
An attempt is being made now to boom
Dibbs’s old policy of unification as against Federa-
tion. Dibbs drew up a scheme by which
N.S.W. and Victoria were to absolutely unite,
leaving the other provinces to come in later if
they saw fit, and if he had made his proposal to
any less-hopeless person than Brown Patterson
something might have come of it. But the occa-
sion is past, and the scheme is forgotten, and there
is something much larger in view ; and the talk
about unification now is only an attempt to divert
attention from Federation.
The loyal soul of 11. Murray Smith is
harrowed by the decision of the Federal Conven-
tion to abolish the present system of appeal to the
Privy Council. “ The great issue,” he said
desperately, in a recent lecture on the subject,
“ was whether they were seeking to bind together
more strongly the component parts of the British
empire or seeking to erect a nation —in other
words, practical separation.”
The purpose, Mr. Smith, of Federation,
Tomorrow or to-day,
Is to erect a free Australian nation—
Cost what it may !
The very latest Fatman lament comes from
Maoriland. Tiie British mining co’s not only dis-
regard the statutory weekly half-holiday, but
truculently demand the privilege (which the
Maorilander himself hasn’t got) of running their
batteries on Sunday, and unless they are permitted
to work their employes full time for seven davs a
week it is stated that “British capital will leave
the country.” The time isn’t far off when the
imported Fatman will demand to be allowed to
practise polygamy in these provinces on the ground
that otherwise British capital will leave the
country.
Cairns growls loudly about the Aborigines
Protection Act. In the face of the present opium
trouble, it seems that the Chinese merchants are
slow to take consignments out of bond. “ Where-
fore,” wails Cairns plaintively, “if the law is up-
held the local banana and rice growers will have
to leave, as they can’t live without opium.” It
appears that Cairns uses 50001 b. weight of opium
per annum—duty, £1 per pound. . . . And this
wail comes in vigorous confirmation of the fact
that Cairns, despite her many protestations, can-
not live without the alien ; that the Chow is her
right hand, the Japanee her left, and the miscel
laneous stinkful Asiatic her industrial backbone.
One practical method of helping the burnt-
out Gippslanders (if the Vie. Govt, would induce
Parliament, as soon as it assembles, to commit a
most commendable outrage on Proputty) would be
to hustle through an Act giving the State Land
Bank power to compulsorily pay off mortgages—
whether due or not —where the security is good
enough, and advance the coin itself at the usual
41> per cent. In many cases, this would cut down
the interest-burden one-half. The settler who is
starting afresh with everything burnt, except the
9 per cent, mortgage, has a desperately hard row
to hoe. The mortgage—alas!-—never burns ;it is
more incombustible than water, or asbestos, or ice,
or the brazen gates of hell.
1 a$ T • $ -)i &j
— -r o .i/jj7rThjt~/°e
rOE-AfrEK/x mthri’
• j j_j ET V\ Jo Gr V\/b C>
y/ j^TIKKi%.
LrNDd 1
A SUNDAY-SCHOOL LESSON.
The report still goes round that the M.L.
Government will shortly dissolve Parliament and
go to the country with a “ vigorous railway
policy” and a big loan as part of its programme.
In other words, the Opposition keeps yelling “ Big
Loan ! ” in the ear of the public, with the idea
that the public will become so accustomed to hear-
ing it at last that the loan will come to pass of
itself.
According to the Bulimba Sunday - labor
case, it would appear that an obsolete Act is only
legitimately employed when it interferes with
workers. When it threatens vested interests—big
shipowners and the like—it has got to be treated
as repealed. Isn’t it something of a farce that a
man’s right to his Sunday’s rest should depend on
an ancient and doubtfully-worded Act, capable of
being twisted, as in this case ?
‘ ‘ Do not deprive Australians of the Right
of Appeal to the Privy Council,” is how the Aus-
tralian British groveller always puts it It sounds
very convincing when the thing is called a “ right,”
but more than half the rights in this world are not
worth preserving. One of the worst civil wars in
English history was fought by people whose chief
object was to deprive themselves of the right of
being hanged without trial, and they only got rid
of that right after half a-generation of butchery.
What the Russian Liberals are struggling against
now is the ri lit of being humped to Siberia on
any or no evidence. This world is full of awful
rights that can only be blasted away by dynamite.
The Thursday Island Jap. begins to show
his teeth. Last month one of them was being
arrested for indecent exposure in the main street,
when his compatriots mobbed the constable, who
had to be rescued by some whites. The Jap. was
charged with indecency and resisting the police,
and the whole body of Japanese thereupon an-
nounced that if the magistrate’s decision went
against them on the last charge no work would be
done for white men, and no Jap. would ship either
as diver, tender, or crew, on any lugger or boat
owned by white men. John Douglas fined Jap.
£1 and costs for the indecency ; and, for resisting
the police—he was discharged. The Little Brown
Man is master of Thursday Island ; and what he
says goes.
Wrixon, Sargood, Fitzgerald, M.L.C.,
Murray Smith, and other eminently right-think-
ing Victorians sent the Convention a long and
alarming petition about the proposal to “abolish
the right of the Queen’s Australian subjects to
appeal to Her Majesty,” and to “ deprive Austra-
lians of this right of approach to the sovereign
which all her other subjects possess,” and similar
Thomas-rot. It is curious that these heavy an-
cients can’t recollect that Australians have no
right of appeal to Her Majesty, and don’t “ ap-
proach ” that old lady at all—all they approach
is sundry stodgy old gentlemen of the Privy
Council, and, unless Her Majesty is there wearing
whiskers and disguised in pants and a coat, she
has nothing at all to do with the business.
Miles : “ When King Croesus showed
Solon his treasures that indigent but intelligent
gentleman simply remarked : ‘lf another should
come with better iron than you, he will possess
himself of all this gold.’ This comes to my
thought amid the brags about England’s riches.
If it is all based on the other fellow fighting for
you, what is the value? Introduce the Conscrip-
tion, and I will admit the English have some in-
stinct of what the world is about. Look how the
French Revolutionists, on their assignats, beat
all Europe. Bonaparte, from the Alps, points his
ragged soldiers to the rich Lombard plains and
says ‘Lads, help yourselves.’ Said Disraeli:
‘ England does not fear a second or third cam-
paign.’ Yes, she does. Not for money, but for
men.”
The ghost of Lyne’s great Lucknow blunder
still follows the N.S.W. Parliamentary Protec-
tionist party. Lately O’Sullivan and Hughes
went down to argue the matter out in O’Sullivan’s
electorate, and the vote of the meeting squashed
the O' man badly. When the Lucknow co. ap-
plied for exemption so as to get time to starve its
men into accepting reduced wages, the Reid Govt.,
in a moment of Unusual democratic feeling,
threatened to oppose the application. Then it
collapsed in its usual spineless way, and didn’t
oppose at all. But Lyin', instead of censuring it
for not carrying out its democratic idea, tried to
censure it for ever having the idea, and thereby
forced the democrats of the House to back up the
Government which they had been more than half-
inclined to kick over. And his follower, O’Sulli-
van, instead of burying the horrible mistake in
oblivion, went to defend it before the miners of
Captain s Flat, and had the luck to get away
without being rotten-egged.
President M‘Kinley replied promptly to
the wire of sympathy from Australian Premiers
on the destruction of the cruiser Maine in Havana
harbour, thus emphasising the fact that previous
omissions to acknowledge expressions of opinions
of Australian parties, Preetradeand Protectionist,
were in consequence of those opinions being the
interferences of outside, or foreign, powers in the
internal politics of the Republic.
The British Commission which has been
considering the downfall of the West Indies sugar
industry proposes that the trade shall be boosted
up by bounties and cash assistance in various
forms, and proposes the expenditure of -6580,000
in this direction within the next ten years. Pre-
mier Reid is wrecking the N.S.W. sugar industry
so as to be like Bull—the Freetrade Bull. And
this is how Bull is departing from the faith.
“MORNING REFLECTIONS,”—Street Sketch.
Australian : “ Federal Convention delegate
M'Millan, N.S.W., lectured here in Melb. last
Sunday afternoon on ‘National Life.’ An up-
standing-looking little man, as he faced pastor
Edgar’s crowd in Wesley Church ; but, alas ! what
a truncated, nerveless, half-hearted, half-hitting
speech! National Life! But all (to be Irish
for a moment) under the " ing of the Boun-
teous Mother Hen ! The chick is always to be
downy, never growing to the full-fledged bird.
Deplorable cant ! Our ‘National Life’ is to be
that of India, Singapore, Hongkong, Guiana,
Bechuanaland, Putney, and Little Pedlington.”
Premier George Reid had a refreshing
burst of Convention candor last week. With
his eyeglass fixed on Premier Turner he said : “It
was a mere waste of time for any hon. member
who represented N.S. Wales to stay any longer,
except that he was under a statutory duty to re-
main to the last and do his best to bring the Con-
stitution into a shape in which there might be
some chance of its acceptance.” The spectacle of
the N.S. Waders sticking to the job under these
circumstances is absolutely heroic.—
Their object so sublime
Is cheerful waste of time,
At sundry fetes on weekly dates
They vote the whisky prime ;
And, though they’d fain abstain,
Their duty’s to remain
And make the Federal,
Make the Federal,
Federal failure plain.
Those men from N.S. Wales,
Although their patience fails,
Must not despair, but take their share
Of Melbou rue cakes and ales.
The effort gives them pain,
But still they tax their brain
To make the Federal,
Make the Federal,
Federal failure plain.
The Manawatu private land-grant railway
co. (Maoriland) is engineering a lug agitation for
the purchase of its line by the State. Every land-
grant railway comes to that sooner or later. The
Manawatu line was begun by Grey’s dread-
ful boom ministry. Premier Hall handed
over the scrap of line and .£125,000
.worth of land (according to a low
paper-value estimate) to a private
’ co., which constructed the rail-
way and owns it to this day.
Its land-grant proved to be worth
between £1200,000 and £300,000,
so the State really made it a pre-
sent of about £3OOO for every mile
of line constructed—in other words,
it paid fully one-third of the cost.
The shindykit now wants to sell its
line and rolling stock and other pro-
perties, which are by no means so
new as they were, at their original
price with 10 per cent, added and keep
its land-grant all the same ; and if the
deal doesn’t come off the London deben-
ture-holders will, probably, have some un-
pleasant remarks to make about the beastli-
ness of the beastly kawliney.
The TEST.
The BEST!
How goeth the 31 (itch ?
Who winneth the lest ?
Granuma Still leadeth/J
And Billy Tea is Best.
Ask for BILLY TEA, and see that you get
the GENUINE ARTICLE.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture <& Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
E® 1 ” Sales Held at the A uction Jtoonis.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared
Waltkr Bradlev & Co., 324 George-st
Smoke
ouff
Chief
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.


A Gleam of Sanity.
At the time this issue went to press the Federal
Convention had just done an unusually wise and
patriotic thing, and was beginning, as usual, to
be sorry for it. On Monday Premier Turner pro-
posed that the Commonwealth should, absolutely
and compulsorily, take over the public debts of
the provinces, and that thereafter the provinces
should have no borrowing powers whatso-
ever. The proposal that the Commonwealth
should take over the debts was carried
by 25 votes against 8, so that a full
half of the Convention was. with Turner —
for the moment, anyhow. This proposal would
end all the ghastly trouble about distributing the
Federal surplus, for there would be none ; and it
would also end the trouble about the solvency of
the States, for, if they lost control over a certain
amount of revenue by surrendering their customs
and excise, they would also be relieved of about an
equal amount of expenditure. It would make the
Federation so much stronger ; the more points on
which Australia has a common interest the more
complete the union will be. The proposal doesn’t
raise the fiscal ghost in any way, for the Common-
wealth is left absolutely unfettered as to whether
it finds the necessary revenue to meet its obliga-
tions by direct or indirect taxation. A.nd the fact
that the proposal came from the province which
has the smallest debt in proportion to population
makes it look disinterested, anyhow. All the
same, when theN.S.W. delegates came back (most
of them were taking a day off at the time) Premier
Reid raised his voice in bitter objurgation.
The whole policy of the Foreign-trade crowd is to
make the obligations of the Commonwealth as
small as possible, while giving it the sole power to
impose customs and excise taxation, so that it may
drift into Freetrade simply because it feels no
need for customs revenue—in other words, one
great reason for not federating the debts is the
desire to commit the Commonwealth, if possible,
to the imported-shoddy policy. The reason, how-
ever, which Premier Reid assigned was that the
Commonwealth would be giving its guarantee to
the public creditor without getting anything in
return :
What became, then, of all those elaborate and eloquent
and laborious statements made by leading financial
authorities of the great gains that were to arise through
the conversion hereafter under the auspices of the Com-
monwealth? The bondholders would get the security
without having to pay anything for it. It would mean
hundreds of thousands to the Commonwealth. It would
mean millions to the bondholders.
Which isn’t much of a point at the best, for the
gains will obviously come along just the same by
the gradual conversion of the debts as they fall
due into a uniform Federal stock at lower interest.
All the same, when this issue went to press,
Forrest, of Westralia, and Symon, of S.A., had
weakly wobbled back on their first decision, and
the Convention was struggling to undo one of the
few sensible things it has done, and was ap-
parently making the best of its return journey
into the old bog of uncertainty.
“ The coal-hulk, Fortuna, sank in Sydney
harbour last night. The caretaker, Julius Caesar,
had barely time to escape ” —with his saddle-bags?
—“with his wife and three children.” Caesar
deserted by Fortuna ! — absit omen /
Most of the big Australian dailies are fear-
fully and wonderfully ignorant of foreign history
and geography. Brisbane Courier, for instance,
talks of Shanghai as a British port, and bases a
highly interesting theory on that assumption. Bub
when A. G. Taylor, after living all his life in
N.S.W., writes of Sydney as having been for over
a century “ the capital of Australia ” —a country
which never possessed a capital—almost anything
in the way of ignorance should be possible here.
Has Joey Carruthers quarrelled with the
N.S.W. Ministry? He made a vigorous and tel-
ling speech in the Convention in opposition to the
Oliver-Reid policy on the Riverine-railway ques-
tion, which utterance Reid made it his immediate
duty to denounce as a most ill-informed state-
ment. Despite his chief’s warning and direct re-
proof, Joey, together with the heavy-weight
Abbott, voted against Reid and the rest of the
N.S.W. men when a division was taken.
Chances are Q. Labor - member Andy
Dawson will not get that portfolio of “Mines ”
kindly assigned to him by the Man in the Street.
All that may be conceded is that Attorney-
General Byrnes suddenly began loving Dawson
like a brother, because he knew that D. has a safe
seat, and he hoped to cotton to D. and his sup-
posed eight followers by promising labor conces-
sions, in return for a generous kind of opposition
on easy points.
Few men in whatever station of life are
more sincerely mourned than Capt. G. H. Wil-
liams, for many years master of the Port Jackson
S.S. Co.’s steamer Brighton, who died last Friday
in St. Vincent’s Hospital, of pneumonia, after a
short illness, and was on Sunday interred in
Waverley cemetery in the presence of a large
gathering. The deceased was personally known
to thousands of Sydney citizens, whose goodwill
he had enlisted by his manly bearing and the
amiableness and honesty of his nature. In Capt.
Williams the company loses an employe of 25
years’ standing, who had carried for it passengers
totalling perhaps a million or two, and who in
many trying emergencies had never made a mis-
take.
The perpetual reconstructed Ministry of E.
Boodleland (alas ! there is a W. Boodleland, too,
nowadays) is now undergoing another course of
reconstruction. Home Secretary Tozer has become
Agent-General, “Agriculture” Thynne has re-
signed, and J. V. Chataway, junior, gets his billet.
Mackay, the typical slave-trade town of Niggerland,
is now represented by two Ministers of the Crown.
The Nigger Ministry ! “Mines” Philp takes Trea-
sury as well ; Dalrympleadds “Works”to “Edu-
cation ” ; W. H. Wilson resumes “Postmaster,”
with leadership of Council; Dickson, the oily and
garrulous, adds “Home Secretary” to “Rail-
ways ”; and old Nevermind is content to be Chief
Secretary only. Here is the cast at time of
writing:—
Chief Secretary, Premier Nelson.
Home Secretary vlus Railways, J. R. Dickson.
Treasurer pi us Mines, R. Philp.
Attorney-General, T. J. Byrnes.
Public Instruction plus Public Works, D. H. Dalrymple.
Lands, J. F. G. Foxton.
Agriculture, J. V. Chataway.
Postmaster and Upper House M.C., W. H. Wilson.
Without a valise, A. H. Barlow, banker and pietist.
Nelson has one more portfolio to give away—the
“ Mines,” now held by Philp, plus the Treasury.
If he’s wise he won’t give it away—he’ll keep it
for bait.
.R. E. O’Connor, in the Convention last
week, was weeping the familar weep about the
many sacrifices which N.S.W. was making in the
cause of Federation when Peacock asked him dis-
gustedly to name them. “ Dick ” O’Connor re-
plied, diplomatically, that they were too numer-
ous, and dodged the question. Pity that someone
doesn’t give a definite list of these “sacrifices,”
without any frills or hysterics, and put the matter
on a business basis.
Bill Harrington, a gold-miner, widely-
known and popular in the Far North, is dead.
Long ago, he proved himself the best pugilist of
his weight in England, but he was not “ Bill
Harrington ” then—he left his real name behind
in the land of his birth. On the night of 18th
Jan., he staggered into Croydon (N.Q.) police-
station, dying—he had got out of bed, not to
obtain medical assistance, but in order to get
someone to make his will —“ to do a good turn to
my dear friend, Jack Hamilton (M.P. for the dis-
trict), to whom I leave everything absolutely, be-
cause of our old association, and my dear friendship
for him. I hereby sign this last will and testa-
ment, knowing that I am dying, done - for,
cooked.” Which was just like Bill Harrington.
The bitter irony of Q.C. Nesbit’s imprison-
ment for contempt of court, in the person of James
Gordon, P.M., is that the said James was a junior-
partner in the one-time legal firm of Gordon,
Nesbit and Bright. He is younger brother of
John Hannah Gordon, Federal Conventionist and
late Chief Secretary of South Australia. Also,
Nesbit had much to do in getting Gordon ap-
pointed to the police-court bench, in the room of
his father-in-law, old Sammy Beddome. By the
way, The Bulletin does not profess to know any-
thing about the merits of the apparently serious
charges prefered by Nesbit against Gordon ; but
it does know that, for any man to sit in judgment
on a person who has brought such charges against
him, is a shocking exhibition of bad taste.
Alfred Deakin was lately asked as to the
truth of a paragraph that had appeared at inter-
vals as to his having written a book dealing with
revolutions. The last par. of the kind stated that
the book was about to be published. As a matter
of fact, he has written no such book, nor ever
thought of doing so. Indeed, he does not think
that any book on a historical subject of the kind
would be of any value to anybody, unless the
writer had access to documents and authorities
which a student in Australia would have no means
of consulting. The said book is a myth.
Watson’s Bay is now a dead-and-alive
little hamlet where one supposes Sunday drink-
selling must be a mainstay of the publicans. So
if, as alleged, the police darkly hinted at sup-
pression of Sunday-selling, and, on the other
hand, there was the formidable Truth to reckon
with, the unfortunate publican mixed up in the
current Norton prosecution was fairly between the
Sea and the Deep Devil.
Probably no other man down on his luck
in Maoriland would have kept his friends about
him as did poor Tom Bracken, who died in Dune-
din Hospital the other week from goitre. The
verra Scottish Dunedinites were appealed to on
more than one occasion on the Irish Bracken’s
behalf, and they never failed with their bawbees —
yet it is certain that for every man who had read
“ M'Gillivray ” or “Not Understood ” a score had
chortled over “ Paddy Murphy’s ’’ rollicking poli-
tical skits. Bracken was some few years in Par-
liament, but his most memorable political exploit
was the recitation of the verses “ Behave yoursel’
afore folk ” when the House was in a disorderly
mood.
Ed. Bulletin. —Some very Oirish gintle-
man wonders in the Consecrated Press why
Australia’s poets aren’t found at Mayoral recep-
tions, so that—begorra—“ fair maids might drop
roses at their feet.” But why should a poet go to
any town-hall? Firstly, the typical poet is a
modest man, and not a greasy pusher, to whom
personal advt. is life-breath. Also, the great
people of the town-halls are mostly glorified pub-
licans and butchers—diseased persons who have
spent all their days selling bad gin, or wading in
ordure at the abattoirs amid the shrieks of dying
swine. To such persons have the decoration and
sanitation of our cities been entrusted. Their para-
sites are to match.—A Gilt-Edged Poet.
One virtue of W. J. Lyne is that he is a
fighter through and through. It is a pity he can-
not see the Australian instead of the provincial
aspect of Federation. In Convention he slangs
Reid, Wise, Barton, or O’Connor with equal
readiness if they propose to give anything away on
behalf of N.S.W. Several times he has brought
Premier Reid to heel by means of a determined
vigor and straight hitting which he has never dis-
played to such purpose in N.S.W. Assembly. The
leader of N.S.W. Opposition has a supreme eon-
tempt for Ike Isaacs, who eternally reads from
law-books, and begins every sentence when not
quoting: “I can assure my hon. and learned
friend.”
SoftCa O'/as Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 i- per 14-dozen through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
UP TO DATE!
THAT’S WHERE I HAVE ALWAYS BEEN !
THAT’S WHERE I AM!!
THAT’S WHERE I INTEND TO STOP ! ! !
Up! Up!! Up!!! Up-to-Date !!!!
SO FAR AS...
BOOTS and SHOES
. . . ARE CONCERNED
YOU CAN’T HAVE BETTER THAN THE BEST!
AND I HAVE THE BEST FOOTWEAR ON EARTH!
THAT’S “BIG” TALK, ISN’T IT? BUT IT’S A FACT.
JOHN HUNTER
THE “ RECORD - BREAKER ”
IN THE BOOT BUSINESS,
City Boot Palace, George and Market Sts., City.
BRANCHES ALL OYER THE CITY, SUBURBS, AND TOWNS
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND.
i *#
«*>
‘V"‘V
v-^
\
fl fJT
$
<>
e^"
\\xt>
V
Tlxe Dunlop Pneumatic Tyro 00. Lta.,
486 ICEHTT STREET, S'ZDSnETT.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
The Distillers Co. (Lim.), Edinburgh,
claims to be the largest whisky corporation in
the world, having an annual output equal to about
14 quarts per head of the Australian population,
including infants and Rechabites. The well-known
brand of this corporation is D.C.L., and the duty
of every whisky-drinker is to see that he gets it —
sometimes. Much the same remark may have
been made in these columns with reference to other
whiskies. After applying numerous drinking tests
to the D.C.L. brand, Tub Bulletin feels its own
individual corporation warming towards theauthors
of this good work, and it believes that the letters
D.C.L. will hereafter be found engraved on its
red-covered soul. #
“System is the Life-Blood of Business.”
The national (ash Register
key
saves
_ >1
Pressure
on the
Brain
m
- IS .A. .
MONEY : SAVER
IN ANY
RETAIL STORE or HOTEL.
Prices - - £5 to £6B,
For Cash, or on Easy Monthly Payments,
We will Buy SECOND-HAND NATIONAL CASH
REGISTER TILLS, or will take them as part
payment for New Pattern Registers.
Write for Catalogue, or call at
Head Office: 393 George Street, Sydney.
IV. A. I/INGHAM,
General Manager for Australasia.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER REDUCED RATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
6d. per month for every <£l to <£lo
sd. per month for every pound over <£lo
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over <£so
£lOO and over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. KATER, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq . de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Sou tar', Accountant; W. C. B.Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors:—Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; Henry
. Grant, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world
Hank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackkllar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker, Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Coloniesor Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other bank's ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Money Column.
To Lend. Sums
FROM £lOO TO £50,000.
A T from 4 PER CENT., on Mortgage of FREEHOLD
and LEASEHOLD PROPERTIES, including C.P. and
H.L. Lands, for a fixed term, or redeemable by instal-
ments. Existing Mortgages paid off. MONEY LOAN ED
PRIVATELY on Stock, Shares, Machinery, Furniture,.
Revertionary Interests, and Second Mortgage.
All Persons desiring ASSISTANCE to PURCHASE
Farms, Orchards, Hotels, Businesses, &c., should apply
to us.
Pro. Notes Discounted, and all Financial Business
transacted. INVIOLABLE CONFIDENCE OBSERVED.
If desirous of BORROWING on any class of Security,
save time and expense by ascertaining our terms first.
LARGE SUMS SPECIALLY DESIRED.
Buxton Jun., & Co., Financial Brokers,
r 6 OASTLERBAGH STREET. SYDNEY.
El llOtt’S
INVESTORS’ 6UIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
The New NOISELESS KEROSENE GAS
&
STOVE,
“Jupiter.”
A wonderful Stove.
Converts kerosene into
gas and burns silently.
It has all the latest im-
provements. With its
cooking apparatus it
will ROAST, BAKE,
BOIL with one flame.
Price, 12/6 each. By
post 1/6 extra.
“ Jupiter ” 'burner
fitted to any stove.
“Primus ’’ Stoves, 9/6
each.
Send for catalogues.
EtRAWTDT BROS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES.
W- O- ELDBIDGE &c GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOltlt STltlii IOT, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post tram all Ike colonies promptly
attended to.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, & Agency
Company, Limited.
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1897 £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Es p, C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Assents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
npHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
-®- LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital £4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,710,464 13 1
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. ... 39,535 611
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
2,805,780
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir W. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tuckett, Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addison; Acling Manager: G. V. Shillinglaw; Acting
Accountant: VV. G. Sewell. South Australia (Adelaide),
with Branches throughout South Australia. Local Direc-
tor: John Bagot, Esq., J.P. ; Manager: J. G. Jennings;
Acting Manag'-r: T. A. Edmeades. New South Wales
(Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill. Local Director:
Hon. W. M‘Millan, M.L A. Manager: George Turnbull.
Western Australia (Perth), with Branches throughout
Western Australia. Local Directors: A. R. Waylen,
Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H. Amherst, M.L.C.
Manager: H. R. England. London Office: 123 Bishop-
gate-street Within, E.C. Manager :A. W. Cunningham.
The; royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP „ ... £385,875
RESERVE LIABILITY .. ... 246,050
RESERVE FUND .. .. 35,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—THE—
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 456,973 0 3
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,116,619.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A.. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq.; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F. I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in ail Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper ; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. £2,074,801 lOs.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thoit ley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J. P.
Inspectors: Win. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TL;> is noted for its Prompt
I ljlJ» vonjpaijy and Liberal Settlements.
™ United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital...£soo,ooo 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
ST., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address— Riemseil.
Code— Moreing & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
ClarKe & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE.
—and —
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, March 5, 2 p.
-Konoowarra, Wed., March 9, 5
Peregrine, Sat.', March 12, 2 p.
BV B
• M *
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Konoowarra, Wed., March 9, 5 p.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Maritta, Monday, March 7, 5 p.
Stock only.
FREMANTLE
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
>-Konoowarra, Wed., March 9, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, March 5, 2 p.m.
■ Barrahool, Tues., March 8, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, March 12, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, March 5, 2 p.m.
"Leura, Saturday, March 12, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALE PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via amerioa
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES_ MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.,
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
AND
—VIA —
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
"DESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
A* STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
4/V
GILFILLAN & MCCREERY
Assayers, Metallurgists,
oJJicc-4S/ ( Collins-st.,
MELBOURNE.
Melbourne Ore Testing Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEH & WOODS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\ Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. boCl ri)£.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burhidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELHOUJINE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properiies.
London Agent—B. It. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, Loudon E.C.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT I’IRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Allinga (from Melbourne)
Saturday, March 5.
S.S. Innamineka (from Melbourne)
Frida}', March 11.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Allinga (from Mel bourne)
Saturday, March 5.
S.S. Innaniincka(from Melb.)
Friday, March 11.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
March 12.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, Tuesday,
March 15.
Best <& Cheapest lloate to Goldfields .
G. S. YIJILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker § (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO —
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Bates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U- S. N. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
| SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
• AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger A ccornmodation, A t,tendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
! CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
I SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried-.
' First Saloon Fare—London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare —London, 116; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, M. 1 bourne; or
GEO. WILLS & CO.,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from CL4 to .UI7 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co's Own bin 'S
to Europe, Asia,' North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc., can lie prepaid in the colonies. "The-
S.S. P.R. Luitpold and following steamers will call at
Fremantle instead of Albany. J. MERGELL, General
Agent, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.


WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Ha,ppy is the _Man who has a Good Wife; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article—
Jk. Soyer’S Baking Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/0 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
liow Rates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
Wasbiijgtoi) N.SoCil£Co.,m’sp.s.,
3-00, Ea.ML.c3. 260 Pitt-street, Sydney;
Church-street, JParramatta..
AND AT
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
OF PIANOS IN
Tbc Fsij?St asjd Largest WareE>o(iS^
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .£35.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEIINE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC AT
NICHOLSON a CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDKTEY.
THE WORLD'S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
TTsii-fcoca. Typewriter «Sz Co.,
SYDNEY — II 4 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE—362 Collins Street.
PERTH — 71 Barrack Street.
BRISBANE- Webster Co.
ADELAIDE — Reeves & Co.
LAUNCESTON — Hedley Button.
Has No Ribbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper. London School Board has over 100 in Use.
Send for particulars of t ree Trial.
CORNETS.
F. BESSON &. CO.'S
Celebrated “ Prototype ” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per lilustr’n., i-H 7s 6d
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
227 Lit. Collins=st.,
Melbourne. n—i
Agent for F. BESSON & CO. throughout Australian colonies.
NOTICE TO TRAVELLERS.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
THIS FASHIONABLE PASTIME is now within the reach of all,
as we supply the most PERFECT INSTRUMENTS with the
Simplest Mechanism, at prices to suit everybody. The Latest are—
The VICTOR MAGAZINE POCKET CAMERA, for Plates;
takes pictures 2J x 1J ; fitted with two View Finders, Time
and Instantaneous Shutter. Price, 215. ; parcel post, 6d.
The DUPLEX, a Twin-Lens HAND CAMERA, with a full-
sized View-Finder, Time and Instantaneous Shutter: takes
plates 4Jin. x 3.}in. (Jp.) Price, 255. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. 2d., other Colonies 2s. 2d.
The EAWKEYE, a HAND CAMERA, taking Plates Sin
x 4in., and suitable for rough country travelling. It is fitted
with two View-Finders, Focussing Gauge, and Time and In-
stantaneous Shutter. Price, 70s. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. Bd., other Colonies, 3s. 2d.
HARRINGTON’S “ Amateur ” Developing and Printing
Outfit, suitable for any Camera up to sin. x 4in. Price
12s. 6d. Parcel post, N.S.W. 2s. 2d., to other Colonies 4s. 2d!
DRY PLATES.— “ VICTOR,” per packet of 2doz., Is. 3d. :
for “DUPLEX,” per packet ldoz., Is. 3d.; for “HAWK-
EYE,” per packet ldoz., 2s.
Directions with each Camera. We guarantee purchasers against
failure if our simple instructions are carried out.
A
Snap-
Shot.
/A
y!'
HARRIHGTON & CO., LTD.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
... MERCHANTS,
OS KlKfGr STREET,
See Our Advertisement on Society A’uye.
Cooling. Sparhiliug. Fresh.
VELTEN LA6ER.
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOIXT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
HIfICROBERTSOD’S CHMK HI
Quality and Flavor : SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
its use
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath,
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
o
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Full Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists Sc Stores.
Works:
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
ADAMS’S MARBLE BSR, SYDNEY.
SSI
mm
m
m
m
m
/
:
M
M
)
One of the Most Beautiful
Architectural Sights
to he seen in Australia.
The
Finest Paintings!
The Most
Handsome Decorations!
The Most
Superb Carvings!
Massive and Elegant Marble
Columns, etc.
WM. J. ADAMS,
Tel. 728. Manager.
a
A\geats
0
O
TobaccoG 9
TRY
Ifroriiatic
IRO-iLID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, & 0
JOHN FOWLER & CO (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Also Representative for the engine!” C ° L ° NIAL “““


SPORTING NOTIONS.
Thirty-six thousand, with .£1450 takings, on
Saturday last, made a record for the Sydney cricket
ground.
The play was not in keeping with the atten-
dance,. being singularly devoid of incident, with the
exception of the dismissal of Ranji after scoring two runs,
when he was cleverly caught by Sid Gregory at extra
mid-off. And this after he had, as usual, come out gaily
swinging his bat a, la Indian club.
. Jones’s bowling in the Englishmen’s first
inni rigs of the last test-match was a great performance.
At close of play on Saturday his average was 2 for 71. On
Monday Hirst, Briggs, Mason, and Richardson were dis-
posed of for 11 runs off his bowling. Briggs had two
shows, as the first time the ball touched the leg stump
without knocking the bail off, but the second ball knocked
the stump out of the ground.
* • * *
Howell dragged his leg painfully, and, naturally
enough, bowled some very soft stuff until relieved by
Trumble. If the selection committee knew Howell to be
so bad, why did they pick him ?
• • * *
When Bulletin went to press in the thick of it
—this paper always manages to go to press in the thick
*t—the final test-match hovered in the balance ; but
the balance swung against the home crowd. The
English won the toss, for once, and made 335 ; then Aus-
tralia followed with 239—nearly 100 behind. At time of
writing, the English second innings stood : Three for 84 —
with MacLaren out for a duck, and Ranji ditto for 12, so
matters were not unhopeful for Australia.
• • * *
Compton : “ Yes, to undertake articles on cur-
rent fixtures is fatal to success in the cricket-field.
Brockwell, who came out in ’94-5 with an average 25 or 30
ahead of all the other English bats, failed utterly in Aus-
tralia while under contract to write an account of the
tour for Stead’s Review. This time Ranji, who is also
grinding out cricket copy for the voracious Stead, has
failed dismally to perform according to his English stand-
ing. Now Iredale, who began the season better
than any other Australian player, wrote Star copy all
through it, and ends it by being publicly regarded as un-
fit for inclusion in the test team. The coincidence is
striking, but intelligible enough. The frame of mind
necessary for the analysis of muscular triumphs is rarely
that favorable for their achievement. The successful
player is the specialist—a player and nothing else. To the
extent that he dabbles with the press he breaks down his
specialisation. He becomes a critic as well as a per-
former. The two r6les are irreconcilable and his per-
formance suffers. And the good performer isn’t generally
a good critic either—he finds his new environment too
subtle and uncertain. Success on the turf is the poorest
guarantee for success with the ink-bottle. The pen is
flightier than the sward.
“ Isn’t it time cricket averages were done away
with? As guides to individual prowess they are of no
account. Apart from the unfair way in which they dis-
criminate against leading bats (who get ‘out’ nearly
every time), their grading of first-class men is a matter of
pure chance. Take the averages of the present Eng.
team. On last year’s Eng. averages, Druce is the best
man in it. YVainwright, Stoddart and Mason are better
men than Storer. In the first match of the tour
M‘l.aren, fresh from the sea, had the luck to make a duck.
Ranji fluked up 180 odd. MacLaren has never caught up
that long start in the averages, and, at the tour-end, will
probably figure as second on the list. But which has been
most feared ? The evil of the system is that it makes
men leave off playing for their side and play • for their
average.’ From the ‘ noble-sport’ standpoint, it is pain-
ful to see a good bat left in at the end with a duffer,
shirking the bowling, taking no risks, and praying fora
catastrophe to overtake his companion, and leave him
with a ‘ not-out ’ wherewith to water his figures.”
• * • *
Geo. Giffen demanded £25, and S.A.C.A.
offered him £2O, as exes, in the recent shield contests.
The extra £5 possibly cost S.A. the trophy, but S.A.
cricketers unanimously support the Association, which is
in low water as regards funds.
* * • *
“ Rats ” Noble may explain his method of
“ curving or curling the ball in the air” until he is black
in the face, but, all the same, the artillery authorities will
assure you that to make a sphere thus alter its course is a
mathematical impossibility.
• * • *
Cricket item from Sydney Evening News :
“On March 15, 1877, a fortnight before Clem Hill was
born, the first test-match on level terms between England
and Australia was begun at Melbourne.” The cricketers’
Hegira-C. Hill.
• • * *
The lesson of the test-matches will possibly be
taken to heart by some of the wealthy English cricket
clubs, and we may hear of professional bowlers being
engaged to practise on matting-covered asphalt wickets
during the winter months. But, although the hardness
of Australian wickets may be accountable for the extra
“ break ” which Noble and co. have learned to put into
their deliveries, no amount of practice on the part of
Richardsons, Hirsts and Briggses will ever make them as
lean, lithe, and likely-looking bowlers as the Australian
boys who are now advancing to the attack in battalions.
Richardson is manifestly hampered by his increasing
bulk ; nuggety Hirst strains his broad, round back in
the effort to bowl curly balls. The best English bowler
ever seen out here was the lissom Lohmann, and Aus-
tralia will ere long be producing 10 cricketers of Loh-
mann’s stamp to every one who can avoid getting fat in
England. Climate in the one place and beer in the other
make for the superiority of Australian bowling.
* m • *
If Ranji publishes his Australian impressions in
full they should prove interesting reading. Consequent
upon a win at Kensington on Saturday, he sent a message
to the jockey that he would be given a fiver if he called
round in the evening. A hulking horsey person weighing
about 12st. duly called and drew a fiver from the innocent
Indian potentate, but his back was hardly out of sight
when the real jockey turned up. Ranji couldn’t see it at
first, but he eventually ladled out another fiver, and any
quantity of langwidge. At the time of writing, the full
strength of Sydney’s detective-force were on the trail of
the 12-stoner.
* • • •
Aurum won his V.R.C. Leger in fast time,
3min. 12sec., as Legers go. Nevertheless, it was sseo.
slower than The Officer’s time last year, and only 1$ seo.
better than Preston’s. The three smartest contests for
this old-established classio race have happened within
the last four years.
There were two very fast goes on Saturday.
Amiable’s lrnin. 14sec. beat the previous Newmarket
record, which was Cranbrook’s : also Battalion ran the
miles for the Essendon Stakes in Caulfield Cup time.
Ikey Mo, who was almost persuaded to buy
Amiable a fortnight before the race, must have cursed his
luck when Fielder's mare brought off the carefully pre-
pared coup. Even on the morning of the event Amiable
provided some more “ rumor” by going back to 10 to 1 in
the betting, whereupon a number of punters took the
tempting odds, and the cash-layers consequently suffered
the fate of Alf. Joseph and all the other early-bird
bookies. No favorite is so bad for Ikey (when it wins) as
the favorite that gets knocked back at the eleventh hour
and comes again just before the start.
Resolute’s admirers will not admit that the
horse ran up to his best recent “ form ” in the Newmarket
Handicap, for although he finished fourth, a neck behind
the third placer, he was whipped all the way down the
straight. But Amiable is probably too fast for Resolute
at any time, luck and conditions being equal. She is a
puffeck lydy among Australian mares, and no one trying
to pick a Newmarket winner on appearances in the pad-
dock could get away from her superior looks as regards
quality ” and style. A daughter of dandy Lochiel, the
black Amiable has Prince Charlie for a grand-dad. The
comparative fleetness of great horses who belong to
different turf periods is merely a matter for idle specula-
tion, but, as far as anything can be proved by old racing-
calendars, Prince Charlie is proved to have been the flier
of the century'. And Lochiel, without a doubt, is the
only worthy son of his gigantio sire, and transmitter of
the family features.
• • • *
Four absolute first-favorites got home at Flem-
ington on Saturday, and the big race fell to the second-
favorite, who carried more coin than anything else.
• * * *
Reaper and Cabin Boy, who ran second and
third in the Newmarket Handicap, are by Gozo. First
and second in the Melbourne Cup, and second and third
in the Newmarket, is great going for Mr. Smith’s sire.
• • * »
Mr. “ Teddy ” Knight, of Sydney, who bought
Loch Leigh about a week before the Anniversary Handi-
cap, and won a hatful of money when the horse pulled off
the race, js said to have made another and bigger coup
over Amiable’s win of the Newmarket. Report says
Knight bought the mare just before the race for £2500,
with some of the long-priced bets thrown in, in addition
to which he put another £2OOO on.
* * * •
Amiable is now spoken of as a likely candidate
for English honors. With this deporting of our best
horses must begin the decline of the Australian thorough-
bred. What a quintette for Australia to lose in Sir
Modred, Trenton, Carbine, Newhaven, and Aurum !
• * * *
The fact of Mr. “ Tom” Watson accepting the
post of starter at Brighton, Sydney, looks as though the
pretty little course has at last made a start in the right
direction. A weekly trot for a decent stake will give that
much-neglected sport a needed fillip.
• * * *
Mayday, a mare carefully kept away from the
vulgar gaze, was sent on a winning mission at Egmont
(M.L.), the other day, when her connections, instead of
piling on their money and giving the show away, merely
machined £4. Div., £B2 12s. for each ticket. Tote-
bettors invariably keep off a prad whose owner doesn’t
plank down his fifties or hundreds.
* * *
Trotting in Maoriland has improved greatly of
late, and big prizes are being offered. If Mr. Buckland
brings champion Fritz across from Sydneyside, as pro-
posed, next season (writes a Bulletin correspondent) four
or five animals will likely be found to start off the same
mark with him.
* * * *
M.L. bookies still clamoring unsuccessfully for
the right to compete in course enclosures against the tote.
Wellington R.C. licensed them for orre meeting, but with-
drew the concession at next gathering because Mo laid
tote instead of straight-out odds. Clubs are wise in keep-
ing the crowd at arm’s length ; the machine provides the
stakes and satisfies the public.
• • * *
Maoriland racing-clubs are now beginning to sib
down hard on owners and trainers who show unpunc-
tuality in the payment of nominations, &c. —those who
wire entries without the cash, and those who pay with
worthless cheques. The forfeit-list in the official calendar
is now a formidable affair, thousands being due by impe-
cunious sports who have been racing “on the never.”
The “ deduct it if I win ” system is at last being abolished,
* * * *
A New Plymouth (Taranaki, M.L.)parson para-
lysed his congregation in a recent sermon on gambling
by saying that, personally, he was not one who entirely-
disbelieved in a man putting a pound on a horse if he owed!
no man anything and could well-afford it!!
• » • **
Poor old Robinson Crusoe, who gained his name
ay being saved from a watery grave, when journeying
rom Sydney to Melbourne, in Sept., 1876, lately died in
M.L., aged 25. A good performer himself, he begot even
better stock—-Navigator, Trident, Malua, The Sailor Prince
and La Tosca were among the best of his offspring. In
particular, Crusoe mares have thrown some of the most
noted of our latter-day runners.
• • • •
Cinderella, the recent championN.S. W. “pony,”'
has already made her mark in India, having, in a handi-
cap at Calcutta, carried 9st. to victory, beating Tom (who'
was second for this year’s Viceroy’s Cup) and the English,
champion, Sprightly, who started an odds-on favorite for
same race, but ran nowhere. Redavni, another N.S.W.
cast-off, has also landed several good stakes for his new
owner ; as his form was but mediocre here, the standard
of Indian racing cannot be very high.
* * • •
The turf in England may be comparatively
respectable all the same, a London paper suggests :
“ The starting-gate is never likely to become popular
with jockeys. The difficulties whioh combine against
* doing a shunt at the start ’ are almost insuperable.”
• • * *
Prof. Shaler, of Harvard University, U.S.A.„
declares in print that the difference between British and
Yankee horses is as well marked as the difference between
the typical John Bull and Brother Jonathan. Also, that
if 1000 horses of each country were boxed, a trained
observer would separate them out into two herds with
less than 2 per cent, of error.
* * * *
Australia wee|is, for all her boxers are deserting
her. Fitz. now claims Yankeeland, and “ Jim ” Richard-
son now signs himself as of Honolulu.
* * » *
Steve O’Donnell, at latest, challenged any man
in England, amongst the preferred being poor old Jemi
Smith and the recently-bsaten Dan Creedon.
* * * •
From all accounts, Paddy Slavin’s mate ate
Klondyke holds open a three-bushel sack, whilst the Aus-
tralian shovels in the nuggets.
* * • *
Ex-Young Pluto, the clever, colored Yankee
lad who, ten years or so ago, fought three draws with
Griffo, one with the raw-’uns, was in Sydney this week en
route for Klondyke. Pluto struck it rather rich in Wes-
tralia a few years back, and has had sense enough to hang
on to his money.
* * * *
Corbett’s last advertising ad. in the Yankee
press : If Fitzsimmons will meet him, he offers £2OO when
Fitz signs articles, £2OO when he steps into the ring, £2OO
if Fitz is still going at ten rounds, and another £2OO if
Fitz should beat him. Fitz replies: “No terms until youi
meet and beat Maher.”
• * * *
Paddy Gorman, a glutton for punishment, and!
one of the first of the Australian boxers who made des-
cent upon the States, is still in active service. Paddy,,
when in Sydney, had a growth on the forehead, which
settled down into a large tumor in America. Paddy went
to a doctor to have it removed. “Will you take an
anaesthetic?” asked the doctor. “No,” replied Paddy,,
thinking the doc. meant some sort of queer Yankee
drink, “ I don’t take anything just now, but I’ll smoke,,
if you don’t mind.” And he calmly smoked a cigar whilst
the doctor hacked out a lump as big as a good-sized,
orange.
* • • •
“It do emeuse me de lettaires I get ahdrest
‘Mister Mons Victorr.’ Dey tink Mons my Chreestiam
nom 1 ’’
• * * *
A Russian scientist points out that no amount of
exercise will develop muscle in a body that isn’t naturally
strong. Which explains the absurdly unmuscular ap-
pearance of many young men who call themselves ama-
teur athletes. By a thoughtful rule of Providence the'
desire to make muscle is mostly confined to pallid youths
who hang around the riverside in sweaters and talk of
their “ condition.” They pull a boat and run a mile
before breakfast, and use the dumb-bells religiously,
whilst fat man Oscar Wilde, capable of knocking out any
six of the Sim Tappertits if he gave his.mind to athletics,
is content to figure as an apostle of laziness.
The “golf-hand” is beginning to trouble the
English fashionables. “ Thickened wrist, enlarged
fingers, and palm hard as a rock.”^
S.A. Cyclists’ League meeting, concluded on
Feb. 19, brought a profit of £2oo—refreshing, considering
the falling-off in public interest. In winning the Adelaide
Wheel Race of two miles, Walnedid the distance in 4min.
16jSec. ; his sprinting in the last one and a-half laps was
equal to Martin’s famous effort when he downed Lesnaon
the same track over a year ago. Walne covered the last
461vds. in 28sec. Porta surprised everyone by a brilliant
effort which placed him first in the 5-miles Australian
Championship. At one time it looked a good thing for
Barden, but the Englishman collapsed just when his
chance looked promising—a habit of his, by the way.
» * * *
Amusing to read in all Adelaide dailies that, at
the recent S.A. cycling races, “ betting was entirely sup-
pressed.” Great Abraham ! People in the grand-stand
(writes a Bulletin correspondent) were at times blocked
from seeing the finishes through the array of broken
noses on the grass in front. All the old familiar tote-
runners and commission-agents were there, openly calling
the odds. Only one official—the League secretary—has
power to eject Cohen and co., and industrious touts
quickly gave warning when that official came along.
“ With betting strictly prohibited, the meeting passed off
successfully,” says S.A. Register. One of the best sprints
of the last day was provided by a bookie, who made for
the city with his bag, followed by yelling backers, who
downed him after he had cut out a half-mile in 2min. 2sec.
The only case of betting-suppression during the meeting.
• » • *
Distinguished person to interviewer, 50 years
hence : “ Yes, sir, I consider that I owe my long life
entirely to the circumstance that I never rode a bike.”
* ♦ * *
Talmage, the turrible apostle of everything
cheerful and expensive, is a barracker for the bicycle as
long as it rolls in the right direction — i.e., “toward place
of business, toward good recreation, toward usefulness,
toward places of divine worship, and never toward im-
morality or Sabbath desecration.” Consequently, Tal-
mage’s blessing on the bike is, as a rule, rendered inaud-
ible by the rumbling of his bitter Sunday' curse.
• • • *
The latest device for old-world cycling-record
smashers is a V-shaped shield attached to the rear of the
pacing-machines. In this the hero rides sheltered not
only from front-air pressure but from any lateral breezes.
To retain feminine interest, the wind-shield stops about
3ft. from the ground, allowing the ponderous calves of
the cyclist to be seen in all their glorv.
• * • •
According to London Globe, the Chicago police
have been instructed to fire upon scorchers who refuse to
pull up when ordered.
• • • •
8.0. : “ A brutal spectacle, beside which human
flagellation is an inviting drawing-room entertainment, is
associated with the aristocratic English sport of stag-
hunting, now fairly acclimatised with Australia’s Naicest.
At the beginning of the season the young dogs are
“ blooded ” : an unfortunate stag is tied to a fence, while
the crowd (or their agents) who participate in the noble
sport sool on the tykes and allow the wretched animal
to be slowly torn to pieces. And the police take no
notice.
Black Brothers, squatters at Noorat, Vic.,
besides losing grass by the thousand acres, had
over 100 miles of fencing burnt. Mackinnons,
near Terang, and David Mitchell, Melba’s father,
likewise had a paltry four or five thousand acres
singed. Which shows who owns the land — the
squatters or the people.
A North Queensland constable was nearly
being suffielded the other day for an alleged assault
onthelocal priest’s servant. Thechargefell through,
however, and accused was cheered when the bench
discharged him without a stain on his character.
The good father testified that he saw the constable
and the girl in a compromising position at the
vestry-door of his church. He had passed the
church and did not hear any noise, but “ went
back to look round the church because he saw the
dog looking in that direction and wagging his
tail ! ” The dog, however, was not called as a
witness, so it is unknown what he saw to wag his
ecstatic tail at —the gay dog!
Only three Westralians have so far opened
their mouths in the Convention, Forrest, Leake,
and James. It is not yet known for certain
whether the others breathe. On the discussion
regarding the special financial concessions to Wes-
tralia the unusual spectacle was seen of an opposi-
tion leader, in the person of the piratical-looking
Leake, declaring that the country had an overflow-
ing treasury. Leake took an aggressively opposite
view to that of “King ” Forrest on this question
and his uncompromising assertions brought to
mind the Westralian joke that if Leake didn’t
behave himself the Premier would depose him from
the leadership of the Opposition.
“ Paddy ” M’Caughan’s libel - action
against Melb. Argus will, no doubt, reach back
as far as three years ago for evidence of alleged
malice. It was in ’95 that “ Paddy ” objected
to a “Passing Show” notice in connection
with a famous practical joke which, according to
the Argus humorist, had been played upon the
massive son of Erin. As a matter of fact,
M’Caughan had taken a hand in playing the joke
upon another man. He called at the Argus office
to ask for a correction of the mis-statement, and
he got it—in verse. Thereafter sundry allusions
to Paddy and his distinctive hat, white spats, &c.,
popped up in the “Passing Show” column at
intervals, and Paddy all the time was a volcano
waiting a suitable opportunity to erupt. At last
he came in for some more verse of a boraltian
character, whereupon he issued his writ.
M‘Caughan v. the Argus promises to be a beauti-
ful matter for legal argument re “fair comment.”
Does the plaintiff’s ornate attire (he once figured
as “The Olderfleet ” in a Bulletin drawing by
George Ashton) and his constant presence on the
Melb. “ Block ” make a public man of him, or is
he a private citizen who might have been taken
seriously by his friends, acquaintances, and ob-
servers in general but for bis ludicrous appear-
ance as a subject for the daily newspaper’s little
local jokes ? This is a point apart from the poli-
tical question whether Gov. Brassey’s fancy-ball
(where M'Caughan was singled out for special
allusion in the rhyming Argus) is to be reckoned
a public or a private gathering. And, if public,
why and wherefore ?
J.D., to The Bulletin :
Over 40,000 bushels of apples have been frizzled in Tas-
mania’s recent fires, and dozens of struggling fruit-
growers have been rendered homeless and hopeless. The
worst fires happened in Huon region, and in no other
province would such a closely-settled district have been
devastated. But the dreamful Tassie will keep on working
the same old fruit-patch year after year, decade after de-
cade, taking no thought of the wilderness of dry grass and
scrub which chokes his bye-ways, infests his fences and
his hedges, and encroaches on his apple-patch when he
isn’t looking. He might sometimes have a dreamy sort
of whim that it would be as well if somebody would come
along and clear all the rubbish away, but, as it has been
there as long as he can remember, and doesn’t belong to
him, he just lets it rip, pegs away in his little apple-patch,
and trusts to Providence. Then, when a few hot days
arrive, and somebody drops a match, or some boys try
to smoke a rabbit out of a hollow log, a big blaze comes,
and he gathers up his belongings in a tired and perfunc-
tory manner, and wades sedately into the river and splashes
water over his family. When he finds his little apple
or raspberry patch has been consumed, and his cows and
pigs, and horses cooked, and most of his family badly
singed, he begins to wonder how' long it is since he heard
of a bush-fire in those parts, and reckons it would give a
man a better chance if they happened oftener than once
in 50 years or so, and weren’t such unusual visitors that
the oldest inhabitant forgets their mode of procedure
and can give no advice as to their reception. After which
he takes whatever charity will give in the way of tucker
and clothes, and accepts all the Government will offer
in the shape of new stock, starts once more in the same
apple-patch, and allows the surrounding vegetation to
get ahead of him in the same old way, telling himself
that another bush-fire will not happen in his life-time,
and that posterity may look after itself and put out its
own fire as its fathers did before it.
R. C. Protin, the European cycling celebrity,
has an enviable record as a successful racing cyclist. The
record for three months of this sterling rider of the
Dunlop-tyred “ Swift” machine
May 9. International 800-metre Race, Belgium—lst.
'May 9. „ 2000 „ „ Ist.
May 15. Beat Jaap Eden in two heats.
May 23. International Tandem Race, Brussells (Protin
and Fisher—lst.
July 18. One Mile Scratch Race at Brussells (Prix du
Chateau) —Ist.
July 22. One Mile ditto (Prix du Roi)—lst.
July 25. Half-mile ditto, for Prix de Matadi—lst.
Aug. 9. 1200 metres Scratch Race, Antwerp, for the
Grand Prix du Veldrome —Ist.
Aug. 18. Grand Prix D’Ostend, at Ostend—lst.
Aug. 23. English, Italian, French and Belgian Match, at
Ostend —lst.
Aug. 29. 1200 metres Scratch Race for the Prix de
L’Anneau D’Or, Brussells—lst.
Aug. 29. Quarter-mile Scratch Race for the Grand Race
Prix National, at Brussells—lst.*
• • * •
Beeston-Humber and Swift riders took £2BO out
of 1350 at the last Adelaide meeting. Walne’s competi-
tion record of two miles in 4min. 16sec., when he won the
Adelaide Wheel Race of £lOO on a Dunlop-tyred Swift, is
his most startling performance up to date.*
* * * •
The Austral Cycle Agency has hired the Dunlop
Tyre pacing-team of 29 men to lower existing Australian
records. The team is training at present on Sydney
Cricket Ground, and the pace-followers are such first-class
talent as Walne, Barden, Elliott, Green, Megson, Don
Walker, and Gargurevich, mounted on Dunlop-tyred
Swifts and Beeston-Humbers.
* * * *
The betting on the final test-match was pretty
even in Wolfe’s Schnapps £5O competition. 17,084
backed the Australians, and 16,216 the Ranjians. Result
will be published immediately.*
* * * *
Piles.— Pamphlet on Sharp’s new “ Can-
nalin ” treatment, for home cure without opera-
tion, sent free to any colony from the dep6t, 257
George-st., Sydney. References allowed to
prominent people cured after years of suffering.*
RED BIRD
Published in the Interests of the Goold Bicycle Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch—64 King St., Sydney.
.Agents and )
Depots j
Everywhere.
Agents and I
Depots )
Everywhere*
We are the largest and most experienced cycle-
manufacturers represented by a direct branch in Aus-
tralia ; therefore, we can make it very interesting for
agents and riders. Direct supply (no dealers’ and
importers’ profits to pay) makes it possible for us to
give the best value in Australia.
Examine our new RED BIRD, RUBY RIM, and
BLAOK BIRD Cycles for yourself. They will speak
for themselves. Prices—£26 I Os., £2l, £l6 10s.
An agent is known by the wheel he sells, therefore
it will pay you to secure the acknowledged peer of all
—“ the wheel of high degree.”
There is gold in the “ Red Bird” both for agents
and riders.
Gold ! Gold ! Gold ! Gold !
Molten, graven, hammered and rolled,
Bright and yellow, hard and cold,
Hard to get and heavy to hold.
Nickel steel the strongest, toughest, and most
endurable material of its kind yet discovered.
“ Red Bird ” frames are constructed of nickel steel.
Every “ Red Bird ” has improvements of its own to
make it valuable to riders. The result speaks for itself.
There are a few people who still insist, in spite of
our successes, that all wheels are alike, and that our
wheel is not very different from others. But —they
have never ridden the “Red. Bird.” , „
The secret tempering l process which all “ Red Bird
frames undergo makes our wheel the strongest on
earth. You can’t break our frames with a club.
A perfect bearing-chain is the Wilson chain, used
on all our wheels. Radically different in construction
from any other chain in use, possessing the only prac-
tical hardened rivets—in itself a positive proof against
wear—cut absolutely perfect in pitch, it stands un-
rivalled to-day among the bicycle-chains of the world.
The Wilson chain is one of the many features that
have made our bicycles celebrated for their easy
running qualities and general excellence.
The difference between the Red Bird cycle and
other makes is that on the former it seems like run-
ning down hill all the time.
The strength of the “Red Bird” cycles is pro-
verbial. Their nickel steel frames have made their
name celebrated the world over, and they have been
styled by riders and mechanical experts as ihe “ solid
Red Bird.
HUMBER CYCLES (America)
reduced.
Lady’s
G-ent s
£
26
25
“These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at our Beeston Works, and are of the MOST APPROVED AMERICAN DESIGN. The Workmanship and Materials are of the Highest Quality, and we give tb 0
SAME GUARANTEE as with the BEESTON MACHINES.” F
COUNTRY AGENTS WANTED.
The AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., 45 York-street, Sydney.


How to Select a Good Bicycle
Is an Important Question.
At our Depots we will be glad to show you why
T . h . e Massey=Harris Cycle
Is the One to Choose, or you can get our Catalogue direct
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Establishes
1847.
Australasian Branch: 163-169 William.st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots : 294 Bourke Street, Melbourne; 885 George Street, Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
Dr. Leeper (Melb.) says in re. the New
Guinea bishopric, that the presence of a bishop
has always a stimulating influence on mission-
work in a new country. Quite likely ! It has
also a stimulating inference on the heathen occa-
sionly. Roast bishop should make better—because
fatter— eating than mere plain roast missionary.
Queensland’s island gaol at St. Helena,
has just turned out a case of the disembowelment
of Warder Henry Dodd by a sullen, lean con-
sumptive prisoner, William Archer. No row, no
words; prisoner was being let through a gate
from one yard to another by Dodd, when he
buried his knife (he was a tailor’s cutter in one of
the workshops) where Ehud, in the name of the
Lord, smote Eglon, king of Moab. Dodd is dead
and Archer is charged with murder.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Shipping.
H)‘|luiraith, fH‘Eacharn & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotaiions, apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Genuine Greener G UNS and
RIFLES
Can now be obtained through all respectable Australian
dealers, and bear the W. W. GREENER name and marks
—proofs positive of Quality and Workmanship. Prices
from 10 to 80 guineas. Special attention to individual
requirements. Address your enquiries to—
W. W. GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney; or to
C. W. BUCKLANG, Vic. Rep., 16 Curral-road, Elstem-
wick, Melbourne.
Here To-d.ay!
Yesterday!
and To-morrow !
•WE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
'' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machfnes that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL.
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
&3T Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is " THE CRESCENT," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
** Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Prendergasfc, M.P., is organising Melb.
Corporation laborers, with a view to getting the
contract-system abolished in the great sweater
corporation. Good prospect of success, 3000 rate-
payers having petitioned for the change. G. M.
is busy distributing London County Council facts
and experiences among the unwilling councillors.
CRICKET.
Final Test (Hatch.
The Wolfe’s Schnapps
£5O Prize Competition
closed with 33,300
Coupons.
17,084
Selected the Australian Team.
16,216
Selected the English Team.
These Figures do not include informal
Coupons, which numbered many thousands.
All the selections were handed to the Manager
of the Sydney Sydney Daily Telegraph on
FRIDAY.
Sydney,
25th February, ’9B.
Received from Messrs. M. Moss & Co.
17,084 Australian and 16,216 English Selec-
tions for the Wolfe’s Schnapps’ =£so Cricket
Competition.
A. LANGAN,
For Daily Telegrbph Co., Ltd.
THE NAMES OF WINNERS WILL BE
PUBLISHED IN THIS PAPER AS
SOON AS POSSIBLE AFTER TERMI-
NATION OF THE MATCH.
WOLFE’S
THE ONLY REAL
SCHNAPPS.
THE PUREST STIMULANT IN THE
WORLD.
“Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Go-Lightly Kind).
Manttf. by the Ames & Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an i i an p p d'i a i
Duplicate parts always in stock. lIVI rE. tl IMl_.
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia:
J. F. MCDERMOTT,
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
UJolf American High flrt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. O" Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
ft
Mack ltn
HENLEY
GBJMLEY
QUADRA NT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable
These offer the greatest variety to be found in'any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
‘DOWBXDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
MAD AMI AX.SANI SINGS
The PRAISES of MINERVA.
t '->s
I
i*§fr
4\\
W
m
a
<.• . '
• ~'r/
•» • r
I* _
MADAME ALBANI, QUEEN OF SONG, THE FRIEND OF HER MOST GRACIOUS MAJESTY QUEEN
VICTORIA, AND THE FAVORITE OF ALL EUROPE AND AMERICA, WRITES IN PRAISE OF
MINERVA TOILET AND MEDICINAL SOAP AS FOLLOWS:—
“ Hotel Australia,
“February 23, 1898.
“1 am much obliged for the sample
of Minerva Soap. lam very much
pleased with it, and I consider that it is
all that you claim for it. It is
most excellent in every way.
“E. ALBANI GYE.”
The Virtues of Minerva Soap,
to which Madame Albani specially refers when she says that
It is all that is claimed for it,
embrace its exquisite perfections as a Toilet Soap and its rare medicinal properties.
MINEEVA SOAP
is a Pure Soap, with a natural white color, and the delicate aroma it possesses is the
result of its rare balsamic and antiseptic properties. Manufactured in the United
States, in the city, indeed, of Madame Albani’s adoption, it is at once the most
elegant and the very purest of all soaps produced.
all chemists.
-
Samples Free on Application, or will b©v
direct from the Sydney Depot, 56 Margaret-street.


The best preparation for preserving,
restoring, and beautifying the hair Is
Ayer’s ♦ *
Hair Vigor.
It keeps the scalp free from dandruff,
heals troublesome humors, and pre-
vents the hair from falling out. When
the hair becomes dry, thin, faded, or
gray, it restores the original color and
texture and promotes a new and vig-
orous growth. Wherever used, Ayer’s
Hair Vigor supplants all other dress-
ings, and becomes at once the favorite
•with ladies and gentlemen alike.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass. ,o.S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World's Chief Expositions.
OECOND-HAND
AND
TIXEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing- of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY
Telephone 1023.
Ladies. -Cali and
see our CM HAP
'•i ACH IN MS,from 20?
each. Greatest BAR
GAINS ever offered
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc.
3. ROWLEY Si CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
THE FINEST TONIC
'FER BRATAIS
'FER BRATAIS
most effective in restoring
the Vitality of the blood,
and enabling the consti-
tution 10 resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all cases of*
anaemia. Influenza and'
general d«bilit .
Highly recoin-nended for
weak and debilitated chil ■
dren f
LANC-.T .4 bed mi/at and interesting preparation.”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. « It has all
the good effects of iron without producing consti-
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
blachen the teeth.
Sold by Chemists all the world over.
Deafness
and HEAD
NOISES
Wilson’s Common
ense Ear Drums
Relieve all conditions of Deafness
nd Head Noises, where medical
kill fails. The only Scientific
Vijral Sound Conductor. Safe tc
rear, comfortable, invisible, no dan
serous wire or metal attachment
liecoinmeuded by physicians. Write for book Free.
J- Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
/”IROW. —Wanted to know the whereabouts of
PATRICK CROW, last heard of in Cook-
town, Queensland. By writing to his cousin, John
Crow, South Hillend, Southland, N.Z., he will
hear of something to his advantage. Information
thankfully received and acknowledged.
Educational.
Dontal College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LE NTH ALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
The English language is the only one with
a capital letter for the first person singular. How
like John Bull !
Sydney Telegraph —which not long ago
complimented historian John Richard Green (dead
16 years ago) on his “History of the English
Jreople” noting a new edition as a work by a
talented and rising author !—is at it again. The
other Saturday’s issue acknowledges receipt of
Rusk in’s ‘Modern Painters’—a useful index of
works of art, published by George Allen.” The
painter’s Bible—the art-critical book of the cen-
ku r .y “a useful index of works of art”!! O
P ame ! O Daily Telegkaph !
He an absurd story which has lately been
appearing in the Australian press about the
assembling of 300 German hangmen at the golden
wedding of the chief executioner of Prussia, The
Bulletin has to state, upon unimpeachable autho-
rs. first, that there are no hangmen in Germany,
capital punishment being by decapitation ; second,
that as there is only one executioner for the whole
of Prussia, the remaining smaller portion of the
empire would have had to provide the liberal
allowance of 299; and, third, that executions in
Prussia average but two or three per annum, the
death-penalty being inflicted only in specially
atrocious cases. Thus cruelly is Botany Bay
robbed of the fond illusion that there is actually
on the face of the earth another place where the
man butcher flourishes like the green bay hangman
ofN.S.W. ’
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
An Australee man, who suspected a lark-
ing wife of something riiore than mere friskiness,
hired a private detective to act the gay Lothario
and keep him posted in the progress’ of the in-
trigue. The man of clues had little difficulty in
“making something more than friends” with the
lady, and, having informed the husband of his
success, it was arranged that the D. should Con-
duct the erring lady to an unfrequented suburb,
and that they should be philandering in a road-
side paddock when the husband came along with
an independent witness for use in future divorce
proceedings. The two were duly discovered
tiagrante delicto by hubby and a strange cabman.
But the denouement w'as not as per programme,
for cabby, who happened to be a newly-married
man of much morality and muscle, had no sooner
grasped the situation than he descended from the
box and smote the private detective vigorously on
the jaw and shifted both his ears in very quick
time. Then it struck the husband that his
myrmidon stood a good chance of being killed ;
but when he interposed the moral cabman
promptly w'ent for him and gave him also “the
father of a bating.” Then cabby chased the lady
over several fences, and finally drove off before
anybody had presence of mind enough to take his
number. At latest one bruised and battered man
was hunting for an ambulance litter to convey
another to the hospital, w r hile a police-sergeant
was telephoning the details of an “outrage by
larrikins ” to the roundsmen of the daily press.
CIGARETTES
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
•»A * «
ROYAL SMOKE.
Asls. lor
WHISKY.
The Enterprising Burglar
IS
But at a Terribly Increased Risk of HIS LIFE or LIBERTY since
M‘DERMOTTS BURGLAR ALARM
IS BEING FITTED EVERYWHERE, AT SMALL COST.
See the WORKING MODELS at OUR OFFICES.
PRICES QUOTED for Installation to Any Extent at Any Address
The M'DERMOTT BURGLAR ALARM CO.,
CASTLEKEAGH ST. (Opp. Australia Hotel), SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE No. 1674.
THE
Plum’
Ufiu&aa^
THE
‘ Plum’
/ 1 ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price-! ng i e K' azor > i n strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 2ls.
ffeingle Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle 6 ' in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEM, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
X
Ai
y V
in
JJ ON
) ALL
Ihands
ft
>-e
O'
a 1
fine
u*
A
flavor
«•
s>
8
*>?
\
A)XC
-O'X" -tt-OY-A.X. "W"-A.JrtJbt-A.3XT"X“ of ~to
THE QUEEKT.”
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE
99
Schweppes
SODAWATER, &c.
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
“SCHWEPPE”
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
Infants
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Herr Rassmiissen, Celebrated Herbalist.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE
lifeline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials;
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS FOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE" CURE
is found in taking the
Alfaline Herbal
Rem edies.
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging to
Business,
I
J_ J
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home —and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedie
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th ■ Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills, which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which keeps
them i ndoors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
their life. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, they espy
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up'the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together
HERR RASSMUSS€N’S Medical Page
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches—well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER EELT BETTER in their lives.
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week j
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN .
are
Out of Oyder,
take the
AIaFAXiINE
Blood Fills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
VF
\>
W
HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
%
People troubled with CORPULEN C Y are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfa’ine
Pat-Reducing- Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE ; packets, Gs.
TRIPPING- the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
tliose already cured, ‘
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
R heu m a t i s m,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twi tell-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Ras-.mus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
m
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known, to fail.
Bottles, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every little
disappointment or tiifls,
their complexion suffer-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SXJDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
e
»
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, hanker, expert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the M EDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASB-
- ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but-notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassmus-sen’s Alfaline Vitality tills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
/
How to Obtain Free Book.
mr When desiring’ FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to lIERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FREE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies can only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He lias no agents.
r
w
VsSw®,
SJ
K
)
VA /
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN'S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. Th< se prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 69. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparls Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills -For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile l’owder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, i«. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful f r Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERE RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney;
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade;
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street ;
N.Z.— 9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A.:
Perth —Hay Street ;
Coolgardie— Bailey Street ;
Kalgoorlie— Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ADVICE
Fit EE.
m~ ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Sydney.
Or simply adilressyour Letters thus for privacy iaVe
“PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post omcff,
SYDNEY.”
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY, WITHOUT PAIL.


A remarkable instrument, say Messrs.
Scott and Hoare, the Sole Importers, is the
new No. 8 Remington typewriter. Hitherto
many people have been content with a typewriter
that writes plainly, and speed was a secondary con-
dition. This new Remington not only writes
much faster than former machines, but makes as
many as 20 copies at one writing, and, moreover,
it will write as readily and evenly on paper Min.
wide as on paper lin. wide.*
Amusements.
TT ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
SATURDAY, March 5, is the date fixed for the first
appearance in Sydney of
Mr. WILSON BARRETT
AND HIS COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY.
The opening play will be his own Dramatisation of Hall
Caine’s Famous Work,
Th.e Miaiascman.
Plan, Nicholson’s. 1&- PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
X YCETTM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
“■Under the sole direction of Messrs. J. &C. Macmahon.
The Light and Breezy Atmosphere that has surrounded
the New and Delightful Nautical Drama,
to-night sancy and ger (Sailor jggggg
(by arrangement with Mr. Geo. Rignold),
Has stamped it as one of the Stage Triumphs of the
Theatrical Year.
In Active Preparation—THE TERROR OF PARIS.
Still the same Unique Lyceum Tariff—2s., Is., and 6d.
■fl I V O LI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Lessee ... Mr. Harrv Rickards,
the ONE ATTRACTION OF SYDNEY.
10.25 p.m.
THE THREE
HEGELMAOTS.
10.25 p.m.
The Greatest Aerial Wonders on Earth.
The Celebrated English Tenor, Mr. P. Newbury.
Mr. AUSTIN RUDD. Mr. MICHAEL NOLAN.
Miss ALICE SIMMONS. Miss AGNES HAZEL.
And our Combined Tivoli and Melbourne Companies.
mHE OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
“ Sole Lessee & Man. Director— Mr. Harry Rickards.
STERLING, SPARKLING and SPONTANEOUS
SUCCESS
Of Mr. Richards’s Original, Grand, Magical, Comical,
Historical, Pastoral, Bombastic and Hudibrastic
CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
JACK THE GIANT KILLER
POPULAR PRICES—Dress Circle and Orchestral Stalls,
Ss; Stalls, 2s; Family Circle, Is. Plan at Allan & Co’s.
BUOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
AN ARTISTIC AND COMPLETE SUCCESS 1
Mr. Chas. Cartwright Miss Beatrice Lamb
AND NEW LONDON COMPANY.
Enthusiastic reception of Henry Hamiltons adaptation of
Ouida’s Sensational Novel,
Moths. Moths.
PRINCE ZOUROFF ... Mr. CHAS. CARTWRIGHT.
HIS ORIGINAL CREATION.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s, and Is. Plan at W. H. Glen and Co.
IRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
SATURDAY, 6th MARCH,
Will be revived for a limited number of nights the
Brightest of all Musical Comedies,
tt
TN€ FRENCH MAIP.
99
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
CONTINUED SUCCESS of the Ever-Popular Comedian,
GRATTAN RIGGS,
Now appearing in the immensely successful and ever-
welcome drama,
THE IRISH DETECTIVE.
Saturday, sth inst. —SHADOWT OF A GREAT CITY.
POPULAR PRICES!
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Management of Dan Barry.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, at 8 o’clock) TO-NIGHT
Dan Barry’s Dramatic Company
In the Exciting Absorbingly Interesting Story of
Life in a Mighty, Modern City, entitled
THE STREETS OF NEW YORK.
J3F" CHANGE OF BILL EVERY SATURDAY.
Just Note the Prices—2s., Is., and SIXPENCE.
QPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Lessees and Managers ... STANFORD and BARNES.
SATURDAY, sth MARCH.
Mir. C. R. STANFORD and COMPLETE COMPANY
in the Sensational Drama,
| Tbo(i Sbalt Mot Kill.
PRICES—6d., Is., and Is. 6d. Box Plan at Theatre.
Hotels.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite Sfc.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation' in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
ctr&jutt]
i
THE GRAND CENTRAL 1
Opposite v o. a9>
the grand central,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
i E STOTTS,
MiNSIL
SYDNEY, N.S.W,
Hold UJatch for [adies Free.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE:
T*E N*W_ W*WN.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Ladies’ Solid Gold Watches. Jewelled
Movements, and are Reliable Timekeepers. List Price,
£5 10s. Send your answer at once, with a stamped ad-
dressed envelope, to know if you have won the PRIZE.
If so, and you purchase one of our Real Gold Ladies’
Chains to wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will be
sent securely packed, free by registered Post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is. j per Post, Is. 3d.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMPORTING
COCOA
(7ASCARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUBEBS CICARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Eestorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
ART JEWELLERY at LONDON PRICES.
THOUSANDS OF VERY LATEST NOVELTIES.
Gold 2-Bar Brooch.
With Amethyst Pendant ... 13s 6d
With Bell Pendant ... 12s 6d
Gold 2-bar & Buckle Brooch.
Set with Pearls and Red Stones, or Pearls
and Blue Stones, 17s 6d.
15c. Hall-marked Brooch.
Set with Ruby or Sapphire, ISs Bd.
15c. Hall-marked Brooch.
Set with 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby or
Sapphire, 255.
9-carat, 13s 6d pair. 15-carat, 27s 6d pair.
Silver, 3s. pair.
, 20 other Patterns from 10s 6d pair.
18c.
Band Bing 1 .
1 Fine Diamond, 40s,
60s, 100 s.
Ruby or Sapphire,
30s, 455, 60s.
Opal or Pearl, 255,
40s, 50s.
Plain Band
Bing.
9-0., 12/6, 15/-, 20/-
16-0., 20/-, 22/6, 27/6
18-c., 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
With any name,
1/- extra.
New
Pendant Brooch
with
Amethyst Heart.
9-carat, 10s 6d
15-carat, 12s 6d
Gold Novelty Brooch.
Bar with Bow, Pearl Set Bird, Amethyst and
Bead Pendant, 20s.
New Gold Brooch, Bs. 6cL
Hall-marked Gold, Pearl Set,
2-Bird Brooch, 17s 6d each.
Gold Lucky Wish-Bone Brooch.
With Amethyst or Garnet Shamrock, pearl
centre, 20/- each.
Plain Larpe Size', 7s 6d ; Small, 6s.
Pearl Set all round, 20s.
9-carat,
17/6, 20/-, 25/-
15-carat,
35/-, 40/-, 46/-
Silver, 4/-, 6/-
18c. La Farisienne.
2 fine Diamonds, £5.
1 fine Diamond, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £4.
18c. Gipsy.
3 fine Diamonds, £2 ss,
£3, £4.
1 fine Diamond, with
2 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals,
or Pearls, £ll6s, £2 ss, £3.
18c. Half Hoop.
5 Fine Diamonds, £7 10s.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s
18c. marquise.
Set with 14 Diamonds and
1 Ruby or Sapphire,
Emerald or Torquoise
centre, £4s 4s.
POST FREE.—Please Send for Illustrated Slips of Novelties.
NOTE Our Only Australian Address-
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
£3T Send for Price List. T£Ji
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
The Sydney Carriage M’n’f g Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Carriage Man’p’g. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Busrgies and Sulkies. State what you want.
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotations
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
SOLD by all
Letters Patent, No. 2590.
Half-Tester Wood Bedstead
AND
Heavy, Close, Double Woven Wire Mattress
(Combined), any color wood.
Size—6J x 2|, 3, 3£, 4, feet.
J. Lawler & Sons,
Manufacturers
•>»« Patentees,
610 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Established Over 50 Years.
Galv’d Wire Netting, 42x1jx17g., £22 10s. per mile.
“Vulpes” Dynamite, 1/3 lb. Collins’ Axes, 4£ to 6 lb.,
slightly touched, 36/- doz. Mixed Paints, 3d. lb. Single
Breechloading Guns, 30/-; Double-barrel, 40/-. British
Bulldog Revolvers, 6/-. Platform Scales, 4 cwt., £4;
Bcwt., £7 ; 10 cwt., £B. Black Barbed Wire, £8 ton.
Galv’d Barbed Wire, £9 ton. Chaff Knives, 1/- each.
7' Centrifugal Pump, £22. Smith’s Spring Hinges, 10/-
Crosscut Saws, 1/- ft. Pit Saws, 1/3 ft. Sand Paper, 8/-
ream. lxx Coke Plates, 13/-; lxxx, 15/-, slightly touched.
Parson’s Walker’s Horse Nails, Id. per lb. Globe Nails,
2d. lb., slightly touched. Hames, 1/- pr. Octg. Mining
Steel, £2O ton. Green, White, Black Paint, 14/- cwt.,
281 b. kegs. Flax Packing, 6d. lb. Indiarubber Packing,
6d. lb. Axle Grease, 2/6 doz. packages. Large Tinned
Sheets, 33/- cwt. 500 tons Bolts and Nuts in stock up to
28in long.
One of the Largest Stocks of Ironmongery in .™.
Australia at the Cheapest Prices.
JOHN MACINTOSH & SONS,
Wholesale & Retail Ironmongers,
307, 321, 276, 280 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CHW
QPRIETCR
MPA
UMTS
MNBDR
sm
&E
Trade
Mark
<g°3L w
EDINBURGH
%otc6/
I^IteULLCRSCOnPANvi?:
P°ftaKaaS^l
f‘ ‘A/ '■'■?!*
I*****®*, . ,k» 7
-JU/rrh.
a
VuC /JIJ/
Drink
moderately.
Take a little Whisky
‘ ‘ for the stomach’s sake ”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L/
h i use SO Years before Victoria was Queen.
' Ladies should always Knit with
Bee
hive’
KNITTING
Wools
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino,l Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softness and durability.
Trade Mark Registered.
Established 1785.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Also *• Beehive ’’
Hosiery&Under-
wear manufac-
tured from the
‘Beehive’Woois.
J.aJ. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
CHIMfSE MBTMLWI' HDItTEITSTREETTBTDNEII
a
»^gl|A^f.fc#MaS»SHrf»ißßg^^sSAia[^«4>^
''Please_*ho vertiseroent .to • -Chinese*
Publications.
Geo. Robertson & Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Sc Retail Booksellers Sc Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
LA
ill
'absolutlyl
}
Ito Contain
MANOSOLOS
r/AVO D(J£7s
yOCAL DUSTS
SONGS +*
I Lists
tei°
Th gallet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
Hje Life,
A d v e n.
tures, arid
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.PrO.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.


■ELLIN’S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong- as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of’all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
Mascotte
TOBACCO.
11l
£
h
V “
o
OOA
i t Mi
MASCOTTE.
MASCOTTE
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades ; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs[
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, includin'*
Minors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles’
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.Bi—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial m our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality; best manufacture, newest
design, 10/6: wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made
from own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 5/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 <t 682 George Street, Sydney.
* * •»
Voo* Life o» that Signet tobacco'
SMOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY.
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
MARCEILA CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
fTIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
I Prick Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
“ That’s a bit off,” remarked Pat, as he bit
a piece from Mick’s ear.
Dear Bulletin. —At a Yic. (near Mary-
borough) miners’ boarding-house, this summer, I
asked for the bathroom. “ Oh, we might get it
ready for you to-morrow,” was the reply. I in-
vestigated. Bathroom used as lumber-room, bath
full of condemned furniture and doormats. Also,
at a leading Western Vic. hotel, five years ago,
every lodger who wanted a bath had to rummage
for water for himself. Further, during the last
eight years I have camped, first and last, with
over a hundred Australian natives, and not a dozen
of the lot took a daily bath, even in well-watered
country.— Audi Alteram.
Dr. Bevan, the cherubic Melb. parson,
works the ‘“press ’’ dodge in his sermons for all it
is worth. Every time his spirit craves for some
more advt., he opens out anew on the subject
of journalistic virtue, or vice, as the case may be,
whereupon the local ’Erald reporter invites him
to explain, and the good shepherd is rewarded
with a big cross heading followed by a column of
pure drivel. At the outset of his Melb. career Dr.
B. offered up a-special prayer for newspaper men,
since when he has been blessing or cursing them
religiously at regular intervals. And he always
manages to get a full report, with an “ interview ”
afterwards. Now, considering: that Bevan is a
well-paid apostle, who carries his nose in
the air, it is time for the newspapers to drop down
on his game and charge him the usual advt. rates.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
A Yokohama resident, formerly of Melb.,
Mrs. Emily Patton, sends in a chatty printed letter
to Australian fri ends some quaint examples of ‘ ‘Eng-
lish as she is wrote ” in Japan, where properly-edu-
cated Japs, are supposed to take a four-years’
course of the Britisher’s tongue. The “ English-
speaking” clerk or shopman, says Mrs. Patton,
hands his foreign customer a neatly-written card
with “Please write your speakings” inscribed
thereon. Jap.-English, like English-French, is a
matter for the eye, not the ear. A pupil in a
theological school, writing an essay in which he
wished to express that the time had arrived for the
Japanese to sit upon the foreigner—the little
brown men reciprocate our sentiments about aliens
—rendered the idiom, “ The time has arrived
when we must press our hinder parts upon the blue-
eyes fellows.” The composer of a song about the
“ Soshi ’’—the beggar-students of Japan—intro-
duced his ditty to the foreign public in an “ Eng-
lish ” preface :
The origin of the Soshi are not well known, but they
had appear since then twenty years at least; and these
youngmen who first intend to get high education and be a
great man in the state, leaves their homes and appear
at Town, where are so many kind of school.
But when he swiming out from native to town, every
thing are strange to his eyes and. ears; and now they are
quite busy to hunting round such curious things; and
after spending up both of their times and money for
foOlisly, they lost their good friends and family, and
nobody look after him. Then just thrown themselves
into the Soshi’s company, and extort or tease others, or
sometimes works hard about erection of parliament and
gain little money, then just spend it foolisly, and again
nothing to do but wrong, and some are even put into the
dangion for his reward.
So the people of all parts get tired of them, and never
notice of them now.
Now they begin understand how to live in the world,
began to work for own food or dress in many plans, some
to carry newspaper, or milk in every morn, while others
singing own song at town in eve.
And clever of them has been an actor, now built own
Soshi’s theatre in every town and waiting for you all na-
tions will come, singing this song of “ Soshi-bushi.”
If the reader will try to sing this song, and get little
pleasure from this funny little tune, will be happy of
author’s.
“I'U Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to anypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. 6d.
Sole Agents :
&
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st., Sydney
VIOLINS, 7s 6d, 12s 6d,
’ 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s;
Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355; Auto-
harps, 12s 6d, 21s, 255, 355;
Accordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s,
17s, 18s, 25sand 30s; Cor-
nets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s. 70s and 90s; Banjos, best, 63s and 90s;
Zither Banjos <ss and 90s; Concertinas (the best in the
world), ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang Mouth
Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, learned in
five minutes, Is 6d. Cash, or Is. rveehly. Our prices
are only about half others’ charges. Send for our New
Illustrated Catalogue.
J. ALBERT & SON. 118 King-st., Sydney.
A CART-LOAD OP GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homceopathic
method of self-treatment that
has restored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may he had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr
WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
PILES.
npHE Advertiser having suffered for years from Piles and
tried all sorts of ointment cures, which only gave
temporary relief, accidentally discovered a simple but
permanent cure for Piles. Used once, gives instant
relief, and after being used a few times the Piles dis-
appear. The remedy is very simple, and can be obtained
anywhere ; gives no pain whatever. On receipt of Postal
Note for 55., to pay for advertising, &c., the cure will be
sent; it is quite genuine. Address—
T). C. DAVIS, Rockhampton, QUEENSLAND.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
Bd. per 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Stdnkt.
I
A\EN
InPIGEjTIOAJ
rtMcioiTya,
ylcrVovs
Headache
Svoriviiw/
jo
Ji fold) Sw9oq)
Smp°m Su w'njg
swag
MELBOURNE.
DO YOU want
A
MTy POST FREE
«wches-Clocks-Jev/ellery-BirtKday*
Weddii\lg z CHristeiMg Presents
rl-_NEWMArJ“ 1755177-ELIZABETH S t *
OPPOSITE G:RO_
MELBOURNE.
|-fcoc3.a,lla. Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
I —god alia, Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
| —goda.Ha. Hams
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION. —It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY.
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholes alb Agent,
239 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
■Winci ]VEills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
IDrilling Ontfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHATRS.
WILLIAM FLEIKin
24 Clrti'vncp St.,
Sj/rl II p.y
Mr
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
r to the ear- as glasses are to the
eyes Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collinß St., Melbourne.
I
(Registered).
Typboii)
(registered)
FOR
Typhoid Fever
Fisher & Co’s
TYPHOIN.
is the only known Remedy and Preventive
TYPHOID FEVER.
Used for HUNDREDS' OF YEARS by the
NATIVES OF INDIA.
One Drop taken night and morning is a Sure-
Preventive against this deadly disease. Five
Drops taken three or four times a day is a Certain
Cure, and has the wonderful properties of cutting
the duration of the disease to Five Days. It
reduces temperature, and destroys the evil effects
arising from badly-drained ground.
All countries infected with any form of FEVER
will find TYPHOIN unparalleled in its action
to destroy Fever Germs.
To be obtained of all Chemists and Storekeepers,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Manufactured, Only by
Fisher & Company,
Manufacturing
Chemists,
337 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
PO VVER WI I Hu UIV AS ori S'i EAiu
THE
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(LAND OR MARINE)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
) xplosions Imposs’ble
Always Ready fo r Use
We have one of these Engines running at our preni -
ises, where full particulars can he had on application
INSPECTION INVITED.
P. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
87 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in alLstages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
Dr. (ribbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, n 1 in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
McnfoCiS Weakness .
AND
Diseases,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters ea,sy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth, Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred,
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper when writing.
Tales of the convipt system-
Prioe, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.


Would You Have Suffering 1 Vanquished from Your Life ?
\. mmmm ™“■' 1 ■' ■"') ' 1 , ■ . . . ""' l \p;..y
NATURALLY, YES ! THEN YOU MUST TRY THE WORLD’S GIANT REMEDY,
Dr. Williams’ Pi ok Pills for Pale People,
. . . WHICH WILL BRING . . .
Pearls of Happiness and Smiles of Health Wherever Used.
Read Below and See What Triumphs They Have A ecomplished !!!
Heat Headaches!!!
“ Merrylands, Barradine Creek,
_ _ , “Via Narrabri and Pillaga.
To the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
t ' •' Queen’s-place, Sydney.
“ Sir, —1 have much pleasure in ordering another
box of your wonderful Pink Pills. I can safely
say they are a won-
derful medicine ;
from the use of
them I have de-
rived great benefit.
I have already had
two boxes of your
Pink Pills, and I
am now ordering
a third ; but I can
already testify as
to the good your
Pink Pills have
done me. The
first box I received
in the summer
months, during which time I suffer extremely
from headaches, &c. • Last summer I enjoyed
splendid health, being never troubled with cither
pain or ache.
“ I heartily recommend them to all sufferers as
being a really good medicine. Enclosed find
25. ; 9d. in stamps for another box of Pink Pills.
“You can make whatever use you think fit of
this testimony. Yours respectfully,
“ ELIZABETH FORREST.”
i&r-
j Fearful Neuralgia!!!
THROUGH WEARING DAMP CLOTHES.
“I HAD A FEARFUL TIME.”
For many years Mr. J. H. Potter, of Wiagdon,
near Bathurst, suffered from Rheumatism and
Neuralgia. Believing the history of his maladies
and recovery would prove an item of interest,
a Reporter called upon Mr. Potter at his residence
and successfully elicited the following details :
“ Well,’* began Mr. Potter, “I must tell you
that in my younger days I did a deal of camping
out, continually got wet through, and sometimes
put on damp clothes. As a consequence I con-
tracted rheumatism, and later on neuralgia in the
head. I became a perfect martyr to these trying
ills, which kept me company for many years.
They affected my appetite, rest, and temper to
such a degree that I hardly ate or slept at all, and
was irritable with everything and everybody. The
t
A
n
%
w
m
\
& /
i ? v::
, *
N V/l
y;
pains about my eyes were agonising. I was in
Bathurst at the time the last show was held, and
had a fearful time of it. I tried all sorts of re-
medies, but got no relief.
“ Just about this time I read- in the Sunday
Times some account of cures brought about by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for r.-,’e People. I
bought a box. and when I had finished that I
seemed a different man ; the third box worked
wonders, and I felt grand. I reckon ‘ Dr. Wil-
liams’Pink Pills for Pale People ’ are a splendid
remedy. I can now eat heartily and sleep well.”
“You hold a good opinion of their value,
then?”
“Of course I do. They do what is claimed for
them, and I can strongly recommend them to all
sufferers. My wife knows what they did for me,
and consequently thinks as much of them as I do.
If I went to a friend's house for tea, ‘Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People ’ went with me,
and directly the meal was over I took the pre-
scribed number. My friends used to laugh at
me, but I did not mind ; I told them the laugh
would be on my side soon, and so it—they know
it, tpo-’-
Siifterings from Sciatica!!!
“ HIS ANKLE WAS AS A LUMP OF ICE.”
ANOTHER PHENOMENAL CURE.
Mr. George Hynds, a well-known resident of
Blayney, was recently interviewed by a Buaynky
Advocate reporter about bis serious illness and
remarkable cure. He obtained the following in-
teresting narrative, which Mr. Hynds said he
would Jbe glad to’have published
“ About two years ago I fell a victim to sciatica.
I was drawing wood at the time. The complaint
forced me every now and again to take a spell.
The ailment kept getting worse, and at last I
could not even work, and had to go to bed, being
unable to walk. It affected my right leg from the
hip to the ankle, the pain being worse in my
ankle; I also. suffered from terrible pains in my
back. I was in bed for four months, during which
time I suffered excruciating pain. I had a doctor
attending me all the time, but he gave me no re-
lief, although he used every means in his power
to do so. My ankle felt just as if it were broken,
and it was always as cold as ice. I used to be led
by my wife to the fire, and there I would sit as
long as I could, warming it. The trousers I was
wearing were all scorched by sitting over the fire.
The doctor put about a dozen mustard and fly
blisters on my leg, which left it in a terrible state,
and did not do me the least bit of good. At last
he told me he could do no more for me, and that
the sciatica would have to take its course. I then
determined to go to the Bathurst hospital, but
my medical adviser said he did not think I would
get any benefit there. However, I said I would
try it. After being completely bedridden for
four months, and on the day before I was going to
the hospital I managed to get into town, and I
met a friend and told him my intentions. This
gentleman strongly advised me to try Dr. Wil-
ljams’ Pink Pills for Pale People before I went to
the hospital. As my friend spoke with such con-
fidence about the Pills I took his advice and went
there and then to Mr. C. Ferguson’s store and
purchased the last three boxes he had. After the
first box I could get about again, and I went to
work again drawing in wheat for Mr. Robert
Marsden.. When I had finished the second box I
felt no pain whatever, and considered I was cured.
I then took the third box at leisure, although
there was no Occasion for it. I commenced taking
the pills last October twelve months. Mr. Mars-
den and Mr. Ferguson and a host of other people
who knew my previous condition could hardly be-
lieve the rapid change which came over me. Some
people said that the sciatica would again return to
me next winter, but I am glad to say I went
through the winter without feeling the slightest
effects of this terrible complaint. I have enjoyed
excellent health ever since I took the pills, and
my cure has'been the means of a large number of
people taking Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills about here.
“ I am certain that the pills and no other
remedy cured me, in fact the other remedies did
not give m? the slightest benefit.”
Mr. Hynds’s wife was present during the inter-
view and endorsed all her husband’s statements,
both appearing very happy when testifying the
marvellous curative properties of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People.
A Woman’s Indigestion!!!
“NIGHT AFTER NIGHT I WALKED THE
FLOOR IN PAIN !! ”
NOW SHE IS FREE FROM CARE.
Mrs. Davis, of 12 North Clarendon-street, South
Melbourne, for five years was a great sufferer, her
chief complaint
being severe in-
digestion and
swelling in
various parts of
the body and
limbs. She be-
came an out-
patient of the
M el bourne
Hospital, but,
receiving no
benefit, she
visited the
Homoepathic
Hospital on the
St. Kilda-road.
But no relief
was obtained,
and her health
went from bad
to worse. Be-
sides prescribing for her, the doctors advised her
to discontinue drinking tea, but she remained the
same, no relief resulting.
“I have walked the floor,” said Mrs. Davis,
“night after night, with the pain, and could
obtain no rest. My agony was very great at
times, and weakness almost prevented me from
doing my work. At this .stage, Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People were brought under my
notice. I procured a box, for I seemed to have an
impression that they would do me good. When
making- the purchase, the chemist tried to induce
me to buy some other kind of medicine, but I
would have nothing 'but the genuine Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
“After the first box, I improved wonderfully,
and was able once more to resume my work, and I
have now taken two boxes and a half. My work
consists principally of washing, and this 1 am able
to do, and life is once more enjoyable.”
Another lady, Mrs. Dunn, who lives opposite,
here called in to see Mrs. Davis, and to her she
appealed to ratify her statements.
“ Yes,” remarked Mrs. Dunn, “ I have seen the
poor thing doubled up with pain, and suffering
the greatest agony for days together, and we all
thought she was going into consumption.”
“And now,” replied Mrs. Davis, “I am well,
‘a new woman,’ and all tie neighbors and those
for whom I work can tell you the same. Owing
to my having to go about so much I am well
known, and the difference between my previous
condition and what it is now can be proved by
dozens of people; and mind nothing else lias done
me any good but Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People.’’
“And what do you think of the puls, Mrs.
Dunn?” asked the representative.
“Well, I have nearly as much reason to be
thankful for them as Mrs. Davis has. I was not
at all well when she was suffering and I also tried
them, with the greatest success. My daughter
has just as great faith in them as I have myself.
Where she is employed the girls tried to get her
to take some other medicine, as she was not well,
feeling out of sorts, and being languid and col i of
a morning, but she would take nothing but Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills, and now she is quite well
and cheerful again.”
♦
Influenza’s After Effects!!!
THE DANGER OF SUDDEN CHANGES
FROM HEAT TO GOLD.
“THE LADY WHO WAS LIKE A GHOST.”
“ Yes,” said Miss Jamieson in answer to a query
put to her by a representative, who waited on her
at her residence, Autumn-street, Ashby, Geelong,
Victoria, “I know something about the curative
properties of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Some few
years back, when influenza was so bad, I was un-
fortunate enough to experience a very severe
attack, and the after effects remained on me for
some time.
“ Although generally experiencing robust health
previous to this attack, when at last I was able to
leave my room I was almost of ghostly proportions
—not at all like lam now. And I continued in
this state for some time. I did not mind the weak-
ness so much, feeling sure that would wear off in
time with good nourishment. But in March of
last year I commenced to experience great incon-
venience from pains in my right side. I consulted
F
L.
■tXWI
a medical man, who
said that it was
merely the after-
effects of the influ-
enza, and I was not
to worry myself.
But, as the pains
continued, I did
worry myself, and
went to Melbourne
to consult a special-
ist. He informed
me that it was par-
tial paralysis. He
put me through a
course of treatment
that left me as I
was, and I returned home fairly worn out.
Whether the worry, or the. heroic treat-
ment I had undergone was responsible
or not, I will not venture an opinion upon,
but week afterwards erysipelas set in on
my face, and for weeks and months X suffered the
greatest agony. In January a friend (a Miss
Evans, of Eaglehawk, near Bendigo) came down
to see me, and one day she bought me a box of
Dr. Williams’ l’ink Pills. When visiting Mel-
bourne X took them and four days afterwards the
pain commenced to go away. I continued taking
them for some time, and in all I used eight boxes,
discontinuing them in August. Erom then until
now I have not had the least symptom of a return
of either complaints—complaints that I had not
been free from for four years. I am 22 years of
age. Scores know my sufferings, and the means
of my recovery X am only too pleased to supply.”
“Your friend, Miss Evans, must have felt very
pleased at the success of her experiment.” “ Yes,
it was the knowledge that a neighbor had gained
considerable benefit from the pills, in a very bad
case of debility, that induced her to buy me the
first box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.” “ One can
scarcely realise the fact of your once resembling
what the departed are credited with, Miss Jamie-
son.”
“No (laughingly) there is nothing ethereal
about me now. lam nearer 12st. than 9st. .Yes,
you can include that, if you like,” and with a
word of thanks the representative withdrew.
What these Pills will Do!!!
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have a remarkable
efficacy in curing diseases arising from an impover-
ished condition of the blood or an impairment of
the nervous system such as rheumatism, neuralgia,
partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, St. Vitus’
dance, nervous headache, nervous prostration,
and the tired feeling arising therefrom, acute
indigestion, insomnia, heart palpitation, skin
troubles, the after effects of la grippe,
influenza, and severe colds, diseases depend-
ing on humors in the blood, such as scrofula,
chronic erysipelas, &o. Dr. Williams’Pink Pills
give a healthy glow to pale and sallow complexions
and are a specific for the troubles peculiar to the
female system. In the case of men they effect
a radical cure in all cases arising from mental
worry, over-work, or excesses of any nature.
The Change of Life !!!
The most critical period in the life of a woman
is that attending the conation of menstruation.
The symptoms are faint.ng shells of attacks of
fauiticss or dizziness, lie .d.tclie, general debility,
exhaustion, a feeling of melancholy, hysteria,
pain in the lo'n or limbi, hypochondria, &c. The
change is one for ill 1 li.tr if the. patient is well
enough to fortify the system against the ravages
of the symptoms attending the change. For this
purpose no remedy equals Dr. WM i mis’ Piuk
Pills. They purify rhe blood by acting directly
upon tli ■ sexual sy .tem, lessen the severity of this
critical period, and Dually have the patient in
the enjoyment of robust health.
A Farmer’s General Debility!!!
“ ALL MY ENERGY DESERTED ME.”
“I AM STRONG AND HEARTY NOW.”
Mr. George Batchelor was engaged ploughing
when I called upon him at his farm, Horton River,
N.S.W., writes a reporter.
“I bear, Mr. Batchelor,” said I, “that you have
just experienced a remarkable recovery from a
very long illness.”
“ I have, indeed.”
“ Would you mind narrating the particulars of
your case to us for publication ? ”
“ Certainly I will, for I think the case is one
which should have all the publicity possible. I
am 65 years of age, and have been resident in this
district for about 12 years. Prior to my coming
here, I had always enjoyed the best of health, and
I had been accustomed to work very hard. About
six years ago, however, all my energy seemed to
gradually desert me. I suffered acutely and con-
stantly from pains in my limbs, lost my appetite,
and for months at a stretch I did not know what it
was to get a good night’s sleep. Work of the very
lightest nature at last became beyond the question
with me, and I could do nothing but sit by the win-
dow and content myself by watching the others
work the farm. I gave up all hope of ever being able
to do any more work, and almost believed that
rjR
\ i.
L ■-i
&
M
every week
which com-
men c e d
would be my
last. In my
endeavours
to stay the
ravages of
the ailment
which had
overtaken
me, and was
gr a d ually
drawing me
into the
grave, I tried
innumerable
so - called
cures, and
s wallowed
an uncon-
sci o n able
quantity of
medi c a 1
compounds,
but beyond giving me temporary relief occasion-
ally, they, none of them, did me any good ; in
fact, I honestly believe that the majority of them
only aggravated my sufferings. I was just on the
point of giving up in despair a few months back
when I happened to read in a newspaper of some
wonderful cures effected by Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People, and’ I determined to give
them a trial. After taking the first box I felt
considerably relieved, and so marked was the im-
provement I noticed in my strength that I decided
to continue their use. I did so, and up to the
present time I have taken five boxes. My debility
has all disappeared, and I am pleased to say that
to-day I am as strong and hearty as ever I was in
my life. It is no trouble to me to do a day’s farm
work now, and I feel quite equal to the task of
walking at least thirty miles a day. Everyone
who knows me can testify to the great cure these
Pills have effected in me, and in recommending
them for similar cases to mine I can honestly say
that they are worth more than their weight in
gold. If everybody knew their true value there
would be no other medicines sold.
Mothers and Their Maidens.
Upon parents and guardians rests a great re-
sponsibility at the time their daughters are bud-
ding into womanhood. If your daughter is pale,
complains of weakness, is “tired out” upon the
slightest exertion ; if she is troubled with head-
ache or backache, pain in the side, if her temper is
fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition
of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
of that most dreadful of all diseases —Uonsumption.
If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’Pink Pills. They
will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly ; they will enrich the blood* and restore
health’s roses to the cheeks.
Sold only in Boxes.
£>« WILLIAMS'
•wrm^iNK
ILLS
FO
LE
(Facsimile of only genuine package.)
Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills are sold only in
boxes bearing the firm’s
trade-mark and wrap-
per (printed in redink).
They are never sold in
bulk, or by the dozen
or hundred, and any
dealer who offers sub-
stitutes in this form is
trying to defraud, and
should be avoided. See
that each box is en-
circled by a blue warn-
ing label, and regard
with distrust the man
who wants to sell you
something which he
says is just as good.
He only wants a bigger
profit.
These pills are not a
purgative. They are
genuine only with the
la]} name, Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for
Palo People, and are sold by all chemists and
by Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company, Sydney,
who will forward (post paid) on receipt of
stamps or post order, one box for 2s. ltd., or half-
dozen for 1 is. 3d. They are unrivalled as a
tonic for both sexes.


Mundi and Coyeen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In 1859 a white man reported two half-breed girls
among the blacks of Fraser’s Island, on the S.
Queensland coast. Though this island is within
30 miles of Maryborough it is comparatively un-
known, except to a few old timber-getters and one
or two white men who have used part of it to run
cattle and horses. But no white man has ever
been over the whole of that remarkable island—
the largest on the Australian coast, 80 miles long
by about 14 in maximum breadth. Along the
centre, for 50 miles, is a belt of dense scrub about
three miles wide, containing some of the largest
trees in Australia ; trees that grow nowhere else
on the face of the earth ; known to the blacks as
“Beebeeng,” to the whites as “Fraser Island
turpentine,” and to the botanist as Syncarpia
Hittii, thus named.by Bailey after Walter Hill,
the first chrator of Brisbane Botanic Gardens.
These trees grow to a tremendous height, with a
clean stem of over a hundred feet, and a
base-circumference of as muph as 42 feet.
East and west of this vast belt of jungle
is heavy, open forest, extending to both
shores. In the centre of the island are
deep, fresh-water lakes, encircled by white sand
beaches, the water appearing at a distance to be
as blue as the ocean. The whole island is a series
of sand-hills and sand-ridges, with not an acre of
good land on the whole. Being a huge sponge of
sand, it absorbs all the rainfall and gives back this
water to the ocean in hundreds of streams flowing
to both shores.
When white men first saw that island it was
Occupied by about three thousand aboriginals,
mentally and physically among the finest of the
Australian races. Cook had seen a band of them
in 1770 on the outer beach, at a rocky point he
called “Indian Head,” and Flinders landed in
1799 and had a friendly interview, presenting them
with a couple of porpoises (“ yooloo ”) which his
men had harpooned.
The island is named after Captain Fraser, of
the Stirling Castle, wrecked on Elizabeth Reef in
1836. This was the vessel that brought out Dr.
Lang’s band of Scottish mechanics to Sydney in
1832. The captain, his wife, chief mate, and
several seamen reached the coast of Fraser’s Island,
and at the present aboriginal station are two old
blacks who saw them come ashore.
When the two supposed half-breed girls were
reported in 1859 the Government made an agree-
ment with the agents for a cutter called The
Coquette, to give ,£3OO if the girls were brought
in, and ,£lOO if the attempt failed. The expedition
was successful, and the girls were brought to Bris-
bane, whence they were sent to Sydney, and
housed in the Hyde Park barracks. They were
supposed to be the children of white women from
La Belle, a vessel that was missing, and of which
no trace had ever been discovered.
The description at the time credits them with
“low foreheads, high cheeks, flat noses, small
chins, thick lips, brown straight hair, and heavy,
dull, restless eyes.”
Their names were gravely recorded as Kitty
Mundi and Maria Quoheen —either a violently
serious or unintentionally humorous attempt to
establish a connection with the white race.
Old Davis (“Durramboi ’-’), the escaped convict,
who had been 14 years among the Wide Bay
blacks, received .£2O to go to Sydney and give an
opinion on the subject, as an aboriginal “ expert.”
His printed opinion credits him with saying that
“ there is not a drop of black blood in them,” but
“ black ” must surely have been a misprint for
“white,” as Davis could hardly have made so
unquestionable a blunder. An “intelligent”
Board of Enquiry thought “they were the chil-
dren of white parents ” !
And now, after a lapse of 38 years, I have been
able to clear up the mystery.
In my “ History of Queensland,” page 85,1 sug-
gested that the girls were albinos. This supposi-
tion was correct. At the Fraser Island aboriginal
station are three old men who belonged to the
same tribe and knew the girls and all their rela-
tions. They were the daughters of the same
mother, and their brother is still living among
the Fraser Island blacks.
The girls’ own names were Mundi and Co-
Yeen, their mother’s name War-ann-oong; the
father’s, Too-woon-gacca ; the brother’s, Dunnee-
cang-wa ; and another sister’s Mang-eeng. Their
tribe lived at Indian Head (called Cow-woi, Binn-
gi, and Calla). It appears the tribe was greatly
excited when the Coquette people went for the
girls, and trouble was only narrowly averted by
the influence of some friendly blacks. Hostilities
would have meant the extermination of the whites,
for a very shqrt notice could have mustered 500
athletes, skilled with the spear, nulla, and boom-
erang. The parents of the girls—the mother had
never seen a white man before—indignantly pro-
tested against their removal, and they were only
allowed to go at last on a solemn assurance that
they would be returned in one moon. But it was
the fides Punica of the white man again—an in-
stalment of bitter experience to follow. The girls
were not returned in one moon, nor in 12—they
were never returned at all !
Their parents mourned them for years, and their
fate was discussed by many a camp-fire among the
honeysuckles that shaded the clear streams, in
cosy nooks among the sandhills on the outer coast
that for ever vibrates to the thunder of the surge ;
Where “ Conobie,” the north wind, and his great
brother, “ Tareelie,” from the south-east, still
Wail in the tree-tops their never-ending dirge over
the nameless unrecorded graves of the wild men
and women whose war-cries and songs have long
ceased to mingle with the music of waters and the
murmur of shells.
Brisbane.
A. MESTON.
P.S.—Can any Bulletin reader, in Sydney at
that time, remember anything concerning the
after-fate of those two girls ?
Brisbane (Q.) Street typo, set up “ the
33st December.” Good old comp. “The thirty
thirst ! ”
Robbery under wheels. In Flinders-street
(Sydney) the other evening, a dealer placed a
basket of choice fruit on the sidewalk while he
barracked with an old woman at the cart. A
cyclist bowling along at about 10 miles per hour
bent gracefully over, lifted the basket, and, ere
the astonished dealer could get out one curse
Word, disappeared down Oxford-street.
“ A.FBKTTA..”
The best Natural Aperient Water, for con-
tinuous use by the constipated, the gouty, and
the obese.
“ Its composition is constant.”—Lancet.
Sole exporters: The Apollinaris Co. Ltd., 4
Stratford Place, London, W.*
A One-Time Hebe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A “ traveller ” getting rations from the store-
keeper told them: “ Balmy woman and ’er kid
camped at the old Two-Mile pub.”—a place that
had been deserted for the last 10 years.
Mac., the overseer, the storekeeper, and Spald-
ing, the broken-down swell and boundary-rider,
started off to see what could be done for the
woman.
The overseer was first into the room that had
been the bar. The counter was still there, and a
few old dirty bottles stood on the shelves.
The child lay wailing on the floor behind the
door. The woman, poor thing, was standing
behind the counter, smiling and talking to imagi-
nary customers.
“Oh ! thanks for the flowers, Fred, they were
lovely.” . . . No, not next Wednesday, Mr.
. I’m so sorry, I can’t get off. Maudie is
going to Manly with her boy.” . . . “Yes,
went last night, it was awfully good; Courtneidge
nearly made me die laughing. . . . Rosie? Oh!
she left about a week ago. She’s up at the
Metrop. now. Seen Frank lately? Hasn’t been
in for two days now. Narked with me about
something ? My troubles ! ”
“By ,” said the overseer, “ I can’t stand any
more of this ; I’m off home.”
The poor thing kissed her hand to Mac. as he
left, and went on babbling, heedless of the child’s
dreadful wailing.
“ Nice ring, isn’t it ? Fred gave it to me ; we’re
to be married soon. . . . English ? Yes, and
yours? Usher’s? Yes, we have the draught,
if you prefer it. . . . Take me out to-morrow,
Fred ? There’s a dear boy ! Eight o’clock ?
All right, I’ll be there, wet or fine. No,
I can’t get off any other night this week. . . .
Fred., darling, whisper I wish I could get
out of this place because Next month ! Oh,
you dear old boy, I’m so happy. Good-night,
dear. ”
Here Spalding went out looking very queer and
white, and Ellis, the storekeeper, got the woman
to the station somehow by himself.
Spalding didn’t turn up that night, but next
morning one of the men, while out burr-cutting,
came across him hanging by his stockwhip to a
white-gum branch. There was a bit of paper
pinned to his coat. On it was written :
“I’m Fred.”
JINDA.
A Paris doctor has cured an apoplectic
attack by trephining the skull and drawing off
the blood which pressed on the brain. Quite
possibly skulls with drainage tubes in them may,
in a few years, be as common as throats with
ditto. Antiseptic surgery makes possible almost
everything.
? One of the most regular church-frequenters
this paper knows has an incipient lip-cancer ; he
takes the communion regularly, too, and in his
fane they follow the usual dirty custom of all
drinking wine from the same goblet. If the
churches haven’t sense enough to let each wor-
shipper have a glass to himself, they might at
least put the unhealthy believers at the back of
the building, and let the healthy ones in front take
first drink.
The drought in South Australia has been
so bad that it is very doubtful whether Mary will
have a little lamb this season.
Advance Australia ! Extract from a letter
received in Westralia from Sydney:—
Do you remember E ?He is now 23, and has already
been married, divorced, and bankrupt, and has been sell-
ing matches'in the street since he was 20.
In Brisbane (Q.), a butcher’s horse rolled
on its rider “ in such a way that the spur on one
of the man’s heels was forced into his body, making
a shocking gash.” A dose of his own medicine 1
11 As a matter of course,”
Said Moke to Bestrider—
“ What is sauce for the horse,
Is sauce for the rider ! ”
The man who does a plucky thing in Vic
toria runs a terrible risk, altogether apart from
the dangers he may dare on the spot—the risk of
being selected by Chief Justice Madden as the
victim of a mass of turgid oratory, or a fearful
letter rheumy with bathos, and gushing sluggishly
and heavily, like a gorged drain. One Fowler, of
Warragul, spiritedly saved a father and child from
the fire recently, when the odds were in favor of
his being incinerated in the aet; and deputy-
Excellency Madden immediately compiled a letter
of praise and glorification, and discharged it at
the Bead of the unhappy man. It was a letter
bloated with the lofty admiration of a superior
Eerson, and a right-thinking person, and one who
olds that bravery should be encouraged dont-
you-know, by the judicious recognition of person-
ages of great consequence and dignity, as it were,
and it contained imposing references to “ our
race,” his countryman, and God, and expressed
the ardent desire of J. Madden to shake the
hand of the “ resolute and placid” hero. The
missive reads strangely like a cold plum-pudding,
and is signed “ John Madden, Sunday,” and yet
appeared in the Melb. papers on Monday morn-
ing, showing that his Honor was as anxious to air
his little piece as to fatly pat the hero on the lead
in his character of special junior Providence.
Reports about Perth (W.A.) depot for
immigrant-girls (one of whom recently suicided)
roundaboutly recall the horrors associated with
the N.S.W. female - immigration system. The
present Westralian agency in London, had its
counterpart then in various would-be benevolent
organisations, that over which Mrs. Fry presided
being now the best remembered. When a ship-
load of girls was announced, the males of the
settlement went in a body (each with one or more
bottles of rum) to interview the new arrivals, and,
after much free-fighting, the girls were lodged in
Sydney dep6t. Here there was no supervision ;
men, still provided with rum, were on hand at all
hours. Next morning, the girls were despatched
per boat to the factory at Parramatta—as many
squeezed into each boat as she would hold, some
of them drunk and most of them sick. The con-
stables in charge were well provided with rum, and
it was a common thing for them to.rob the girls of
their clothes on the way up. The girls were next
handed over to Rev. Marsden,. boss of Parra-
matta factory, in which, according to Commis-
sioner Bigge, they slept upon “ greasy wool, in
the midst of horrible depravity.” Hordes of men
passed in and out all night, the drunken revelry
lasting till the girls were ordered to begin work
next day. Suicide was frequent among the girls.
“ O God, we are sent here to be destroyed ! ” was
an exclamation Bigge often had to listen to.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL
SOCIETY N.S.W.
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
GREAT EXHIBITION
6th to 12th APRIL, 1898.
£3OOO IN PRIZES'!
£3OOO IN PRIZES I
£3OOO IN PRIZES '
£3OOO IN PRIZES
£l4O
GOVERNMENT
NATIONAL
PRIZES.
£3OOO IN PRIZES!
£3OOO IN PRIZKSj
£3OOO IN PRIZES}
£3OOO IN PRIZES i
£l4O
Government National Prizes.
£l4O
Entries Close SATURDAY. sth MARCH.
CONTINENTAL CONCERTS!
P’ THURSDAY, GOOD FRIDAY, SATURDAY, and
EASTER MONDAY!
MUSICAL DIRECTOR Mr. L. De GROEN.
PRIZE SCHEDULES, now ready, may be obtained on appli-
cation at the Offices, Tattersall’s Buildings, Hunter and Castle-
reagh Streets, Sydney.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
POKER MACHINES.
CIGARS FREE
NT MICK SI
St =f
DROP 3? IN THE SLOT
I I 111 llllllll!!lll!!'.IIIIIIHIIII!l 1111111111 M (111! 1111111 l
IMiln
No Extortionate Prices.
We give Value for Money .
Purchase from IJs and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Value
in NS W.
LAWRENCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter.
A
JJ
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
s
E
I.
P
P
1.
E
D
I
N
<*
Eor
Count
Use.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Mick Simmons, Hagmarket* Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
mi «■ mm— mm*-**
THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IB* THE WORLD,
*5/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Proprietors
rriccocK &
Sold In Bottles, 6d„ i/-, and 2- each.
GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
CO., KENT and UVERPOOL STREETS, SVDNFV


A Chinese Idol.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pru. Grundy had a call, I’m told,
And straightway joined a ladies’ mission
For bringing Chinese to the fold,
And elevating their condition ;
And very sweet did Prudence look
In gowns becoming her profession ;
The gauds of fashion she forsook,
And always bore a brass-bound book,
Likewise a sanctified expression.
She strove with ardour for the souls
Of Chinamen who hadn’t any.
Sin Fat, the youngest on the rolls,
Was most susceptible of many.
His eye was soft and smooth his cheek,
He seemed convinced of Pagan folly ;
His manner, on the whole, was meek,
His smile was lowly, so to speak,
With just a touch of melancholy.
Sin Fat became a yellow saint,
His faith Confucian deserted,
With prayers and protestations quaint
Was ceremoniously converted;
And Pru. was blessed by parsons bland,
With grateful flow of pious unction,
And Fat was passed from hand to hand,
Exhibited throughout the land
At many a sacerdotal function.
Then Pru.’s papa—an elder stout—
As sometimes do religious sages—
Engaged Sin Fat as rouseabout
At half the ruling rate of wages ;
And so the suave Celestial toiled
Throughout the week at Mr. Grundy’s,
And smirked and ogled, nicely oiled,
In pure black suits and linen boiled,
In Pru.’s own class at kirk on Sundays.
No Asian sins the Chow retained,
Of earlier habits not a vestige;
On his account the Grundy’s gained
Considerable social prestige.
The ladies praised his smile so wan,
Hi 3 grace—increased to seven times seven—
Beamed condescendingly upon
A lowly, laboring, lucky “John,”
As one whom they must meet in Heaven.
One night, when seeking women lost
(Their own particular possessions),
To raise them up at any cost
And hear their scandalous confessions,
The Band of Purity was shocked
On finding Fat serenely smoking
With some bold hussy gaily frocked,
Who at the band of sisters mocked—
The sneer was specially provoking.
But Sin Fat smiled bis old, wan smile,
His arm about the waist of Polly ;
His face, betraying naught of guile,
Retained its trace of melancholy.
Before Miss Pru.’s accusing eye
He quailed not, nor at Madam Grundy s;
He only said : “ Goo’ day ! 0 Ki !
Me savee this one by’m bye,
Me bling her longa chulch on Sundays ! ”
Alas ! Sin’s brazen “convert ” wore
Some things long missed from Pru.’s pos-
sessions ;
Her jewels, too, were Pru.’s, and bore
G rim evidence of Sin’s transgressions.
Fat’s toiling now, in prison pent—
His mission work was suicidal—
And Pru. is filled with discontent,
And makes most heterodox lament
About her broken Chinese idol.
Vic.
SILAS SNELL.
Can a street-walker be venerable ? An old
woman of that sort lately admitted into one of the
Melb. homes has a police-record dating since
1850. She has now become religious, and is being
cleansed of her sin.
An enormous area of pastoral country in
the far north of South Australia has been aban-
doned the last four or five years. If droughts let
the sheep live, the wild dogs wouldn’t; and in
desperation the Govt, has itself taken in hand the
work of extermination on a new system. Scalping
has been practised for 20 years, payment being
made at per scalp. The result has been very
much the same as thatof the rabbit-bonus system in
N.S.W. : the dingoes have never completely died
out anywhere. Poison is to be the chief agent
now ; and the work is to be done by Govt, parties
on weekly wages.
“ He hath put down the mighty from their
seat.” A farmer’s cart drove up to the horse-
trough in Oxford-square (Sydney), and a big resi-
dent cabman indulged in sewer-language. The
farmer replied in kind, and the resident cabman
poked his fist into the farmer’s eye. A mill en-
sued, and in about 35sec. the farmer’s face was
wrecked, his claret spilt all over the place, and
his mouth much enlarged. As he was helped into
his cart, a small gent in a brown suit, whose snub
nose was barely visible over his collar, said such
cabmen ought to be suppressed, and begged to
move that the bystanders should convey that par-
ticular one to the nearest lock-up. The motion
was not carried, although the crowd agreed that
the cabman was no gentleman. Hearing this,
the Jehu offered to “oblige ” the small gent, made
a few remarks “on his own,” and, suddenly
flaming up, tried to poke the small man in the eye,
too. This was a terrible mistake ; the small man’s
guard was invinoible, his left irresistible, his blows
like horse-kicks and 50 times as fast. Again and
again the cabman got up, only to be knocked
down by his diminutive antagonist. The crowd
danced and yelled with delight, carts and ’buses
stopped to watch the fun, and business grew brisk
in the neighboring pubs. At last the cabman lay
still, fairly slugged out, the small gent washed his
hands in the water-trough and departed in a tram.
And then —great Heaven !—the “polis ” arrived.
Cheated.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The lumbering coach swung over the clay-
pans into the river township three hours after
dark. There were only two passengers on board.
One of them was Ferris, the wool-classer, down
from Tallakara, in South Queensland. He had
gone up two seasons before, and, what with slow
shearings and Waiting for water at the scour, and
helping to nurse the flock in the long drought, he
hadn’t had time to get down between clips. But
now he was on the road to Melbourne—in high
spirits, of course, at the prospect of a change from
shrivelled saltbush and staggering sheep.
The other passenger was a lady, and, being
young, Mumford had, after the manner of drivers,
taken her into his special charge, and had brought
out for her the favored-passenger’s cushion from
the deep cavern of the “ boot.”
How the long hours of that wearying journey
passed no man is ever likely to know. It is not a
matter upon which eye cares to approach Mum-
ford, voluble though ne generally is, and delight-
ing in confidential talk ; still, he has admitted
that, after much persuasion, the lady passenger
consented to take from his flask a sociable sip or
two, as well as a glass of what was sold for sherry
at the Quartz Reef “ change. But that was not
till the evening wind had begun to sharpen its
edge upon the Great Billabong.
Ferris, when he joined the coach, was told, as
plainly as a driver dared tell an unknown passen-
ger, that the inside was by far the better place—
there was, in fact, so much top-loading already
that any more would be dangerous. And Ferris,
though he grumbled a little, knew that the driver
in this respect is as supreme as a sea-captain, so
he comforted himself with the thought that, while
he had the inside to himself, worse things could
happen.
But the woman—well, hang it all ! Ferris re-
flected. The driver had been better off for
society than he had for the past 20 months. This
was only the third woman with a white face he
had seen in all that time.
Yet, in spite of all Ferris’s hints that, anyhow,
they might share her company, the driver held to
his charge till the las “change.” The arguments
Ferris used at that place are among the many
things that remain unknown. What alone is cer-
tain is that when Mumford, having seen the new
horses yarded and yoked, climbed on to the box
and looked round for his “charge”— as he was
careful to call her—Ferris put his head out of the
coach and sneered: “ We’re very comfortable,
thanks, driver. There’s not too much top-loading
now, I hope.”
This, at least, is what Hogan of the mail-change
says.
* * • *
I was sleeping as soundly as the mosquitoes
would allow in the “ pub.”—which for want of a
better outlook opens on to the sandbank beside
the river, with a view of the Chinamen’s gardens
on the other slope—when an angry argument on
the verandah woke me.
At first it was all unintelligible ; then I made
out more distinctly—
“Pfugh! You? Why, she only looked on you
as a : flunkey ! ”
“Me? Her—me—a flunkey—me!” T recog-
nised the voice of Mumford, the driver.
There was a sudden scuffling—then voices—
“ Off the verandah, off the verandah ! ” short
fierce oaths, deep grunts, a thud or two. “ Off
the man ! ” “ Back, back ’’—and all the rest of the
exclamations you hear at a fight.
It was a furious “ turn-up ” —a ‘ ‘ blanky willing
go, the mail-groom said; and the mail-groom is
the far-baclc authority on these matters.
There were eight or ten rounds of it; then one
(it doesn t matter which) had enough. So the two
little gangs led off two spluttering men in different
directions, while others stopped to fight the battle
over again, and perhaps lay the foundations for
some others.
* * * *
lunch I saw Mumford and Ferris
drinking together in the tap-room, both badly
damaged and sheepishly silent.
“ It was their turn-up last night, wasn’t it? ” I
asked the “ boss ” in surprise, nodding towards
the “tap.
He warily kicked the tap-door to.
“ Ha, ha ! ” he chuckled.
“ Well, what’s the yarn ? ”
“Poor devils ! Dead-shook, both on ’em, on a
passenger by last night’s—told ’em she was cornin’
up to be housekeeper at a place along the river
but they couldn’t get out of her the name of the
station, and that made ’em jealouser and madder ’n
f v ® r > for each ‘ chucked ’to the other that she’d
told him— and she seemed ‘good enough.’ That
was the barney; and now—ha, ha ! ”
“Well?”
“ Why, they’ve found out that the only thing
she is shook on is opium, and that to get it it’s
Jimmy Foo yonder she’s come to live with. A
blessed Chow’s ‘ housekeeper ’! It’s broke ’em
up worse than they did each other last night; an’
now they’re a-drownin’ of their damfoolishness
together !
S. H. PEIOR.
They were frae Aberdeen awa’, and had
been married 20 years when he began coming home
saxpence short in his wages. After the fourth
consecutive Saturday, she came to the conclusion
that he was keeping another establishment.
In Melbourne Hospital garden.—Visitor
small Evening ’Erald boy who has lost a leg):
Well, sonny, I m glad to see you looking so well
and happy after your accident.” The boy : “My
oath, sir, so would you if you got the tucker I
gets.”
In the moonlight, she gracefully sat
upon the edge of the verandah, raising her damson-
colored dress, to avoid the dust, and knowing* very
well that the artillery of her snowy petticoat was
not lost upon the colonel.”— Ladies’ Novel.
The carney or Australian sand iguana is a
mesmerist. It moves stealthily about in the grass
until it spots a grasshopper, then balances itself
on three legs, and begins to swing the fourth
slowly round and round. The grasshopper moves
irresistibly towards it with short, quick runs ; as
it draws nearer, the carney varies its tactics by
throwing a limb out in the direction of its victim,
waving it gently, with a quivering motion of the
foot. On comes the doomed grasshopper until it
gets within reach of the charmer, and is gobbled.
Gentlemen, —Have you sent us a trial-
order for one of our 455. suits yet ? If not, why
at are to anything turned out in
iN.S W. at twice the sum. Write for samples of
the Iweeds, Serges, or Sergerettes we make them
or. textures to suit all climates. Eour of the
best cutters procurable employed. Hordern
Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only),
Sydney. . Suits sent (by cost) to anywhere in
Australasia.
The ONLY GOLD MEDAL
A.fc F. PEARS
Reduced Facsimile of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the jurors
of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the
world for Toilet Soap was obtained by
SOAP MAKERS
By Special Appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
The Queen,
AND HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILL
a £ d Ner ™us Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
ings of Heat’ T n nossaad dwelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills Flush-
turbed Steen’ and all Shortness of Breath Cos'iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUm U- 118 ’ &c THE FIRST DOSE
o a rtN I Ii’TBOx” 0 " eB “ o,th ‘ SSePmS ' a " dth6r ’ wm h *
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
magic T a - few doses wUI work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
back thR kfen a^eSf^d
are “ faetT» a h Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame These
Nervous Debilitated *“» f SOci ! efcy V and one of tlie besfc guarantees to the
he world. Full dLctfons with each blx” 1 * ** ° f Patent Medieme in
prepared only by
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is ljd, and 2s 9d each.
BOOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. _No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
°r holding* back of what doctors treat as medical secrets,
illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s fid ; by post 4s.
~. Bia impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
dehcate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
VV rite for a full description ; sent post free to any address
Private Book for Young Men, by Br. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The -Notorious Moll t landers, by Be Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is (id.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is • by
post Is 3d. Titf, Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Bream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Br. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl's Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s;: post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s (id.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts .Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Miner’s Handbook : Simple Tests for Minerals •
Every Man His Own Analyst, illus., 3s 6d post free. ’
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
The Serpent Tempted Her : A Confession, Is 3d
posted. My Uncle Barbassou’s Harem, post free Is 6d.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc. 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The YY orks of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor A 2a 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing- all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is : post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS. '
'9
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
BOUT
Readers of this paper should
know that to effectually cure
Gout the great thing to do is to
eliminate from the system the
urio acid, which is the cause
of the malady, and nothing
does this so effectually as
Bishop’s Citrate of Lithia. All
doctors prescribe it. Of all
Chemists in two sizes. A Book-
let on Gout sent post free on
application.
Inventors and Sole Makers—
ALFRED BISHOP, Ltd.,
48, SPELMAN ST., LONDON, E
CURED.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract.
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
KSr 7 A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY. ‘
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent aotion is atonoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious
Visitors to =
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence ill per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
;JV
«§
w*
m
EMPIRE HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, SYDNEY.
CENTRALLY SITUATED.
Terms:
f From 10s. per Day, and
\ £2 16s. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
A GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
xl. Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
Bonmngton’s Sarsaparilla, 2/6
Makes PURE BLOOD, Strengthens the Nerves, Sharpens the Appetite,
Removes that Tired Peeling, and makes LIKE WORTH LIVING.
Bonnington’s Liver Tonic, 2/6
RESTORES THE FUNCTIONS of the Nervous System, Prompt in
Action, and a Perfect Regulator of the Body.
A SLIGHT MISTAKEN
1 u
y rp
%
7/
I.—“ Aw ! what a deuced clevah perfume
bottle. I’ll buy one faw Miss Mabel*
by Jove.”
fo
■nra
\
iv
fu
hi
2. —“ I say, Gawge, wrap me up one of
those bottles like a good fellah.”
m
h\:^
3.—“ Just a twifle, Mias Mabel.”
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blaekwell, Ltd., London; ,
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
Agents: Messrs.
SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO ,
BoQQifygtoo’S
(Registered) IRISH MOSS
Unequalled as a Specific for the CURE of COUGHS, COLDS INFLUENZA
PNEUMONIA, SORENESS and TIGHTNESS of the CHEST ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, DIFFICULTY OF BREATH-
ING, and all other LUNG COMPLAINTS tending to Consumption. In Laree
and Small Bottles.
Pills
CURE all LIVER DISORDERS, BILIOUSNESS, SICK HEADACHE
INDIGESTION, FLATULENCE, DIZZINESS, CONSTIPATION.
Gripe.


OLEAC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S , Botanist to
H.li.H. the Prince of Wales
ECZEMA
Permanent Cr.ro, Self Applied,
3oz. Jars 2,6 By post 3/-
“OLEAC”
COLONIAL REPKi.SKNTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
GRIEFEOTDORFFS
‘KEPRO
TESTIMONIAL.
Maleton (Victoria), 31st September, 1896.
I have much pleasure in stating that the South
Gorman Gold Mining Company has used Griefen-
dorff’s “ ICW ItO ” to paint the inside of our
Cya/tidc Vats to save the timber from absorbing the
cyanide and gold, liquor. We are pleased to state
that we found it admirably suited for that purpose,
and can safely recommend it to others.
W. B. GRAY,
Managing Director Smith German G.M. Co., Maldon.
ALSO useful to Squatters for COATING
Waters Tanks ; Electricians and Chemical
firms for'COATING Acid Tanks, and all users of
Casks and Wooden vessels. In 5 and 10 gallon
drums, from all wholesale druggists.
Send for Circular to Agents,
ALFRED LA WHENCE & CO.,
527 Collins . Street, MELIiOGItNE.
SPOONS & FOH.ES
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<f>HE JJbBOT
XiAZH
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
“ THE BEAVER.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TUB BLOCK,’’
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
WortbiQgtoi) P6n>pios Eogipe Conjpaijy.
(Australasian Branch.)
Simpson Brothers.
WORTHINGTON
(Australasian Branch.)
rence
TRADE MARK-
Sydney, R.S.W.
.
Agencies :
fm
itifg
3B» [■ 5!
REGULAR PATTERN.
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-streeb, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-streeb, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCAREE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WOBTHINGrTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGER ATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)— 92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
Agents Everywhere. H. PATESON, MANAGER.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LTD., SYDNEY.
Manufacturers and. Importers of
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS.
Sole A.gezits for
THE <SARPN€R €N6IH€ GOVERNOR.
This governor, which is constructed on a new and greatly improved design, is admitted by all who have used
it to be superior to any other. We are willing to furnish them to any responsible person on trial.
"WIES HAVE I3XT STOCK
Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers of all sizes, Knowles Pumps for all
services, Pulsometers, Fans and Blowers, Ingersoll-Sergeant Compressors and
Rock Drills, Water Wheels, Dynamos, Forges, Rockbreakers, Rolls, Sample
Grinders, Hoisting Engines, Horse Whims, Screens, Retorts, Bullion Moulds,
Electro-Copper Plates, Shafting and Pullies, Belting and Oils.
All kinds of Wood and Iron Working 1 Machinery and Mine
and Mill Supplies. WRITE FOR CATALOGUES & PRICE LISTS.
THE - -
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
CHAIN STITCH
Batho’s
.. .Y.V- ' . /' \ *■.
Baking Powder
TNSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
X & Co., Gunjnakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrei Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
s’ Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and oleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments unequal for quality, with cartridge machinesandcleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 lOsea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
TWF LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tamrent S»okes(all Nickle, Perrv’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2/3 gross), Rim Washers (lid. gross),
Dunlon Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (Complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s
Sa-Idles 6 6 Bleumel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90/-. Send for trade Illustrated Price
Tiet Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to date, £7, £3, £9, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. # 345 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
- -f
Steam Engines,
Horizontal and Vertical,
of the Most Approved Designs
and Highest Workmanship, from
one horse-power.
All our Engines arts fitted with The Pickering
Governor (for which we are Sole Agents), the
in ost Perfect Governor ever made.
Every Description of Engineers’ Hand & Machine
Tools in Stock.
All kinds of Engine & Boiler Fittings, Machine & Mill Supplies.
Write for particulars and prices. All enquiries promptly and intelligently replied to.
