

McE WAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. BEAVER STOUT.
us:
MALTED COCOA
IPU3RE COCOA. A.KTD EXTRACT OF MALT.
Mining and Contractors’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’
107
Kent
Street,
Sydney,
FOB
Mining
Requisites,
AND
ALWAYS
Plant, Engineers’
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
and
NEW
Sawmill Machinery,
and SECOND-HAND PLANTS
AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE & C?
aft
c
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGES' SYONEY
Modern Timber-catting Machinery.
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR ANY°SIZE OF LOGS. "
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Fitting No. 106 for Fast Wheels.
Axle part round and square
at ends, rivetted.
, CIGARS
'/ixr
tUntfKQGBWr
<SMOK£
£
M.Rirnnrk c* snwiY
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss pm **, SYDNEY.
-ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
SAMUEL OSBORN & CO.. SHEFFIELD.
makers of H>. Musket’s Special Self-Hardening' Tool Steel
Machine-Gut Files, Mining Steel, Wheels, Hollers,
Sheaves, Spur Wheels, Pinions, Clutches, and other
Steel Castings.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
S»LA.TO-30 , X B »S PATENT
NAND ICC-MAKER
FOR
HOUSEHO
USE.
■ *
TEN (10)
WIFE HER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
Price: SOs Delivered at any, Port or Railway Station in
Australia, ss. extra.
BRANDT BROS.,
Manufacturers,
236 Pitt-st., Sydney;
and 422 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
SI
na
jgOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
v WTMPOLB’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda .Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
II o TB A R T.
m— : "
Radley s Orient hotel.
aM
oo
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
Highest Awards wherever Exhibited..
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN - -
- - CURRENT.
LONG, LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
IB? EE Ml SWAM
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
I YARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
VOl 19.—N0.' 978-1
| Saturday, November 12, 1898.
F postered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newananer.


JUST PUBLISHED.
fair Girls and Gray horses
With Other Oerses,
By WILL H. OGILYIE.
Reprinted from the Australasian ; the Sydney Mail ;
the Border Watch, S.A.; the Western Champion,
Parkes, N.S. W. ; the Independent, Parkes,
N.S.W. ; and The Bulletin. With
several hitherto unpublished
pieces.
Handsomely bound in cloth, gilt-top, with 3 vignette
illustrations by G. W. Lambert. Post free
4s. 6d. from Bulletin office.
BY APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY TIM
- GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. VICTORIA.
Byrne’s Construction Inspection, 14s, post 15s ; Thomp-
son’s Gases, Os, post 5s 6d ; Kemp’s Gold Coast, 14s, post
15s ; Remeo’s Coffee, etc., in Mexico, 14s, post 15 ; Lee’s
Paul Coorah, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Glasgow’s
Phases of an Inferior Planet, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and
4s ; Sargeant’s.Margaret Wynne, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s
and 4s ; Turner’s (Ethel) Camp at Wandinong, 2s 6d and
3s 6d, post 3S and 4s ; Boothby’s (Guy) Across the World
for a Wife, 2s 6d and 2s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Grief’s
Crowned Queen, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; France’s
Duenna of a Genius, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Meredith’s Beauchamp’s Career, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s
and 48 ; Campbell’s Beyond the Border, 6s, post 6s 6d.
Just published : THE BUTCHER’S GUIDE AND FAR-
MER’S OOMANION. By William Dunstan, Cr., 2s 6d.
Nearly ready : BELOW’ AND ON TOP. By Edward
-Dyson, author of “ Rhymes from the Mines,” etc., 2s6d
and 3s 6d, post 3s and.4s.
Just published : THE AUSTRALIAN FRUIT GARDEN :
A Practical Manual, by J. S. Heron. Is, post free,
Is 2d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE! A.RG-OHTA.UT.
PUBLISHED AT SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., U.S.A.
The Argonaut publishes bright weekly letters from
New York, Paris, ahdLondon, front skilled correspondents
“ The Bulletin ’’ says
who are in touch with the intense life of those great cities.
It publishes frequent letters from other points in the
old world, and from the older world of Asia come occa-
sional letters from India, China, and Japan. Its short
the “Argon ut” is
stories are famous throughout the world. It is hard to
describe their peculiar tinge, but an idea may be gathered
from this, our standing injunction to our contributors :
“ Whatever you are, never be commonplace.” The re-
the most readable
suit is that the Argonaut short stories have an individu-
ality of their own. The Argonaut endeavors to present a
weekly review of the literary movement. Brief notes on
American newspaper.
books, rather than lengthy reviews, together with notes
upon authors and journalists, will keep the reader well
up with the literary gossip of the day.
For sale at Tub Bulletin Office after Hhe arrival of the
American, mail; price , Bd. ; posted, 9d. mailed regularly
to any Australasian address.
AG, STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
, Georire-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advme and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
HOT S
V
XDXJ
. ** ■ ■
■ ■
SMOKE INSTEAD
AND KEEP COOL
'
CIGARETTES, of course ?
THE RED PAGE.
P. Chalmers Mitchell, in Eng. Saturday Re-
view, has fallen on the familiar local idea that
body fights brain, and the intenser the genius the
greater the disease and the shorter the life. But
his interesting article has been received with un-
familiar astonishment. He writes—
At some Oxford colleges it is the custom, when
the college “eight” or “Torpid” is in training,
for any undergraduate who chooses to invite the
crew to breakfast. The host writes his name
against a vacant ,date on a list kept in some con-
venient place, and at half-past eight on the
appointed morning the routine training-breakfast
arrives in his rooms from the kitchen, and the
crew, glowing from the morning tub and the
morning run round Christ Church meadow, tum-
ble into their places. Naturally the members of
a crew, chosen for the modern aptitude for
rowing of a college boat, are very different people.
There are different sorts and conditions of mental
ability; in the crews which I in my college career
had .the advantage of entertaining, there were
some who were stupid, some who in our college
society passed as brilliant, and there were some
who in the greater arena of the world are coming
to distinction. But who that has played host to a
crew can forget the fatuity of the talk, his forlorn
attempts to rally ihterest about anything other
than the vagaries of Brown’s liver and the excoria-
tion of the skin over Smith’s i/lutceus. And these
men were in the flush of youth and in the pink of
condition, taking even their exercise in modera-
tion, as, the muscular training for inter-college
races is much less arduous than that necessary for
the University boat-race.
* * * *
It must have happened to many readers of
these lines, as to the writer of them, that,
in the middle of a spell of work, the memory
of wild nature comes down like an obses-
sion. The clean, sweet downs, the odorous forest,
the mountains musical with falling water, or the
green plains with their white, poplar-lined roads
call, and are not to be denied. And so, with a
bag pressed full of convenient work, and with
bicycle, or rod, or gun, you are off to your
favourite haunts. Eight hours to sleep, eight
hours to eat and play, eight Hours to work, and,
after a delightful fortnight, you are to return with
the bag of work exploited and your pulses attuned
to health. The ozone eats through the tissues of
brain and body, purging them as fire burns out
the dross; the kind wind, the plumping rain and
the vigorous sun pervade you with health, your
cheek browns, your body straightens, your lungs
expand, and the fickle irregularities of your blood-
stream become transformed to a tumultuous but
evenlymrdered pulse. And your work remains
undone. As you dip your pen, ideas vanish ; your
notes for the next chapter seem random jottings ;
the masses of facts you were to tabulate and co-
ordinate become a horde of mutually repelling,
unrelated atomies. When you have come back to
town, and the old stream has resumed you in its
eddying, buffeting flood, the glow fades from your
cheek, your shoulders become round, and your
heart capricious again ; and then, and not until
then, you pick up the threads of your work.
m ' * ♦ - . *
These familiar instances are brought forward as
the introduction to a proposition or generalisation
which, once made, appears tome to be self-evident.
The proposition is that, in the vast majority of
cases, the best brain-work of which individuals of
average or of unusual ability are capable is per-
formed under conditions of imperfect health. So
far from there being an obvious truth in the
familiar tag, mens sana in corpora sano, the case is
precisely the reverse, and, unless we are to give to
the term sana a preposterous meaning, the mind
at its best is to be found in a body that is not at
its best. I have no reasoned theory to account for
this apparent paradox; but the suggestion lies
ready to hand—that the higher kind of mental-
work is the most recent historical acquisition
of man, and that the conditions favorable to it
have not yet become an integral portion of the
fibre of brain and body. In the course of the
long struggle for existence, man has been moulded
by the forces of nature to robuster purposes
than chopping logic, writing poetry, or developing
theories, and these higher functions of the brain can
flourish only m the secluded garden of an artificial
civilisation. So also, we know, the wall-fruit
bringing to perfection its luscious droplets of con-
densed sunshine is less healthy than its sour ances-
tor in the woods. Take from it its sheltering back-
ground of brick and artificially stimulated soil, and
though for a time it may flourish in a new luxuri-
ance of shoot and leaf, it will certainly fall short,
in quality and quantity, of its golden produce.
• * * *
I am on surer ground, however, when I turn
from theoretical explanation to marshalling of
supporting facts. I do not think it can be doubted
that as classes, country clergymen, army men, and
country gentlemen enjoy a ruder health, and have
a less frequent resort to doctors and drugs than
barristers, journalists, and medical men. The
natural conditions of their lives are more near the
aboriginal environment, and their open-air habits,
with moderate exercise, regular rest, and easy,
regular employment conduce to perfect health. I
do not think it can be doubted that, as classes,
clergymen, army men and country gentlemen are
characterised by brains less active in their higher
intellectual functions than the brains of the less
healthy professional classes. I am speaking, of
course, of average results, as the influence of uni-
form conditions on masses of individuals can ap-
pear only as average results.
* * • •
The case for my proposition becomes even
stronger when pre-eminent brain-work is con-
sidered. I cannot, at the present moment, recall
a single great poet, man of letters or man of
science, in fact, any person greatly distinguished
by the product of his brain, who was a type of
good health. Examples to the contrary surge
into the mind. Most people will remember in
this connection the attempts of Lombroso and
of others to prove a connection between genius
and insanity, or between genius and the stig-
mata of organic degeneration. These attempts
have always seemed to me unscientific and
exaggerated ; but they are at least strong enough
to establish a general connexion between fine
brain-work and ill-health. Consider Newton,
always an invalid; Clerk Maxwell, who died
young after a life of ill-health ; Darwin who, after
he reached adult life, was probably never well for
three consecutive days. Consider Poe and Pope,
Chatterton, Keats, Shelley, Byron, Heine and a
thousand other poets. Consider Gibbon and Car-
lyle, De Quincey—it is needless to prolong the
catalogue : but I would ask readers to think over
the distinguished people they know. It is diffi-
cult to mention the names of living, distinguished
persons, but for my own part I am certain
that I do not know a single person whose
intellect I respect greatly, who enjoys robust
health. The most brilliant soldier, the ablest
politician, the most talented journalist, the greatest
novelist, the most skilful surgeon, the most far-
seeing physician, and the most remarkable man of
science I know, have all, to say the least of it,
something fragile about their bodily constitutions.
The coincidence is most remarkable if the con-
sideration be limited to men under, say, five-and-
fifty. If a man of any ability at all survive that
period, he attains a kind of distinction by the
accretion of years, just as a soldier who survives
many campaigns acquires medals and stages in
military rank. But, among younger people, an
arrangement in the scale of intellectual ability
would certainly show, on the broad average, a
coincidence of brain-work and imperfect health.
' .
Writes Victor Daley—The more I read of recent
literature, the more am I impressed with its
Byzantinism. The Byzantines grew tired of the
stately lonic and Doric and Corinthian columns,
and constructed twisted monstrosities of pillars,
which are architectural dreadfulnesses even to
this day. Yet the intention of the pillar-builders
was, and is, plain enough. They wanted to ex-
press in cold, impassive stone tile corroding Ache
of Life to be more than it is, or can ever be in its
present environment. This futile wrestling with
Omnipotent Fate is always a feature of decadent
ages. Few men in these latter days seem to really
believe that this present life on this particular
small planet is merely an infantile prologue
to the great drama of Man’s everlasting career.
Hectic hurry is the key-note of almost all
later literature. The writers- wish to sing
their song or tell their tale because they know-
or seem to think that they know that
they will soon and most sin 1/ die. There is a
haggard suggestion of anxiety about everything
they produce. We have no patience now. Our
inspired cough must be delivered quickly lest, per-
adventure, we should fade into Infinity without
having given to the world our consumptive mes-
sage. Swinburne’s Meieager expresses the tired,
haggard feeling fairly enough—
“ And now for God's sake kiss me once and twice ,
And let me go, for the night gathers me,
And in the night shall no man gather fruit.”
We have no patience, I say again. With all our
attempted modern revivalism of the Augustan
age we cannot better Sir Philip Francis’s
translation of Horace. We cannot, in fact
adequately translate Horace at all. His “ curiosa
felicitas” is inexpressible in hasty transiterms.
The portly little bard settled on his S ibine farm,
listening—with a cup full of his own wine at his
elbow, and the comfortable knowledge that there
was more of the same vintage not far away—to
the cheerful patter of the warm rain upon his own
grape-vinos, while the great thunder of the Roman
destiny went rolling by : how are his odes to be
fitly expressed in modern forms of speech ?
He took time over those odes. The sosii did not
worry him for “copy ” —or if they did th H fact is
not recorded. And the noble Lucumo, M ecenas
—the sad-eyed, purple-olad magnificent man !
saw to it that tfie little bon vivant was never com-
pelled to sing for his But nowadays
the post is waiting and the world yearn-
ing for our “copy.” And that copy must
go or else we shall awake m the morning and find
ourselves not famous —a tragedy which would
dislocate the Universe! Sometimes I like to re-
member the following facts in this connection :
(1) An absurd old Medici once shut himself up
in a tower for ten years in order to temper a sword
which would cut p >rphyry. And the legend states
that he succeeded. Milton carved in enduring
marble. We have now hardly enough spare time
to make swords that will cut soap.
(2) Thomas Love Peacock stated it as his calm,
carefully-considered opinion that nothing written
since the days of Boethius was worth the Atten-
tion of a Man of Cultured Taste. He did nob
except even his own writings.
(3) The wonderful coral-insect poem—islands
fair and inhabitable springing without hurry,
without pause from the ever-vital womb of In-
numerous Death.
(4) Milton’s line—
“ They also serve who only stand and wait.''
(5) The ancient Irish poets who had to carve
their songs in wood—the casual cynic who says
that their descendants, out of their own heads, do
the same thing to this day is hereby scoffingly an-
ticipated—and if they did not carve them to suit
the humour of the Chief of the Clan got instead of
the usual Usguebaugh Honorarium the unkindly
Axe of the Period. This qualified condition made
them think before they wrote.
(6) Addison, who never would sit down to write
essays if his sleeve-ruffles were nob immaculate.
We write in our shirt-sleeves now.
And finally (as an anti-climax) the old Irish
ballad “ Aisy, O Woman of Three Cows ! ”
“H.S.R.”: There is room for a little more ex-
planation as to the way of building a symbolist poem.
For example. A favorite topic of the symbolists
is the beauty of woman. Woman’s bosom is white
and soft, therefore it must, be described in words;,
which are white to the eye and soft-to the ear, like
blanche and douce. Her lips are red and sweet,
and sweet, red words must picture them—like
rose and rond. And the white and soft,' or sweet
and red, words must be combined and added to
so as to give a general atmosphere of whiteness and
softness, or redness and sweetness; so that the
reader will have a white, soft emotion, or a red,
sweet emotion —that is, so that he may feel as
nearly as possible as if he saw the bosom, or kissed
the lips. Meanwhile, in the poem, the words are
conveying some sort of sense—perhaps telling what
the woman does, or how she looks.. Presently the.
poem is over, and the ordinary reader has assimi-
lated its sense. But all this time, maybe, the poet
has been typifying essential, eternal Beauty in the
guise of a particular woman, and the trained reader
sees the symbol and receives the message. If he
doesn’t see it, he hunts for it—it is the property of
the symbolist poem to unfold like-a flower; and
sometimes he gets it, sometimes he doesn’t get it,
and sometimes he doesn’t know whether he has
got it or not. But he is never happy till he gets
it. This attempt at explanation does not quite
accurately represent Mallarme’s own method, but it
gives a fair general idea of the method of his school.
“J.M.L.”: Henley’s collection of Wilfrid
Blunt’s poems takes no account of “ The Wind and the
Whirlwind,” a booklet which contains Blunt’s verses re-
garding England's attitude to Egypt. The denunciation
in the following lines recalls Francis Adams’s verses in
similar vein—a vein which is not found in Henley, author
of the proud invocation to “ England, my England "
O insolence of strength, O boast of wisdom,
O poverty in all things truly wise !
Thinkest thou, England, .God can be outwitted
For ever thus by him who sells and buys.
Thou sellest the sad nations to their ruin.
What hast thou bought ? The child within the womb,
The son of him thou slayest to thy hurting,
Shall answer thee, “ An empire for thy tomb.”
Thou hast joined house to house for thy perdition.
Thou hast done evil in the name of right.
Thou hast made bitter sweet, and the sw.eet bitter,
And called light darkness, and the darkness light.
Thou hast deserved men’s hatred : they shall hate thee.
Thou hast deserved men’s fear : their fear shall kill.
Thou hast thy foot upon the weak : the weakest
With his bruised head shall strike thee on the heel.
Thou wentest to this Egypt for thy pleasure ;
Thou shalt remain with her for thy sore pain.
Thou hast possessed her beauty. Thou wouldst leave her—
Nay, thou shalt lie with her, as thou ha# liin.
“A. ” : Sydney Public Library catalogues are
simply—or rather most complexly—bewildering to the
visitor seeking library information ; the experienced per-
son resorts to them when he is in a mood to kill time by
dabbling in elaborate puzzles. There is, to begin with, a
general catalogue of the works accumulated from 1869 to
1887, or, to state the case more accurately, an alphabeti-
cal list of the authors of those works. This catalogue is
supplemented by some smaller ones, made up to the same
anciept date, and supposed to be “ subject catalogues,”
though they are not really slifih, as poetry, for in-
stance, published in “collections” of an author’s
works, is not mentioned in the “ poetry ’’ list.
There is no self-advertising indication of how many and
what classes there are, and how many and what “ subject
catalogues” there should be-there are of the latter just
three discoverable, without application to an attendant,
viz .those for A, C, and F. Next, there is a catalogue,
on tbe autbors > names system, of the acquisitions during
1888-1892, and anothei for 1593-95, these being unaccom-
panied by any “ subject catalogues,” so that, in order to
find out what historical works (for example) i here may be
in the library, it is necessary to read, beside °tb er
th whole of tht , se two lengthy jumbles
of j ’ ur i spnldenc . e; poet r V , geography, politics, travels,
re and wligt not.' Then there is a catalogue of
acquisitions for 1896-7. (This unexpectedly contains at
the back a welcome re-entry of the 1896-7 books under
classified headings and by titles.) And then theie are
Jfer monthly type-written sheets of
Reckoning these together as one, there are no tew ei man
five catalogues that Wit be consulted to ascertain what
js in tbe ij brarVi and a ]l of which any have to be eon-
suited even to merely locate a known book.
A KINGFISHER.
[FOR THE BLLETIN.]
A doubt, a guess, swaying in sunlit air !
A sudden flash, a shimmering swirl ©f blue ;
Then lightly drops, all sappbire-hued and tense,
A bird ? A gem ? A spirit ?
O wilderment of beauty gleaming there !
A childhood’s aching fantasy comes true—
My dream of flame with sight and flower with
sense
Takes living form and colour !
All fervent moods from Sunlands everywhere,
The tropics of the Heart’s rich ardours too,
Thrill in your miniature magnificence—
Concentrate Austral Summer!
M. A. Robertson.
HYMNE.
A la tres-chere, a la tres-belle
Qui remplit mon cceur de clarte,
A l’ange,a l’idole immortelle,
Salut en immortalite ! \
Elle se repand dans ma vie
Comme un air impregne de sel,
Et dans mon ame inassouvie
Verse le gout de l’Eternel.
Sachet toujours frais qui parfume
L’atmosphere d’un cher reduit,
Encensoir oublie qui fume
En secret k travers la nuit.
Comment, amour incorruptible,
T’exprimer avec verite ?
Grain de muse qui gis, invisible,
Au fond demon eternite !
A la tres-bonne, a la tres-belle
Qui fait ma joie et ma sante,
A l’ange, a l’idole immortelle,
Salut en immortalite!
Ch. Baudelaire.


*W<:
m
e
r±
a 7‘HV M'. «■ h ,
m
% W
WM
■i
.i V .■ - ' ' ■'. >L
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
-WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
m
m
m
\
MAIM !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.— A man who lias lost his will-power, by continually
committing himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for nearly all the walks of
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. -Now, the experience of 20,000 men
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly endorsed the treatment of
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the meie verbiage ot a single
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Rene wned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the remarkable treatment
which has made both fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
WALLACE.
In the Jjabi/ratory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch
Are you all run down?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
!'oes your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms
Do your eyes twitch?
Do your hands tremble l
-Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting 1
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility.
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache?
Do you shun society?
Are you losing flesh?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is .there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has'the brightness left your eyes
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
■lipiii
All Trams stop at the Door.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thankstothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Oft at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
E? .f
Mine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
Rescued at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 10 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer—in fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs. ;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l,
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
iST2-3z>:Nr:E3-sr_
Please mention this Paper when writing.] Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
&
*
/*'V
ft
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffe r
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &e., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie -will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical "Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases. may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
;>nd should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addres-ed—
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTI v G HOURS—Dai'v,
10 till 5; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a me'thod which has proved most
successful. Every mart desiring VIGOR and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Fee, £1 —which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for WEA KNESS, DEBILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every riiiner, farmer—in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
THE NEW FRENCH REMBPY.
TRADE
MARK.
This successful ami highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals b\ Bicord,
Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPiON No. 1
in a remcii ka <ly sn -i i time, olteii a tew oulj ,
removes ail discharg* s from the urinary organs,
superseding injections the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
fur impur.t* ot tin: hmod, scuivy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it lias
been tod much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, <fec., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
thewholesystcm through ihe blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every p isonous it atter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
fur iierv.'Us i-xn.Hislion, waste of vnalltj .harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess residence in hot, unhealthy
ciiinates, &c. It. possesses surprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION
Chemists amt .Merchants throiigmmt. the World.
I’rice in England .2/9 & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
ah ve Trade Mirk, which is a lac-simile of word
*• Theration ” as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without whioh it is a forgery.
Agents for Therapiox— FELTON, GRTMWADE & Co., and ROCKE, TOMPSITT & Co.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in tbe
‘‘Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD &' CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hur.oer-st., SYDNEY.
ATROPHY in Men\
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Elcctro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit. Marital Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address—
J. HJNTON-WILLIS, A
V Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts , Melbourne.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Pa-inless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON; M.E.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss made on the plan of the above, with a heavy-
steel or iron band, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing one. Throw it away ! Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
can furnish you a most efficient truss — Elastic —without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY !
As for CURES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magnetic Elastic
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS ! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now be had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World ! If ruptured,
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &c. ;
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A. ; or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NERVOUS
In its very Worst Form,
Despondency, DEBILITY,
from any cause whatever,
Absolutely and
Permanently
CURED by
EXHAUSTION
MutnftmV* Vegetable Medicated Nervine Tonic P-ill*.
Truly a Marvellous Medicine. No poisonous drugs ; no
vexatious disappointments ; simply a Genuine Cure. £1
per COURSE; Pamphlets Free. F. W. MUMFORD,
Herbal Specialist, 51 Rourke Street, E. Mkmournk.
Established 20 years.
WALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
i. Price WttruHg, Is. 3d.


TATTERS ALLS
••. Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Holbart.
SPECIAL.— AII the Year Round.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Address
«£ r -
SANDHURST T.C. November 30.
100,000 Subscribers at 5 (
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _ shares in the above.
Name
Address
NEWCASTLE TATTERS ALLS C. Dec. 2
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
Address
ROSEHILL S.
December 10
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares in the above.
IST ame
Address
bUMMER C. December 26.
50,000 Subscribers at g.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
CARRINGTON S
December 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name.
Address
GEELONG C. January 18, 1899.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name.
Address
shares in the above.
ANNIVERSARY H. January 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name _
shares in the above.
Address
NOTE.
The SPIICIAL > when fu,1 > will be drawn on the advertised day of the next Principal Kace.
For full particulars read cur Printed Circulars.


(aIaSS
of FaSbioo
gHTHONY • riORDERN’S
PORTFOLIO OF . . •
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY —’
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &o.
Plumbers’ Coods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Cuns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Carden Implements, &o
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —1 had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my lei. At this stage 1 was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until 1 was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. _ After taking three bottles of ttiis medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the u-ndersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
TJSE
Spooler's
IROYALNAVYDREMC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
II
OIRECIIONS FOR USE
uumiuimuiUDw
ROYAL NAVAL
DR€SSIN<S,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing’ for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS.
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of I.ime,
AND ALL MTNING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Minins' Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Meltoovime.
<SV3R>
JV3Q
L3HL>
tW° "Common Sense Ear
Drums ” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Acral
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
Icomfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent.
220 Collins-street, Melbourne.
«1
[HAirPENHY
rxi’t/'wvv
GO TO HELL-
I(i()I,ANI) for Pretty Stumps, but
if you want real t'ood stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
7\6straliai? WGtGal
Established 1849.
JUBILEE YEAR.
Provident Society.
With the close of the year 1898, the Australian Mutual Provident Society will complete FIFTY YEARS of its
existence. Members are invited to make this a RECORD YEAR by taking out additional policies themselves, and by
inducing their friends who are not already assured to become members. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before
the end of the year will share in the division of profits to be made as at 31st December next. Amount of Cash Surplus
divided amongst the members during the 49 years ending 1897 was £7,726,170. The Cash Bonus distributed amongst
the Policyholders for the single year 1897 was £115,235. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Accumulated Funds, £11,179,578. Annual Income, £2,091,706.
Directors:— The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Chairman ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq.; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.,F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
m
Pig
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
Positively the Best Dressing
u
%
Rs
r
S 3
TT\’3o
m
r/j 50
FOR
PEES ERVINS- Si BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“HARLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to be devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract.—The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will be pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2.6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn, LONDON, W.C.
The ONLY practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE
COMPLAINTS, arising from SANDY BLIGHT, SUN GLARE, INFLAMMA-
TION, Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, &c.
Mr. JUSTICE MURRAY and Mrs. Murray both certify to the Curative
Properties of Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion. Upon their recommendation
several obstinate cases of eye-complaints have been cured with the Lotion after
the failure of doctors’ treatment and the frequent use of other so-called remedies.
They give Mr. Rose full permission to use their name.
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE PBOPBIETOE :
H. A. BOSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
Telephone, 26 KOGARAH—connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotelßrighton,
Distant from Sydney, &0 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
Ok the Banks op Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand TTall trill accommodate 500 persons. Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating;
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation. TERAIS MODERATE.
THE
‘ Plum ’
Ptij
THB
‘Plum’
ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, »e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d. t
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake,
p . I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6di ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
t'rice |gj n „] e R aZ or, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part o f the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG
& AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
LOOK A.T OUR RRICfiS !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers' profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, 16155.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9 los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, 126. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£B.lB. 6.
Not Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
SezxdL for Our Xlluatra.ted Catalogue.
Some Verses and Others.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ed. Bulletin. —Misstated (B. 10/9/’9B)
that Father John Murphy brought out a, consign-
ment of convicts in the Lord Dalhousie in ’52.
Neither lags nor professional devil-dodger on
board that ship that trip, though there were eight
of Sidney Herbert’s boys, in charge only of ship’s
officers, and consigned to influential settlers in
Vic.—J.F.
In the Gardens.
Up in the dome of the drooping myrtle
Small birds were wooing, trilling and twittering;
Now and then one of them catching the sun on
him
Went through the leaves with a sudden gold
glittering.
And standing under there
These the birds’ words to me:
“ What do you ponder there
Under our myrtle tree,
Have you no green leaves, sir,
Standing dejectedly ? ”
Then I beheld her and thrilled to behold her :
She had such pretty feet, pacing so tenderly ;
Was that smile meant for me and that glance sent
for me,
Did she say hope to me even so slenderly ?
And looking after her
Her eyes came round again,
Mischief and laughter there—■
Turned on the ground again:
“ Have you no daring, sir,
Gazing dejectedly ? ”
White as the white rose and red as red roses,
Under green arches where blossoms hung
swoonfully;
Bright as a gleam of gold, sweet as a dream of old,
She took her way, and the waters sang tunefully.
Then, at her passing slow,
I in a sweet distress
Heard the bees humming low
Deep in the leafiness :
“ Seek you not honey, sir,
Thirsting dejectedly ? ”
Yes—l will speak to her—here by the poppies :
“ Sweetheart, what moves you to such gentle
pondering ? ”
Alas, the surprise to me! she turned her eyes from
me,
Left me all hot and cold, tremulous, wondering !
Then said the poppies red :
“ So—it is better so;
Forget! ” the red poppies said,
“ Sleep and forget her so.
Love is a torture, sir,
Musing dejectedly! ”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Winter.
The season of sun is over,
Is over, ended, and better so.
I could not see my star-way
So blinding bright was the summer’s glow.
The season of song is over,
Has ceased, is silent, and better so.
Your voice outrang my heart-beats ;
Oh, voice, immortally sweet and slow !
The season of spring is over,
Is browned and withered with all the rest.
And now I look to winter —
The years are long since I loved her best.
Her silences hear my heart beat ;
I listen weary, and learn to know.
Her cold and dark are warders
That guard the way I alone must go.
N.S.W.
LOUISE MAOK.
In Memoriam.
Death took the husk; but Love has stored the
essence,
The fragrance of her being, in the shrine,
And in my heart her worship never lessens.
Death took the shape ; but Memory is mine.
Like yonder vase—l open it and scatter
A thousand peerless roses through the air ;
Their perfumed soul is here ; what does it matter
If the wilt petals blew I know not where ?
Q.
VON KOTZE.
I Told Her True.
I whispered to her that I wanted her:
Methinks I told her true ?
Had I not felt the very blood of Love
Thrill through my being as I made pretence
To stay the wind-tossed robe enfolding her ?
Quick came the incense from her glorious hair :
The sweet odorament she breathed for me :
The kiss, that I might drink deep from her
mouth :
The rich expectancy, full well I knew
Would hold*me quivering on the brink of bliss :
The touch of flesh and flesh. That rare amaze !
The awesome look from heart to answering heart;
And then the trustful love-glow, stealing through
The gentler welling of her glorious eye.
Had I not tasted of my Beautiful,
And left my life for ever at her feet!
And so I told her that I wanted her.
My God, I told her true !
N.S.W.
LESLIE OAKES.


WASHINGTON H SOUL &C°
,K 0 t 268'
ing Chemists
JAiSydNEy *
mm
WITH EVERY NOVELTY
Brilshes.
wmm ANuF ACT U[i( :
* CtMRANTte tttt
SSsyers Baking Rowmll
lollP
at« TES
pERFOfIER^
HOTEL ■
AUSTRALIA
ca
This Hotel has its own Telegraph Office; is most
conveniently situated as regards Theatres, Banks,
Trams, &c. ; has hot and cold water in every room
at every hour of the day and night—advantages
which no other Sydney hotel can offer. No visitor
to the Australia is allowed to go away displeased.
RATES : 12 '6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
WHAT FOLKS SAY ABOUT
P«B
“It is training a good footing in Victoria. In Webster-street, Ballarat, a com-
plete villa residence has lately been erected for Mr. It. H. Hammond which has been
externally covered with P. and B. Ruberoid. The building was solid lined right
through. The architects, Messrs. Clegg, Kell and Miller, appear well satisfied with
the resuits ; the material is found to be specially non-conducting, making it admirably
adapted for the climatic changes experienced in Ballarat. The cost is stated to be
practically the same as a lined villa.” —The Buildinq, Engineerinq, and Minina
Journal, Sept, 6, 1898.
—FOR SALE BY—
"RANK LOGAN, BRISBANE, Q.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., MELBOURNE.
A. W. SANDEORD & CO., ADELAIDE, S.A.
Agents : E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
HELIDOA SPA WATER
“Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
ALE.
VISITORS
to SYDNEY
Families, Tourists, Business or Pleasure-
seekers should stay at the most modern
of Sydney’s hotels—
m S L«*i| ICSTEfj]
. Tat ter sail’s .
Hotel & Cafe.
Telegraph Office ; Telephone 728 ; Elec-
tric Light. Three minutes or less from
four leading theatres and G.P.O.
TARIFF: Bs. per day upwards.
W. J. Adams, Manager.
Painless Dentistry.
THE ....
onion Qental
Institute.
S. LEVEtt, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASHER, Dentists,
f” Modern Dentistry in all its Branches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
■jw difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
nd without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
i-ouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
-MLY—9B KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at tkl., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
ILLfc
QMPA
LIMTf
DINBUR
Trade
Mark
tom
Distillers CompanvH
EDINBURGH.
iuC /,U/
Drink
IDoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for the stomach’s sake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
.to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out. a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L/
IF YOU SUFFER FROM
Indigestion,
Gout,
Rheumatism,
Kidney Troubles,
Throui physic to the Dogs.”
DRINK
PURIRI
MINERAL
WATER.
Nature’s Simple and Wonderful Cure.
Bottled Direct from the Maori Springs.
PURim is the Table Water of the Age.
TESTIMONIALS from Medical Men and Others by the score may be had from
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., O’Connell-st., Sydney,
AGENTS for N.S.W. and QUEENSLAND.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETXTIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OE MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
IS* *
£
i
■ ■
,r:; >■:
:
m
iSa&S"
«*-:•< am
ft , *
■ ■:Jr
s:«w
■ggj&gsgigi
■


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper .
Yol. 19.—N0. 978.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1898.
Price 6d.
A POLITICAL DANTE THE GREAT.
" Gall for anything you like out of the magic tea-pot, ladies and gentlemen. Before I dose my performance, I’ll trouble somebody for the loan of £3,000,000 or so,”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ -A ustralia for the A ustralians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Pratts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea «. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications ivill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Mlaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous or
other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid, for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<Ss Co., Cornliill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.— lF. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland)is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — on a Bulletin of ordinary weight — now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special' Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1898.
Sneaking in Protection.
Last Wednesday New South Wales Premier
and Treasurer Reid delivered a memorable
financial statement. It contained two notable
admissions. One was that New South
Wales, after all the weary brag about the
bogus Reid surplus, can’t pay its way with-
out more taxation. The other was that the
Reid Government doesn’t care a straw about
Freetrade after all; and so the old semi-
Protective, semi-Revenue-Tariff system of
the old Parkes days is to be restored. The
duty of £3 per ton on sugar is to be
maintained, and the duties on biscuits,
jam, confectionery, and fruit are to be put
on again, and revenue duties are to be levied
on tea, coffee, chocolate, cocoa, and rice.
The sugar, biscuit, jam, and confectionery
duties are strictly protective in their char-
acter, and the beginning, middle and end of
the Reid doctrine is that Protection is
utterly horrible, and that it has a mission
from the country to put down that hydra-
headed monster, and it lives and gets
its screw by that profession. The tea,
coffee, and cocoa duties will simply in-
crease the price of these articles—when
duties are levied on articles which can’t be
locally produced there is no local output to
compete with the imported goods, and the
natural result is an increase of price. There-
fore, the much-boomed “load” that was
“taken off the backs of the people ” is being
put on again ; and the free breakfast-table
has gone broke on all four legs. Also the
Government, whose whole life has been one
long boast about how the burden was taken
off the poor and put on the rich, is found
taxing the necessaries of the poor the very
first time it is hard pressed for cash, when it
might just as easily levy import-duties on
luxuries and let mere necessaries go free.
Last year this same Government attempted
to fill the gap in kits finances by direct taxa-
tion, mainly on the rich, in the shape of in-
creased probate-duties, and when the Council
threw r out its proposals its promises that it
would reform that body off the face of the
earth if necessary were something tremen-
dous. This year it makes no attempt to fill
the void by renewing its probate-duty scheme.
Ihe Wriggler Government drops direct taxa-
tion, and its policy of putting the burdens on
the rich, and its Council reform programme,
all in one act, and the Nominee House is
left master of the situation.
* » * *
For the financial year ended 30th June,
1898, the Reid Ministry, it now appears
from its own statements, had a deficit after
all; the previous report that it had at last got
its accounts to balance being merely the usual
cram. The year’s revenue was £9,489,718,
and the expenditure £9.507,202 ; shortage,
£17,484. Next year, despite the levying
of £176,000 new customs taxation, Mr.
Reid anticipates another deficit : Revenue,
£9,609,004 ; expenditure, £9,681,421 ; short-
age, £72,417. Yet the brassy political be-
guiler talks about his surplus ”as usual,
ihe following is the revenue and expendi-
ture account of the Reid Government since
it presented its first set of financial pro-
posals at the beginning of 1895. The figures
for 1895-6-7 are taken from the latest issue
of Coghlan s official “ Wealth and Progress
of New South Wales,” pages 861 and 862.
The figures for 1898 and the estimates for
1899 are from the commercial column of
Premier Rkid’s own organ, Sydney Daily
Telegraph, November 3 :
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1895 £4,478,515 £4,844,299 £365 784
year ’
9,074,778 9,523,057 448,279
1897 9,107,496 9,140,625 33 199
1898 9,489,718 9,507,202 17,484
£32,150,507 £33,015,18? £864,676
estimate. ’
1899 9,609,004 9,681,421 72,417
£41,759,511 £42,696,604 £937,093
During this same period Premier Reid has
paid £600,000 off the old deficit (said
£600,000 being included among the expendi-
ture), so he has gone to the bad, according
to official figures and his own estimates,
£337,093.
* * * *
. According to a table published in the last
issue of Coghlan’s “ Wealth and Progress
of New South Wales,” page 860, the New
South Wales accumulated deficit, at 30th
June, 1897, after Premier Reid had been put-
ting the finances straight for 2| years, was
larger than it ever was before in the history of
the province. At 30th June, 1897, there were
five accumulated deficits among the Seven
Provinces, and during the two years ending
at that date that of New South Wales was
the only one which showed an increase.
Premier Reid alleged in his financial state-
ment that he had paid off £1,100,000 14 with-
out creating a fresh deficiency of any kind,”
which, from the man who swelled the accu-
mulated shortage to the highest figure it
ever attained, is especially brilliant. He
also sets down his present difficulties to the
drought and alleges that New South Wales
has lost, in the four dry years, 293,000
horses, 1,500,000 cattle and 50,000,000 sheep.
Four years ago there were only 57,000,000
sheep in New South Wales altogether, and,
according to Coghlan, they have since de-
creased by nine millions—not fifty millions,
but that discrepancy is a mere drop in the
vast ocean of Reid’s capacity for saying
the thing that isn’t.
* » * *
Last year New South Wales spent
£1,707,792 of borrowed money—the biggest
record since 1893 ; and for the first "four
months of the present financial year the
expenditure has been at the rate of
£1,900,000 a year. But it isn’t the
amount of expenditure, bad as that is, so
much as the way the money is expended that
shows the incapacity of the Reid Govern-
ment’s finance. That Government has put
up a record, such as none of its predecessors
ever approached, for charging ordinary daily
expenditure to loans—expenditure for works
that are neither permanent nor productive,
and for things which are not works at all.
Up to 1894, the year when the Reid Govern-
ment took office, New South Wales had
wrongfully spent and misapplied £8,255,000
of its borrowed moneys on unproductive
works which should have been charged to
revenue. This was the result of 40 years’
bad finance, and represented 15 per cent, of
the total loans used in making bogus sur-
pluses. At 30th June, 1898, the amount
thus misapplied was £10,199,909, or 17 per
cent, of the whole. During the four years
in question the amounts of loan-money spent
otherwise than on permanent and unproduc-
tive works by the Australian provinces was :
New South Wales ... ... ...£1,944,478
Victoria ... ... ... ’ y’igs
Queensland... ... 77e’761
South Australia ... ... ... 922’081
Westralia ... ... ... ..." i,614pi8
Tasmania ... ... ... ... ’336’360
This means that, in the last four years, New
South Wales has misapplied more of its loan-
moneys, to make its accounts look square,
than any other province, and more than
Queensland, South Australia, and Victoria
put together. Also, it has been misapplying
its loan-moneys on a larger scale than at any
previous period in its history.
* * ♦ *
And in the same period, New South Wales
borrowed more money than any other pro-
vince, spendthrift Westralia not excepted,
though it beat that remarkable locality only
by a hair’s-breadth. The additions made to
the public debts of the Australian provinces
between 1894 and 1898 were :
New South Wales ... ... ...£6,083,741
Victoria ... ... ... ••• 1,719,149
Queensland... ... ... ... 2,733,638
South Australia ... ... ... 2,084,532
Westralia ... ... ... ... 6,056,663
Tasmania ... ... • ... ••• 383,883
* » » *
Of coarse, bad as these figures are, they
might be a great deal worse. Australian
finance is so utterly rotten and thriftless
that to be a little worse than any other con-
temporary financier is only to be a trifle
blacker than the pot, after all. But George
Reid has posed as the one strictly honest
and square and capable financier of New
South Wales. He has heaped the brutal
scorn of a deafening and blatant fat man on
predecessors whose monetary doings were
vastly wiser than his own. He has been a
loud scoffer and a dull jester and a sicken-
ing braggart all through his career. Partly
because of his brag and partly because he is
at the head of the allegedly richest province
—the one that can best afford to go straight
—in Australia, the country expected some-
thing better than usual from him. Yet it
appears, by the official State statistics of his
own province, and from the figures of his
own official organ, that his surplus has been
a sham all along, and that there has been
instead a constant deficit. Also, that his
Freetrade and direct taxation are a sham ;
at the very first serious pressure he abandons
the policy which he says makes the country
rich, and looks for aid to a policy which, he
says, makes it poor. His loud threats of sup-
pressing the insolence of the nominee Coun-
cil are another sham, for he peacefully
knuckles-under to its rejection of his pro-
bate-duties scheme ; and his policy of re-
moving the burden off the backs of the poor
is bogus, for all his new revenue duties are
put, not on luxuries, but on necessaries.
And the New South Wales official statistics
show him as the hardest borrower in Aus-
tralia, and as the financier who diverted a
larger proportion of his borrowings to pro-
duce a bogus aspect of prosperity in the
revenue than any of his neighbors, or any
of his own predecessors. Beyond these and
a few other matters, and his slanders
upon the Treasurers who preceded him, there
isn't so very much to complain of in a
financial sense, after all.
What Next?
Now that the Reid Government has got its
Federal resolutions through N.S.W. Assembly
with great labor and excitement, it begins to be
about time to inquire what is to happen next.
For the present Federal situation is mainly a blur
and a smudge, and the future situation is a mys-
tery. At present the Assembly is engaged dis-
cussing the proposed amendments of private
members, but these are not likely to make much
difference in the result. Then the resolutions have
to run the gauntlet of the Council, and, supposing
that body does any serious damage to them, it
isn’t very clear what will happen. The Govern-
ment has never explained whether it will fight the
unreformed Council, if need be, to get its resolu-
tions carried in their entirety, or whether it gives
its avowed provincialist, Want, and his col-
leagues a free hand in the matter. But the
amendments, as passed by the Assembly, being all
saturated with the narrowest provincial spirit, the
probability is that the Council will accept them as
they stand, merely regretting that they are not
worse. And when they have got through both
Houses—what is to happen next ? On that subject
there is, so far, no information to hand.
* * m *
The first point is to confer, in some way or other,
with the other provinces. Is it proposed to ask
these other provinces to hold another formal con-
ference, and, if so, is it intended that that conference
is to be composed, like the last one, of delegates
elected by the people ? Or is it proposed that the
people shall have no voice in the matter, and that
Parliament shall appoint the delegates, and, if so,
is the appointment to be made by the Assembly-
only, or by both Houses conjointly ? How many
delegates are there to be, and are they to be simply
nominated by the Reid Government, probably from
among the bitter provincialists of its party, and
then appointed by the dead weight of the party
majority ? Or is it proposed to leave Parliament
out of the business as well as the people, and for
the Reid Ministry to simply nominate itself, or
part of itself—perhaps Jack Want and Sunday
Brunker and Potato Young —to run the show?
And, in that case, how will it look, on democratic
principles, when the men who have no direct
authority from the people proceed to undo the
work of the men who had such direct authority,
and whose work was accepted by the popular vote
—the vote which Parliament cancelled when it
altered the minimum on which the business started
and broke the compact on which the people went
into, the movement ?
* * * *
Three Premiers, anyhow— Turner, Braddon,
and Kingston —hardly dare consider any serious
alterations in the original Constitution except in a
popularly-elected conference. At least, they cer-
tainly dare not promise, on their own responsi-
bility, to throw their weight and that of their
Governments into any movement for largely
altering the original compact. They no more
dare do so than Premier Reid dare introduce
a protective tariff. In each of their cases the
people signified by a very strong majority their
acceptance of the constitution framed by their
elected representatives, and the Premiers who
attempt to reverse the decision of their own
majorities to please the minority in the next pro-
vince—especially the Jack Want minority which
studiously insulted them and called them wolves
and such things—is likely to get into trouble.
Supposing the other Premiers offer to have new
delegates elected to consider the proposed amend-
ments, and refuse to deal with them in any other
way, what will be Reid’s attitude? And sup-
posing they ask Reid to send along his crowd of
popularly-elected delegates on the ground that
their dealings so far have been with the people of
N.S.W.—not merely with the Free trade party
in Parliament—and that they want to know, per
medium of a popular vote, whether the people of
N.S.W. are, or are not, in favor of the new pro-
posals before they consider them what will
happen? Seeing that the N.S.W. majority ac-
cepted the old proposals, the other provinces
might reasonably ask for some proof that that
majority has changed its mind, and if it sent along
delegates who supported the new proposals that
would be proof. Otherwise, the other provinces
have no evidence that N.S.W. is in earnest about
these new suggestions, or that it doesn’t really
desire something very different.
• * • •
Supposing a conference of some kind is held,
and an amended Constitution of some kind is
drafted, will Premier Reid submit it to the people
in any case, and let the people decide ? Or will
he simply submit it to the people if it
suits him; and, if it doesn’t suit him, will
he refuse to let the people say whether it
suits them or not? There is nothing definite on
any of these points. Last time Parliament started
with a clear agreement (which it afterwards broke),
about how the delegates to the Federal Conference
were to be appointed, and how their work was to
be submitted to the people. This time they may
be appointed anyhow, and their work may be sub-
mitted to the people anyhow, or not submitted at
all, just as the Reid and Jack Want and Potato
Young party pleases. How does the Reid
Government propose to fake the ballot this time ?
Last time Reid found himself overshadowed by
Barton, so a Bill was allowed to pass through the
Assembly (the Reid Government refusing to use
its influence against it), declaring that if 79,999
people voted for the Barton constitution and only
one against it, it should be lost. There was
a majority for the Barton constitution,
and the Reid Government refused to recognise it.
This time the same gang of political adventurers
may, if the new Draft Constitution doesn’t suit
it or its private interests, fake the ballot
again by enacting that if there are 119,999
votes for it, and only one against it,
it shall be lost. Or it may force an objectionable
Bill on the people by enacting its acceptance per
medium of its party majority in Parliament, and
have no referendum at all ? It studiously avoids
pledging itself to any course, so how does the
Reid-Want Government propose to fake the
ballot this time ?
* * » *
A subordinate member of the Reid Government
has promised that if there is any kind of confer-
ence, and any new agreement, and that agreement
is submitted to the people, it will be done squarely
and honestly, and that the majority shall decide.
The boss member of the Reid Government makes
no definite promises. Last time when the agree-
ment for a 50,000 minimum was broken by a gang
of disgraceful political Iscariots, another subor-
dinate member of the Reid Government offered
the very thin explanation that the Ministry
couldn’t rally up the party to prevent this
public repudiation of a solemn pact. He said
that the Bill embodying the proposed fraud
was the work of a private member, and for
the Government to interfere and make it
a party question would be an impossible out-
rage on the rights of private members. Which
of these Ministers is a liar, or if neither of them is
one how do the two contradictory tales hang
together ? If the one who says there will be no
minimum next time, whatever rights of private
members may come in the way, told the truth,
then the Government could have interfered to
prevent the breach of faith last time, and didn’t;
and, having wrecked Federation by a wilful breach
of faith last time, it may do it again. If the other
fellow told the truth, then the Reid Government
can’t prevent the imposition of some impossible
minimum next time, any more than it could last
time, and the Minister who promises that this
time the majority shall be allowed to decide is
promising what he can’t perform. And supposing
a new Draft Constitution is arrived at, and the
people of N.S. .Wales are allowed by the per-
mission of the Reid Government to vote on
it, and they formally accept it, what is to
happen then? Supposing the gang in office
doesn’t like the Bill though the people do (which
was exactly the condition at last poll on June 3),
will the Reid Government proceed to do its utmost
to make the Bill law ? Or will it simply drop it
under the table and take no notice of the popular
majority—as it did last time.
* * * *
All these are urgent questions. The Reid Go-
vernment is carefully reserving to itself power to
fake the new Federal movement in so many ways
that its conduct is full of suspicion. It doesn’t
pledge itself to give the people a voice in the elec-
tion of the delegates who are to draft the new
Bill; or to submit that new Bill, when it is drafted,
to the people at all; or to accept the people’s de-
cision on it if it is submitted. It can approach
the other provinces in any way it pleases. It can
make Federation impossible by sending, as the
N.S.W. delegates, a crowd who don’t want
Federation under any circumstances at all, and
who will break up all negotiation by making
impossible demands; or it can make it possi-
ble by sending some other kind of crowd.
And supposing it does go straight, which it has
never done yet, and puts its new Bill before the
people with no minimum, and it is accepted by (say)
40,000 against 36,000 —what then? Will the Bill
which gets a 4000 majority be accepted while the
one which got over 5000 majority wasn’t ? That is
how the law will stand anyhow, but what does the
Reid Government think of itself when it makes
laws under which such things are possible ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Under the Crown.
The framers of the Convention Bill, by insert-
ing in the first lines of our national charter the
words “ under the crown,” have piously con-
templated, and, as far as lay in their power,
have endeavoured to perpetuate the good old
slavish bond between Australia and that noble
dynasty to which we owe so much. The
debates thereon were an anguished competition
in loyal slobber. The happiest delegate was he
who could most fervently express his humble
desire that we might ever be permitted to
abase ourselves before the Throne. In Britain
everything happened for the best in the best of
all possible nations. Might we ever be British,
and, if possible, more British than the British
themselves ! Might we be sheltered through
the ages by Britain’s motherly arms from rude
contact with the demoralising touch of the
unregenerate foreigner ! In the infinite wisdom,
goodness and mercy of Britain could we alone
find salvation ; apart from her the ravening
maw of the wicked threatened us with per-
dition, ruin, and death. However much it may
be desirable in the present condition of affairs
to maintain our present arrangements with
Britain from motives of expediency and con-
venience, the pusillanimous timidity which
regards the British connection as vital to our
own nationality is not only ignorant of the
meaning of national life, but is false to the
very spirit of nationality. National manhood
is in its essence a growth of independence,
not a result of tutelage. A people nursed
on pap and led by apron strings never can
become a nation, but only a helpless hobble-
dehoy. We may gain all the wealth of


Ormuz—of Ind, but unless we win at the same
time by sturdy self-reliance, by steadfast loyalty
to our own self-realisation, an indepen-
dent niche in the comity of the world’s
counsels, we are pampered children ; and
apart from these general reflections we must
recognise that the hand of nature has marked
us for a destiny as far removed as the poles from
the civilization of Britain. We, Australians,
are not the phlegmatic inhalers of a humid
fog. The titanic conquest of our arid interior,
the genial influence of our sunny skies, are
calling for, and are at the same time creating a
racial type which is sui generis. Perhaps, in
years to come, we shall be less like our Teutonic
forefathers than to that ancient people whose
climate and surroundings were similar to our
own—that mysterious race which built the
pyramids and taught civilization to Europe.
Certainly our social organism, our intellectual
and artistic creations are bound to depart enor-
mously from the traditions and standards of
Britain. To recognise this is not to fall into
the ravings of anarchistic treason. To ignore
it, to attempt to stifle our individuality by a
servile submission to British ideals, is the worst
treachery to our national destiny.
♦
The Maoriland Old-Age Pensions Law.
The first Old-Age Pension system in the Aus-
tralias will be fairly afloat in Maoriland next
year. It has been established by ten years’
hard toil and agitation. The country has been
solemnly warned that the principle is ruinous ;
that it will destroy the beautiful virtues of
thrift and self-reliance—as if the spectacle of a
whole nation making provision with its own
money for its old age isn’t the most unanimous
case of thrift and self-reliance on record ; also,
that it shows a Godless spirit, and a lack of
faith in Providence, and a regrettable looseness
in the old belief in the damnation of unbaptised
infants, or something equally irrelevant. The
subject was approached with intense caution
and with so many limitations that only the
most ancient and godly individual will be able
to crowd through. He (or she) must be 65
years old or more, and have resided in Maori-
land for the previous 25 years, with not over
two years’ absence during that period. No
Chinese or imported nigger need apply under
any conditions. No foreigner need apply un-
less, in addition to his other qualifications,
he has been five years a naturalised citizen.
If the aged citizen has been imprisoned four
times, or four months in all, during the last
12 years of his life, he needn’t apply. If he
has been imprisoned for as much as five years
in the last quarter-century of his life he
needn’t apply. All he can do is to wait till
these misdeeds get far enough in the back-
ground of his biography to make him eligible.
A wife who has deserted her husband or a hus-
band who has deserted his wife,- without just
cause, for a period of six- months, or neglected,
without good cause, to maintain his children,
is merely wasting good stationery and ink by
applying. Also, the applicant must have
been sober and moral and not addicted to
the pursuit of the guileful Flossie for the last
five years—but then most people are more or
less moral after 60. No person with more than
.£320 worth of property, or with an income of
£52 a year or more, is in the scheme anywhere.
The full pension is £lB a year, and anybody
with an income ranging from nothing to £34
per annum is eligible to receive the whole
amount. Any qualified person with an income
over £34 a year will receive enough to raise
that income to £52. The Act expires after the
second session of next Parliament, so Maori-
land can then revise it and make what-
ever amendments seem necessary. There is
such intense caution in every line of the scheme
that even in Maoriland, which is painfully sober
and moral, and where people live to the age of
the legendary patriarchs of Genesis, it is ex-
pected that the cost will amount to not more
than £90,000 or £lOO,OOO a year. Three years
hence it will probably be decided that the plan
requires amendment in two directions. It will
have to be enlarged so that the applicant who
is a little lower than the angels can struggle
through the narrow orifice of inspection ; if the
individual who once ran after a girl at the age
of 60 is shut out too rigidly, the Old Age Pen-
sion Act will leave a very large residuum of
pauperism after all. And it will some day be
found absolutely necessary to devise some
sources of revenue which can be devoted ex-
clusively to maintaining the Pension Fund, so
that it won’t be left dependent on the unre-
liable surplus. But with all limitations there
remains the great fact that Maoriland has got
the first beginning of its Old Age Pension
scheme in working order.
♦
The Man Who Refuses to be Drowned.
The Bulletin has been considering the case of
the American ship Republic, which, the other
day, made an attempt to take about 1500 tons
of coal from Newcastle (N.S. W.) to Honolulu,
and, after travelling 300 miles, had to return—
leaky—to the port of departure. After being
“ repaired,” she made a second start, got about
the same distance, or rather less, this time, and
put in to Sydney, again leaky. No unusual
weather struck the newly-repaired ship this
time—only “ a nasty cross sea, the result, the
captain thinks, of a heavy blow to the north-
ward.” And she was making water to the ex-
tent of fully one foot per hour—equal to eight
yards of water in a day and a night. At
this rate it would certainly appear that
only constant pumping could keep the
newly-repaired ship afloat, and there was
a long voyage ahead, with chances of very
much worse weather, in the course of which
the ship might possibly take in three feet
of water per hour—there is no knowing. So
the crew insisted on putting back, and the
newly-repaired wooden ship, Republic, 29 years
of age, and lately bought at an S.A. port for
some £4OO or £5OO, made her second sudden
retreat to port. The captain was of opinion
that “ the men were a bit scared because the
ship had previously put back to Newcastle,” so
it appears that under ordinary circumstances
sailors are not expected to object to a vessel
which leaks at the rate of one foot of water per
hour. Of course this sort of thing doesn’t help the
N.S. W. coal-export industry along. And if these
miserable nautical wretches actually presume to
put their paltry lives in the scale against
“ rapid industrial progress,” and “ free de-
velopment of trade,” and “great commercial
interests,” and other “very fine and large”
matters of that sort, The Bulletin really
doesn’t know what is to be done, unless the
Marine Board or somebody likes to wake up
and see that the middle-aged ship goes to sea
a little more like a ship and a little less like a
sieve. It was lately recorded that the Marion
Inglis (barque), bought for £5500, had returned
30 per cent, on her year’s trading. Then, what
profit might have been expected from a year’s
work of the Republic, of nearly equal tonnage,
and having cost less than a tenth of the money?
But these malevolent mariners apparently cared
nothing for that; any more than they cared for
the fact that their indecent and ridiculous
solicitude for their personal safety will, prob-
ably, involve discharge of the ship’s cargo for
further “ repairs.” Plainly, something will
have to be done. Either the mariner who
objects to being drowned must be Suppressed
by law—or else the Newcastle coal-ship must
be overhauled in a new way and repaired in
quite a different fashion.
+
Where the Majority Comes In.
In discussing the various ways of amending the
Federal Constitution Act, should that measure
require amendment, N.S.YV. Parliament of
1898 behaves very much like the Leg. Council,
which, nearly 50 years ago, prepared and passed
the Constitution Act of N.S. Wales. Went-
worth stood out boldly for making the Consti-
tution Act as difficult of amendment as possible.
Deas Thomson, who had a mathematical mind,
delighted in making the amendment subject to
majorities of three-fourths or seven-eighths of
the members of both Houses. Others aired
crotchets of different kinds. Finally, apparently
for want of talent to think out further crooked
ways, the Bill passed, providing that a majority
of two-thirds of both Houses should be neces-
sary to sanction a change in the Constitution.
When the Bill went to England, the Imperial
Parliament quietly changed the two-thirds to a
bare majority, and so passed it. For a time,
all sorts of evil was prophesied. This is the
period of Wentworth’s life which justified the
late Parkes in always denouncing him as a
Tory. But the mathematically-minded Parlia-
mentarians were as bitterly disappointed at the
rejection of their arithmetical adjustments as
Wentworth himself. Yet the Constitution
Act, with its “ bare majority of both
Houses,” triumphed over all, and has satis-
factorily served its purpose till the present day.
And all the other provinces travel safely
enough on the same principle. In 1898, the
Federal Convention decided that to amend the
Commonwealth Constitution there must be a
majority of both Houses, a majority of the
people, and a majority of the States, which
isn’t so bad as the old Wentworth idea,
though it is difficult enough. But the N.S. W.
Assembly is busy with suggestions for chaining
up the Constitution and mooring it securely to
the biggest rock it can find. McGowen’s pro-
posal, just accepted, suggests that any amend-
ment which doesn’t enlarge the powers of the
Commonwealth may be carried by a bare
majority. But any one which does enlarge the
Commonwealth’s powers needs the assent
of a majority in both Federal Houses and
the assent of every province—if all the
provinces except Tasmania decide that it
is absolutely essential to enlarge the Federal
authority in any given direction, and a majority
of one in Tasmania says no, that one lone, lorn
vote down in Van Dobson Land carries the
day. This is proposed “to protect the sacred
interests of N.S.W.” But N.S.W. will some
day be more anxious to enlarge the Federal
power than any other province, because N.S. W.
will hold a bigger share of it than any other
province. And when it finds a small majority
in the smallest of the States reversing the de-
cision of all the rest of the Commonwealth,
then it will make unpleasant remarks about
M'Gowen and co.
The Vic. Nigger Importation Bill.
Victoria is still waiting to learn what kind of
fight the Turner Government is going to make
over the Council’s amendments on the Immi-
gration Restriction Bill. As the Assembly
passed the measure it was a genuine restriction
law with an educational test, after the Natal
pattern, to keep out the coffee-colored illiterate.
Then the Council proceeded to make exceptions.
It provided that any ship may come to Victoria
with a nigger crew, and discharge them in a Vic-
torian port, and leave them there without ques-
tion. No tonnage-limit was provided; and the
amount of nigger alleged crew which any ship
may drop ashore is unlimited. Also, the Coun-
cil enacted that any employer may import five
niggers every year on giving his bond for £2OO
that each consignment will be sent back
at the expiry of five years. The only
requisite for an importation of 120,000
niggers a year is the establishment of an
agency to look after details at the Vic.
end, and to produce, with each five, some
unemployed or other who will (for ss. or so)
swear that he is an employer and sign the
necessary bond. Of course, the niggers
wouldn’t be returned at the end of five years if
they didn’t find it convenient to go, for no one
could find and identify them; and the “em-
ployer” would also be missing; and the £2OO
mentioned in the bond would be nowhere.
The Vic. Leg. Council transferred the Nigger
Restriction Bill into a scheme for the wholesale
importation of niggers, and the feeble, mild-
mannered Cuthbert, who represents the Turner
Governmental the Council, didn’t even kick
once against the insult. He never does kick
hard enough to remove a fly off an envelope
against the Council’s mutilation of any demo-
cratic measure. And there is no person in the
Council, except Melville, who is willing to
kick in the democratic cause any harder than
Cuthbert does.
The Tarrawing'ee Tram.
If the N.S.W. Government buys the little
Tarruwingee railway (Broken Hill) it is esti*
mated that the annual loss will be .£1720.
That is on the assumption that the Silver-
ton railway company is paid to work the
line. The Silverton co. offers to work it at
7s. 6d. per train mile for ordinary and 15s. per
train mile for special traffic, not including cost
of repairs, renewals, &c. On the N.S. W.
Govt, lines the cost of working (including
repairs and renewals) is 3s. per train
mile ; Victoria, 3s. sd. ; Queensland, 2s. lOd. ;
S.A., 3s. sd. ; Tasmania, 3s. 4d. According to
the estimates supplied to Parliament, the
Tarrawingee line would be a solvent specu-
lation if the traffic was worked at the ordi-
nary N.S.W. rates. The trouble is that it
joins on to the Silverton private line, and
the Silverton line joins on to the S.A.
system, and the N.S.W. system doesn’t touch
either of them. If the N.S.W. Govern-
ment would resume the Silverton line at
the earliest possible date it could run the
combined railways at a profit and yet charge
the local residents much lower fares and
freights than they pay at present, for the rates
of the Victorian co., which now runs the busi-
ness, are hideously exorbitant, and it grinds 47
per cent, dividends out of the unfortunate
people of the silver city. To buy the Tarra-
wingee line with a view' to resuming the
Silverton line also, and making them the be-
ginnings of a Government railway system in
the West, would be good business. To buy it
with a view to leaving the Silverton line per-
manently in the hands of a private syndicate
would be a dead loss. But then there is no
earthly reason why the Silverton line should be
left in the hands of its syndicate one day longer
than is absolutely necessary.
♦
Premier Reid on the Suffield case :
How can we, who were not there, who did not see the
Warrens, Suffield, or this younsr woman in the box
under cross-examination, say that the jury was wrong ?
.... I was not there, and no man can form a true esti-
mate of a case unless he is present.
And on that same logic nobody now living can
say that Judge Jeffreys didn’t conduct all his
cases in a spirit of absolute fairness. Nobody
can say that there was anything unjust about
the methods of the Spanish Inquisition. And
when the Red Indian tried his casual prisoner
in the woods and sentenced him to be scalped
and burned, it is impossible to say that his
method of conducting the case wasn’t wholly
impartial. And why has the Christian world
been objecting all these 1866 years to the
methods of a certain trial which took place in
Jerusalem very long ago? It is impossible to
say there was anything unfair about any of
these legal proceedings. We weren’t there.
♦
Several Vic. Leg. Councillors were much
shocked when the second reading of the Crema-
tion Bill came on. Johnny Wallace “could not
see any reason for wasting the time of the
House over the matter. If a man wanted to get
roasted he could get roasted.” Nick Fitzgerald
“ regarded the Bill as an invasion of Christian
ideas,” which was altogether irrelevant, as
Christ said nothing for or against cremation.
Later, the brewer-man grew very earnest on
the subject, in that his real God —Property—was
attacked. “ Property in the neighborhood of
crematoria in England had greatly decreased in
value.” “ The necessary plant should be estab-
lished at some place where Property could not
be damaged.” “Property in the neighborhood
of cemeteries should not be allowed to be
damaged by the suspicion that noxious gases
might be precipitated at times.” Not a word
about the lives sacrificed and disease and suffer-
ing caused by the “noxious gases” now
exhaled by hundreds of cemeteries all over the
land, or of the germs carried away and spread
at large by drainage-water from most of these
burying-grounds, and especially from that cess-
pit of corruption—Melb. Gen. Cemetery.
And, coming back to “ noxious gases,” when
did the House of bricks-and-mortar ever raise
its voice against the fatal gases generated in
certain trades —smelting, silver-mining, coal-
mining, chemical works, lead works, and so on ?
But in these matters it is only the lives of
workers that are “ damaged.”
♦
“Bush Notion” on a N.S.W. State school-
teacher’s grievance :
Dear Bulletin. —An example of the mangy little
nippings and clippings by which N.S.W. Public Service
Board is striving to fake up a surplus for Treasurer Reid.
Hitherto a married public school teacher, on being
appointed, say, to an Bth class school, has been paid £l4B
plus £3O rent allowance, and if there was no vested
residence the department paid him his £3O and let him
rent any premises he liked. Now, however, the P.S.B.
has ukased that where no residence is provided by
Govt., only the rent actually paid and shown in
monthly vouchers by the landlord’s receipt, will be
paid. Thus, if I have to camp in a barn and pay
Is. a week for the luxury, my salary, fixed by the Educa-
tion Act at £l7B, becomes £l4B plus 525., or £l5O 12s.
And if, for the joy of independence, I sleep under a wattle
and eat under a yellow-butt, I receive £l4B plus nothing,
as I have no landlord’s receipt to show that I have lived
at all. On the other hand, if on taking charge I find an
official humpy which the Dept, is pleased to style a
“ vested residence,” £3O is deducted from my salary as
rent; and if I apply for re-assessment on ground that the
crib is in wretched condition, the Board may actually
sanction the construction of an additional “room,”
Bxlo, or thereabouts. But I must pay every cent of the
£3O, in order to help along that surplus, although where
there is no “ vested residence ” I won’t get the £3O.
Logically and morally, if the Board has the right to re-
duce a teacher’s rent-salary, it can reduce or regulate his
whole salary in proportion to his circumstances ; and it
will not be surprising if Board’s next promulgation should
read :—l. Do you consume animal food or vegetable ? 2.
State actual cost (1) of meat?—showing butcher’s receipt;
(2) of vegetables, for the year?—showing greengrocer’s re-
ceipt. 3. Do you pay for fuel, or is it possible in the
locality to pick up chips, bark, &c. ? 4. If you have a
family, state names and ages, and if the youngest (if in
infancy) is being reared naturally or artificially ? 5. Does
your mother-in-law live with you? 6. Do you smoke,
chew or drink ? 7. Have you a dress-suit, and are you an
Oddfellow? &c., &c. Also, if the teacher’s salary stand
at £l5O, and his expenses reach £149 19s. llfd., it is only
natural to assume that the Board, in the interest of the
taxpayers, and for the expansion of that surplus, will
dock the farthing and maintain its reputation for snavel.
“ The Coolgardie protest against filling up dis-
used workings with cyanide tailings has a good
foundation, and the cyanide question in general
has a variety of interesting aspects from a
pathological point of view,” writes a medical
man to The Bulletin. “ The action of the
cyanides on the human organism is by no
means a settled question, and among the
workers in big laboratories queer tales are
occasionally told. In 1890 the cyanide question
began to attract attention, and in a big
London institutean expert was set to work on the
entire group of 0 W compounds. The mercurous
end proved especially interesting and he put in
a couple of months with them. Finding his
health shaky, he took a holiday, and at the
end of three months died from rapid and
general softening of the brain. His locum tenens,
a powerful man and a noted athlete, pegged
away merrily at the work in the interval, and
on the death of his predecessor secured the
billet. Four months more broke him up, and
at the end of a year he died paralysed and in-
sane. Result of p.m., general degeneration of
the cerebral cortex with no adequate cause.
Meanwhile the laboratory-assistant had been
doing a little ‘on his own,’ and, feeling ill, re-
membered his former chief, and made his will.
He is an interesting case of paralytic dementia
now. The authorities at the laboratory shut
down on cyanides-of-mercury then and there.
These men had all the advantages of fume-
shoots, draught-cupboards, and other conveni-
ences of a big laboratory. All three were
practically experts. Coincidence will scarcely
explain it, and weirder stories are hinted at
among chemists. Will some worker step up
and give his experiences with cyanogen and the
derivatives thereof ? ”
“ Jack Shay ” re Sydney waitresses :
Waitresses’ hours in Sydney eating-houses are notori-
ously long-. Even in the high-p»iced and best-managed
places the day’s work averages 13 hours, for a wage of 7s.
to 10s. per week. But I know a place which puts in the
shade the worst sweating horrors ever heard of. The
last proprietor paid a woman (not a girl) 4s. per week of
seven days for 13 hours a day. The bed she slept in occu-
pied half of room 12 x 14ft., and in the other half slept
proprietor and wife, the only division being a chintz cur-
tain. The unfortunate slave was not allowed to touch
steaks, chops, or eggs. “ Eat the entrees,” was the order;
“ they’ll only go sour if they are left”; and the drudge
would have to fill up with stale stewed tripe, and such
delicacies. Present proprietor is a Dago of some sort, and
he expects two girls to sleep in the other half of his bed-
room. He pays them, respectively, ss. and Bs. per week
—not enough for lodgings elsewhere, so they’ve got to do
it or leave ; and he has no wife to tone down the situa-
tion. The premises are very old, filthy, and dilapidated.
Kitchen, a cellar 20 feet below street-level, and shop 10
feet below. Sacks nailed across area opening to keep out
street dust and filth. W.c. under dining-room windows,
and within 12 feet of kitchen. The property is part of a
very “ big ” estate, and the business of this dreadful hole
is entirely supported by working men, who so vigorously
stick up for their own rights. W.C.T.U. and Y. W.C.A.,
are you listening ! No ; you are too busy over the
Chow’s alleged “soul” to attend to the souls and
bodies of your wretched sisters at home.
“Porthos” on J. A. Philp’s defence of the
influx of Chinese to Australia on the ground
that, under arid conditions of interior, white
men can’t grow vegetables to commercial ad-
vantage :
The flaw in this argument is that if white men in these
arid districts can’t earn enough to pay as much for vege-
tables as would enable white men profitably to grow them,
then they’re not earning a living wage and the country
isn’t worth inhabiting. If the interior of Australia only
yields a profit equivalent to the difference between the
earnings of the few Chinese gardeners, and those needed
to support Europeans, I maintain that it would be
better to abandon it than make it excuse for introduction
of lower civilisation. As for Premier Seddon’s alle-
gation that the West Coast (M.L.) goldfields would be
deserted but for the Chinese—what of that? The pro-
vince would simply be purchasing purity of race and the
protection of the living-standard (which has been so hard
to attain) with the small profit made from miserably paid
Chinese swaggers.
Perhaps the real reason of the hideous muddle
into which Sydney municipal affairs have fallen
is to be found in the fact that the rates are paid
by the landlord and passed on—and not by the
tenant direct. The success of local self-
Government in cities like Glasgow and Bir-
mingham is due to the fact that taxation and
representation are closely allied —the man who
has the vote feels the pinch instead of having
to pay imperceptibly in increased rent. In
Ireland, when the tenant-farmers resolved to
no longer pay tithes to the parsons of the
minority, the Government of the day came to
the rescue and converted the exaction into a
land-charge payable by the landlord, who
passed it on to the tenant, as the “ earth
hunger ” of the distressful country allowed him
to do—in the form of increased rent. And,
though the Irish Church was disestablished
nearly 30 years ago, the Irish farmers are still
supporting the survivors of the old order.
«.
“ Onlooker ” re the British navy :
Ed. Bulletin.—Let “Ex-Naval Officer” haul in the
slack of his ignorance and coil-down. The British
navy costs about £22,000,000 per annum, of which
the Australias pay only about £90,000 —[Wrong,
£126,000.—Ed. B.]—and, as the Australian squadron
alone costs about £140,000 a year, J. Bull practi-
cally makes us a present of £50,000 every 12 months,
and yet “ Ex-N.0.” isn’t satisfied. Also, his talk
about difficulty of re-manning British fleets “ after a
couple of . . . big actions” is mere “ guff.” No Power
could instantly replace such a wastage , with equally good
material. But John Bull has enough go in him yet to
give an enemy a thumping, and even then to beat him in
utilising reserves of men, money and material, that
although the Continental Powers have long been “will-
ing to wound,” they have also been “ afraid to
strike.” They all know to a pound the fighting
weight of J. Bull’s fleet, and are quite aware
that, ship for ship and man for man, the stout
gentleman who wears such big boots, and yet walks
so quietly, is still a lot ahead of them. Also, re the trials
of the Terrible, “ Ex-N.0.” is (literally) behind the Times,
according to which (Sept. 1-15) the ship was again most
thoroughly tested, and caine satisfactorily out of every
ordeal. But she and her sister-ship, the Powerful, though
they gave a good deal of trouble at first, now appear to
be absolutely reliable, and the huge coal-consumption
complained of was mainly owing to the poor quality of
stuff supplied during the Welsh strike. As to the old
ironclads mentioned, it has been wisely decided by the
Admiralty rather to push on with new modern battleships
of great speed and power than to waste time and money
on “lame ducks,” the partial re-arming of which has
been merely to give the crews the necessary training with
modern guns.
♦
Hear Bulletin. —Mr. F. J. Gillen, S.M.,
who for 25 years has lived among the abori-
gines at Alice Springs (Central Australia),
urges that the Governments should com-
bine to set aside tracts of good country for the
natives of this continent after the example of
the Maori reservations and the U.S. Indian
territories. Just because they never had
bloody battles with the whites our own niggers
have been, and are, considered of no account,
with the result that every sq. mile of fertile
land, and much where the rainfall is precarious,
has been sold or leased by the Crown. The
consequence is that the blacks are forced into
arid deserts and rocky ranges where wallabies
or dingoes would starve except in specially
wet seasons. Then when they come down and
spear a few beasts or steal a handful of rations
punitive expeditions are organised. Don’t you
agree with Mr. Gillen ?—Yours, C. R.
W ILTON.


The Best Company to Insure in is the Company that does the 3lost
Good for its Policy-Holders.
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY of NEW YORK
was established in the year 1843 as a purely Mutual Life Insurance Company, having neither stockholders nor pre
lerential policy-holders' In this respect it is the sole noble exemplar of mutuality in life insurance transacting
business in Australasia. From establishment in 1843 to December 31st, 1897, this Company has paid to its Policy-
Holders or their representatives over Ninety-jive Million Pounds Sterling. This sum is double the amount paid to its
Policy-Holders by any other Company in the world, and demonstrates beyond cavil or doubt that the best Company
t > insure in is not the Company that accumulates the largest surplus beyond its needs—for the benefit, perhaps, of its
stock-holders —but the Company that does the MOST GOOD FOR ITS POLICY-HOLDERS.
By the report of the Government Superintendent of Insurance for the State of New York for the year 1898 it is
certified that the MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW YORK, at the close of business on December
31st, 1897, held
Total Admitted Assets, $253,786,137.60
Converting this into sterling, at $4.87 to the £, it amounts to
£52,112,225 7s. lOd.,
AND EVERY PENNY of this MAGNIFICENT ACCUMULATION BELONGS to its POLICY-HOLDERS.
Any person desirous of becoming a partner in this very Ifve and going concern is invited to communicate with the
Manager at either of its Branches in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, or Hobart.
Don’t confuse the name of this Company with any other Company of apparently similar name but of less
magnitude. „ _
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia.
Company’s Building, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
PRESCOTT’S &. CO’S . .
Celebrated PAHEAMATTA
LIME
LIME
JUICE^-^-
AND
JUICE CORDIAL
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonies.
Sole Agents
for Sydney:
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL & CO.,
91 PlTf STREET.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DKINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, <£c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal. “The Prodigal Father.”
Her Majesty’s “ Under the Red Robe.”
Lyceum “True as Steel.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Palace Dante, the Conjuror.
Alhambra Wilson and St. John’s Variety Co.
Town Hall Shilling Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ La Poup6e.”
Bijou “ The Liars.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Theatre Royal “ Sporting Life.”
Alexandra Dramatic Co.
Town Hall Saturday “ Pop ” Concerts.
The new Maggie Moore co., which opened
at Sydney Royal on Saturday, is the strongest which
that lady has gathered together for a good
many years past. Compared with the seedy aggre-
gation, of uncertain age, which followed Miss
Moore’s banner in earlier times, the improvement
is very noticeable. “ The Prodigal Father,” with
which the season started, is a feebly uproarious
comedy burlesque, vaguely reminiscent of “Walker,
London. ” The author got some very bright ideas,
and worked them out with a rather uncertain
hand and an unreliable inkpot. An elderly gentle-
man takes a craze for exploring and starts for
Africa with his valet, Smith ; but, on the way,
he gets mashed on a song-and-dance lady, and
wastes his substance in riotous bouquet at her
shrine, and follows her around till he is due to
return from Africa. Then, as he can’t well inform
his grown-up family about the song-and-dance lady,
he comes back with an unconvincing tale about
how he and his valet had pursued the blue-nosed
mangle, and the hypothesis, and the boa-conjecture
in the jungle. After that, only two things of any
importance happen. The song-and-jump lady
drops in, and proves to be the old man’s
daughter -in - law, and has to be boarded
and lodged as the price of her silence. An imagin-
ary black monarch called Kookaboo, who figured
largely in the narrative, also calls in, and the
arrival of a purely imaginary person is always
more or less embarrassing. The old man hasn’t
the faintest idea who this horrible black corrobora-
tor may be. The African insists on staying in the
house and endorsing the bogus narrative ; and as
the explorer has frequently explained that he and
Kookaboo were like brothers, he can’t repudiate
him and throw him out with his sable heels
uppermost. The legendary individual who thus
pervades the premises is a great load on the old
man’s nerves; though he proves in the end to be
merely his own future son-in-law, who has painted
himself black and is taking a rise out of the giddy
progenitor.
* * m *
Even with a rather good foundation the
“Prodigal Father” is a very moderate comedy.
There is a great lack of small incidents to fill in the
gaps. A great part of the time Roberts has to rush
violently up and down the room and explain that the
complications of his position are fast driving him
mad, else the play would stop altogether. Roberts’
explorer is a clever piece of work. At the same
time it leaves an impression that the shadowy old
man has not quite made up his mind what kind of
old man he intends to be. He isn’t a definite old
man, somehow. Harry Leston, who turns up un-
expectedly after a long absence from the stage to
represent a backblox pressman, is a very bright
item. Percy Ward, who has a special mission
to represent the small, scared curate, scores
heavily, mainly by hanging round and saying
little in a black coat; and Walter Rivers repre-
sents Smith, the explorer’s hired accomplice and
corroborator, who is one of the best bits of comedy
in the play. Miss Maggie Moore herself falls a
trifle fiat, and doesn’t either look or sing like the
kind of song-and-dance lady that an elderly ex-
plorer, who never explored anything, would lose
his heart to. The pretty and clever Marion Willis
is the best feminine element in the cast, and little
Ethel Bashford also deserves a kindly mention.
On the whole, the co. comes in first by several
lengths, while the play is a bad third.
** * *
“The Duchess of Coolgardie,” a mining
melodrama in five acts, was put forth as the second
novelty of the Dampier season at the Criterion on
Saturday night. As the name might suggest,
there is a good deal of nugget, and blackfellow,
and sand, and tin-dog, and red-ochre sunset in the
play, but the newest thing about the “ Duchess ”
is her title. The characters in the piece are the
good old stagers of melodrama—the villain and
the injured heroine, and the duped hero, and
the wrongly-attributed infant are all flourish-
ing in close proximity to the dry-blowers and
quite at home among the Six Families. The
Duchess herself (Sybil Gray)—the part in which
Hilda Spong paralysed some London critics in the
original Drury Lane production—is lady-help in
a Coolgardie pub, and having been seen by her
ex-young man, Lionel Leigh, alias Big Ben, with
a baby in her arms, is taken by him to be the
infant’s mother. He consequently hurls abuse at
her till towards the end of the fifth act, which
she naturally resents, and the baby remains
unaccounted for during quite a while. Sybil re-
proaches her Ben for being “cold and distant,”
as if he were in Klondyke instead of Coolgardie,
and hands the child over to Wallaroo, the faithful
blackboy, whose chief duties are dodging the
villain and holding the baby. Capt. Jack Want-
ley, a dead-broke army officer with a distorted
smile and an eye-glass, is the villain, and he heads a
search-party which goes into thedesertand finds and
jumps Big Ben and party’s claim. The audience
took great delight in this desert scene Where the
two parties alternately mine to slow music, and
try to keep from tripping over an obtrusive nugget
cropping up through the sand. Even here the
baby turns up, still in long clothes (it never
gets into short frocks, though it must be
quite an elderly infant by the end of the
piece) so does its real mother, Nellie Gray, sister
to Sybil, who has been betrayed by the villain,
and is eventually murdered by him (a regrettable
incident, as it removes a very handsome woman,
and the only French hat in the piece). An inno-
cent man is accused of the murder, but is acquitted
through the efforts of Ben, who, it appears, was a
barrister all along, and everything makes for an
effective curtain. “ The Duchess ”is realistically
staged, real sand lies inches deep on the boards,
and the Warden’s real horse ploughs convincingly
among real empty jam-tins. Also, D. Cope and
orchestra help along the'good effect between the
acts.
* • » »-
A. Dampier makes a success of the hero,
Big Ben ; he is one of those large-hearted, easy-
going, slow-spoken parts which suit A.D. down to
the ground, and they do have that tired feeling
very strongly in W. A. An Irishman is made very
funny by John Forde, especially in the court-
scene; also H. Smith, as Wallaroo, the lively
black; Johnson W eir, as the villain with the
glazed optic; and J. Bruce as Yorkshire Dick,
keep up their end of the log. Miss R. Barton, as
Nellie Gray, an original sinner who repents in a
new season’s hat, is a new-comer, and Rose
Dampier as her sister Sybil, the Duchess of Cool-
gardie, is depressed, but not more so than would
be natural to a victim of misplaced baby.
** * *
“ True as Steel,” the drama which, so far
as plot is concerned, is the “ Silver King’s ” little
brother Bill in a modified form, has been revived
after an absence of two years to fill in a week or
so at Sydney Lyceum. It is one of the biggest of
the machinery dramas; the huge steam hammer
which is meant to come down on the head of the
hero is a vast, persuasive implement; and as it
roars up and down with the flames of the big
furnaces behind and around, it makes a scene
which is reasonably like the orthodox hell. “True
as Steel ” is another of the plays in which the
person who was wrongly suspected comes back in
disguise, having accumulated much affluence in
foreign parts, to clear his character. He sets about
it by going to the hair-diminisher and getting a
wig and a big door-mat beard, and then he does
odd jobs on the false accuser’s premises. In other
words, he is Deaf Dicky over again, and he proves
his innocence mostly by slumbering in a barrow
beside the fire. What the steam-hammer doesn’t
accomplish in the way of removing the stain from
his character is mostly done by the big mill-
wheel. The Bulletin doesn’t remember
exactly, owing to pressure of business, how the
stain got on his character in the first place, but
there is reason to believe that it arrived there in
the ordinary way. The good Lyceum company
gives the drama as much chance as it deserves and
a little over ; considering that that cO. has to learn
a huge fresh tale of woe every week, the manner
in which it contrives to get the hang of its narra-
tive is simply wonderful. As a rule most of it
turns up on Saturday night with its new ten-act
wail in its mind all right, and if there is an
awkward break, which doesn’t often happen,
Diver forges a cheque to fill in the gap. A reason-
able smattering of people roll up regularly, and
the Lyceum keeps open month after month, like
the widow’s cruse of oil which played to very bad
business for three years and failed not.
** * *
As time goes on the millinery of “Under
the Red Robe ” appears to get a better hold on the
public. At least, that drama is doing reasonably
well—it isn’t an unprecedented blaze of glory, but
in a moderate sort of way it has got a hold—and
the millinery seems one probable reason for it.
The quaint ancestral home of Cocheforet is pro-
bably another reason, and the Sunrise among the
Pyrenees may be fairly set down as a third. And
Gil de Berault has had more time to make an im-
pression in the one scene where he is really excel-
lent—that in which he changes his mind to oblige
a lady, and doesn’t spill the vitals of the butterfly
captain on the lawn in front of her window. Con-
sidering what an unpleasant sight the captain’s
vitals would be on a lady’s lawn on a bright
summer morning, this is really the least that de
Berault could do, but he does it very effectively.
This scene, together with the ancestral hall, and
the Sunrise among the Pyrenees, and Hawtrey’s
lieutenant, and the pleasant fooling of Cecil Ward,
.and the capable and finished death’s-head of Cion
as represented by G. Majeroni, do their best to
compensate for the various evils of the play. Pos-
sibly the girly waist and the loud howl-
someness of de Berault in some jilaces where he
shouldn’t be howlsoine have grown less aggressive
during the week, but the mean prigging of Coche-
foret’s diamonds is an incurable item.
** * *
Dante, now in liis fifth week at Sydney
Palace, is going as strong as ever, and proposes re-
maining there another month at least. This is the
first time that any show has done five weeks of
what could reasonably be called prosperity at the
Palace —in fact, the writer can’t remember when
that house was an unadulterated success for even
one whole week before—which makes the perform-
ance all the more remarkable.
m* * *
The Tivoli and the Alhambra are both
about the same as last week. In view of the heat
and other things they may pass at that. Henry’s
old silver coin show dropped out of the Royal
Standard some time recently without The Bul-
letin noticing the exit, and Copper’s silver coin
show is there instead. Probably one silver coin
show is much the same as any other.
Cup-week in Melbourne seemed rather
more so than usual as regards show business, and
the only change of bill was at the Alexandra,
where “ The Kelly Gang ” is just now wagging its
gory tale in several lawless acts. The spectacle ot
Ned Kelly surrounded by dead policemen is always
favorably received, especially on Saturday nights,
but the present revival of that limelighted slaugh-
terer is unlikely to hold the floor for longer than
might have been expected. Perhaps the manage-
ment would have done better to produce a drama
of working-man interest, and bill it as “ Ihe
Grafter. ”
** * *
“ The Liars,” at Melb. Bijou, improves
on acquaintance because it is a brainy play, inter-
preted by artists who were mostly new and over-
anxious on the opening night. The dialogue has
taken a keener edge, and a number of little points
which didn’t get stuck into the audience at the
first attempt are now drawing blood. And whilst
the talk is gaining in effect the weakness of the
plot becomes less apparent, consequently the
question as to whether Mrs. Brough’s character is
quite reprehensible, or merely womanly, or both,
is not so important as it looked a week ago. And
if her loving husband feels satisfied, and the
African nigger-shooter can console himself with a
black princess during his travels, The Bulletin
will let this part of the matter drop. For the only
girl worth troubling’ about is one’s own particular
girl, as Brough wisely remarks, and if she de-
generates into a nuisance the whole fair sex doesn’t
amount to sixpen’orth of Dead Sea fruit. Which
remark also applies to man in general from lovely
woman’s point of view. A matinee performance
of “ The Liars ” is to happen on Thursday (10th.).
** m *
Audran’s music, and the Doll Tableaux,
together with numerous other features of “La
Poupee,” promise to go strong at the Princess’s
until further notice. “La Poupee” is a tuneful
little opera, anyhow. Moreover, the central joke
appears humorous to many people, and is so con-
stantly in evidence that if even the Melb. Scottish
Volunteers were to form themselves into a theatre
party at the extreme end of the building they
would probably laugh all together at the right
moments.
** * *
“Sporting Life” drew great masses of
populace to Melb. Royal every night last week,
and even the small sinner who lives riotously On
the proceeds of a cronk signature ranked as a
satisfactory item. A cheerful horse-drama, coming
at a time like that, was a sure thing for the man-
agement, nevertheless the objection to Walter
Baker’s unscientific encounter with Jim Crake
still holds good, and common sense calls upon
Walter to remove his shirt and braces ere he starts
to stoush the Bristol Chicken aforesaid. Further
remarks touching Bland Holt’s enterprise, and
casual references to the boomsome state of the
Opera House and other places, must be held over
on account of Albert Edward’s birthday, which
fell due a day earlier than was desirable.
At Poverty Point.
Scot Inglis, whose name in private life was Tom
Whalley, was originally in the counting-house of Connell,
Hogarth and Co., the Melb. merchants, and resigned a
good billet to go on the stage, so sure was he of his own
abilities. But others were confident as well. In 1891 the
writer heard him recite “ The Death of Arnold Winkel-
ried ” at a cricket-club smoke-night at Albert Park Coffee
Palace, and instantly concluded "that the youth would be
one of the leading actors of his day. About a year after
this Whalley became a prominent amateur ; and even-
tually he turned pro. At the outset he had
extreme hard luck. His first appearance was in
“ Skipped by the Light of the Moon ” at Melb. Opera
House under Johnny Gourlay, and, on the day of the
opening performance, Whalley’s father died, and he had
to make his maiden effort in the face of this bereave-
ment. Later on, he had some of the toughest of barn-
storming experiences, had to “ walk back ” on many occa-
sions both in M.L. and Australia. Then he gradually
forged ahead, and before he left had the satisfaction of
playing lead in the best houses in Australia.
“Haresfoot”: About Scot Inglis. I cannot, off-hand,
recall a Thespian suicide because of bad business, except
Dacre’s. Hope, or vanity, springs inextinguishable in the
theatric breast. Itis curious, by the way, to remember how
much Inglis was mixed up with Dacre. Off-hand,again, the
only suicide of any notable act ress I recall is that of Marie
St. Denis (Hoskins’ pupil), in Melb., for one can hardly
allow that Amy Roselle suicided in reality. At all events,
it is extremely doubtful. Had Dacre recovered, his trial
for murder would have been acute. Marie St. Denis
sujcided from disappointed love of a married man.
Walter Montgomery was unaccountably deceived by
Winnetta Montague. She was afterwards ill-treated in
America by an actor named Ward. A foolish entrepre-
neur thought she would draw in Australia, but caved
before the howl that arose.
“T.D.”: First saw Scot Inglis as one of the Howe-
Spong co. touring Maoriland at the beginning of ’94.
Inglis was very small potatoes in those days, but posi-
tively shone as a nonchalant detective in a iurid French
melodrama. To range from minor melodramatic detec-
tive to Wilfrid Denver and Cassius within four years is a
stride noteworthy in theatrical history. By the way, the
Howe-Spong co. was rather a henpecked concern. Fair
Hilda’s mamma superintended everything, from Hilda
herself to the treasury—and her diligent nightly method
of counting every head in the house was the admiration
of circle, pit, and gallery.
Tenor Newbury will probably close his Sydney “pops”
in time to make another assault upon Melb. pockets at
Xmas. After that he has an idea of again touring M.L.,
where people always roll up if they think a florin’s worth
will be given them for a shilling.
Smythe, the Much-Travelled, has been hurt by insinua-
tions touching poor old Poussard’s little boy. He writes
to Melb. ’Erald to explain his position, and takes the
chance of having a shot at a sacred sentiiyent. Thus the
cocky one:—“Meantime, and until I ascertained that
there was no other will, I sent the boy, who was not
in very good health, to a farm near the Murray, where he
enjoyed himself so much among the horses, cattle and
poultry that, if he could have stayed there about ten
days longer, I believe he would have quite forgotten both
father and foster-mother. So deep, so beautiful, so mys-
terious is filial love ! ”
Ed. Bulletin.— Re your affecting par. about Poussard’s
self-sacrificing housekeeper. Far from caring nothing for
the alleged debt due to her by the deceased maestro, the
lady fired in a formal claim immediately upon his death ;
and, with regard to her detention of his son, I am in a
position to say that she has been treated with the utmost
consideration by the child’s legal guardian, whose claims
she has persistently flouted. — Strad. [The poor woman
must have been most unworldly, else how could she have
allowed M. Poussard to fall into her debt for £270 wages
—at 20s. a week ? “Strad’s” statement in nowise de-
tracts from the sadness of her case.— Ed. B.]
Dear Bulletin.— Something wrong with King Hedley’s
identity. Trooper Hedley, captured by Moonlight and
co. before the Wantabadgery fight, was stationed for
several years afterwards at Mogil and Wee-waa. as
never on the boards, but reached the poor players para-
dise by a shorter route : married a brewer's daughter,
and runs the brewery at Albury.—H.B.
“M.J.F.” : Was recently seeing Maggie Moore in “ Hans
the Boatman ” at Charters Towers “ Royal,” and found
fully 25 per cent, of the audience smoking. Struck me
as rather “ pure,” considering the building is of wood.
Next me was a w r ell-known wealthy Chow, and with him
a popular barmaid. The Towers to-day with the white
man is not a bed of roses, and possibly the giddy girlie
was taking no risks. ,
A dramatic co. on tour, playing “The Kelly Gang,’
struck Mansfield (Vic.) last month, within a few days of
the 20th anniversary of the shooting of the police. Un-
fortunately, the widow and family of Sergt. Kennedy
reside within a stone-throw of the hall, and were much
distressed by the loud explosion of firearms which an-
nounced the “deed of vengeance.” Poor business
resulted. The Kennedy family being highly respected,
decent residents refrained from patronising the show.
Harry Jewett, who was a promising actor when he be-
longed to Geo. Rignold’s co., has taken a turn for the
worse since he went to America. The Christian Scien-
tists have captured Harry, and his present idea is to con-
vert the purfesh to religious principles. One time, he
says, he thought nothing of lighting his pipe with a leaf
from the “ Psalms,” but now he understands all the
mysteries of the Bible, and doesn’t smoke a pipe any
more. Neither does he drink. He spends most of his
time in lamenting his sinful past. Henry’s past was very
sinful indeed—he was a star footballer.
“D.”: A few months back, I would have been in-
clined to agree with “ H.M.” and dispute the assertion
that Signor Hazon can “conduct anything.” But, in
questioning whether he could adequately tackle Beetho-
ven or Wagner, that P.-Pointer forgets blazon’s produc-
tion of “ Faust,” in which the rugged Frenchman
Berlioz proved that not even Wagner or Beethoven had
such mastery over the orchestra. And, theatrical as the
Italian school of conducting may be, it is wonderfully
stimulating—performers know the differences involved in
baton-wielding. Hazon tickles, slashes, bangs, or lifts
music out of the instruments in front of him—and I never
see him doing that lifting beat without wishing to rise
among the audience and make myself hoarse with
acclamation.
“ Madame Bertha Rossow, a distinguished Australian
soprano,” writes Tiib Bulletin’s London correspondent,
“is billed for Cardiff Orchestral Concerts, and Charlotte
Hemming is doing well, though the effects of the China’s
attempt at overlanding have not yet left her.”
“ Melb.” : T’other night, at St. George’s Hall, the ever-
green quartette, “ Come Where My Love Lies Dreaming,”
knocked the audience as though it were a novelty. I re-
member it being given in this city 28 years ago by Tom
Rainford, Melvyn, C. Stewart, and Steele, with the so-
called Original Christy’s. “By the Sad Sea Waves ” is
another perennial melody of the same type.
“Paradis”: I never saw Hennings strike home as
thoroughly as with a picture in one of those panoramas
which used to be the delight of the Melb. Christmas pan-
tomimes. Old Melbourne and New Melbourne floated
across the stage. Where John knocked them was with
Fawkner landing from the Yarra, in the forest, on the
site of the future city.
“ B.E. ” : Tiie Bulletin is always delighted at, and in-
variably prints, a remark like the following: “It is
characteristic of the theatrical mind to read abuse into
every criticism that does not go the whole hogshead of
thick treacle,” with which “S.S.” enlightened my ignor-
ance in “P.P. ” 15/10/’9B. This is a well-worn jibe. The
theatrical mind does not as a rule read abuse, it only
reads ignorance. “ S.S.” surmises rightly. I have been
a poor player, and therefore probably know more about
the stage than he does. Every penny-a-liner thinks he
can write about matters histrionic, and does. That’s
what the average pro. objects to, and rightly. If a mum-
mer were to criticise, say, a story by “ 5.5.,” the latter
would, most likely, consider it an impertinence, and
advise his critic to stick to his last. And, as to values.
Even if granted that the actor’s art is of less value than
the writer’s (and that is a moot point), I am inclined to
think that the former’s is the more difficult. The writer
may put something of himself into his work with advan-
tage ; the actor, to be a good actor, must submerge his
identity. And to convey passions, emotions, character,
so as to convince, which is the easier medium, the ink-pot
or the make-up-box? Men were, probably, actors by
instinct before the first picture-writing was ever drawn
upon a flat stone. And even then there were, no doubt,
Scribes and Pharisees “ who sat afar off and spoke with-
out understanding.” [There are millions of actors-by-
instinct who don’t go upon the stage. The average
mummer is merely the offspring of a mummer, whilst
with new-chums it is mostly vanity and cheek that take
to the boards. How often do we find a small, fat man
aspiring to the part of Romeo ! The ordinary theatrical
mind does read abuse into every non-admiring criticism,
for “ unkind ” criticisms are bestowed only on poor per-
formers, and poor performers are full of foolishness and
conceit or they wouldn’t be in the purfesh. A really good
actor seldom gets rough notices from the Press. Some-
times an experienced mummer may be told that he falls
short of perfection, and then he howls “Abuse ! ”]
The death of Weston, the violinist, recalls that when
Cowen arrived in Melb. to conduct the orchestra at the
’BB Exhibition, he brought with him another first violin,
whom he promptly placed over Weston—previously en-
gaged by letter. At this, the local man kicked so vigor-
ously that Cowen was at length forced to back-down, and
create a first violin and a leading fiddler, or something to
that effect —much as the Firm satisfied both Bartho
and Dargo by terming one the premifere danseuse and the
other the prima ballerina.
In “ The Lights o’ London,” Rignold, as Harold Armi-
tage, has to say : “ I will go away from this place a
beggar.” On the last night of the piece in Adelaide,
where the season was very bad, he added : “ And I swear
I’ll never come here on a theatrical visit again.”
From Kansas Agitator, published in Garnett, Kansas,
U.S. A. :—A hermaphrodite gave a “ lecture ” (exhibition)
in Garnett, Monday night. The “ entertainment ” was to
men only. Just what benefit such an exhibition is to the
public we fail to understand. She, he, or it was dressed
in woman’s clot hes, which probably attracted more men
and boys than if she, he, or it had been dressed in coat,
pants, and vest. Had the “lecture” been given to
physicians only no fault could have been found with it,
but physicians are familiar with such “ freaks of nature,”
and they could have no interest, in freaks of that kind.
The fact is, this creature is merely travelling about the
country, giving exhibitions of her, his, or its self for the
money there is in it. The morbidly curious attend sim-
ply to satisfy their curiosity, and' no one is benefited.
Such creatures should be drummed out of every town.
“T.D.”: These phenomenal male alto and soprano
voices always remind me of the ancient order—when
Haydn, a chorister in a Vienna church, offended the
choirmaster by his revolt, and (luckily for himself) the
revolt of his parents also, against “the usual means then
taken to perpetuate a fine soprano in boys.”
Once when “ hypnotist ” Kennedy s6anced down South,
among the committee selected was a somewhat umbrageous
bookmaker. Mo, on being asked to examine subject in
alleged trance, said—“ He appears to me to be dead.”
Whereupon voice from gallery—“Go through him, old
man ! ”


Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery. *
Gilfillan and McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Collins-st.., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
The new battery of 40 stamps lately started at
the Galleymont, gold-mines is one of the finest gold mill-
plants at work in N.S.W., and is well worth inspection by
parties contemplating erection of similar machinery. The
ore is fed automatically through rockbreakers and feedert
without shovelling, and the whole is most substantially
built. The engines are a fine pair of horizontal compound
type, driving the battery with ropes. Mr. M. Eissler,
the managing engineer, speaks in the highest terms of
the construction and design of the plant, which was built
by the Austral Otis Engineering Company, of South
Melbourne.*
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/3870
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hv. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pttt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; Queen-st., Brisb.
A. E. (SOLPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—buyer of —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Minins:, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-sfc., Sydney.
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
BCarrisou. «Ss Attwood, Sole J?ropri«tor»,
To Fruit Growers, Orchard and
Amateur Gardeners.
The DISCOVERY of the NINETEENTH CENTURY is
geresford’
CAUSTIC
SPRAYING
SOLUTION.
Guaranteed to Destroy and Eradicate all Parasites, Aphis,
and Scale in Fruit Trees and Hoses.
The Inventors of BERESFORD’S CAUSTIC SPRAYING
SOLUTION have, after years of practical experiments,
produced this most effective solution for Spraying Fruit
and Other Trees, by which Professional and Amateur
Gardeners may save themselves thousands of pounds by
having clean Orchards and Gardens at a small outlay.
Descriptive Pamphlets free from E. ATKIN, Eulalia
Nursery, 399 and 401 George Street, Queen Victoria
Markets, and Ermington, Agent for New South Wales.
Sole Agent for Australasia, E. A. DAWBARN and CO.,
8f Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The following statement shows how the revenue
of N.S.W., Queensland, Victoria, Tasmania and Westralia
has been improving or otherwise for that part of the
financial year ended 31st October, 1898, as compared with
the corresponding portion of last financial year to 31st
October, 1897. This represents four months of the finan-
cial year in N.S.W., Queensland, Victoria and Westralia,
and eight months in Tasmania. S.A. presents its returns
quarterly, so its figures are for the Julv-September quarter
of 1898, as compared with the corresponding quarter of
1897 :
Increase over
corresponding period
of 1897.
Victoria (4 months) ... £197,695
N.S.W. ( „ ) ... 168,028
Queensland ( ~ ) ... 90,512
Tasmania (10 months) -. 63,327
S.A. (3 months) ... 4,035
Decrease.
AVestralia (4 months) .. 81,721
N.S.W. revenue for October, was <£761,340 —
an increase of £57,055 as compared with October, 1897.
The revenue, up to 31st October (four months), is
£2,987,486; expenditure, £3,278,775 ; deficit, £291,289.
The month’s expenditure was £48,656 larger than that for
October last year, so it nearly overtook the increase of
revenue. And in the four months £627,413 of loan money's
have been expended, as against £486,436 in the same
period of ’97, and £397,727 in the same period of ’96. Ap-
parently the rule in N.S.W. is that when the revenue is
gooi) -the loan expenditure is increased, because the
couiKry can better afford to pay the interest; and when
the revenue is bad and the times are depressed it is also
increased in order to find work for the unemployed.
According to Premier Reid’s long-delayed
financial statement, N.S.W. finished last financial year
with a deficit of £17,484. This is the fourth successive
deficit (the existence of every' one of which was flatly
denied) in Premier Reid’s accounts, the total of the four
being £864,676. Next financial year, despite £176,000
new customs taxation, is expected to show a deficit of
£72,417, making five consecutive shortages, totalling
£937,093. N.S.AV. is having a real good time.
* * * *
\ ictoria’s revenue for October, 1898, was
£596,593, an increase of £97,364. This puts Victoria at
the top of the list with the biggest revenue increase up to
date. But it will probably fall into second place this
month. The revenue for November, 1897, was swollen
to stupendous dimensions by the receipt of £140,000 pro-
bate money'; and November, 1898, will probably drop
behind last y'ear’s record, instead of showing an increase.
* * * *
Queensland’s revenue for October, 1898 (£317,623),
is £38,397 better than the amount received in October,
1897.
* * * *
Tasmania’s Treasurer collected <£90,203 revenue
in October— l 2152 more than the receipts for October,
1897. The following shows how each month’s revenue
has compared with the corresponding month of ’97
Increase. Increase.
January .. .. £6.125 June £9,567
February.. .. 12,742 July 1,981
March .. ... 5,377 August .. .. 5,943
April .. .. 9,945 September .. 1,457
May 8,038 October .. .. 2,152
Total, £63,327.
Tasmania’s revenue has shown a splendid rise for the past
two y'ears, but just now, when the rise has, to all appear-
ance, nearly spent itself, and there is still a lot of the
deficit to pay off, and the House has driven Braddon-Fysh
into extra expenditure on account of the boom, is about
as bad a time as the Island’s House of Fat could have
chosen for demanding the wholesale abolition of wealth
taxes.
* * * *
Westralia’s October revenue (.£202,163) is a
decrease of £17,603 as compared with October, 1897. The
results, so far, as compared with the corresponding
months of last y'ear have been :
Decrease. Decrease.
July .. £16,944 September .. £21,746
August .. 25,428 October .. 17,603
Total drop, £81,721.
And AVestralia proposes to spend £1,379,876 loan money
this year—equal to £8 per head of the population, as
compared with about £ll per head spent for the year
ended June, 1838. Even in the maddest days of the Vic-
torian and N.S.AV. booms the expenditure of £4 per head
per annum of loans was considered a big thing. AVestra-
jia’s population has now shown a decrease for two months
in succession, and the AV.A. boom is about the deadest
boom any of the Seven Provinces ever saw.
* * * *
According to a balance-sheet of the City of
Sydney (published with great pride by the May'or to show
the solvency of his awful Corporation under its present
awful management), the city’s liabilities are £1,520,000.
And its assets, including cash, sinking funds, and every-
thing saleable and many things unsaleable (for example,
“Town Hall, £350,000,” and “ new markets, £574,000”)
are set down at £1,575,000. If the Sydney Corporation
isn’t utterly ashamed of this result it ought to be. It
means that practically every stick and stone the Corpora-
tion possesses is mortgaged to the last inch ; that it has
never paid for any one of its assets except with borrowed
money ; that it isn’t paying off a copper of its debts,
for the new debts rise up as the old ones are paid off;
and this despite the fact that the Sydney Corporation
managed long ago to pass some hundreds of thousands of
its debt on to the Government, and received much
Government assistance in other ways. If the present
Corporation is not convicted on its own balance-sheet, it
certainly ought to be.
• * * •
The first count in the Crown’s indictment
against the Q.N.B. ex-directors relates to that, famous
issue in 1888 of 29,540 new shares at a premium of £3 10s.
per share. It is alleged that 3155 of these shares wouldn’t
sell, so the bank bought them itself to keep up public
confidence, and to put a bogus value on the shares, and
that, as the price alleged to be paid for these shares was
put in as capital, and the premium alleged to be paid was
included in the reserve, both these items became bogus
and fraudulent. In 1890-’9l-’92 and ’93 it is alleged that
the bank kept buying its own shares in order to keep the
dropping market from even worse collapse. Q.N.B. shares
began to be rather feeble even in 1890, when they fell
from £l2 to below £lO, and after various fluctuations they
got down in ’92 as low as £5, so even in these far-back
times they badly wanted support. The rest of the Crown’s
indictment is mainly a monotonous tale about huge over-
drafts on which it is asserted the bank had prac-
tically no earthly possibility of getting either principal or
interest, but on which the interest was allegedly charged,
and reckoned as profit, and paid away in dividends. The
most astonishing part of the accusation is that the
management went on just the same after the 1893 suspen-
sion. It is alleged that even in some cases where it had
previously ceased to reckon interest on the bad debt as
profit, it actually started doing so again about ’95, and
that part of the alleged profits since the suspension were
made by reckoning in interest on old overdrafts practi-
cally abandoned as hopeless in previous years. If the
Crown can prove this, the Q.N.B. management W'as surely
the boss incapable of Australia. After ’93 there was a fair
chance to stop paying dividends and keep square—so
many other banks had stopped paying dividends that
there was no particular need to get deeper in the mud for
the sake of showing paper profits. And if the Q.N.B.
crowd didn't know enough to grab at the chance of
putting some of its old blunders straight, it was too stupid
to recognise an opportunity when it saw one.
* » • *
That very dreadful proprietary concern, the
Provident and Industrial Insurance Co. of Maoriland,
issues its balance-sheet for the year ended 30th June,
1898. Said document sets forth that the revenue from
premiums, interest and transfer fees was £5673, and the
working expenses (including dividends and £l4Bdeprecia-
tion of furniture) were £7837—0r 90 per cent. These
were the actual working expenses of the year ; but in
addition £lOOO was written off previous expenses which
were not charged to the years they properl.y belonged to,
so the working ex.’s debited against this year’s income of
£8673 were £8837, or more than the whole receipts of the
business. And in addition claims were £2530. Leaving
out the £lOOO above-mentioned, the actual year’s receipts
and expenditure of the business were :
Receipts. Expenditure.
Premiums .. .. £8399 Claims .. £2530
Rents, Interest, &c. 274 Expenses .. 7837
Apparent Loss ... 1694
£10,367 £10,367
This is on the actual year’s working, but as the Provident
and Industrial professes to have also paid £lOOO towards
the held-over expenses of previous years, that makes
the apparent loss £2694. For the year ended June, 1897,
there was an apparent, loss—somewhere under £lOOO. The
P. and I. generally seems to have a loss.
Last year the co. included among its liabilities
"advance account £3320” (apparently money borrowed).
This year the advance account stands at £4577, so it looks
as if the institution was getting deeper in debt as it goes
along in order to keep afloat, though it pays dividends
and whoops greatly about its prosperity. An im-
portant item among its assets is £2563, money spent in
working expenses during previous years and not debited,
but put aside to be gradually written off. This isn’t an
asset at all, but a mere paper entry not worth the ink it
is printed with. The assurance fund professes to have
increased during the year by £546. The loss of
£2694 is turned into an alleged profit of £546 by
putting down the value of the co’s business pre-
mises (apparently leasehold) at £4508, where last year
they stood in the balance - sheet at £1268. There
appears among the alleged revenue the truly won-
derful item, “ Property—difference as per builders’ and
architect’s certificates attached, £3240,” which makes all
the difference. If that sum wasn’t added on, the Provi-
dent and Industrial’s balance-sheet would present an
appearance of utter hopelessness. The “certificates at-
tached ” show that the experts differed to the extent of
£260 about the value of the property, and the co. took the
larger valuation. Of course it is just possible that this
amazing item is all right, but even if it is, the co. can’t
add £3240 to the alleged value of its property every year,
and if it continues to spend £1694 more than its receipts,
while largely increasing its liabilities by accepting new
business, the result is certain 'collapse. The assurance
fund assumes to be £36oo—less than six months’ pre-
miums—but as £2563 of this is only represented by the
paper item of unpaid expenses, the actual situation,
assuming the increased valuation of property as absolutely
correct, is this :
Liabilities. Saleable Assets.
Capital paid .. £4,875 Deposit .. .. £5,000
Various liabilities 5,488 Property.. .. 4,508
Assurance fund.. 885 Agents’balances 119
Premiums due .. 700
Sundiy debts .. 301
Furniture, &c. .. 484
Cash .. .. 136
£11,248 £11,248
But for that famous increase in the alleged value of the
co.’s property there would be no assurance fund at all,
and about half the capital would have disappeared. As
it is, the actual assurance fund is only equal to a little
over one month’s income. And, as the “ deposit” is pre-
sumably' the £5OOO which has to be left in the hands of the
Government as security for the policy-holders, it really
looks as if all the liquid assets actually in hand to meet
claims (which amounted last year to £2530) are the above
£136 in cash. At the end of 1895 (no later figures are
available to The Bulletin) the Provident and Industrial
had £146,000 of insurance in force. How does the £BB5 of
actual assurance fund look against this? And why'doesn’t
the Seddon Government start a system of State audit?
Considering that its province owns what certainly looks
like the very worst life-assurance concern in the Seven
Provinces, the case calls for it.
* * * *
Another little proprietary concern, the Austra-
lian Metropolitan Life Assurance Co. of Brisbane, ended
its third year on 18th August, 1898. During the year it
collected £5509 in premiums, as compared with £4443 for
the previous year. The total year’s income (apart from
calls on shares) was £6393, and expenses swallowed up
£4423 of this, or fully 69 per cent. Last year expenses
ran to about 60 per cent., so things appear to be growing
worse as time goes on. The amount saved and added to
the funds was £1219, so the assurance fund, being £1903
last year, would naturally be £3122 this one. Instead, it
appears as £13,217, which glorious rise is made by
putting down the value of the company’s new building at
£lO,BBO more than was paid for it—at least, the report
says that the co. has bought an office building, and “made
a gain of £lO,BBO according to the valuation of that
asset,” though the sum doesn’t seem to fit in exactly.
The name of the sanguine individual who valued “ that
asset ” isn’t mentioned. But so far as can be
gathered from the balance-sheet, it certainly appears that
the Australian Metropolitan bought the equity of re-
demption of that building for £6OOO or so, and straight-
way' put it in the balance-sheet as worth £16,000. It will
be interesting to see, when the valuation of liabilities is
made (presumably there will be one some time soon),
whether the assurance fund would have had any margin
to the good if this streak of luck hadn’t come along.
This makes the third proprietary life assurance co. The
Bulletin knows of which has been somewhat helped (the
other two were helped when in a dreadfully tight place)
by the great kindness of the property in becoming worth
a lot more than was paid for it, or a lot more than the
previous valuation.
To all intents and purposes the big office-build-
ing is all the people assured in the Australian Metropolitan
have to show for their money. The assurance-fund, as
already mentioned, is set down at £13,217, and the office-
property (£24,000, less £BOOO mortgage) represents
£16,000, so the whole fund is in it.
Australasia of late years has begun to be over-
run with small proprietary' life assurance offices. They
supply no want, for there are more than sufficient good,
large, reputable societies already in existence for the
business to be done. Their chief apparent purpose is to
supply some people with good billets and to enable share-
holders to get 10 per cent, interest on their capital. The
assurers have no control over the management of the
funds ; the directors can do what they darned well please
with them, subject only to the control of the shareholders.
As a rule, the director’s and the management constitute
a majority of the shareholders, and in these cases there is
no control—the people who run the business meet to-
gether once a year to rigidly and impartially scrutinise
their own doings ; and to report, if the circumstances
warrant it, that their own conduct has been everything
that it ought to be. The Bulletin isn’t insuring its own
life in any small new proprietary office at present.
The County of Bourke Permanent Building and
Investment Society—one of the big land-jobbing institu-
tions of the Melbourne boom-time —has at last surmounted
its difficulties. When the great smash came it owed
about £140,000 to depositors, and its assets were about as
unreal isable as the average. Since then it has managed
to reduce its deposit liabilities to i 7663, so they are
practically wiped off. Out of the nominal capital of
£152,841, it is reckoned that, after allowing for all losses
and establishing a reserve of £10,500 in case of more
depreciation, £51,916 remains intact. Last year’s profits
were £3758, so the society can pay 31 per cent, dividends
on its reduced capital. Among the long list of Melbourne
land-jobbing institutions which more or less went under
in the boom-time this is the first to come definitely to
the surface, and after being more or less suspended for
seven years, the old business of lending money on desir-
able freehold securities starts again.
* * * *
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. reports that it
made a profit of £85,404 for the half-year. AlO percent,
dividend is paid, absorbing £85,100. The C.S.R. Co. has
£1,702,000 paid-up capital and various reserves amounting
to £419,000. Its profits hardly vary at all, and the 10 per
cent. div. has now been forthcoming regularly for eight
years in succession.
• * * *
The secrecy of the N.S.W. Treasurer’s Budget
proposals! The labored efforts to make it appear that
only the Treasurer and his Cabinet colleagues know the
new taxation to be disclosed in the Budget speech are
often theatrical humbug. The politicians doubtless mean
well, hut they don’t know. It was known in Pitt and
Hunter streets at 3 p.m. of the day on which Treasurer
Reid delivered his last Budget speech that tea was to go
under a 3d. a lb. tax, although it was after 6 p.m. before
the announcement was made in Parliament. Similar
things happen year after year.
» * W *
Dear Bulletin.— Re a par in Bulletin of Oct.
28 from “ a White Cliffsman ” —I know the Barrier pretty
well, and the news that “enough copper has quite
recently been found about 100 miles N.E. of Broken Hill
to make the hair of any Mt. Lyell or Chillagoe man stand
on end,” made mine. I wired to one of the best of
authorities at Broken Hill and have this answer—“ Show
known as Grasmere, worked some time now held by
Adelaide speculators nothing sensational idle lately.”—
Sulphide.
* * * •
A cable-message reports the British B.H. Co.
as having a credit-balance of £10,328, though on the half-
year’s work there was a loss of £3553. Some> more figures
are wanted to explain things ; for instance, have the law-
costs of the half-year been included in the term’s expendi-
ture ? Anyhow, it has been a bad time for the British
lately. First, it began fooling round with the con-
centrating-mill, and somebody had to be called in to put
things straight again—all involving both loss of time and
waste of money. Then the stone has been terribly hard,
and continues that way ; in fact, another ore-breaker has
just been put in. Thirdly, the carbonates, which long
served the co. as an invaluable stand-by, have lately been
untouched —there isn’t much of them left. But of sul-
phides, there are big faces exposed in many parts, though
their hardness is leading to vigorous prospecting below
300 ft., in the hope of kindlier stuff coming in lower down.
It may; but it generally doesn’t.
• * ■* «
The B.H. companies were, a little while back,
asked by S.A. Railway Dept, to get as much ore as possi-
ble to the seaboard before November, in order to make
room for wheat traffic afterwards. And didn’t the co.’s
take the advice! Ore-export went up 40 per cent,
promptly. Every available wool-ship was sent to Port
Pirie for stiffening; Block 10 put over 2000 tons of concen-
trates into one boat. And the department, which saw
the wheat harvest fade under its nose, didn’t know that
its advice was so heavily loaded, and was sorry it spoke.
But it wasn’t consideration for the poor farmer that
moved the companies—it was the threatened increase in
freights.
* * * *
Charters Towers for October —42,7800 z. from
74,900 tons. Mills crushed 20,800 tons for 19,2750 z. ;
cyanide works treated 53,580 tons for 22,8300 z. ; and
chlorination works, 497 tons for 6720 z. Div. for month,
£25,500 : calls, £4OOO.
» * * »
Georgetown for Oct.—oll tons for 9700 z.
Cyanide returned 380 tons for 2370 z. Chief producer, the
Nil Desperandum —crushed 132 tons for 2370 z.
m * * *
Gympie returns for October, 8779 tons, gave
74200 z. ; calls, £13,999 7s. 6d. ; divs., £6295. Looks
rather glum, after last month’s flourish of trumpets.
(Alleged cause, number of chief mines did not wash-up.)
Calls" are the highest made for many years. Of above
sum-total, Scottish G3'mpie gave 19360 z. from 2974 tons.
This cake, minus 900 z., was bought by Q. Government for
exhibition purposes. Next came the Phoenix Golden Pile,
with an average of over 9oz. to the ton. Alluvial and
cyanide gave a total of 2890 z.
Croydon items. Rumored that the Highland
Mary United mine has been sold to Bull for £lO,OOO, of
which the “ floating agent” gets a big whack—Kunst,
managing director No. 7 Golden Gate, draws about £lOOO
a month in divs. from that mine, which seemed to be
duffered-out for half-a-dozen years before the good time
came. Perseverance rewarded. Sale of No. 1 mine
to Finch-Hatton syndicate completely off; Royal Bank
now controlling operations City of London, 30 tons for
107 oz. —Golden stone struck in air-shaft of No 7 N. Golden
Gate. Mining matters generally brisk, but drought
retards crushing outside.
* * * *
The building of Mareeba-Chillagoe railway is
going apace :—From a recent report: “ Later researches
at Featherbed Creek tend to show that the cost of per-
manent line will be much cheaper than anticipated.”
Also, rumored in Melb. that a big find of copper, carrying
good gold and silver, has been made in one of the Pro-
prietary blocks. Be that as it may, the boom has faded,
and many of the boomsters who went to Chillagoe in
haste have returned at leisure. Some remain in the
North for the very best of reasons. By the way, some
prosecutions for misrepresentation, ringing the changes
on samples, etc., are talked of ; and generally things are
in a dubious way.
* * * *
Whispered in Melb. that a certain lurid mines-
ter is about to startle Australasia with a big diamond-
discovery, somewhere in the far wilds of Australia.
Lazarus, Bendigo, has a big reef at 3425 ft.; but,
at time of writing, it is too early to say what it’s made of,
except that it’s well-mineralised, and gold has been seen
in it. In most mines, 350 ft. is a fairly deep shaft. Here
there is a winze dropped nearly that deep from the 316gft.
level; and from that winze again long crosscuts have
been thrown out. Overcoats are not worn at the
ends of these crosscuts. And in the New Chum Consoli-
dated, a crosscut 80ft. long has been put out from a winze
500 ft. deep, sunk from the 3077 ft. level; good prospects
have heen got there, too. Also, overcoats are not worn
there either.
* * * «
E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
* * * *
The antics of a maiden with a bull ant on
her are nothing in comparison to those of the
boomster when he finds that the game is up. Months ago
when Lake Dora (Tas.) boom just started, fair warning
was here given, but to little effect. The Dora shows were
engineered by the same press-gang that was responsible
for the Barlen Hercules boom, and to all appearances it
got out of both specs, at a fair figure.
• * * •
Some weeks ago a number of papers published
statements to the effect that the Rothschilds had sent
one of their experts to examine the Mt. Lyell Co.’s pro-
perty. Later on these statements were contradicted,
but those in the know merely smiled an ugly smile. It is
well-known to anyone in the metal trade that the Roths-
childs are considerably interested in the copper ring, and
maybe they boss the whole show. Ain how, such firms
as Merton and Co., of the Metal Exchange, London, if
they are not exactly Rothschild branches, act with them
and for them ; maybe they are the Rothschilds only in
another coat. Now Merton and Co.’s experts were out
here and examined Mt. Lyell. They also —and, mind
you, not a paltry spy or two—carefully studied the West
Coast of Tasmania, with the result that big smelting
works are now being erected. These smelters will control
the output of ore on the West Coast in the near future.
What this means it is not difficult to guess.
At the half-yearly meeting of the Hercules Co.,
one of the really solid shows on the West Coast, the Aus-
tralian director of the Tas. Smelting Co. and expert agent
for Merton and Co. was present as a shareholder, and
strongly argued for the sale of the ore, presumably to his
co. It appears that the Tas. Smelting Co. was anxious
some time ago to secure the Hercules output for a num-
ber of years, but negotiations fell through. Now their
director is a shareholder. The co., or some of its agents,
will soon be interested in most of the going mining con-
cerns on the West Coast, and with unlimited capital at
its back can make its own terms.
The advance in the price of tin is answerable for
the move to resuscitate tin-mining in Tasmania; but the
prospect of hatching another tin boom is miserably re-
mote. The erstwhile alluvial stanniferous deposits of the
N.E. and E. coast of the island have been worked to the
bitter end. In the early tin-mining days the richest of
the ground was boxed ; then came the ground-sluicer,
and he was followed by the hydraulic. Now the casual
celestial can scarcely get enough to pay for rice. There
is no poor ground that the higher price of the metal will
make payable ; the persevering Ohow got all that, and no
new tin-bearing ground has been found for years. If Rex
Hill doesn’t redeem the Tas. tin-industry, the islanders
must go bald-headed for copper again if they want,
another boom.
Melb. Punch on N. Mt. Lyell : “ Taking steps
to ship about 70 tons a week to London. The profits on
this should realise at least £lO per ton.” Also, “ the
North Mt. Lyells are down 220 ft. in a rich ore body, and
are going down 110 ft. further. The estimate of the worth
of the ore in sight is two millions and a half sterling, and
we are inclined to think that this estimate is not so
much over the mark as is frequently the case with the
opinion and valuation of sanguine or interested mining
experts.” What do you think of that now? Two and a
half millions in sight, and shares at 455. ! 220 ft. in a rich
ore body, and going down 110 ft. further into it. Where
is the faith of the public in this great mine ? Or, more
important still, where is the public’s faith in Melb.
Punch ?
Things said of some Westralian mines by Lon-
don Economist’s special mining commissioner : —Lake
View —the leading mine of W.A. The largest output, the
most gold in sight, the most ore developed, best equipped
and managed mine on the field. In time its output and
gold in sight will have to give place to the Associated.
Nearly two millions in sight, of which over 1J millions will
be profit. A big development since this was written.
Great Boulder : A very fine mine but so mismanaged as to
do serious damage before long. Mistakes : —ln retaining
Zeb. Lane at 1000 guineas a year to live at Perth 350 miles
away, besides retaining John Taylor and Sons in London
to do the same work. In carrying out a policy, against
the strong representations of the manager, of picking the
mine to keep up a 2oz. average, and leaving behind large
masses of 7to lOdwt. ore. In delaying the erection of a
cyanide plant for tailings, and a roasting plant for
sulphides, and in arranging a contract for their treatment
by an unknown process at an unknown price. Value of
ore in sight and tailings, a million, of which £700,000
will be profit; the lode cut at 400 ft. gives high results.
Boulder Perseverance : Only important mine on the field to
which he was refused admittance. Told it was worked like
a rabbit-warren, which he could well believe after noticing
the surface equipment visible to any eye. Shafts dotted
here and there, no machinery, ore taken by carts and rail
to a custom-mill several miles away. Reputed to be
little or no development, and, with all its richness, is two
years behind any other good mine of the field. Investors
strongly advised to have nothing to do with it. Since
this was written, Nicholls has taken charge, and, from
what present writer knows of the man, this state of
things will change, or another change of management
will have to occur. Golden Horseshoe : Has a stretch of
reef 400 ft. long, which twists into its ground from the
Great Boulder and then twists back into that mine. At
the 100 level it is 6ft. clear of the boundary, and Bft. at
the 200, so the dip is in favor of its remaining in the
ground. May fault and go into the Boulder, which is the
only point against the mine. Average value for 7ft., 4oz.
Two other undeveloped reefs in the mine ; 60,000 tons in
sight, which should yield a profit of £360,000. Ivanhoe :
Ore in sight, 125,000 tons, which will yield a profit of
£500,000. Probable div. on £1,000,000 capital 12 per
cent. Mine opening up exceptionally well, and should
have a million in sight. Estimated that when the drives
are extended to the boundaries at the 300 ft., ten years’
work will be in sight. Ore to that depth nearly all free
milling. Hannan’s Brown Hill: A mile distant from all
the other rich mines, and the ore of a distinctly different
character. Evidently a purely local deposit of schist and
apparently does not continue to carry payable gold below
about 250 ft. (How very quiet this has been kept—and
how cursed was the writer for saying so a year ago !)
Nearly all the payable ore in the mine exposed, but the
value is remarkable. Estimated tonnage, 160,000, worth
a million, which should give a profit of £6 a share. New
plant will probably show a profit of 200 per cent, but in-
vestors must not be led away by these high results.
* * * *
A man from South Africa with a long Dutch
name has sent Nullagine, W.A., into “great excitement,”
by pegging out a large area of land, which, he says, he is
going to work for diamonds.


d
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
(‘gjp'o")
SYDNEY.
PREMO V.
DON
’T BUY.
Aq Old-Fasbioo Carpcra.
The Amateur who wishes to invest in a small
HAND CAMERA; or
The Professional who wants a LIFE - SIZE
APPARATUS,
May Choose from our Large and Varied Stock.
CAMERAS from ss. to £5O.
We are Experts, and keep Up-to-Date, Reliable
INSTRUMENTS and MATERIALS.
J-Plate, with two View-Finders, T. and I.
Shutter, &c., 255.
Queensland
Branch :
}
64 QUEEN STREET,
Brisbane.
Harrington & Co. Ltd., Shotogmphic
66 king st., Sydney. (Merchants,
Melbourne
Agents
CRAVEN & CO.,
179 Collins St.
NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE of all Photographic Materials
Mailed Free.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
Lock washday
Shortly after his arrival in S.A., Gov.
Buxton was good enough to say to an Adelaide
audience: “What surprised and pleased Lady
Victoriah and myself on landing on your hospit-
able shoahs was to see that your little children
were the same as those whom we have seen with
so much delight in the deah mothah country ”
What did he expect ? Piccanninies ? Also, Lady
Victoria Buxton, just before her departure from
Adelaide for England, was discussing with a
lady the acquirements of Edmund Barton. “I
met him in Sydney,” she said, “and I found him
to be so cultured and so well read that it is hard
to believe that he has never been out of Australia! ”
* * * *
A deputation has waited upon Sunday
Brunker to ask that female attendants be ap-
pointed to look after lady-drunks at the watch-
houses. The request is reasonable ; it has been
made before, and should have been complied with
long ago. Apropos of drunks, there is another
and long-neglected field for the exercise of philan-
thropy. Anyone who gets locked-up on Saturday
night has, failing bail, to stay in quod till Mon-
day. A society which would devote itself to the
good work of visiting the city lock-ups, armed
with long cold whiskies-and-soda for the benefit
of those stranded in limbo with swollen head,
would do—if for once in a way this paper may
venture to speak on behalf of Heaven—a lot more
towards saving their souls than by going to church
THE DANGERS OF THE GRAMMAR-LESSON.
LADY TEACHER (describing the various kinds of sentences): “For
instance, if I said ‘My hair is golden, ’ what would that be?”
LITTLE MARY JONES: “That would be a lie, ’cos it’s red.”
and putting 3d. in the plate. The Bulletin
understands that there is a band of well-meaning
women who do visit the lock-ups early on the Sab-
bath bearing cups of tea for the ladies who find
themselves literally in a tight place. But tea—tea
without a stick in it!
* * * *
One hot day, while the M'Sharry case was
running its course, a solitary spectator found his
way into the gallery of the Court-house. At the
time of his arrival there was a bit of a break in the
evidence. Bruce Smith was searching amongst
his papers for a document with a lot of figures on
it. R. B. O’Connor was reclining at the table
with his chin on his hand, waiting for the docu-
ment to turn up. The arbitrator was —well, a bit
drowsy ; the sleep of the instructing attorneys was
so calm that spiders were spinning webs round
them. Seeing such a pacific scene beneath him
the gallery occupant put on his hat, pulled out his
pipe, and lit up. In about half-an-hour the usher
came along and told him to put his pipe out in
court. “ Oh,” said the visitor, “I didn’t know it
was a court! ’’—and retired to Hyde Park again.
» * * •
Things have been lively recently in the
R.C. minister - manufacturing industry, Card.
Moran having turned out, at St. Mary’s, Sydney,
the other Sunday, two priests, four deacons, and
three sub-deacons, while next day no less than
two dozen young men from St. Patrick’s College,
Manly, were admitted to “minor orders.” The
“ould faith ” appears to be going very strong in
Australia.
• * * *
In the last 30 years £160,000 has been
collected for St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney.
♦ * * *
A study in ecclesiasticism :
Recently did two long railway trips from Melbourne.
Up, we had a parson of some sort in the same carriage.
He was a thorn in all sides and a weariness of the spirit,
objected to cards, abhorred the smell of whisky, howled
about draughts, and wanted two seats and a whole rack
to his own cheek. When not objecting, he was preaching
dolorously at the chilled female opposite about medicines,
the management of children, and his own ailments.
Coming down, a R.C. priest got in at a wayside station.
Usual type, fat, red, and amiable ; had no objection to
anything, took a hand at euchre, pooled his own whisky,
handed round cigars, and talked like a man and a brother.
His reverence may not have been a saint, but he gave us
a new respect for heaven as possibly a habitable place
after all. Also, was in a city baker's shop this morning.
The girl behind the counter said : “I hate to see that
parson come into the place ’’(referring to one who had
just gone out) ; “he is such a cold, nasty man. He came
here the other day with a poor fellow, for whom he bought
a 3d. loaf. Before the beggar got the loaf the parson said
to me, ‘ Give me a knife.’ I handed him one. and he took
it and cut the loaf into four pieces. ‘ Now, my man,’ he
said, ‘ you won’t be able to go and exchange the loaf for a
pot of beer.’ It was charitable, of course, of him to buy
the poor man a loaf, but how disgusted I did feel at the
way in which he did it! Though lam not a Catholic, I
must say that you could never imagine any priest doing
such a cruel thing.”
Nor does The Bulletin think that many parsons
would have done such a cruel thing—and it is
quite ready to believe that loaf-cutting shepherd
meant well all the time. But the fact remains
that much of the R.C. Church’s power is due to
the priest being a man of this world as well as of
the next.
* *> P •
In Bananaland railway-carriages (second-
class) only certain of the conveyances are provided
with cushioned seats.. Writer was travelling
second-class some time ago and naturally wanted
to get into a cushioned carriage. Was stopped,
however, by a uniformed inmate of the carriage’
who informed him—“ This compartment is occu-
pied by a prisoner, sir.” This scribe, not having
robbed a church, a hen-roost, or a Chinaman,
stepped mournfully into a carriage without
cushions.
*•■ * •
“ Bargo ” : North Sydney Suspension
Bridge (toll 3d. return) has some peculiar uses
Recently, saw nine of a- “ push ” following a loving
couple evidently with intent to “ deal it out ” to
the successful swain, when one of the party ejacu-
lated, “ Gor bly me—he’s takin’ ’er across the
bridge.” A hurried reckoning-up of funds panned-
out only s|d., and by that time the pursued was
disappearing with his prize amongst the ferns on
the opposite bank.
In a Wellington (Maoriland) hotel,
the ether day, a pakeha cast admiring
glances at a comely Maori dame. The
lady resented it and asked him, “ Do you
wink at Premier’s wife ?” “No.” “Do
you wink at Premier’s daughters?”
“No.” “Then why you wink at
me ? ” —at the same time giving
him a tremendous slap in the
face. The logic was unan-
swerable, and the wret-
ched pakeha subsided.
White-vested Zox,
as chairman of the Vic.
Board of Enquiry into
the Habitual Drunkard
question, wants to
know whether the
Board is to regard
“drunks ” from a cur-
able or incurable point
of view. Why not re-
solve itself into a Board
of Instruction re the
science of habitually
liquoring without “giv-
ing way to intemper-
ance”? Drunkards, in
a great measure, are
merely unintelligent
boozers, needing to be
taught how to carry
their liquor “ proper-
ly.” Disraeli, who
started his political life
towards the close of
theheavy-drinkingera,
consulted an old hand
as to how he was to
avoid getting beastly
intoxicated every time
he dined at a noble
lord’s table. The advice
was—mix your drinks as
little as possible, and don’t
talk. The “ habitual,” nowa-
days, mostly comes to grief through his craving for
conversation when whisky’s about. A still tongue
makes a strong head.
The sum of the Chinese-vegetable con-
troversy appears to The Bulletin to be this :
Vegetables are dearer in Australia than in Eng-
land, yet white men leave their cultivation to the
Chinkies because “it is impossible to compete
with Chinamen.” This seems contradictory. The
explanation lies in the fact that while it might be
possible to make gardening pay small white man’s
wages at current prices of vegetables, no sooner is
an attempt made to compete directly with John
than he cuts prices down to white man’s ruin-
figure and then, when competition ceases, puts
them up again and people resume wondering why
the whites leave vegetable-growing to the Chows.
In free-labor competition the Lord is on the side
of the man with the fewest wants !
* * * *
As this paper said the other week, the
average white working man won’t grow his own
bit of vegetables when he can. Yet Ah Sue, the
Chinese fossicker whose head was battered in
near Bendigo lately, though he didn’t possess any
garden-space, managed to grow, in pots and tins,
enough onions, thyme, and other things of that
sort for his own use.
* • * »
In a Northern town, a man by mistake got
into the wrong ’bus. Discovering his error, he
immediately sprang out and got into another.
The conductor of first ’bus followed, demanded
payment, and finally got it. Chuckling hugely,
he was stepping out, when conductor No. 2 stopped
his brother in the trade and demanded payment
also. And he got it—to the joy of all beholders.
* * * *
Boy jumped on to the ’bus, caught driver’s
whip round his bulgy part, and he dropped off
with a howl. Driver laughed. Boy ran up be-
hind, got on step again, and had five minutes
ride. Then dropped off yelling “ Whip behind ! ”
and round came the whip, swish across face of
stout matron, whose genial phiz was projecting
from the window of the door. At first driver
thought the devil had got into his ’bus. Then an
umbrella-point darted through the cash-window
and nearly through him. Driver pulled up, and,
moment he stopped, the door was nearly wrenched
off, and 16st. of infuriated “shemale” whirled
round and, with skeleton of umbrella, smacked
him across face, jabbed him in mouth, rammed
him in throat, and poked him in ribs. Then she
started on horses and sent them at a wild gallop
down a street crowded with children pouring out
of school. When the remains of the driver did
manage to pull up a policeman swooped down on
him and took his name for furious driving.
♦ * * *
“ J.F.D. ” : Was riding recently on top of
Sydney ’bus, and wife, who was inside, counted 23
women and children there. Top also crowded,
and horses ready to drop. Yet driver stopped at
every “ hail ” and invited passengers with
“ plenty of room inside.” Told me it was worth
his job if he neglected to pull-up when hailed by
prospective fare.
* * * *
Hobart City Council is just now busily
engaged on the cheerful subject of ancient ceme-
teries. The city boasts seven or eight of these
“ deceased ’’ spots, each more dilapidated than the
other. An interim report of the sub-committee
of inquiry says that the only one of the lot where
the tombstones are not hopelessly smashed, dis-
figured, or illegible, is the Jewish cemetery. Most
SPECS BEFORE THE EYES.
RITA (who has been reading quack advertisements):
“Grandpa, I am going to buy you a box of
pills for your birthday.”
GRANDPA: “ Why, my dear? What is that for?”
RITA : “ Because you’ve got specks before the eyes!”
of these “ God’s Acres ” were overcrowded before
their use was discontinued some 25 years ago.
Now the vaults have fallen in, disclosing portions
of coffins and whitened skulls ; scrub has over-
grown the rains, and dairy cows graze peacefully
on the undergrowth. One, chiefly used for the
burial of “ Government cases,” was fearfully
over-crowded, hardly any tombstones were
erected, and “ the rich chocolate soil ” is produc-
tive of splendid grass “ whereon butchers’ sheep
are fattened.” Among the most completely
wrecked sarcophagi was one “ which your com-
mittee deeply regret to report marked the grave of
Governor Wilmot.” Gov. Wilmot died in ’47.
At Bundaberg (Q.), lately, an individual
against whom evidence was very damning was
promptly acquitted. Judge advised him to remain
in the town—other places mightn’t agree with
him. At Charters Towers, a prisoner accused of
stealing bacon, and absolved of the theft by 12
intelligent Bananalanders, was advised by Judge
Chubb : “ Next time you want any bacon, I would
advise you to apply to some of the present jury.”
* * * *
There is a Q.N. Bank curse looming.
Drury is dead, so is Palmer. Byrnes instigated
the present cases, and died ; and it is on the cards
that one of those very deeply interested will not
bother about anything much longer. Also, it
flattened out various (hitherto) unblemished poli-
ticians and sowed lasting seeds of dissension in
the Labor ranks. M‘llwraith’s health and humili-
ation are also in the reckoning, also the quarrel
with G-riffith over the Acting-Governorship.
* * * *
Daily paper item of last Monday week :
During a thanksgiving service at Albury, Canon
Spencer said that the opportune downpour of rain was
evidence of the efficacy of prayer.
The rain came three days before the prayer
started. But, as this wicked paper prophesied, if
the rain came afterwards—no matter how long
afterwards—it would be set down to the praying,
and if it came before it would be set down to the
fact that there was going to be prayer.
* • • *
List, ye Sabbatarians ! On Sunday, May 1,
Admiral Dewey destroyed every Spanish ship in
Manila Bay. On Sunday, July 3, Admiral
Sampson smashed Cervera. On Sunday, July
MARRIAGE MORN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Fades the moonlight on the sea,
And the dawn is coming in—
What will this day bring for me,
This of all days, Evelyn ?
Ah, to-day our hands we plight;
Life or death is in the vow ;
All that earth knows of delight
Or of grief is round me now—
While the dawn-light limns the shore,
And thou in thy lonely sleep
Dream’st thy maiden dreams before
Hymen’s mystery shall steep
Thy heart’s fancies in my own,
And the pulse of passion stir
With the ecstasy that’s known
Only to Love’s worshipper.
R.C.


A
8®
YO<J
FoRGOJTEH
Astonishing, yet Expected!
Recent analyses of Sydney Lager Bier and of all other beers on Sydney market
show wonderful figures in favor of Sydney Lager, and it is thus scientifically
demonstrated that Sydney Lager deserves to be the national drink of New South
Wales. Supposing that a man drinks three pints of liquid per day ; then he will,
in a life of 70 years, on this average drink some 10,000 gallons. Suppose that
instead of Sydney Lager a man drank 10,000 gallons of deleterious highly-alcoholic
liquor. It wouldn’t matter if he could replace his liver, kidneys, and stomach
with a fresh set every twelve months—but then a man isn’t a machine of that sort.
If one of his inner and delicate mechanisms go wrong, he breaks down all over.
10,000 gallons ! —enough to float a ship ! Isn’t the thought enough to make you
solemnly kneel down and swear to be faithful to Sydney Lager for the rest of
your lifetime?
Brewed and Bottled by N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewery Co. Ltd., Moore Park, Sydney.
RAFF/N’S HEPATIC
EISGANT and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Eigin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Markwald,
178 Williani-st., Melbourne;
11 Pitt-streeh, Sydney ;
@8 Currie-st., Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane.
17, the Spaniards surrendered at Santiago, and
the American flag was hoisted. Just observe
The nation that attacks promptly on the Sabbath
(when the enemy is probably at church or telling
its beads or invoking its favorite saint) knocks its
adversary into a cocked hat every time. By the
way, do the U.S. army and navy chaplains bless
these Sunday slaughters in the customary way '!
One family gaily took off its mourning
t’other day, while another as sadly put it on.
There were two t’othersiders named Stout in the
crowded Westralian hospital, and somehow their
identity became mixed. Presently, when one of
them died, the wrong family sent over the funeral
expenses, and went into mourning ; while the
poor beggar who was being mourned-for wondered
during his convalescence why his friends on the
other side had so utterly forsaken him as not to
write a line. It took several weeks to straighten
out the painful little tangle.
* * * *
A case of incest was heard in Melb.
Supreme Court, the other day, the offenders being
brother and sister. The boy was 15 years of age,
the girl 14. The latter is enceinte, and the
parents informed the authorities of the facts, which
led to the prosecution. Justice Hodges said that
the lad, who pleaded guilty, had been an unwit-
ting offender, and, further, that he had committed
the crime against his will, and, therefore, he was
let off cheap.
Purves, Q.C., ably defended the boy afore-
said. The lad (whose parents themselves had
informed the police of the hideous affair) pleaded
guilty, but escaped with a nominal sentence. Next
day the eminent counsel received a letter, marked
“ private and confidential,” from a thing calling
itself a man, asking him to let the writer
know the address of the unhappy parents, as
he desired to write to them and offer to marry the
girl straightaway, conditionally on the father pay-
SCOPE FOR HER TALENT .
1ST: That's Miss Frisk, one of the cleverest little
song-and-dance artists we have out here.
Can’t get an engagement, though.”
2ND: "Um why doesn’t she join the Salvation
Army ?”
ing him a substantial sum for so doing ! ! The
writer explained that he had money when he came
to Australia some years ago, but he had lost it, and
had to do something to live. He was, therefore,
willing to overlook the past record of the little
girl, and take her off her parents’ hands and make
her his wife, if they made it worth his while!
Verily, it takes quite a lot of people to make a
world.
* * * *
Caldwell, S. Australian M.P., who has
been drying his bones in the Vic. mallee country,
tells of the woes of the minister of religion down
there. “I took tea with the poor fellow last Sun-
day afternoon, after he had held forth to a bush
congregation with a fly in his throat, prior to his
starting for his third (or fourth) service, at a place
15 miles away. He told me that four of his
churches yielded an income of only £2 during six
months.” Wonder he didn’t swallow the fly.
Verdict of Westralian
coroner’s jury: “We find that
deceased was killed accident-
ally, but desire to add as a
rider that, in our opinion,
steps should be taken to mini-
mise such fatalities, which we
regard as a menace to life and
limb.”
* * *
Brief extract from ac-
cused’s evidence in a recent
Bathurst sheep-stealing case :
I put the skins (produced) in
my wife’s bedroom, because I had
nowhere else to put them. I had
no other place to keen the car-
cases, and had to put them in the
girls’ bedroom.
» * *
Be “Sydney sixpen-
ces,” a cheap doss-house, in
Castlereagh-street, displays as
a sign a coffin-shaped frame
covered with calico, on which
is painted, “Good Beds, fid.”
At night, when a light is
placed inside the coffin, the
arrangement is a startler. The
“last long sleep ” for fid. !
* * ♦
According to a paper
read at the Librarians’ Con-
ference in Sydney, Victoria
has three times as many lib-
rary readers as N.S.W.'
* » *
Much squabbling in Ade-
laide over the site of a new
cemetery. West Terrace,
which for 50 years has been
the city necropolis, is over-
loaded, and Govt, recently
laid out a new site at Salis-
bury, 20 miles from Adelaide,
and made expensive prepara-
tions, but so far it has been
boycotted by corpses. Up to
now, Adelaide has no crema-
torium.
A recent Melbourne Age obituary—the
largest thing of its kind this year :
CAREY.—In sad and loving remembrance of Michael
Augustine Carey, who was killed on Matlock-road, Wood’s
Point, 31st August, 1897, by being thrown and dragged
by a shying horse, the dearly beloved son of Michael and
Kate Carey, and grandson of the late Jeremiah Kirby,
Esq., of Cahir Prison, county Tipperary, Ireland, and
Mountjoy female convict prison, Dublin, and grand
nephew of Sergeant John Kirby, Dunbar-street, Cork city,
and of Michael Ward Smythe,' medical doctor and secre-
tary to the Papal Brigade, of 117 Drummond-street,
Euston-square, East London ; nephew of the late Mr.
John Kirby, Dublin and Broadstone Railway Depart-
ment ; and of Mr. Jeremiah Kirby, Sydney ; and of Mrs.
Cremar, Brunswick, Melbourne ; and cousin of the late
Daniel O’Sullivan, Esq., Commissioner of National Edu-
cation, Kingstown, county Dublin, Ireland ; and of the
late Miss Ellen O’Sullivan, R. Catholic teacher, Kangaroo
Flat, Bendigo, aged 19 years 11 months 3 weeks and 3
days.
Ex-Attorney General Homburg (S.A.) as-
serts that there will be no true Law Reform until
power is given to restrict the fees of counsel, who,
he asserts, are responsible for all the delays and
most of the expense of legal actions. He wants
the Judge to be given greater power, and he asks
that barristers should all be made to disgorge
when their fees are exorbitant. “I guess you
won’t go as far as I’m prepared to in this direc-
tion,” answered Kingston, who has the Law
Reform Bill in hand.
* * * *
The recent tragic sequel to the celebrated
Lang worthy affair marks a curious possibility in
revulsion of feeling. Langworthy, who, the other
day, suicided out of grief, it is supposed, at the
sudden death of his wife, was the immensely rich
man who, about 10 years ago, after going through
an invalid marriage-ceremony with the lady, cast
her off with every indication of repugnance, and
was compelled, after protracted litigation, to pay
her £20,000 damages for breach of promise. The
complete reconciliation which seems to have fol-
lowed suggests that, although a more extended
acquaintance often serves merely to accentuate the
incompatibilities of a couple, it might sometimes
work in the reverse direction, so that those who
come to snarl might remain to worship.
* * » *
The term, “The Six Families,” used to
designate Westralian naicest, was first used by
William Horgan, one of Groperland’s oldest law-
yers still above ground.
MAKING BRICKS WITHOUT STRAW.
CUT-MEASURE MISTRESS: “We don’t much like your cooking,
Bridget. Do you think you would he able to manage better
if I were to get you a cookery-book? ”
BRIDGET: “No, Mum—but I might if you would get me some
more ingraydients. ”
What is the value of a woman compared
with (say) a tin of baking-powder? A Karori
(M.L.) butcher was convicted lately of having
stripped his wife naked and then scraped her body
with his nails for an hour or two —-except when he
stopped to flog her and other variations. The
medical evidence corroborated the woman’s story,
and described her as one horrid mass of wounds
and raw flesh ; and the butcher-fiend simplified
matters by pleading guilty. As a further aggra-
vation, it was attested that the wife had been
compelled to leave her husband 17 times by reason
of his cruelty. Then the Court was very cross
indeed, and sent the butcher-person to gaol
for six months. He didn’t get committed for
trial, and receive seven years from a calmly judi-
cial judge ; he got exactly six months. Yet if he
had stolen a leg of mutton, and it was proved to
the court’s satisfaction that he had stolen 17 pre-
vious legs of mutton, he probably would have got
seven years without the slightest difficulty. There
is a strange streak of brutish insensibility to
suffering in the law of every English-speaking
country and in every English-speaking com-
munity—unless the suffering happens in China or
Cuba.
* « * *
So great is the exodus from the West that
for months past it has been next to impossible to
get a passage from Adelaide to Melbourne or
Sydney by steamer, all the boats being crowded
with people returning from Westralia. The s.s.
co.’s offices are besieged with holders of return-
tickets desirous of getting away from the Holy
City, but they frequently have to take train back
and fight out the matter of monetary recompense
with the busy companies afterwards.
“ C.F.” : Be Japs drinking (8., 15/10/’9B).
Have had many years’ experience of Japs, in their
own country and elsewhere. In Japan,
the men drink “saki,” and else-
where very few drink to excess, while
the women hardly drink at all.
Have never seen a Japanese woman
touch anything stronger than tea,
though I have seen men try hard to
persuade them. The Jap Tottie is all
over the Far East, and, despite Japan-
ese legislation and repression outside,
she continues to spread. Her vogue
I attribute chiefly to her abstention
from grog, and consequent quietness
and respectability—if Tottiedom can
be respectable.
‘‘ A blue or red mark along-
side this paragraph indicates that
your subscription is due.” Over a score
of papers, passing through N.S.W. post-
office, communicate with their readers in
that way every week. Officialdom has
been considering whether this is not a breach of
the postal regulations, and it is expected that
action will soon take place.
» * * »
Rough on the two lads who recently stow-
awayed in order to see the Melb. Cup, to be
hauled out and made to work, and, after all,
handed over to the police. To sling slush and toy
with the tar-bucket is the usual prerogative of
the unauthorised traveller whom the captain
means to shoot with a parting kick on to the wharf
to go about his business. But if this isn’t the
skipper’s intention, he has no right to anticipate
the legal penalty. When you lock Burglar Bill
in the pantry and rush off for a policeman, you
don’t expect 8.8. to while away the time shelling
peas or polishing the silver.
* * * *
A Kalgoorlie (W.A.) man who was out on
bail, and wanted to drop the painful subject,
nearly got away by train disguised as a woman.
Another passenger was gradually fascinated by
the spread he made with his big feet and by his
short hair ; being of an interfering turn lie called
an official’s attention to him, and “ Martha Reid ”
was dragged out by the skirt at Coolgardie
station. But if he had had sense enough to pin
on a tail of artificial hair and to keep his feet
under the seat all might have been well. It is a
curious illustration of the obtuseness of people in
general that though a man, as a rule, sees a
woman oftener than he does any other strange or
foreign object, in 99 cases out of 100 he has never
noticed how she is constructed, and couldn’t make
a reasonable copy of her to save his life. No
woman with big feet ever spreads them out at an
obtuse angle in a railway-carriage.
* * * •
“Melb.” women in boot shops now fib
the gentlemen customers.
Concerning a much-canvassed recent N.S. W.
public service appointment:—
Editor Bulletin. —The invidious appointment of Mr.
Hayes-Williams to the position of N.S.W. Registrar
General is but another instance of the absurdity of sup-
posing that the immaculate and unbiassed Public Service
Board dispenses its patronage altogether minus external
influence. As I am neither a solicitor nor a public ser-
vant, any remarks I rise to make hereon are not made in
envy. The P.S.B. was unable —and cheerfully acknow-
ledged its inability—to make a proper selection itself, and
had to delegate its “ power of appointment ” to a com-
mittee culled from the Devil’s own. Or, as the P.S.B.
puts it, “so that the appointment might meet with
general approval, the advice of the leading solicitors was
sought.” And so the P.S.B. is going to say who are
“ the leading solicitors ” of Sydney! Like its gall ! It
was admitted by Premier Reid that one of these “ leading
solicitors” was brother-in-law to the double-barrelled-
named appointee, but he declined to disclose the rest of
this P.S.B. brand of lawyer, possibly for fear of any of
them turning out to be uncles or brothers of the fortunate
Mr. Hayes-Williams. In fact, to pick out this handful of
lawyers, who might or might not all have been related,
and call them “ the leading solicitors” of Sydney, allow
them to appoint a Registrar-General and then call it the
profession’s selection, is simply egregious cheek. It is,
also, a barefaced performance placing an outsider (whose
admission as a solicitor dates but a few years back) over
the heads of capable men who have been many years in
the department; men who were very likely expert at
their work long before the man appointed to rule their
dept, had begun his legal career. And as to Mr. Hayes-
Williams being the best conveyancer in Sydney (that’s
what is practically alleged) several very widely-known
practitioners whom I have heard express themselves on
that point had hardly heard of the new Registrar-
General at all. In re'the repugnance of other men in the
department to the billet, such an allegation is, of course,
twaddle on the very face of it. If any employer should
ever wish to gild me to the extent of £lOOO a year I
shan’t be over-particular what my predecessor left the
position for. I shall be as ready for it as a stranger—my
oath ! Anyhow, the next time the P.S.B. deems it ex-
pedient to appoint a select-committee to find a man
for an important public office, I suggest that in common
decency the committee’s relatives be barred.
S.C.C.
THEN SHE SMELT ONE.
MURIEL: “ You object awfully to rats, don't you,
mother?”
“Well, yes, dear; I suppose I”-
MURIEL: “ I thought so; 'cause I heard pa telling
Miss Rapid that they'd have to be careful not
to let you smell a rat!”
“ Miss Jennie Armitage, of Franklin Park,
near New Brunswick, saw a tramp, to whom she
had given food, coolly mount her bicycle and ride
off. She ran to the stable. The only animal there
was a steer. She leaped on his back and belabored
him with a stick until he broke into a lumbering
gallop after the thief. The tramp abandoned the
wheel and took to the woods. Miss Armitage
recovered her property.” —New York Journal.
That this story is perfectly feasible is shown by
Frank Mahony, in his series of sketches, “Mr.
Bowser’s Buliock Comet,” in The Bulletin’s
forthcoming Xmas number, which glittering pub-
lication comes out Dec. 8, and is the best and
cheapest typically-Australian reminder for trans-
mission to absent friends. Posted from Bulletin
office to any English or foreign address for Bd.
stamps. • ,
“BATS!”
In days of old ’twas “ All my eye ! ”
Or “Fudge ! ” when flippant talker
Commented on a seeming lie ;
Anon the term was “ Walker ! ”
They served a-while, and passed away ;
Their salted sense lost savor ;
Men wanted something new to say—
And “ Rats!” came into favor.
Best term of all: it breathes disgust,
Contempt, or kindly scorning,
Or nothing more than cold distrust —•
’Tis e’en a note of warning.
A mighty force in modern slang,
“ Rats ! ” crushes the romancer
Whose blatant screed or vain harangue
Deserves no other answer.
Requiescat in pace.
Little we thought when on that horse he rode by
That in a few hours on Matlock’s bleak road our darling
would die.
In the snow and the cold his poor mangled body would
lay,
While his dear life and his life’s blood was ebbing away.
Sad was that day when our darling took up the reins,
And rode on that horse that with his life’s blood is stained.
We will go to his grave now as his dear spirit has fled,
And amongst the green sods he is lain with the dead.
And the heart that once loved us is mouldering to clay,
And the worms of the graveyard are gnawing it away.
We will go to your grave, darling, and offer a prayer
For the soul of that poor body that lay mouldering there;
And we will think of your mild looks and kind words not
a few
The last time we parted were spoken by you.
—lnserted by his loving father and mother, sisters and
brothers, M.C., K.C., M.C., N.C., K.C., L.C., A.C., J.C.,
G. Carey, Wood’s Point.


Tired Swollen Feet!
How many people suffer from Tired
Swollen Feet all through the long ex-
hausting Summer 1
The remedy is in wear-
ing a pair of
Callaghan Summer mm
Try
a pair
NOW.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-streefc, Sydney.
They are all made with
leathers through which
the feet can breathe.
Leather is leather, but
not always Callaghan
leather; and you will
never fully realise what
foot comfort is until
you have worn a pair of
Callaghan Boots.
“UNDER THE RED ROBE.”
The magnificent costumes worn by Miss Ada
Eerrar and Mrs. Maesmore Morris in “Under the
Red Robe,” were made at the establishment of
Messrs. Stainer and Co., Svvanston-street, Mel-
bourne, the renowned costumiers.
All Drapers Everywhere.
KOBE TEIS
have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
t-, ~ Sydney, November 8, 1898.
My Dear Myee—
Sydney has continued to sleep o’ nights all this
week, and, as far as that portion of society goes
that gets its tea-drinking and
pr f", fc ’ a B Teat P eac e reigns. In the mearf-
t me, while the society cats and kittens are taking
their last delirious laps from the Carnival Cup, all
sorts of little people from nowhere at all have been
junketing round and having no end of a good time
in their own particular way. I went to Manly on
moonlight trip the other night—by the way,
on t you think it very kind of the ferry people to
a vertise these trips as moonlight excursions and
choose nights when Diana isn’t looking ?
It was a hot, hushed kind of night, no stars, no
m °?”> ° n y. 6 hghts of one’s own jolly steamer,
u 6 P assin " green and ruby gleams from work-
aday boats pretending to be out on their own little
restive. The people began to gather long before
the boat started, and only the indifference begotten
P* u ch broiling and a final bake reconciled a
timid being to sail with such a freight. It isn’t a
nice thing to be maudlin, I feel sure, but at the
risk of it I confess that the sight of that swarm of
men, women, and “ worrits, ” listening entranced
to a cracked-voice warbling, “Told in the twilight,
oh my darling,” and turning their washed-out
laces to the breeze, touched a chord somewhere,
horribl 611 e J a ded piano missed one
We all sat up on the top of the boat very close
together, and the music came and went at inter-
vals, and the sacred, solemn silence which that
cr ?wded boat-load of babies and sweethearts and
middle-aged people with the gilt worn off their
sun, bestowed on the fitful concert, puts every
other audience I’ve ever known to shame. The
concert wasn’t altogether free, either—l suppose
you know it s fin de siecle to make a fuss over free
omy—for everybody round me put pennies
a s d i. i s , lnto the cracked voice’s hat with un-
affected cheerfulness. After the collection I
noticed the song was “Non e Ver,” and indeed
the voluntary penny and the sixpenny return-fare
the total outlay for the joyful evening. Down
at Manly a big brass band was making music, and
it you didn t want the worry of losing a few flounces
on the plank you could sit still at the boat’s head
and listen to operatic favorites from the shore.
INot the sort of favorites that set going such
agitating dialogues as, “What’s that? Know it
so well “Sodo I, but—oh, what is it ? ” “ It’s,
its oh, but I do know it so well.” These airs
were as unmistakeable as “Home, Sweet Home,”
and suited everybody. Altogether, nothing nicer
could be imagined, and I heard one seamy little
woman telling another “How she never slep all
the summer for want of hair,” and can believe that
many of the people like hair and the briny and the
beautiful, although there’s a Prejudice against
such a belief.
Winch recalls a touching little ad. I saw in one
or the dailies : “ Wanted a room ; must be within
sight of a green tree. ”
Coogee also is entering into the fun of things,
and the Railway Commissioners are letting people
ride out there at the usual rate when the moon is
U P- No. I hat doesn’t sound right, and generous,
and benevolent, and all that. I mean, they have
announced their intention of getting the masses
out on the cliffs, and have arranged with an un-
usually intelligent band to make music beside the
breakers ; and, although many people think that
the return-fare, which is now Bd., might be 6d., it
isn’t an uncommon style of thought, and the Com-
missioners have not been smitten by it so far.
Crowds of people find their way out, however, and
even sealed and silly things like oysters might
notice the Australian’s general feeling for anything
like music.
Here I’d like to air a thought that is probably as
much anyone else’s as my own. When you look
round at the dome of the world in the dark, or
the half-dark, with _ trees in shadow, and stars
showing pale festhetie lights, and perhaps the sea
m the foreground, or perhaps a park in the city, or
even a suburban grass-plot where all the washing
can t hang out at once, you can realise the sort of
setting Nature meant for music. Yet to hear good
music we all sit together on Austrian chairs with
backs like officers from the same country, a gas
glare in the eyes, fans fidgetting till the hot air is
hotter by several degrees, hundreds of people
jammed up against you, and a horrible, barbarous
sound of clapping smashing to pieces every beau-
tiful musical thought. This seems to be the best
civilisation can do for people who love music. Yet
m this city of summer nights it would be the
easiest thing in the world to have one’s music in
the open air. Even if there’s a wind, what
matter ? Wagner and wind are a more natural
union than Wagner and fans and chocolate creams
and gas-glare and stiff chairs. And who wouldn’t
like to hear the Appassionata or the Waldstein in
the dusk with the trees moaning quietly in the
background ?
Things were worse than ever at the last arehi-
episcopal garden-party. Despite the oppressive
heat the worn-out curates of the Primate’s flock
and their weary wives were not permitted to take
refuge in the cool verandahs before the vice-regal
party arrived. Moreover, when the sultriness gave
place to a smart shower of rain, and another more
determined rush was made for cover, all but about
30 of the Very Elect were debarred from going in-
side for fear of crowding the passage for Lady
Hampden and co. As the distinguished visitors
did not arrive until 4.30 and the curates
turned up at 3 o’clock, the latter have come to the
conclusion that rather than go through another
hour and a half of such discomfort they would —
will any layman please oblige with a fitting con-
clusion ?
Rc Mr. Mitchell’s splendid and much-talked-of
bequest to N.S. Wales, there are stories told of
great people who sought to quiz his library, and
were much surprised to receive a polite refusal.
Among others. Robert Louis Stevenson travelled
out on his card one day, and sent in a message
that R.L.S. had come to see this great collection.
But he went away without seeing it, in spite of
the R.L.S. The only privileged beings are
genuine students in search of information, and for
them Mr. Mitchell, who is acquainted with the in-
side as well as the outside of his books, goes to no
end of trouble. Apropos, a certain Sydney
woman-writer drew her first pen-money from this
generous source. She was a school-girl in those
days, and edited a little journal written on fool-
scap and passed round her class for a penny a
read. After the paper ceased to be the complete
edition of these slips was lent to a friend who
showed them to Mr. Mitchell, and one day the
school-girl was knocked over by the news that a
book-fancier would pay her so many guineas if she
would part with her scrip.
All these years Mr. Mitchell has been N.S.W.
Public Library’s biggest rival. The Library’s
finances being limited exceedingly, he could
always buy rare books over its head, and unkempt
people with literary curios would flounce away
from the head librarian’s room with the threat,
“We’ll take it to Mr. Mitchell!” This is all
changed now, as the Library and Mr. M. are
practically working for the same end.
But why, oh why, doesn’t somebody arise and
play arson with that scandalous book-shed yclept
the Public Lending Library ! Even the remotest
little galvanised country town wouldn’t stand such
a building as this. The new3paper-room is rotting
to pieces, live-stock gambol about the woodwork
of the stairs and counters, and the sickly, debili-
tating atmosphere is enough to make even the
long-haired poets, who found exaltation in diseases,
squirm on their shelves.
Of course the city is full of Cup yarns this week,
and I’ve already heard of three drapery shops
whose milliners have won enormous fortunes.
The story starts in Pitt-street Hordern’s, where a
poor little workgirl received a hoaxing telegram to
tell her she had won the big sweep. She fainted
when she got the wire, and one doesn’t like to
dwell on her coming back to consciousness and
poverty.
The decadent days of the Salon rise again at the
memory of that stately lady, the late Madame
Juliette Henri. Even unimaginative people
thought she was like a page out of a Court romance
wherein fine manners are as ordinary as fine
clothes. Last week the members of the Cercle
Frangaise who have rung the changes from Avez-
vous-vu to De Musset under Madame Henri’s
guidance, put up a monument in Waverley ceme-
tery, to keep green a memory that will not soon
fade away from this city. Mr. B. R. Wise spoke
eloquently at the grave, and many people found
their way out to the ceremony.
A C. of E. cleric seems to have sethis colleagues
by the ears by performing the marriage ceremony
at a recent fashionable wedding elsewhere than in
the sanctuary. Also, it is averred that the rev.
gentleman contravened the rubric by omitting
certain telling portions of the service.
The frocking of the d.c. that welcomed Maggie
Moore back to the Theatre Royal on Saturday night
was a sort of larky gambol with fashion’s cast-off
odds and ends. F’rinstance, I counted no less than
five pairs of shoulder-straps supporting run-away
dresses with bits of red velvet and green satin in
memory of the year before last. The stage frocks
didn’t rise above pink nun’s veiling, and blue
brocade and wide lace put on thick. Re which,
wide lace that isn’t a skirt wide is as dead
as ? n .ly a frippery can be. To keep these little
oddities in countenance, Maggie Moore sported a
sea-green gown under a white lace cover. I didn’t
think this was exactly improved by the lines of
black velvet that emphasised the undulating
country underneath, but nobody cared, and if
Maggie had been as slim as a hickory-tree she
couldn’t have had a hotter or more flowery wel-
come.
Pattie Browne finished up her season at the same
theatre the night before, with that sickly young
person, Sweet Nancy. A lovely blue silk tea-
fown with cobweb yoke was as fresh as ever, but
didn’t notice that the sun-bonnet suited Pattie
any better than of yore. Inez Bensusan was a
chic study, in cream and cherry, as the naughty
lady whose husband “ was away.” A plumy black
hat shadowed her delectable dress of yellow silk
with touches of cherry velvet at the neck and
waist. Miss Juno put a new heliotrope vest into
her dowdy black, and May Brown’s ten-year-old
legs utterly repudiated the idea that this infantile-
looking little person is Mrs. Somebody or other in
real life.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Brilliant Cup costumes are not monopolised
by the sex. A couple of Cingalese amused race-
goers on Saturday morning by parading Bourke-
street in loose white cotton continuations, sur-
mounted by flowing white skirts down to the
knees; above they wore little mauve jackets some-
what like the ex-fashionable bolero, and white
caps, gold-laced; the whole set off by blue sashes
tied round the waist with long streamers flowing
in the breeze. If the men dress that way in their
country what gaudy pictures the women must be.
“Old race-goers may say what they like, but I
don’t believe there was ever a dressier Cup than
that of 1898. Clothes enthusiasts mentally fell
down and worshipped one delectable toilette after
another till they became blase and found fault
with the omnipresence of Honiton lace applique.
The modes of the moment, what with trimmed
skirts, cobwebby embellishments and ornate hats,
are best described by such adjectives as ‘elegant,’
‘elaborate,’ ‘expensive.’ Last year ‘dainty,’
‘ fresh ’ and ‘ fluffy, ’ were strong-enough terms for
the fussy muslins and chiffon sashes of that period.
“It’s not the fault of the vice-regal fashion-
leaders that we’re all mad on net butterflies and
lace-y lovers’ knots, though come to think of it,
the latter sentimental device in steel and jet
sequins did sprinkle the bodice of Lady Brassey’s
Cup gown—a plainish princess robe of black moir4
antique. Other adornments were creased fichu
handkerchief of creamy old lace, pleated chemi-
sette of pink chiffon, and one of her ladyship’s
little wretches of pink toques. So far, female
amateur detectives have not solved the mystery of
Her Ex.’s unfailing supply of rose-colored mil-
linery. Does she buy the pink ’uns wholesale?
Or did ‘ Himself ’ advance money to a blue-blooded
modiste, who during the pink boom invested not
wisely but too well m the epidemic color, with the
result that the unsold surplus fell into the hands of
the mortgagee ?
“Anyhow, the sample unearthed for Grafter’s Cup
had rosebuds and forget-me-nots sprouting out of
a torn-down little grass plot. At the same
function Governors Brassey and Hampden affected
shepherd’s-plaid pants and sad check ties. If the
tartan mania continues to influence them, they’ll
be converted to kilts before they’re done. Button-
hole bouquets are not epidemic at present, but the
few specimens visible in the vice-regal pen and
elsewhere were either cornflowers or else small red
blossoms. Miss Daisy Madden’s short sunburnt
fiance paraded a posy of the latter description.
Scarlet is emblematic of Love’s passion, so says
that theatrical star who puts on a paler gown in
each scene of her stormy stage-married life to help
her to express the gradual cooling-down from the
ardor of Love’s young dream to the frigidity of
threadbare conjugal affection. Miss Madden her-
self wore her bridesmaid’s frock of maize silk and
chiffon, dozens of tiny lisse flounces running down
hill from back to front under the ‘ apron ’ skirt,
while masses of similar fairy frills trimmed bodice-
yoke and sleeve-tops. Pretty sister Ruby’s pea-
green gown of identical design seemed over-gay in
hue for the wearer’s complexion that stifling day.
‘ ‘ Most of the vice-regal group lost their ‘ little
bit’ on Massinissa. In consequence, his Westra-
lian Ex. bowed his hoary locks on his breast till
constituents or vice-subjects, or whatever you call
them, over here for the races were prevented from
admiring their Pro-consul’s Paisley-mixture tie.
The shawl-pattern cravat seems the newest thing
in male chiffons. Gov. Smith’s sample was greeny,
but the prettiest are dominated by a powder-pink
background. Re speculation: Aide Neville, at
the last moment, escorted a squad of senior lady
visitors out of the V.R. pen to back, for the final
time, their respective fancies for the Cup. After
the event, the party returned with limp upper-
lips, poorer by a joint-stock £3 loss for their belated
burst of gambling-fever. Their cicerone, marching
manfully ahead, broke the news to the serious
gubernatorial fogies, awaiting the return of their
women-folk. His tidings met with no response
beyond a chorus of unmirthful snorts, led off by—
can’t you guess ?
“Lady Lamington, apparently, didn’t madly
enjoy the races. Still blue-eyed and slender as
of yore, Bananaland heat has wilted out most of
her color and ‘go,’ and, like the majority of
Northerners, her coiffure falls short of elaborate
Victorian ideals. Her frock of black gauze over
white silk was over-run as to the bodice with
ruched ivory lisse and yellowish lace. She further
affected the omnipresent necklet of large creamy
pearls, and a button-hole spray of lily of the
valley, while her black-and-white toque had a
crown of recumbent ostrich plumes.
“Oh these men ! But they’ve got their own
troubles, if that’s any consolation ! If the Banana-
land Governor takes after his pa it must be per-
fectly horrid for him to live in a climate where
washing-garments never go into winter quarters,
and home wouldn’t be half so homely without a
laden clothes-line blocking up the back-yard.
Lamington, senior, in his day and generation, had
such an objection to sight, sound, scent or even
suggestion of laundry operations that he erected a
central depot in his Scotch village where, on cer-
tain days, his tenants were compelled to assemble
themselves together and do what had to be done
with soap-suds in decent retirement.
“ The prize Cup toilette, so men think, was
achieved by a tall blonde Sydney belle. Its rich
pink silk skirt, strewn with filmy devices of creamy
lace, widened into a deep graduated flounce of
darker pink, lavishly embellished with raised pink
filoselle embroidery and lace applique. A long
frilled black lisse sash, hat-plumes varying from
pale pink to decided rose, and a ruffled chiffon
parasol of blushful hue, completed an impressive
costume.
“ Lady Hampden’s black lisse veiled white silk,
and Sydney people seemed pleased (so they ought)
with her long ear-rings and becoming bonnet of
white wings, black bows and realistic rose-buds.
Daughter Dorothy’s green and white muslin blend
calls for no remark except that Its wearer had
a cheerful time in the society of that jovial
Paddy, Captain Haigh of the Inniskillen dragoons,
at present Westralian attache. This same broth
of a bhoy put a pinch of spectacular spice into the
otherwise tame-cat vice-regal tableau. A-lump of
a lad to begin with, other characteristics are a fat,
flushed face, curly hair, impudent nose, and white
hat cocked askew. Besides looking like ‘ Paddy
Whack who comes from Tipperary O,’ Gov.
Smith’s military minion has annexed something of
the old gold-fields swagger, the ‘Roaring Camp’
air, the ‘ Man that shot Sandy M‘Ghee ’ cut. He’s
a doughty polo-champion, too, having helped to
win the last two cups for the Inniskillings at Hur-
lingham and the Open Cup in Ireland, and would
have shown the Camperdown players goodness-
knows-what at Moonee Valley t’other day, if only
he’d brought over his own ponies from Westhralia,
begorra. Local equine pigmies, it seems, can’t
go fast enough with his weight up, and
small blame to them. Outsiders surmise that,
at the outset, attache Haigh must have
been imported expressly to liven up the dull-
ness of t’otherside vice - regal entertainments.
All Derby Day he was helping his Chief’s
disabled daughter up and down the steps at
Flemington. Strange to say. Miss Kenned, y
daughter of a former Westralian Governor, was
also incurably lamed, through stepping on
a scythe in the garden at Govt. House, Perth.
Miss Smith, for the benefit of those who haven’t
seen her, is a nice-looking girl enough with a very
prominent nose. On Cup Day she seemed cool in
yellow and white, while her frugally-minded
mother brought along a cloak to preserve her own
plumage from dust in the vice-regal coop. At the
Derby, it seems, the unsuspecting dowager annexed
goodness knows how much smirch in that whited
sepulchre.
“Beforehand, a huge boom in chiffon sunshades
was foretold for Cup-time, and shop-windows were
full of fluffy specimens that close inside-out
for the preservation of their elaborate linings.
However, when the time came nearly all the
“ naicest ” carried dainty silk ordinary-shaped
parasols of every imaginable shade, pure white and
resurrected magenta being as popular as any.
“Mrs. G-eo. Chirnside showed up tall, fair, and
graceful as ever in white silk banded with black,
black sash knotted carelessly at the side, and red
straw hat turned sheer up in front with trimmings
of cerise and pink. Her parasol was red, by the
way, and, as a rule, filtered a becoming flush
through.
“ Several fine women of the ‘ big ’ Vic. sporting
families were mounted in all sorts of high places,
as usual, inspecting the field. After all, what’s
the use of wearing Parisian shoe-leather and
cobwebby hose, not to speak of sensational under-
skirts, if you’re frightened to do a bit of climbing
when so inclined ? At balls and sich the Naicest
never hesitate to catch up their draperies knee-
high, to put it mildly, in the storm and stress of
the ‘gee-gee ’ cotillion figure, say, or those out-of-
date kitchen lancers.
“Mrs. Everard Browne in an exquisite blend of
pink silk, ivory lisse and fine black Tuscan hat
and feathers was in rare glee, like all her clique, over
Domino’s steeplechase win. Nothing could have
been daintier than Miss Mary Clarke’s pale blue
silk with white fixings and turquoise toque, its
three upstanding ruches edged with forget-me-nots.
“For love or money, I can’t find out the name
of the wearer of the most beforehand gown on the
grounds. She deserves credit, whoever she is, for
pioneering coming fashions instead of hanging
back with the ruck of dumb-driven women cattle.
Bodice and skirt of white silk, brocaded with
pink. Over these a sort of polonaise, consisting of
three-tiered overskirt and zouave of corn-flower
blue.
“Chinamen, as usual, treated their charmers to
the Grand Stand, and got the cold shoulder as
soon as the ladies found themselves safely landed.
Colored gentlemen too, came with their Dinahs,
but met with more gratitude. Woolly heads are
popular with the fair sex, somehow.
“ One poor fellow (white) was palpably thread-
bare, and wore the mingiest little fur cap all
through the heat. His companion’s gold grena-
dine over purple silk and jewelled belt were quite
barbaric in splendor. A frightfully fat woman
snorted and puffed like a steam-engine in scarlet
glace silk and hat heaped up and brimming over
with poppies.
“At present fashionables wear tiny gold crosses
jingling on their neck-chains in company with
single pearls and scraps of pink coral. At her
mother’s concert t’other night Mrs. Gilbert Wilson
had a large, plain gold cross brooch-wise on the
left side of her corsage. It looks as if the Sign of
the Cross were once more to be in the running as
an ornament.
“ I only counted two pairs of long ear-pendants
on Cup Day, but Lady Smith (W.A.) sported
those funny little gold sleepers, formerly relegated
to small girls.
“ Talking of hot-looking clothes, a pair of in-
fatuated sisters paraded through all the swelter
and glare in thick grey-tweed tailor suits, scarlet
vests and parasols. Going home their poor faces
looked warm enough to frizzle eggs on.
“ Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Webb left Melbourne on
Wednesday after seeing the Melb. Cup. It was
only the third racecourse Mr. W. had been on in his
life, so he was a good subject to be impressed by
Elemington. They investigated the working of
the crack racecourse much as though it had been a
factory. Probably Byron Moore has never had
new-chum visitors who asked so many questions
about it. But the all-absorbing point of interest
for the Webbs in Victoria has not been the big
racecourse, nor the mighty minds of the politicians
they have met, nor the lavishness of the hospi-
tality, but—the wages board established under the
Peacock Factory Act. They investigated the
working of all the boards thoroughly, and in what-
ever they write about Australia will almost cer-
tainly say that this experiment is the most in-
teresting and important they have seen, and one
in which English trades can be advised to follow
in Victorian footsteps.
“Mr. and Mrs. Webb commingled with all
sorts and conditions of men in Melbourne—
with Trades Unionists and Employers’ Unionists,
May ors, politicians, workpeople, &e. ; and, in fact,
with anybody from whom they could get informa-
They were the guests of Mayor M ‘Eacharn,
at his Balaclava mansion, and chummed with
Fitz Gibbon and other magnates. The few—out-
side official persons—who met the joint authoress
of ‘ Industrial Democracy ’ were charmed with her.
‘ Brilliant and delightful ’ is Alfred Deakin’s de-
scription.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SJjQTCTi
three castles
CIGARETTES.
PEOPLE YOU KNOW.
No. 2.—The Postman.
A rural postman writes : “I desire to add this
unsolicited testimony to the sterling qualities of
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa. lam a rural postman, and
exposed to all kinds of weather. I have used Dr.
Tibbies’ Vi-Coeoa daily this last eleven months,
and I believe that I can do my work with less
fatigue since I have used it. I can honestly re-
commend to my fellow-postmen Dr. Tibbies’” Vi-
Cocoa for its sustaining qualities.”
Of late years many new manufactures, rejoicing
in a multiplicity of names, have been brought
before the public notice, but there are none which
have bounded into favor so readily as has Dr.
Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa. Throughout the country its
sales have increased with great rapidity, and an
article which only a few years back was unheard
of has now become one of the most popular
beverages of the people.
Merit, and merit alone, is what is claimed for
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and the Proprietors are
prepared to send to any person who names The
Bulletin (a post-card will do) a dainty sample-tin
of Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa free and post-paid. There
is no magic in all this. It is a plain, honest,
straightforward offer. It is done to introduce the
merits of Vi-Cocoa into every home. Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, as a concentrated form of nourishment
and vitality, is invaluable ; nay, more than this,
for to all who wish to face the strife and battle of
life with greater endurance and more sustained
exertion, it is absolutely indispensable.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
Chemists, Croeers, and Stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-st., Sydney.
Tlae iPamous French
Chocolate.
tIIGICIT NEIIEI
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
W. M. Cameron & Co.,
249 George-st., Sydney
PERSONAL ITEMS.
What an eloquent man was Judge Win-
deyer ! People used literally to hang on his words.
Tommy Dodd, of Active Service Brigade
fame, is now secretary of that most respectable
institution, Sydney School of Arts debating club.
At Perth (W.A.), a few days ago, a man
got three months for forging a cheque to buy a
pistol to shoot himself with. He didn’t shoot
himself when he got the pistol—hence the trouble.
The Australian-born nephews of one of
England’s most distinguished statesmen are seldom
out of N.S.W. gaols. Their chief occupations,
when at liberty, are avoiding the police and not
avoiding stock stealing.
John Forrest, Westralia’s doughty Pre-
mier, will, on account of being in the Govern-
ment before the advent of responsible rule (i.e.,
as a quasi-imperial official), be entitled, if he
lapse from paid politics, to a life-pension of <£soo
per year.
Police-Magistrate Ranking, to be trans-
ferred from Rockhampton to Brisbane as second
P.M., is brother of Montgomery Ranking, who
some 20 years ago figured largely in London as a.
promising minor poet. P.M. Ranking was identi-
fied with the Barcoo in its very early days.
London Times, in a long review of Louis
Becke’s “ Rodman the Boat-Steerer ”: “ All the
scenes are fresh with real experience, and four or
five of them nearly reach the very high standard
which the greatest writers of short stories have
raised.” Which goes to confirm The Bulletin’s
earliest judgment concerning Becke.
The grossest libel yet committed on John
Norton was that uttered by the Mayor of Sydney
at Melbourne
He had to acknowledge that the Sydney Council had
not been of late so harmonious a body as one would wish
to preside over, but he attributed the squabble to one
gentleman, who, however, had now quietened down.
Think of it! John Norton quietened down !
“G. 8.” : Incorrect that the late P. A. C.
O’Earrell, crank solicitor (Melb.), once owned
much land in and around the city. It was
O’Farrell’s father who was rich in land, and who
devised same to the Church. Another Crotty
biz. Whicli made the sons madder than Nature
had designed them, and fashioned them into
Ishmaels.
CONTRADICTORY.—A STREET SKETCH.
Tas. Premier Braddon gets no salary. It
is customary in Tasmania for a man to take the
Premiership without pay, and not go back to his
constituents for re-election. That is what Braddon
did because of the shakiness of his seat at West
Devon. But the House sometimes gives him a
couple of hundreds for “ travelling expenses,” as he
lives up North. The other day, when the Esti-
mates were before the House, an attempt was
made to raise certain civil service screws. “ Why,”
said the Premier, “ some of these men have more
salary than Ministers of the Crown. This man has
-£6OO a-year more than I get! ”
The “eminent N.S.W. Labor-legislator
and journalist,” who lately lost his Parliamentary
billet and pickings, and thereupon took the job of
running a “ solidarity ” sheet out back, has begun
his quarrels with the local Labor panjandrums.
I he most aggressive and long the most prominent
of the latter is charmingly rocky in his spelling,
and abhors punctuation-marks, and uses capital
letters when the spirit moves, which is generally
at the wrong time. And the quarrel is so bad that
when the Aggressive Panjandrum wrote a snorting
letter of remonstrance, the Eminent Journalist
printed it, mis-spelling, unexpected capitals and
all. Characteristic.
“Kati-K. ” : Ever been
to a meeting of Swedenborgians
or theosophists, Single-taxers
or vegetarians, anarchists or
Social Purists? That’s the
place to learn that there’s some
truth in phrenology. Not a
normal head-outline in the lot.
Of course their eccentricity
may be a sign of superiority,
as is the abnormal character of
the leader in a mob of sheep.
An ordinary jumbuck would no
more think of taking the lead
than a normal man would step
out of the mud-puddles made
by his ancestors’ boots.
When the 2nd battalion
of the 14th Regt.went to Ho-
bart, under command of Col.
Dwyer, Mrs. Pysh called upon
Mrs. Dwyer and sent in her
card. The Colonel’s wife looked
hard at it. “ O’Pish ! ” she
said; “sure, Colonel, there’s
no name—av the quality, any-
way—like that in Oireland ! ”
Well, well,” said the Colonel,
“ this is the anti-podes, me
dear, and they tell me there’s
mighty quare fishes this side av
the worrld.” But when the
visitor explained that the name
was Fysh, and that the “O ”
indicated her husband’s Chris-
tian name, the brow of the
Colonel’s wife cleared some-
what. “There’s a mighty dif-
ference, me dear,” said she,
“ betwixt O’Pish and Pysh, an’
I’m glad to know ye. Is it
sherry or port, or maybe ”
and she winked. Mrs. Pysh
declined refreshment. When
she left, the Colonel’s wife re-
marked, “Well, now, that’s the
firrst fish I ever encountered
that wasn’t thirsty. But, sure,
e s a fish out of wather, poor
crayture. Them rubbishy toi-
tles, Colonel, they do be de-
moralisin’.”
Count Strezlecki, disco-
verer of Gippsland, was a the-
saurus of grim stories. One :
A paralytic millionaire had to
look on while his nurse
gathered all his valuables into
her reticule. Then she kissed
him and said, “ Good-bye, dearest! ”
A certain N.S.W. school inspector was
about to lecture, in a South-Coast town, on “Pope
and His Contemporaries,” and sent on to the local
paper his ad., which produced a par reminding
the intending lecturer that he would have to be
mighty careful what he said about “His Holi-
ness,” as “the audience would consist largely of
the O’Dwyers, Flannigans, and Dooleys.”
The patent conferring Q.C. on B. R. Wise
runs: “We, confiding in your knowledge, experi-
ence, prudence, ability, and integrity, nominate,
constitute, and appoint you to be,” &c. To think
of Reid and Jack Want conspiring to stand
sponsors for Wise’s “experience and prudence,”
after a six months’ bitter denunciation of him as a
gaseous impracticable, without settled convictions
or coherent ideas ! The politician makes a toy of
Truth ; but the politician plus lawyer makes a
drab of her.
AtMelb. Benevolent Asylum there died, the
other day, Agnes Smith, allegedly aged 116 years.
Came out to Hobart Town in 1810—the year Gov.
Collins died. Remembered Davey, Snodgrass,
Foveaux, Paterson, Sorell, Arthur. Came over
to Port Philip in ’36, and had lived in the country
ever since. Once well-off, she had for many years
been a poorhouse inmate. A bright old dame
whose darling reminiscence was that she had
opened the first Sunday-school at Brunswick, near
Melbourne. Start her on that subject and you
were in for a penalty.
Premier Kingston has not yet received a
penny for his legal services in the Harrold Bros,
insolvency-case, now before the Adelaide Court for
18 months, and concerning which he has had
several disputes with the presiding Commissioner.
There is probably not another S.A. barrister who
would do the same thing, but Kingston’s pride as
well as his heart is in the work, and he has pub-
licly announced his intention of seeing the case
through. Yet Harrold is an ex-president of the
National Ass. and was a political opponent of
Kingston when in Parliament.
“Melb.”: P.A.C. O’Farrell undoubtedly
bolted 30 years ago. Yet he returned, and no-
body dared to wag tongue against him—any more.
Curious to note such departures and sudden pops-
up-again. The usual cause of the return is the
death of the one implacable and relentless foe.
X., the broker and ballet-philanthropist, only
went off without notice on a pleasure-excursion,
and didn’t he just put the whipcord into the
Collins-street cacklers when he turned up one
fine morning ! Z., the city-councillor and build-
ing-society man, has never come back, but will
dawn rubicund some day and shake hands with
the Exchange—and himself.
NASTY JAR.
BULLETIN MAN (out for a happy day on the harbor): “I say,
what a colossal liar that man De Rougemont is! ”
BULLETIN SLATEE (with unction) : “ Yes, by thunder, you ought
to have him on your paper!”—(And then the band
played.)
There was published some months ago, in
Queensland, a political brochure, containing an
account of Queensland Parliament. Portraits of
tioo legislators only were given, viz.—Byrnes and
Crombie. The prescience of that pamphleteer !
He seems to have seen Azrael marking out the
pair m the distance.
The phrase, “ The Guard dies, but never
surrenders,” attributed to Gen. Cambronne, was
really the invention of one Rougcmont, a tapageur
of the cafes in Waterloo days. So that the Rouge-
mont of Australia is only a second-hand liar after
all. But he may have adopted the name of his
prototype in an impulse of cynical humor.
Wragge on prayer-for-rain :
But since we cannot in meteorology give mate in three
moves to the Master Weather Man, we look on with
resignation, and endeavor to learn yet more at His
hands, instead of indulging in puerile supplication, which
could be of no more avail than if we asked Him to make
the earth rotate the other way.
The time is clearly at hand when the clergy will
seek to Put Down Wragge aforesaid.
J. H. Finlayson leaves England for Ade-
laide Nov. 8, but it is not yet certain that he will
resume the editorship of the Register on his
arrival, as he is in very bad health. Alex. Suther-
land, of Melbourne, takes his place as Register
London correspondent, but the appointment is
only temporary, and there is talk of acting-editor
Sowden being sent to fill the position.
The most conspicuous and influential
bunch of men in the public life of Queensland
seven or eight years ago were Griffith, MTI-
- Palmer, Morehead, Lilley, Drury, Hart,
Webster and Attorney-General Byrnes. They
were all colored by the Q.N. Bank. Now Byrnes,
Lilley, Palmer and Drury are dead ; MTlwraith
is at the other end of the world; Hart, Webster
and Morehead are on trial, and Griffith sits in
judgment on them.
Deeming’s house at Southern Cross, W.A.,
is now occupied by three miners. The murderer’s
name is carved over the mantel - shelf. After
Deeming’s arrest, the 20 barrels of cement found
on the premises were handed over to the local
council and used upon the Reserve cricket-pitch.
The “Cross” is a very slow place, and the local
miner never omits to point out the house and the
cricket-pitch, and tell the tale hanging thereto.
From Maoriland come accounts of Grein-
Munchausen-Rougemont, representing him as hav-
ing figured in Wellington and Nelson as a dabbler
in wonderful healing nostrums and a mystery-
monger generally. Amongst other things, it was
found that his infallible consumption-cure con-
sisted of bullock-hoof filings. But he seemed to
have been considered, on the whole, as more of a
crackbrained but clever visionary than of a design-
ing rogue.
Yic. Govt, has in four months sliced
.£llB,OOO off dead men’s estates in probate duty.
Contributors: J. L. Currie (squatter), .£47,000 ;
John Matthew Smith (lawyer), £25,000; James
Crotty (mining speculator) £ll,OOO ; Geo. Robert-
son (bookseller), £lO,OOO. The late T. C. Payne’s
£91,000, paid during last financial year, still
remains the biggest probate duty cheque on record
at the Vic. office. Next month (Nov. or Dec.)
about £27,000 will be collected from the estate of
the late Jas. Graham (merchant and ex-M.L.C.),
and about £4OOO from that of William Miller
(squatter). Altogether by next June the probate
receipts for the year promise to exceed £200,000.
“ P.A.” : Mark Twain thinks Thackeray a
bore, but people should not be too ready to
accept Mark’s opinions as gospel. He is a
humorous man, of the slaughter-house kind, to
whom the lower orders owe a great debt. His
pork-sausage and ham-and-egg banquets tickle the
vulgar palate, but when he calls the omelettes,
truffles, and turtle-soup of his superiors saw-
dust and slush, it is time to take his criticisms
with salt. There are no words in Mark’s exten-
sive vocabulary sufficiently strong to express, to
his satisfaction, his contempt and loathing of
Bret Harte. Twain’s coarse, practical mind can-
not appreciate writers so essentially refined and
gentlemanly : his favorite is the “ bluggy ”
Dickens, whose melo-dramatic slabs of pathos,
plastered with a shovel on impossible situations,
are about as convincing as the cracked paint on
the face of the 50-year-old ballet. No one, except
a man with toothache, is sure of anything. We
all like what suits us, and the fellow who differs
from us is always more or less of a fool.
“ Warrington ” : Re “ Inna’s ” comment
on Mark Twain’s depreciation of Thackeray, will
you let me suggest that no worshipper of Mark
Twain can be expected to take much interest in
Thackeray’s characters. By the way, “ Inna ”
knows very little about W.M.T., or he would not
identify him with “ Vanity Fair ” —a compara-
tively amateurish work. “ Pendennis ” and
“ The Newcomes ” are novels which might have
interested even the author of “ Innocents Abroad ”
(a fairly amusing book for boys), if he were not
incapable of admiring anybody save himself. Do
you remember that Twain snorted at Bret Harte ?
Can you mention the name of any popular institu-
tion that Twain hasn't snorted at ?
The newly-appointed Mayor of a big Vic.
country town was recently gazetted as a Jaypee
in compliment to his position, and, by way of
pleasing th’ould man, the town clerk took in two
documents for him to initial in his new capacity.
“Just initial them there,” he said. “Nishul
’em ? ” cried the perplexed beak. “Fwhat’s that?”
The town clerk stood perplexed for a moment,
then he drew his thumb across the top of the
paper and said, “Just write two P’s there.” His
Worship seeming to comprehend, the official left
the room, and later in the day collected the docu-
ments, to find that “ Tupees” had been laboriously
scrawled across half the entire paper.
S.A.’s Lieut.-Governor, Chancellor of the
University and Chief Justice, Way, D.C.L.,Q.C.,
is probably the only man in the world occupying a
position of that importance who belongs to the
Bible Christian sect. W. S. Lilly, in the Nine-
teenth Century, gives a capital sketch of the
average service at the average little “Ebenezer”
chapel of the denomination ; and adds that he
can’t understand an educated man, or one of
refinement, belonging to the cult. But, anyhow,
it was the “ chapel ” of Way’s father —Way, sen.,
was the pioneer parson of the small flock in S.A.—
and the little man has shown grit in hanging to it
despite the remarkable pulpit and prayer-meetin’
antics of its host of unpaid and illiterate local
preachers and prayer-leaders. It is Way’s influ-
ence as much as anything—more than anything—
which puts the sect among the first half-dozen in
point of adherents in S.A., while in the other
Australias it is either almost unknown fas in
N.S.W.) or very weak (as in Vic.).
Gilbert Smith, pressman, came down.from
Coolgardie to Perth very sick. Lodged at a quiet
pub. kept by a decent Irish woman. One evening
had a fainting spell. Mrs. Rafferty, knowing
nothing of newspaper men, thought her lodger
was dying and sent for a priest to pass him along.
When Smith recovered from the swoon he beheld
the father “ performing.” “ Why, what’s this ?” he
cried. “Whist,” whispered the landlady, “my
poor man, you’re gettin’ the last rites.” “Rites!”
ejaculated the scribe, sitting up—“l’m not a
Catholic ! ” “ Not a Catholic ! ” exclaimed the
priest, corking up the holy water. “ Not a
Catholic ! ” screamed the landlady, bursting into
tears. “Don’t cry, Mrs. Rafferty,” said Smith.
“Mistakes will happen. It was very kind of you;
but, anyhow, let us have drinks- I’m not the first
to impose upon the church. What’s yours,
father? ” And so genially did he conciliate the
good father that the latter went home reconciled
to the fact that a pagan had almost cheated him out
of the sacrament.
A DRAWBACK.
TOM : " These parsons
’ave nice, easy
billets.”
BILL : “ Well, p’r’aps
they have; but, yer see,
the poor beggars have to keep sober on Sundays.”
Journalists and ex-journalists in N.S.W.
Assembly:—E. W. O’Sullivan, P. E. Quinn,
Walter Bennett, G. T. C. Miller, M‘Court, John
Haynes, Arch. Campbell, J. C. L. Fitzpatrick, J.
Gillies, J. A. Hogue, W. A. Holman, H. Mac-
donald, E. Richards, and T. Rose. Barristers
and solicitors in N.S.W. Assembly:—J. P.
Abbott, J. H. Carruthers, J. J. Cohen, W. P.
Crick, R. Donaldson, R. G. D. Fitzgerald, J.
Garland, R. H. Levien, W. H. Mahony, J.
M‘Laughlin, W. Morgan, B. B. O’Conor, G. H.
Reid, T. Rose, and B. R. Wise. So that the
lawyers only outnumber the scribes by one.
The lately-deceased Henry Barkly was
made the victim of a legislative experiment, while
Governor of Victoria. Hotham’s salary was
.£15,000, and Barkly started at the same figure—
.£lo,ooo as salary and £5OOO as allowances. But
Victoria was gathering sense, and one day a Bill
was hurried through Parliament fixing the Gov.’s
salary at £7OOO, and wholly wiping out allowances.
The Bill, too, was made to apply at once to
Barkly. This Barkly pronounced a breach of
faith, and, as Parliament was obdurate, he for-
warded his resignation to England. But the
royal assent was refused to the Bill, and Barkly
was urged to hold on and fight his Ministers into
“reason.” The outcome was that Parliament
agreed to make the salary £lO,OOO, but to pay
nothing as allowances. Barkly acquiesced, with-
drew his resignation, invited his Ministers to
dinner, and, soon after, the whole of Parliament
to a Govt. House ball.


' WOLFE’S
■MiicdimJUoitHhcjid
A SUPERLATIVE
tonic. Diuretic. AH Tio
INVIGORATINC COR/
aJ?r]Tt»
tee no*'*
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
is a
PURE
and
WHOLESOME
SPIRIT.
It is
V astly Superior
to the
Liquors
of
Everyday Use.
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
Look out for
Imitations. Ask
for and see you get
Wolfe’s.
ft
SoftCafyi/aS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per -dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE UItOI'UERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
FRAFZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER
Aboriginalities.
Mt. Gambier, one of the few picturesque
places in South Australia, has given over talking
about its fathomless lake and its Gordon monu-
ment, and its conversation now runs to cow. The
local agricultural society offered a prize, of course
for the best milker, and a steward was told off
to see each competing quadruped drained. A
respectable oitizen, who hasn’t so far been accused
pi mixing spirit with his milk, put in the astonish-
mg report that a solitary beast had yielded no less
than 4A,lb. u ''* k » showing, according to the recog-
msed tester 13,3 per cent, of butter fat-that is,
.J T lb butter for one milking ! The other stewards
aie holding over the animal—the cow, not the
steward—for further consideration, and meantime
there is talk of floating her into a limited liability
~ **7,200 shares, to be registered as the Old
Bnndle Butter Factory.
* * * •
“ Boleg “ Rick ”is pretty right about
the diversity of tastes in cows, though the subur-
ban animal is not the type. Funny, for all that
that no cow however hungry, will touch another’s
leavings, while a horse will unhesitatingly grab
all he can reach. Another thing—when a cow
dies, and has paid off the last dog and crow rich
grass springs up to mark the sacred spot. Yet
when cattle come along, perhaps starving (mostly
( 10watkl y s )i they disdain the grass, but chew
the bones by the hour with great relish. Respect
tor the dead, or just pure cussedness? Ever
notice, by the way, resemblance of vaccine obse-
quies to Hibernian wake? Crowd round dear
departed, one starts bellowing, rest take it up •
then they wade in and fight without any regard to
age, sex, or statement of claim. Writer and co.
have more than once brought two bulls together
in the presence of a lately-defunct. Are always
assured of our money’s worth of “ scrap.” Death
makes all (live) bulls equal.
* * • *
‘‘O.T.M.”: Have noticed that Queens-
land blacks, when in camp, stick the spears (butt
end) in ground, and always havo one leaning due
north and one due south. Have repeatedly asked
why, but have always got an evasive answer.
Can any Bulletin reader enlighten ?
“ Nack ” : At Yack-
andandah (Vic.), I once
killed a snake about 20in.
long, haying four legs
about 4£in. long, very
like those of a lizard.
Killed hundreds of snakes
since, but never another
like that. Any of your
readers met with such a
case ? [There is no
sharply-marked dividing-
line between ophidian and
saurian. The creature was
one of various forms of
snake-lizard and lizard-
snake.]
* * *
The unsophisticated
Westralian native has a
keen eye for helps when
“ breaking gaol a prac-
tice in which he takes
much pleasure. One
“ Candy,” who had been
awarded 12 months and
12 la,shes for escaping last
April, noticed, on his re-
turn, a wire clothes line
outside the cell. Wben
the solitary officer en-
tered he dashed out —and
dropped the clothes-prop
as he passed. Result, to
the sergeant, violent trip
over the line, downfall,
broken head and week’s
bed; to “Candy,” no
doubt, more lashes.
He had made his bit out of a pub in a
mining centre where no drink was less than ‘a
smiling, and pints were unknown. And when
he took a city hotel and had to serve pints for 3d
his disgust was profound—the drawing of several
successive pints fairly broke him up. A was
knowing this, brought in seven pals on the under-
standing that all called for pints. Resultant
dialogue: Phwats yours?” “Pint.” (Glare
from behind the bar.) “ An’ yours ? ” “ Pint ”
( . Gr > Unt - ) ■,4 n «7gP rB ?,’ “Good Gawd!
An yours ’ ’ “Pint.” “ Well, I’m d d ! An’
? u A P ' nt ; 0h - P° h-1 wid yer points.
Iheinahnthat takes a point is a greedy divil
Tis half-points yez’ll have first, anyhow ! ” And
halves he made them.
* * * *
Many years ago, a big tree at Omeo bore
the inscription “ Horatio Nelson Rowley died of
snake-bite. Horatio was out prospecting, lost
bis horse and “ tucker,” and had to swim a flooded
river with all his clothes strapped on his head,
■bn r &ute, a floating log came in contact with the
duds, ’ and carried them clean away, so that,
when he landed, he was in a terrible fix. There
was a house in the distance, which, after dark, he
approached, only to be dog-chased for his life.
1 a , cou P le days he hallooed himself hoarse,,
but the occupants of the “humpy” couldn't or
wouldn t hear. Every night for a week he made
to that house, with the result that the dogs got a
bit of him each time. At last, in despair of ever
getting assistance, and being too weak and foot-
sore to travel, he made up his mind to die. Then
it struck him that his friends wouldn’t like it to
get about that he had suicided ; hence the inscrip-
tion executed with a sharp stone. Afterwards,
somebody came along and found him unconscious,
and he lived to be a great joke in that part of the
country.
* * * *
“ Noirmont ” : Was once way-back with a
rheumatic old boy, who had been advised to try
iguana oil. We went to neighboring aboriginal
camp, and asked one of the men if he could catch
an iguana. “ Yohi! ” he said, “mine catch it
that t teer fl u ' c k.” He got a rod about 12ft. long,
and fixed on one end a noose of stout string.
I hen, having spotted a “goanna,” he walked
slowly towards it, with rod at arm’s length. The
iguana, fixing its gaze on the rod, remained per-
still, and allowed the noose to be passed
over its head. The rest was easy. Have since
done same thing myself.
* * • *
, “ 0.P.” : Just finished investigating the
’roo-tail question and beg to say Yes-No 1 Tail
occasionally touches ground by accident, but ’roo’s
construction shows that tail was intended to
counterbalance the leaning fore-quarters and keep
the animal’s equilibrium, by swinging up and
down in concord with his motions. Thus, when
he lands from a jump, the tail swings down and
strikes a balance with the fore-quarters and enables
him to get off again with the return swing.
Jumping with weights is an adaptation of this
principle. As a bit of smart locomotive mechanism
the ’roo takes a lot of wiping out.
* * 0 m
“6x8”: N.Q. country post-offices are a
caution. The officials mostly put in their time
sleeping, playing “ poker,” or searching (interest-
QUID OR QUOD.
BEAK : “ One pound, or seven days.”
DRUNK: “ I’ll take the twenty shillings, your Worship."
ing) newspapers for “ prohibited ” advts. At
Hambledon and Mulgrave the P.O.’s are in pubs '
Suppose you and I were going to said P.O.—you
on postal business, and I (as usual) for a long beer
you d have to wait my turn. Both these P.O.’s
aie near sugar-mills and farms swarming with
kanaka-s, and coolies, so that people
can t safely send their wives, daughters, or even
what O y p Srr Ud T age f ° r H' 6 maiJs ‘ Wonder
niit™ P ; Vr ' J '’ who 80 sternly refuses to carry
papers containing certain advts., has to say about
* ♦ ;fc
Of Tho ü ß f islanders are an instance
of the deterioration of half-castes after a genera-
tion or two. These people are a cross between the
Tasmanian aborigines (the remnant of whom were
removed from the mainland) and various Euro-
peans, mostly English, who were in the habit of
hoimst immo,S e m °f P t Vt f lazy ’ shi ftless, dis-
honest, immoial orowd, who do no work whatever
except in the mutton-birding season. Their in-
telligence is low, but physically they are strong
Wt- femaleS—SOme of wll oiri are not at all bad-
looking—are most precocious, and, like the aho
bSoTao 0 " TiotTX 1 ™ old
oeiore oU. A lot of them are married (legally or
otherwise) to white settlers. A singer who i I or
was, performing at an Australian music-hall latelv
is an issue of one of these unions.
* * * «
“Jmcla ”: R.W.’s three-tier bunk-ar-
rangement (8., 22/10/’9B) is correct. Also remark
about rush for bottom bunks. An old hand
always leaves his swag on his choice of bunks as
soon as he reaches the hut. Then, if he gets a
start, the bunk is Ins till “cutout.” vfvidlv
M ,?r middle buu, < in a Q- rouseabouts’
; Wan below me snored horribly and breeze
(tom his nose gave me a stiff neck. ' Tried sleeD-
mg with my head t’other way on but hanneS
to touch next man’s face with my foot,
my toe with his teeth and nearly bit it off. Man
above me was a blood-curdling sleep-talker • “Oh
for Grawd s sake, don’t kill me ! I know Pina
blanky scab! One night was enough for me
wS d Under a °° Uple ° f vvool 'Paoks for next six
u * * * *
“ 8.X.” : Re women working. About 4n
miles above Morgan a fisherman and his family
A VISION OUT WEST
(TWAS BUT AN ADVERTISERS DREAR)
(all girls) hustle for a living. The girls are all
under sft., but as broad as a well-built man of 6ft.
1 hey row all the way to Morgan for supplies,
sometimes keeping at it all night. Can neither
read nor write.
* * * *
“M‘6.” : Recently saw a Murray cod in
Melbourne which was a splendid sample of self-
reliance and business ability. The fish, caught at
Eofiuca, had taken the bait while it held in its
mouth, half-swallowed, the latter end of a carpet-
snake. The catcher said the snake was still
wriggling when he landed its devourer.
• * * *
Yang Anyut ” : Re superfluous limbs (8.,
15/10/98). Had a tame chi-chak lizard, which
used to come on the table for crumbs, and a friend
ot mine, not knowing its status, banged table to
scare it away, and as usual with terrified lizards,
it dropped tail on table. Tor days it kept away,
but finally returned ; and a few weeks later, not
one, but two sprouts appeared, developing in the
end into two full-sized tails. Eventually cat ate
the curio. Have seen a five-legged hen (in Shang-
hai museum), a three-legged duck, in Sandakan,
and a four-antlered deer, in Malacca.
• » *
Glass bottles lying amongst dry grass, with
a hot sun shining on them, frequently cause bush-
fires. More than one instance is known also of
fire originating through a spark struck from a
stone by a horse s hoof. A Flinders River man
was credited, years ago, with lighting four fires in
a mile in this way. Sceptics ridiculed the idea,
saying he dropped matches ; but his mates swore
they saw the sparks fly from the hoofs of his gal-
loping horse. e
J.E.P. ’ ; Knew a newchum who, thirst-
ing i°r colonial experience, studied The Bulletin’s
Aboriginalities ” for two months, implicitly ac-
cepting the gospel thereof. Strayed out to
° f fl f a fa . mo > and first thing he saw
was a bushy on horseback lashing with stirrup,
non at a mob of big, black, bounding objects.
ta&tr 03 ’, °i f f our ? e J . , Bufc wll «re are their
tails, he asked of a slab-sider near him. “’Roos !
why, yer thunderin’ galoot, them’s fleas! Bush-
fleas. Hungerford bush-fleas. ”
* * * *
“ Baldy ” Davis, M.P. for Bourke, some
years ago bought a Queensland station from a
certain distinguished poetess. It doesn’t seem in
accordance with the eternal fitness of things that
a poetess should be a boss cocky in private life,
but that s the way The Bulletin heard the story,
Wii' if Bo ' 11 ® t 0 tell the y arn . i n its own way.
AA ’ 77 - met Baldy in Sydney lately,
and confided to him that there were on the Q.
property spacious limestone caves containing
almost inexhaustible deposits of a substance which
she had always believed to be asphaltum. Davis
had a small sample sent to Sydney, and John
Haynes, who knows everything and whose ap-
proaching marriage made him cheerfully optimis-
tic, said that of course it was asphaltum—any
tool could see that at a glance. The delighted
Davis set about forming a syndicate to participate
in the untold riches of the great discovery. Bar-
ton said he would take a share, and Waddell and
other Parliamentarians did likewise, and then
somebody sent a sample to the Govt, analyst, and
he pricked the bubble. It was merely marsupial
excreta.
* * * .
“Possum” : Met swagman t’other day
with yellow dog rolled up in swag ; tail hanging
out one end Dog sick ?” I asked. 11 No, he’s
dead, dead —putting the swag down. “ Poor old
Y abber ! 111 never get another like him. Going
to bury him alongside of the man I got him from
II years ago. I have 15 miles to carry him vet
and have come 30 f rom near Penshurst, where
Slattery robbed the bank. Good day.”
* * * •
An old-time squatter asked a blackfellow
°L hlS vS vh w u e tho Y& ht aboufc God, and what
other blackfellows thought. “Mine tell ’em-
blackfellow all about know ’em that one and Him
brudder too. One brudder make ’em blackfellow
good that one Butohmamilla him good fellow ; him
brudder make him blackfellow bad no good him
Noarro no good fellow. So sometimes blackfellow
good, sometimes blackfellow bad—him can’t help
it; not him fault that one God tell him ” The
white man tried to explain that as there could be
only one God the; bad one Noarro fellow ” was a
devil. Baal mine tank ’em that twhitefellow
him got two fellow God too same as blackfellow.
Some day you bin berry kind. You say, ‘ Blaok
boy here big one tumbacca.’ Anudder day you
bin hab it that one whicksy you berry cross. You
miT’ - u < ? am blaok hound, where you bin?’
I hen mine know that one Noarro god bin talk
alonga you.
* • • •
“Pmpi”: The largest deposit of kauri
gum ever found ? One big find was made 25 years
ago on the Collarbone Spur, Thames, M.L. There
was a great moss-grown boulder a few feet off the
track, on which countless prospectors had rested.
One, more curious than his predecessors, chipped
away the moss with his tomahawk, and found the
boulder was a solid lump of gum worth over £6O.
* * * *
“ Trebless ” : Have often eaten large white
tree-grub of Western N.S.W. Difficulty is to get
delicacy out of hole without smashing it. You
spike the grub with pointed twig, take him to fire,
and toast him. I have seen a white man eat
them uncooked and alive.
* ♦ * *
As it is out West. Exact copy of letter
received by the teacher at ■■ State school:—
Sur, —My Janies come from skool to-day with black
marks on his hans and his back, he sa3's you give it to
him because he dident no his algebera. now as I aint
wanten anny sun of mine to lern anny of yer forren
iangages and as yer never cane the Freeholds because you
are sticken up to there sister, we all no my James hasent
a sister and thank gord he hasent to be haven her run
after by a inkie animel like you if i had one. but im
going to use my influnce about it and will klonclude as
his farther is going down to put yer through about it.—
yours ect. Florence Crosscutt.
* * * *
Kangaroo-tails are now on sale in London.
Which recalls that there was once an old chap in
the Bank of Victoi*fo (Melb.) who believed that a
great export might be made of kangaroo sausage,
thought it would rescue the province, then much
depressed, if the kangaroos, wasted by the squat-
ters battues, were converted into sausage. Michie,
in his lecture, “ Victoria Suffering a Recovery,”
made great fun of the proposal. But there was
something in it. Time brings its revenges, as
HEARD THAT SOUND BEFORE
HIS MAJESTY : “ Come—l will show you where they
grown, and make great moan.”
MR. GAYDORG : “Um! My poor creditors, of
course.”
Michie may think when he reads that there is a
brisk demand for ’roos’ tails among London epi-
cures.
* * » •
“Kink”: “S.H.” asks how the young
scrub turkey gets out of his incubator. Let
S.H.” dig up a chick, put him inside his shirt to
carry him home, and lie’ll know all about it. If
there isn’t a railway tunnel scratched right
through him it will he very adjacent. Eggs are
laid anywhere about the heap of dirt, sticks and
leaves. One heap is used by all the female tur-
keys within cooee.


Six Sohd Silver Afternoon Tea Spoons, English
±laH-niarked, each hand-enfrraved, in best quality
Morocco Leather cases, velvet and satin lined,
25s 6d the Case.
‘V
->•. V
WM.
255. 6d. the Case.
Wedding presents
Are what we specially study to do well.
We supply SOLID SILVER as low as Electro-
plate.
We are showing an immense stock Solid Silver.
Table Plate and Toilet Requisites in great variety.
All the little elegancies ladies love, at
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
(The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney)
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY),
SYDNEY.
Let there be no mincing the matter. There
may have been a mam as well as a bull in the
Suffield case, but that man was by no means
necessarily the accused Suffield. The Bulletin
asks the public to read the evidence as disclosed
in the pamphlet published by this office, and see
whether a plausible alternative theory does not
stick out half-a-mile. The Suffield pamphlet will
be mailed from Bulletin office to any address for
7d. stamps.
At Flagstaff Garden (Syd.) recently, four
Chinkies were disputing with two small Austra-
liennes possession of a clover-patch. One little
Chow: “lour father don’t pay for the bluggy
park. What you father do?” Young Australia
(proudly): “ Our father’s a capting-—capting of a
big ferry steamer.” Small Chow, triumphantly :
“ Yah ! He don’t pay. My father hawker ; he
pay license. You clea out! ” And he calmly
took possession.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8, 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, chemist, 246 George-st., Sydney.*
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
of Moore Park, Sydney, has placed upon the mar-
ket a splendid Lager Bier called Sydney Lager
Bier. This bier is the choicest thing ever offered
to the people of N.S.W. Analysts praise it most
highly; doctors recommend it to convalescents,
and connoisseurs at the last Sydney Agricultural
Show gave it first prize against all competitors.
W £ a lrr ha ® lon ff troubled the rational people of
N.S.W. is “what to drink.” There is no fun
in summer weather in drinking fiery alcoholic
liquors that break up the nerves, affect the diges-
ts heart, liver and kidneys; and on the other
hand there is only an intense vagueness and total
dissatisfaction in drinking wish-wash. Sydney
Lager Bier is the happy mean between these ex-
tremes, and people in the country who desire to
have the newest and best drink going should com-
mumcate with the N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing
Co., Moore Park, Sydney, for particulars. Al-
though _ the new lager is so much superior to all
others, it is the most reasonable in cost upon this
market.*
WHITE LABEL LAGEE
America’s Finest and Lightest Beer.
“0.P.” : Very many shearers look upon
the parson’s advent as a regular God-send
in the wrong sense, and regard his ministra-
tions purely in the light of an entertainment. A
parson struck our shed this year, backed up to the
shearers’-hut fireplace, and opened up. “ The
Nap. push ” kept on playing, and the rest of ns
settled ourselves along the table and tried to work
up a fitting frame of mind. Got on all right until
someone outside struck up “ Annie Rooney” on a
concertina, and evoked a torrent of blasphemous
expostulation. The parson stuck like a man,
though, and saw the thing through. Then he
suggested a little hymn, and started us on “ Work
for the night is coining.” It was a ridiculous
spectacle. The poor cleric, with cracked voice
and earnest face, bawling his level best, and a
ghastly chorus, squeaky and howling, from 90 odd
throats following about half a note behind and a
note or two on both sides. Then the parson tried
another hymn, but the crowd vehemently de-
manded “ Work for it’s gettin’dark” again, and
he gave it them over and over again, smiling
serenely all the time, and woefully unconscious of
any joke till he was fairly pumped out. Then he
began to spout, but, before he had finished, there
wasn’t a soul in the hut. He had even choked off
the gamblers.
“N.A.T. ” : Has any readei
ever come across persons immune
from snake-poisoning ? Have heard
of several such cases, but have no
personal knowledge of any. There’s
an old chap at Mathinna (Tas.) who,
it is alleged, laughs snake-bite to
scorn because he possesses infallible
antidote. At all events, he handles
all varieties of the reptiles quite
fearlessly, and submits to be bitten
hy any casual snake that a sceptic
may bring along. Generally, also,
carries a loose one or two in his
pocket, and occasionally makes a
stir by suddenly yanking a “ coiler ”
out amongst a crowd. Doesn’t
apparently yearn to make capital
out of alleged antidote, but pro-
mises to confide secret to a resident
when he’s going to peg-out.
* • *
In France the oxen that
work in the fields are regularly sung
to as an encouragement to exertion
and no peasant has the slightest
doubt that the animals listen to him
with pleasure.” Well, the Austra-
hanlbullocky also beguileth his oxen
with sweet sounds.
* * *
“Muckle Mathoo”: Spent
four hours t’other day in Adel. Des-
titute Asylum, and found great bulk
of male inmates old-time shepherds
and bushmen, and nearly all single.
Some of them had done good pion-
e®”njLwork in the old days, and
will fill paupers’ graves simply be-
cause they believei! in the gospel of
P; a y l i'. U P>” instead of hanging
on to their earnings.
“ Tang Anyut ” explains :
rfilf'E.™”? 4 0n n , ly P ai ' (B. 15/10/'9B). The croco-
earlv nf a Th BtrapP f e<t s and was on his back during the
for br P ea k w Z perf ? rma " oe ' but when we adjourned
s-oi
of severed hs.m th l' ough Pitting same into mouth
which was at fh° fi tu ? U ?’ hind «4>per of
Boun Win mio i? ln^ e bein £ converted into
Uaranfcee absolu te truth of this, too. The
Sbmtv JfkhhW^ 0 r el i aware °< the practical im
and J d the land-tortmse that they save time
shells with L b ?n^ npr r m alive > merely plastering' the
fn thelmbers ,n T c . h ; dee P da yer of clay and popping them
bill turHefrnm l , .uBual>l > ? lther . to kill the hawks-
shel il wr - hlCh v ? btalned the so-called “ tor-
K can be torn !? a PP l,ed jo loosen the plates, so that
addftto a "’ a /. and the turtle is then turned
survive this freatm W t fc -^ bel i\ An animal which will
survive tins treatment is indeed hard to kill.
La TP? ” : Be bush-dodges, a
SDeoiLr^ r ' ge f erS . tr i ck is > where bonbark is
tfmtior d * to or other suitable
w!t 6r 11 Wit -! she T ets of itonbark, and pour
boding water over it. It takes a good judge to
deteet the deception. Also out back, w hereof eed
f^? r , ce and dear > a traveller mostly sees his moke
aue«tfv r d gol tf I n- to u h,^°- Wnprovender ’ but fi'e-
emntied T° 7 £ lsb f? k 18 turned - the manger is
31 J° e, . ,chre . t l,a game, drop three or four
small pebbles in with the chaff. If the horse
eats the feed the pebbles will be in the manger ; if
emptying “** t 0 bet someone else has done the
, ‘‘^l essed ar , e the meek, for they shall in-
hent the earth. ’ (Their only chance of getting
,J^ cfcor^ Dale y writes : “I have been
glancing through an advance copy of Ogilvie’s
volume, ‘Fair Girls and Gray Horses ’ In™
t™ni 0n 14 wll A be the most charming book of Aus-
tralian verse that has yet appeared. For Ogilvie
Wood°sn°in y il Wnte i n^ ,ng rhymes that make the
through the veins ; he can also sing
timA/nf"! delicate songs which remind me at
Will f i he ? avaller songs written between a
and , a b: ! nr t uet - There is much of the
thl ™ a ? d ’ as be . co ™ es his name, not a little of
SlloS r° P f ln TJ °^ ilvie - tie writes with a
galloping heart. But, above all, there is the
out B !i°onn e th °° m youth in his verses. He looks
the I' ,orl< ? around him and finds it fair
? 0U f . and makes it so for his readers by the
Tf T werl h, | S 5 Sadness is not his metier.
were asked to name the source of his literary
He P ;<ft! 10n d - Sa 7~ the old Scotch ballads.
He is essentially lyrical in his manner. His songs
need no musical setting. They provide their own
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
A/o liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
R.D.D.L. : Not taking any more bower-bird.
Ishmael: Will consider W.M.F. : “ Dream,” too heavy
Drover, may use Taurus : Asinus, you mean 1
•' Some power, but point not sharp enough
Gilbert F. : Clear expression always means clear thinking,
but clear thinking cannot always fin i clear ex-
pression. ILF.H. : Graceful little sketch, but too
slight for 8.”......Tu00i: Hardly grip enough
Grace H. : Humor in it, but not hearty enough Cano-
blas : Doubtful Starter : Not for Bulletin stakes, any-
how !... Joel W. : A mouse-scpieak about the Universe 1
After all, though, the mouse is the Universe— to the
mouse Joey: Well-written hut false-alarm yarns are
very stale Gaston : That’s the joke that Jonah made
the whale throw him up with—and you call it new and
g00d... Tin Lip : “Man from W.A.” gives as the hump
also. _ Other, good yarn spoilt by bad verse. New
wine in old bottles ! Roo-tail “ oflf.” ..Marcellus :
Couldn’t blow a meaning out of it with dynamite
Pansy : Fallacious. Men, as a rule, write smaller than
women; vet even the N.W. has not yet claimed to be
bigger than the O.M T.P. : All turns upon meaning
GOOD SCORING.
"Bill, what does L,B.W, mean?"
BILL: “Living bloomin’ wonder, of course!”
intended by “ old." One man at 30 will be physiologically
as aged as another at 50. If the disputants mean “ worn-
out,” they should say so Ross : “ Black Jack,” crude.
Other not worth while Sweet M. : Too gruesome even
to print 6Y.H. :No use in present form. Should make
good yarn Scrubby: ’Roo’s tail is now finally
cut-off 7x 7: “Swagman” not yet examined
V.H.E. : Neat, but fiat R.R.H. : “The hole where
they threw Black Jack ’’—the w.p.b Mark E.G. : Some
promise, but humor thin Mirabelle : Kitteny little
thing, but no scratch in it for all that Frank K. :
“ Blankydoo ” won’t do Sophia M. : Not suitable, but
has indications of dramatic power Paraite : “ Fugues”
will consider Bandy : Your verse isn’t—ft’s knock-
knee’d ! Dingo : Not ill-done, but lacks pith Port
Pirie : One very crude ; other too flimsy Eric M. : But
in the case of, say, “John Smith,” a second personal
name would have had an obvious practical utility. Also,
it is easy to manufacture cases of peculiar initials
Eileen C.: No substance E.M.P. : The Bobjack yarn
is nearly as great a weariness as the Billjim Belma :
Nothing to distinguish it from 250,000 other versions of
same situation E.H.H. : Not quite up, though end is
improvement on ordinary “ ruin ” story J.A.K. :
Honorable mention only J.F.D. : “ Ross ” some
strength, but otherwise unsuitable F. Croson : Too
slight K. Carson : Thanks for good wishes. Verse,
middling to very Barbara S. : “Turkey” ends well,
but otherwise rather feeble E.S.S.: “Lambing Down ”
not up Bowyang : Funny, but would need re-writing.
Old Guard : “Reprisals” will condense and use
A.G.W. : Don’t like Sir... V. : Founded on the fact that
Mr. .Gillies gave the Echuca waiter a penny in mistake for
a half.-crown E.A. : Lolly-sellers being allowed to deal
in cigarettes, why should not restaurateurs be allowed
to sell innocuous lager? A. : “Jimmie” Milburn was
a Lancashire clog-dancer and a humorist in facial expres-
sion. He didn’t originate the Scarecrow. You complain
of the controversy being a cheap advt. for J.C. Yet you
chip in with your little yarn. As for Ada Willoughby,
she was popular in Sydney because she was a bright
showy woman....J.P. (Wycheproof): The Bulletin will
not say that the sportsman in question has no longer any
interest in Queensland station property. He hasn’t been
a big capitalist for some years, worse luck 8.E.: You
hit it when you say that “to compare Lee and Biondi is
futile.” The one man was a slow entertainment and he
failed here. The other is a quick entertainment and a
huge success. Tub Bulletin’s opinion of each man is
the general opinion. Reckon yourself an “intelligent
minority "and rest content Latro : Thanks. Mac. :
Can’t say, without confirmatory clipping, that an official
assignee has just got three years ... Pat. M‘D. : Don’t
remember it. ...V.K. : Thanks. Much Bulletin stuff
cribbed by paper you mention Dove : Stale situation,
not freshly treated W.H.S. : Don’t remember it
L.M. : Leg-yarn antique.... .Block Tin: Too ramble-
some W.E.M. : Well-written, but occupies too much
space considering size of incident Jay Way : (1) The
Bulletin believes the W. A. goldfields should‘have their
railway outlet at Esperance because the extra haulage to
Fremantle is a dead loss to W.A. in general. Esperance
is W.A,. territory as much as Fremantle, and native in-
dustries would grow up just as well there as at Perth.
This paper never said a man should get a vote on a 5-
minutes’ residence. But, when he has a vote, one man at
Kalgoorlie should count for as much as one man
at Ashburton—and he doesn’t Ezrom : Shocking anec-
dote to hand H.R.O. : Thanks A.J. : Glorious
libel. And you ask us to “ leave your name out.”
Arthur W. : Joke of the ancient Hittites D.A.JL :
Faint suggestion of something indecent in far distance.
Wooli : Not big enough Ballarat : Only the weary
printer’s blunder again Frank R. (Mathoura) .-Thought
that Joke had died in the Old Jokes’ Home long- ago
A Friend : If we published that without legal evidence,
it would be a fine, upstanding libel, 18 hands high. And’
you take no risks. You don’t even put your name
on the statement, but send it in separate letter
A correspondent asks whether the recently-deceased
Mrs. John Hunter Baillie wasn’t a daughter of John Dun-
more Lang? Bulletin doesn’t know .... Opawe : Too un-
savory F.K. : “ Smiler” Hales is in VVestrejia some-
where .....Kooba : Smells malicious ... Oivia: Letter
enigmatical. Why not give facts instead of asking
conundrums? We can’t answer your questions—and as
we don t fully understand your insinuations we let the
thing slide Yarrum : “Dooley’s Ducks” very old
f or y C.W.O. : Barmaids probably go “wrong” less
frequently than coffee-palace housemaids. The holy,
* abstinent ” glutton of the coffee-shop is a bigger
menace to woman than the ungodly wine-bibber. As a
rule, ostentatious teetotallers are gluttons. “ The bar-
maid is often the single man’s only female friend.” Quite
true. Also, she is often the married man’s only female
f A rlend W.P.H. (M.L.): Will print “Officer.”.
Aramac: The tender conscience of the Bananaland
judiciary and its yet more tender feelings ! The immacu-
late purity of the Bananaland Govt, and its respect for
the ermine—its gentle solicitude lest the judicial garb be
many wise sullied! Rats! W.W. : Flatly refuse to
publish your statement that a man named Blank, at Bal-
ranald, is always telling lies about you Bal. :As your
shepherd says, “ Mum’s the word.” So our bad opinion
of the tale is put away secretly in the cellar F.E.W. :
So the people of N.S.W. “ have confidence in the purity
and ability of the occupants of judicial office.” Based
on Judge Gibson's sentence of three years over part of
a tin of baking powder, for instance ! Another Dad :
Not quite up to mark. Xmas fowl story starts early
this year Old Guard: Want dead nigger with trim-
mings—not plain dead nigger Disgusted : Yes, let
the Prof. rest. And, seeing that you bracket Albani and
Pauli as “ frauds,” you might as well take a rest yourself
until you can discover a really competent singer,
doncherknow C.R. J.: Scrip worthless. The Dora boom
is as dead as Ned Kelly. It was an audacious fake from
the very start —G.D.H.: It is a good treatment, but not
infallible. As to those testimonials, we take no notice of
Thorold : Do make some allowance for the
G.P.O. girls, poor things ! They devote the best years of
their lives to looking for letters which haven’t come to
hand, and dismissing hungry applicants with a shake of
the head. Meanwhile, they themselves are waiting for
husbands who don’t turn up . H. : Why, a while ago you
assured us that Caulfield was beginning to out-rival
Plemington Korero : Norn-de-plume isn’t French
—nor is “sowbriquet” French either J.B.M. : Yes.
C.J.C. : Yes, very likely the whole Rouge-
mont business is no more than a huge advt.
for some contemplated syndicate grab or exploration
expedition Eldo : Why so much shocked at a case of
simple perjury by an accused ? Just visit a suburban
pohce-oourt when a family row case is listed if you
would get a proper lesson in the noble art of lying
Brisbane: The gentleman’s ideal politician sits on a
golden throne stuffed with bills receivable, and wears a
suit of precious stones, and has just enough intelligence
to buy up gas-company shares. The brainy man without
“ beans ’ should be kept in his place writing leading
articles to order and otherwise prostituting himself at the
feet of Mammon Tiaro : Some of these bush-subject
discussions grow wearisome, so we only print the best
and newest things sent in Deceived: Yes, the same
man R.C. : Illegible P. S. Hob. : Hopelessly old.
Daedalus: Will print “M.” J.H. :It may have
been an oversight on Tatt.’s part . Will wait and see how
the special consultations pan out J. C. Wear : Might
suit one of the heavy weeklies C.W.S. : Dean was con-
victed on the absurd theory that strychnine and arsenic
are mutually-antidotal poisons ? It doesn’t concern
the argument one whit that subsequently Dean con-
fessed himself guilty. The medical evidence on
which Suffield was convioted was equally nonsensical
G.H.B. : Haven’t seen lines in question Bal: We are
told that at Whaler’s Bluff, Portland (Vic.), the remains
of Henty’s “trying-out” works can yet be seen with
boilers and furnaces still standing in position. During
gales, whale-ribs and bones are often washed up 0. A.
Turner: A N.S.W. Supreme Court Judge cannot claim
his pension until he has served 15 years, unless he is
medically certified as incapacitated ; but if, five minutes
after he receives his commission he becomes paralysed, he
is entitled to £lB2O a year, payable monthly, to the day
of his death W.A.W. : Yes, clipped from Bulletin
Boniface : One good thing about the London system : you
pay for what you get, even if you don’t always get what
you pay for. The counter-luncher there parts so much
for his sandwich or whatever he eats, just as he pays for
his drinks. A much more independent system Old
Possum : “Grief of V.” well written, but point not clear.
....Pelican (Q.): Aboriginal-and-signboard yarn a veteran.
J.E.P. : The heathen in China might be converted to
some sort of Christianity because he has no chance of
seeing the raw sores in Christian lands ; but, put him in
civilised cities, where the frail moral structure of society
is only supported by conventionality, and he will vote for
the simplicity of his native immorality.
Timid traveller (entering restaurant) :
“Poached eggs, please.” Waiter (shouting be-
low) : “ Adam and Eve on a raft for one !T.T.
(not liking the sound of it): “ T—T think I’ll
have scrambled eggs.” Waiter (shouting below):
“ Wreck ’em 1
GOALS TO NEWCASTLE.
“'War Cry,’ sir?"
The Bulletin’s brilliant and unique Xmas
number will be published on December Bth, and
agents who wish to make sure of their orders
being filled should send in early. Single copies
will be mailed from The Bulletin office to any
Australian address (except in Queensland) for 7d.
in stamps; to any Queensland address, Bd, in
stamps. To any English address eightpenco in
stamps.
A Unique Australian Weapon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Compabativelt little is known of that extra-
ordinary Australian aboriginal implement, the
werpoo, a piece of emu or kangaroo leg-bone,
worked down to a long, thin, sharp instrument,
of which the thickest part to be used is not more
than about Jin. wide and l-16in. thick, the whole
The illustration
shows the two kinds
of werpoo - hollow
and solid.
being from 10 to 15 inches
long. It is usually carried in
a wrapping of emu-feathers
and fastened in a waist-belt
of 50 to 100 strands of hu-
man hair—the kallote. The
instrument is contrived with
devilish ingenuity to take
human life in a manner that
leaves no direct trace of in-
jury. The murtpoona (mur-
derer) having craftily stalked
his man, the victim is so
seized that he cannot call
out, and thrown on his back.
The operator’s companion
then holds up the legs and
the killer inserts the instru-
ment just underneath the
skin and steadily forces it in
a. parallel direction for some
little distance, after which
the point is adroitly inclined
towards the heart or lungs
and pressed until the desired
vital part is pierced. The
implement is then carefully
withdrawn and the crescent-
shaped puncture caused by
the hollowed-out bone is
kept so tightly closed by
thumb-pressure that it soon
becomes imperceptible. I
have known a clever surgeon
examine a man killed in this
way without success until,
when informed of the use of
the werpoo, he discovered,
after diligent search, a small
puncture, which he probed
without finding any sign of
injury more than skin-deep.
Yet when he opened the
body he found the heart had
been pierced by some sharp
and slender instrument, the
position of the wound, how-
ever, not corresponding with
the external mark. Further
examination, nevertheless,
... showed that the outward
almost - invisible puncture was the entrance
point of the werpoo, which had been so cleverly
manipulated afterwards that, if one person pre-
sent had not known of the instrument, murder
would never have been suspected. A family I
knew well lost a. member in this way, the victim
being under the influence of liquor when seized by
some natives who had marked him out to be
“ werpoo d.’’ The instrument was inserted
at the base of the neck and then forced
in an irregular line down to the heart. The
reason given by the blacks for the use of the
werpoo is their belief that when a man is killed in
this particular fashion “him never comeback.”
“That one pieanninny hole too small”; “that
one not get out ” ; the idea being that from such
a small wound so neatly closed up the spirit of the
man could not come back to earth to frighten
them. “Suppose blackfellow kill whitefellow,” a
black explained to me, “ make big hole ; then
that one soon come out along a hole, and when
blackfellow sleep that one sit on him belly and
baal let him up. Blackfellow call ’em all about
blackfellow, but no one hear him—that one sit too
ebby. After long time him go way. My word,
blackfellow big one tired and big one prightened.”
HARRY STOCKDALE.


m f* s e
N.^jstock'
Br>W
\\
% \
y >hC \
M
Cvcut&ip?
Wt^p^
',, K 3. ,;
3 a <
St e
w v
Cor
%
)MjJh
r /f/ojhv (
tv
■fa.
> ftJf
ft
ft
c3Se
1 /
■ IfiHef.
MELBOURNE [?]P SKETCHES.


T^'oce^io-p
C\o<i safe / o^ v - ee '),
Qoorr^
'
&L
I 1
ferl N
f j3cUrdL
■MI.
e, U'>d"l?r 5 ,y
°se op*
Gpf
yAtonse
p*y
Cf <J&
L»
|oWe|/
p<>fcr
f^fel|j s b-r’
[?]P SKETCHES.


f*ARE SHOULD BE EXERCISED in the SELECTION
V AND USE OF A FOOD FOR INFANTS ; this is a
matter of common experience, but the “ and wherefore,”
are subjects of knowledge to the few only. In spite of the
general recognition of the immense importance of this
matter, it is one upon which a wide-spread and lamentable
ignorance prevails. There is, it is true, a growing feeling
with mothers that
FARINACEOUS FOODS
ARE BAD FOR INFANTS,
but this fact is only being learnt slowly as the result of a
dearly bought experience, which is paid by the lives of
thousands of little ones.
FOOD
Is not farinaceous and it is
A PERFECT ARTIFICIAL FOOD
FOR INFANTS FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD so changes the character of Cow’s
Milk that the mixture shows the closest relationship in
composition and properties to HUMAN MILK.
MELLIN’S FOOD IS ADAPTED FOR USE IN ALL CLIMATES.
A. Saunders.
|-Heart Amethyst Ririi and Chain Brooch, 15s.
AMY
A. Saunders.
Gold Name Brooch, 9c., 7s 6d ; extra strong, 10s.
15c., 15b ; 18c., 20s.
Any Name or Motto free.
A. Saunders.
i-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch, 15b.
Strong and Pretty. Silver, ss.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Ivy and Pearl Gold Brooch, 255.
A. Saunders.
"old Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 15a, £2.
Diamonds, £2los and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Six different Patterns similar.
A Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Red, Blue and White Stones,
Bell and Chain, 12s Od. Silver, 4s.
°OjQ
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold ~ ~ 455.
15c. Gold,
4 Diamonds,
8 Sapphires, or
Rubies, 255.
Send for illustration*.
m
Solid Gold Bands,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255,
30s, £2.
Any Name or Initials
Free.
18c. Gold, 6 pure
Diamonds,
£4 10s and £5.
3 Sapphires or Rubies
and 2 Diamonds,
£3 10s.
180. Gold Band, Pure
Diamonds, £2, £2los,
£3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 & £4.
Send for Size Card.
A. Saunders.
Solid Gold Buckle
Rings.
9c. Gold, 17/6; 15c. 30/-
If
A. SAUNDERS’"
Strong Reliable English levers.
Hand-finished, full-capped English Levers, £3 10s. Strongest, cheapest,
and best time-keepers ever made. Extra quality, £4, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s,
£6, £7, £B—3, 4,5, and 6 years’ written guarantee. Silver Hunting Key or
Keyless, £2 and £2 10s. Open-face, 355. Short-wind Keyless, 7s 6d, 11s 6d,
12s 6d, 16s, 16s 6d. Extra quality, 20s ; guaranteed. Gold, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Direct Agents for Rotherhams and Waltham Levers. Send for
Price List.
The 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases, £4 4s, 16 years’guarantee;
ditto, 14c. Gold, patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the same strength
M a £3O watch.” Ladies’, “beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
9c. Solid Gold
Diamonds, 2 Red
or Blue Stones,
10s 6d.
Send for Price List.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2 ; 16c.
Gold, 20s and 80s.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and .Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, ; 15c. Gold,
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 180 Gold, 20s ; extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
A. Saunders.
oc. Chased Links, 22s 6d
15c. Gold, 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 10/6,12/6,
15/-, 20/-
Bend for Illustrated Book.
Heart and Dumbell.
Plain, 10/6; Eng., 12/6
15c., 22/6
20 different patterns, same
price.
Gold Horseshoe Locket,
255. Silver, ss.
Silver and Gold, 7/6 & 10/-
SEND FOR OUR
Beautiful Illustrated Book
—OF —
Silverplate, Watches ,
. . and Jewellery.
r.sr t r.r r,r. r, «* » *-
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s•
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send fo
Price Illustrated Book.
WATCRBORY . .
. . . WATCNCS
FURTHER REDUCED.
Quick-Wind, 10s, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s.
Silver, 355. Gold, £2 15s.
We Are the Direct Agents.
Gold, Pure White Pearls, 10s 6d ; worth 20s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Love Bird .and Chain, Pure White.
Pearls, Amethyst Heart, 21s. ; 15c. £2.
-/?i
A. Saunders.
B-Bar Horse Shoe Gold Brooch,
9c., 12s 6d ; 15c., 22s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Wish-Bone Heart and Arrow,
Redstone, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold-Mounted Boar’s Tusk Chain and Bell, 15/6
Without Bell, 12s 6d. Silver, 4s.
A. Saunders ( Kejislrred ).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13/6. 15c. Gold, 25/-
A. Saunders.
2 Love Birds Pearl Goid Brooch.
Pearl Set and Chain, 15s Cd and 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS’
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“ The Parliament for God ” is the war-cry of
the S.A. Christian Endeavor people, who are already
making a noise in opposition to the totalisator. The
agitation—which is in view of the '99 Assembly elections
—apparently raises the question of whether the Deity
favors the tote or the man with the bag. The latter, in
S.A. at least, has dropped the bag, pawned his diamond
ring, and ekes out a precarious existence as an illicit tote-
runner in the sewer down the alley, which seems to sug-
gest that Providence rather favors the totalisator at pre-
sent, anyway. The parsons rely on the woman’s vote
to give them a majority on the subject. Three mem-
bers of the Ministry—Kingston and the two O’Lough-
lins—favor the totalisator, but Messrs. Holder, Jenkins,
and Butler are against it, and so last year the Govt, made
the motion for its abolition an open question.
* * * *
Bookmaker v. Tote. Broken Hill being in
N.S.W., the machine is illegal there, yet the S.A. races
(on which the tote is legal) are the Barrier’s most import-
ant sporting fixtures (except, of course, the two Cups).
Local bookmakers do biz. with punters at “ tote odds ; ”
but—with a £lO limit. So, even if Rocket, a rank out-
sider, wins Adelaide Cup and pays £439165. the B.H. book
only pays over a “tenner.” So strongly has this fact
been borne home on bettors that they are unanimous in
support of the machine, and if ever a vote is taken B.H.
will yell a thundering “ Aye.”
* * • *
N.S.W. Leg. Council, being desirous of finding
out all about the tote, appointed a select committee to sit
on it. The L.O. has done so in more way's than one, with
the help of the churohes. Evidence was invited on the
subject and a lot of condemnatory parsons and other
laborers in the vineyard came along and damned the
machine. That the godly men knew' nothing about it is
only a circumstance. The A.J.O. secretary also testified ;
what he said is of little import, for he cannot have had
any personal knowledge of the people’s machine-made
bookmaker, and, anyhow, the A.J.C. cares precious little
for anyone whose bets are necessarily limited to half-a-
sov. The formation of the select committee w'as also
peculiarly adapted to the dishing of the tote, for there
does not seem any particular reason for such men as Hon.
Bill Long yearning after anything likely to be popular
with public punters ; and as for some other members
of the committee, to them betting in all shapes is ana-
thema maranatha. Moreover, it is stated no evidence
was taken on the bed-rock of figure facts, i.e., the com-
parison between what the public gets in the W'ay of prices
from Mo and what the tote gives. Seeing that all
such evidence must be hugely in favor of the tote, it was
just what the select committee probably didn’t want to
hear or let anybody else hear. As for the great help the
tote has been to the hospitals of Queensland —such an in-
teresting item was not even mentioned, more by reason
that said committee does not seem to have been aware that
the tote went to Queensland in 1884 and has stayed there
ever since. And so the select committee has closed its
labors : and to the ordinary person not of Pecksniff-tram-
melled intellect it just appears that the select committee,
beyond listening to the cackling of a lot of male old
women, did nothing in particular and did it very well.
* « • *
It was at Hampden races, Maoriland, in the
flush times of the early Sixties. For the chief event,
the stakes to be paid on the course, five came out. It
was at the close of the day'’ssport, when the “ three-star”
had put in its work. To maintain the “ uprightness ”
essential to the judge, that official, a miner, was securely'
bound to the winning-post with a rope, otherwise he
would have fallen down on the globe. An excellent race
resulted in so close a finish as to cause a rush for the
judge’s verdict. Thus awakened suddenly from a doze as
the last of the beaten horses passed the post, the official
promptly pointed a paralytic finger at the final animal
and said “’e’s won.” And the money was paid over
accordingly.
* * • *
Though many are in gaol, and a still larger
number are discredited, Melbourne has never been pro-
perly able to shake off the Ohadbandic influence of her
boomsters, and consequently the most ridiculous and ex-
traordinary prosecutions for gambling-offences are weekly'
cropping up. A few days ago, the licensee of aßichmond
hotel was fined for running a shilling sweep, though it is
well-known that she has had the same sweep going for the
past 15 years, and has every year devoted the whole of
the profits to charity. For her trouble, the woman is
now made to pay £lO and has her hotel branded as a
common gaming-house, while the ultimate result will be
merely that humanity will suffer a bit more in future It
is not the detectives who are to blame for these prosecu-
tions. They are themselves watched like criminals bv
busybodies of the W.C.T.U. and kindred institutions.
* • * *
. Holdar M.”: An acquaintance who drew the
winning horse in a recent big event, received, within
three hours after the race, several written offers from the
money-lending fraternity to make advances, pending
arrival of Tattersall’s cheque. The assiduity of the 60
per shent spider is imperishable.
• * * .*
Geo. Grey seems to have been quickly twitted
out of his resolution to sell his racehorses, and the press
ring will soon again be referring to him as “ a sportsman
S? *» 6 turf uou hi afford to lose,” &e., &c. Friend
Ikey Mo gave early information at the Argus office of the
change in G.G.’s plans, hence the paragraph : “Mr. Grey
will not, it is now said, retire altogether from the turf.
He has, I hear, purchased at a high figure a full-brother
*'° j- v ,°h°> which he intends to race, and he is
not likely to part with George Frederick.” The Bul-
letin suggests the following as paragraphs suitable
to the occasion. “ George Frederick has all the makings
of a magnificent six-year-old, and if his plucky owner
perseveres with the son of Carbine, he will doubtless reap
his reward in 1901.” “ Good judges are deeply im-
pressed by the way in which Malvolio’s brother lifts his
off hind leg, and Mr. Gray is to be congratulated on
possessing such a rare bit of horseflesh.” “ There is no
truth in the report that Mr. Gray has accepted an offer
of £5375 for George Frederick. The offer was not actually
made, and certainly Mr. Gray W’ould not dream of part-
ing w'ith his future Cup winner at the figure stated.”
“The betting ring, as backers have good reason to know,
is pretty tough, but it can be broken. Mr. Gray is un-
doubtedly the man to do it.” Rats !
» * * »
Judge Boucaut (S. A.) in giving judgment in a
tote-shop appeal, the other day, said as .or himself he
had no knowledge whatever of betting, and had never
been interested in a bet or a lottery. Another Adelaide
man, Dr. T. K. Hamilton, the eminent eye-specialist,
lately confessed that he had never plaj r ed a game of
cards, had never been in a theatre, and had seen but one
horse-race in all his life.
* * * •
“F. 0.”: Re Jordan, draughts champion. The
game is, no doubt, puerile and slow, but Jordan is none
the less a master. He has three times—in Scotland—
played 22 opponents, himself blindfold, on one occasion
winning seven games and drawing the rest. He is also a
chessplayer of no mean ability, and, so far, has not found
a man in Melbourne who can even draw with him at the
royal game—though that may not be saying much. Is
a quiet, unassuming young fellow of 26, a hatter by trade.
The trouble in his case is that he came out here without
a manager, and he has had to practically “ run ” himself
and doesn’t yet know the ropes.
* * » •
Amusing to note how the Sydney dailies go on
printing cabled accounts of pugilistic struggles in distant
climes, although they absolutely refuse to mention local
fights in any way. Having paid for the fistic items from
oversea the papers seem to oonsider it their duty to print
them and a lot of other useless matter, to the exclusion
of good local news. The first daily that breaks away
from the cable amalgam will have a glorious opportunity
to show up its rivals in the European news department.
One day last week The Bulletin counted six items in the
Sydney dailies which would scarcely have been published
if received from local sources.
• * * *
It was after his second drawn battle with Iron-
bark Burge that a well-known clever boxer swore a deep
and awful oath that he would never go into the ring with
him again. But bad times and much persuasion at last
prevailed, and they met yet again. The clever one made
it hot from the start, with the usual result: he knocked
out —himself. “How are you getting on with him,
Jack ? ” asked a friend of the soienced man when he came
baok to his corner. “ How am I getting on with him 1"
he said, in a voice full of savage self-contempt. “ Here I
am again «o the ring with this : and I haven’t got an
axe.”
( Continued on page 24.)


GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The A ustralian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
II gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
TREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
Just Published. Price, 5/-; posted, 5/6.
With Babbit Map of Queensland and
Numerous Plates.
RABBIT QUESTION
N
QUEENSLAND
By C. L. MORGAN, Clerk Maranoa Rabbit Board.
Watson, Ferguson & 00., Brisbane,
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
GRAPHOPHONE.
50/-
HE
The Superior
tALKING
MACHINE
requires
No Needles, and
RECORDS
YOUR OWN SPEECH,
SONG, OR MUSIC.
Price (including Reproducer,
Horn, and Record), £2 10s.
2 to 5000 CHOICE RECORDS
always on hand. Send for
Record List and Grapho-
phone Catalogues.
ALBERT Jb SOJf, 118 King-street, Sydney .
Agents for the Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets. Trade
supplied cheaper than any other house. Largest importers
of Music, Violins, Accordeons, Strings, Mouth Organs,
Anglos, and Portable Turkish Bath Cabinets. Forwarded
to any part of Australia.
BISHOP’S
CITRATE OF
MAGNESIA
f AO
A
REMEMBER IN TAfr
NURSERY FT ISA POSITIVE
NBCESSITY,ASAL!-cniLDISA
AILMENTS CIVB WAY To A
Dose OR TWO
A Novelty for a Christmas
Present!
The Calendar (Hatch.
Tells the correct time of the day, the day of the
week, the day of the month, the month of the year,
and the phases of the moon. Hall-marked, sterling
silver case, extra jewelled movements. Keyless.
Price, 455. Securely packed. Sent registered
post free to any colony.
Money Returned if not Satisfied.
Address—THE MANAGER,
THE GLOBE WATCH 00-, LTD-,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ALBA
A
f
Nakl Eltv/\Tof%
! -ftTTaTRMT^,
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
THB - TalkiOS MacbiOQ Pcpot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4.
Berliner Gramophones from £3. Latest Spring Motor
Gramophone, £7 10s. RECORDS, 3s.
Needles, Is. 6d. ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes.
Records, Blanks, and all Accessories in Stock.
Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY , 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
Where the Dead Men Lie, and Other
Poems, by Barcroet Boake; with memoir,
portrait, and 32 illustrations, ss.
ggg=
:^ v r
There is no Dissetistaction
WHEN
Hudson’s Soap
IS USED.
It quickly drives the dirt away—but
Won’t wear out the Clothes!
For Washing-up after Meals, Hudson’s
has no equal —it dissolves immediately —
enters every crevice—makes Grease Fly !
HUDSON’S leaves no Taint or Smelll
A Fine Powder Quarter Pound PacketSm
Cobbett, heckled by a barrister as to a
date said —“ It was the day when you told me
Lord Sidmouth trotted out his daughters so that
one of them might fall in love with you.”
Mr. W. J. Lyne lately entertained N.S. W.
Assembly with an anecdote about a jury, of which
he was one. • Eleven of the good men and true
had agreed, but the odd juryman held out, and
there was a chance of a lock”up when one of the
11 doffed his coat and prepared to “convince”
the odd man, who soon became “ even ” with the
rest. Mr. Lyne does not say which of the two he
was—the “one” or the “ Peter Jackson.”
Melbourne’s champion drownist was found
in the Yarra, the other day. Yarra-bank anarchists
and demolishers were just beginning to demolish
on that Sunday morning when a man was noticed
struggling in the water. Every cop. who is put
“on juty ” in that neighborhood can swim, his
chief business being to interfere with the liberty
of the subject who wants to drown himself, so
Policeman M'Guinness speedily extracted the
man. He said he fell in by accident, so he was
dried and sent home. Pour hours later Policeman
Grogan dragged the same man out of the river at
the same place, and, as he seemed to be meeting
with too many accidents, he was locked up. Which
spoiled a very interesting attempt at putting up a
record.
The Boston Shower.
The greatest luxury one can wish for after a day’s
work on the farm or among stock is a good bath.
Unfortunately, in few rural dwelllings is the water
laid on so that on returning from the fields at
night the wished-for bath may be indulged in.
The Boston Shower has been invented to meet
this want, and it has many and great recom-
mendations. It is ready at a moment’s notice;
easily put in operation ; can be used with either
cold or hot water, and, above all, it is extremely
cheap. The Boston Shower (of which Messrs. M.
Moss & Co., the old established merchants of
Sydney and Melbourne, are the proprietors) may
be set up by anyone, and any corner in a shed
will serve for the purpose if there is no bathroom
on the place. All that is wanted is a bucket of
cold or warm water, and the bath is ready. The
block showing this patent shower illustrates how
it is set up. The patent consists in a most in-
genious pumping arrangement, enclosed in a metal
disc about 4ft. 6in. from the ground. A short
handle projects from this disc, and by working
this backwards and forwards a continuous shower
is produced. The action of the pump is remark-
ably easy, and requires scarcely an effort to force
the water into the shower ; at the same time it is
so powerful that it will throw water 150ft. This
means to comfort and health is within the reach
of the smallest selector in the country. The price
of the “Boston Shower” is only 37s. (id., and
when packed weighs 451bs. Messrs. M. Moss and
Co. will, on application, be pleased to forward
further particulars. .


HOT WEATHER DRINKS.
Man’s thirst in days of heat and toil
Is boundless as the sea;
But once the BILLY ’gins to boil,
The fragrant BILLY TEA
Cures cark and care, and stills turmoil,
And satisfied is he.
Then, if on Social pleasures bent,
When friend would meet with friend,
You seek for means of quiet content
A pleasant hour to spend,
Of all the gifts that gods have sent
None beats “ White Heather ” Blend.
JAMES INGIiIS & GO.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE;
Agents for “ White Heather ” Whisky,
Oranuma and Fodah Porridge Meals
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
The Mining Broker’s “ Tip. 1
Mark Twain is credited in saying “ Take all the
advice you are offered and then do as you please.”
This terse axiom generally applies, and the public
have found this specially applicable to tips from
mining brokers. There are, however, exceptions,
and a member of the well-known mining brokers
of Davis and Co., 407 Collins-street, Melbourne—
Mr. T. Andrews—recommends something from
which he received satisfactory results, in which he
still has confidence, and from which thousands of
Australians have benefited. We quote his letter
for the benefit of our general readers. “ I can
strongly recommend Warner’s Safe Care. I have
been a great sufferer from liver complaint, and
after taking a few bottles the change for the better
was wonderful.”
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st,
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Queensland Ministry has lately won
a couple of bye-elections—purely through the
plural-vote.
Writes F. Kidd, an erstwhile New Aus-
tralia enthusiast, from Paraguay : “ My opinion
about things in general in this world has greatly
changed. We are queer people; not two agree on
anything.”
Outside of ministers, Higgins is probably
the best-reported man in Vic. Assembly, and
should either of the weak men of the Govt. —Duffy
or Williams—go, he will, despite his atrabilious
temperament, have a good show for the vacancy.
Although Perth Morning Herald pro-
fesses to be against the Forrest Govt., it is locally
supposed to do and say very much what the Pre-
mier wants. Brother Alick is chairman of direc-
tors and biggest shareholder, and—“ blood is
thicker than water.”
Murderer Butler’s extradition from the U.
States figures on theN.S. W. Estimates of Expendi-
ture at £4418. The French Estimates disclose an
expenditure of £7OOO for a late extradition, and
the British Estimates £BOOO for an extradition—
both from the U. States.
The Forrest crowd is still determined to
bring all Westralian trade through Perth. Ukased
that in future the gold-escort from Lawler’s will
go via Menzies, thence, of course, to the capital.
Formerly it went via Cue to Geraldton, a much
shorter distance and better travelling.
J. W. Taverner, Vic. Minister of Bacon
and Butter, will, according to opinion in his
Kerang constituency, go to England shortly to
represent his province. Already two candidates
are loudly demanding the seat that isn’t yet va-
cant —one of them in the interests of the Mallee
and Mildura.
Four candidates rushed for the lately-
suicided Larnach’s seat at Tuapeka (M.L.),
and out of 2496 votes polled, the Tory,
Rawlins, came on top with 1012. If Maoriland
had the second ballot, probably the Govt, would
have retained the seat, but the 1284 Liberal votes
were split among three candidates, while the Tory
vote went solid. This reduces Seddon’s majority
to about nine, and three of these are none too
reliable.
The most combative man in Q. Parlia-
ment is Chas. M’Donald, member for Flinders.
Whoever may fail in pluck among the Northern
Democrats, McDonald never does ; and he ham-
mered away at the Q.N.B. business when hardly
another Labor-member dared open his mouth.
M‘Donald has also made a specialty of constitu-
tional procedure and Parliamentary practice, and
recently bowled ove* Premier Dickson twice in
succession.
Perth (W.A.) is making a row over its
Water Supply Board, and complains, among other
things, that the conduct of a member, who is
charged with selling an old pump of his own,
worth £250, to the Board for £750, wasn’t all that
it should be. Also, there are objections about an
item of £671, which is said to represent a wharf-
man’s wages for four months. But things like
these will happen. Every boom is decorated with
such episodes.
Sydney D.T. Is getting ready to oppose
the amended Federal Constitution at the next
Referendum campaign. Commenting on the
Reid Budget (which imposes new Customs taxa-
tion) the D.T. remarked : “ The people will now
have a taste of what they may expect under
Federation.” S.M. Herald is now mildly apolo-
getic of Reidiosyncrasies. The D.T. is already
barking, and may soon bite the hand it has been
shaking for four years.
Thanks mainly to Vosper, M.L.A., the
Bill brought in by John Forrest’s little b’rer, Alex.,
and Sept. Burt, to amend the W.A. Immigration
Restriction Act by doing away with the tonnage
regulations, was shelved for six months. Alex.
Forrest protested that the N.W. station holders
would be ruined if the Bill was not passed, alleging
that it was impossible to get white labor up there.
Whereupon Vosper produced a letter from a
couple of shearers alleging that they had been
refused work on one of brother Alex.’s stations
and immediately afterwards Chows were put on.
Which blew out the Bill’s chance.
Democracy goes ahead in Tasmania like a
house on fire. During latest session the Upper
House (elected by about 7000 owners of property)
managed to snavel for its constituents some
£30,000 worth of relief from taxation. The new
centralisation-of-police law, by charging to general
revenue the amount formerly raised by a 9d.
police rate on real estate, saves the landlords
£16,000 a year. The elimination of all but a
dividend tax from the Ministry’s income-tax pro-
posals saves Fatman £BOOO formerly levied on
wealth. University increases and other strictly
upper-circle perks make up the balance of the
£30,000 above-mentioned. The position now, as
officially stated, is that only 15 per cent, of Tas.
revenue will be derived from direct taxation, and
the other 85 per cent, from indirect taxation.
Necessaries of life are dearer than in any of
the other provinces ; the spending power of
the people is less than in any other province ;
and Fysh’s poetical “ wave of wonderful pros-
perity” threatens to swamp the somnolent fly-
speck at any moment.
‘K.K.” : The European’s
dislike to the Chinaman is not s
matter of taste, but of healthj
racial instinct. It is the sam«
survival of an out-of-date instinct
as is evidenced in a horse’s instinc-
tive dread at the smell of timers.
The smell of Chinaman differs
from that of European, and
awakens that sense of distrust in-
herited from pre-historic experi-
ences of the ancestor to whom a
man with a different smell meant
also a man with a club and a wish
to use it on him. In the case of
the Chinkies, this out-of-date
instinctive dislike has lasted long
enough to be useful again as a pro-
tection against a race that is
more dangerous to civilisation
than a savage with a club is to a
fellow savage.
One of the bitterest fights
made by the Tory party in M.L.
House of Reps, in the matter of the
Old Age Pensions Bill, was with regard to
the name of the measure. The Dreary party
fought for all it was worth to have the measure
described as a Charitable Bill, and to call the pen-
sions “relief,” and to have it understood that the
people concerned were not pensioners, but pau-
pers. Which is a beautiful characteristic of that
kind of party. The pensions would cost just the
same, but it is the joy of being able to howl
“ pauper!” after the aged recipient that is dear
to the soul of the Man of Fat.
The secrecy of the ballot. A Parliamen-
tary candidate, who stood for Stanley (S.A.), re-
ceived but very few votes, with one plumper
among them. When returning thanks, he offered
to give £lO to the sensible man who had recorded
that plumper if he would reveal himself. After a
little delay, an elector rose and claimed the money.
“ You are a liar,”said the candidate—“l plumped
for myself ! ”
Last year King O’Malley’s Bill, giving
a widow an absolute claim on enough of the old
man’s estate to provide her with a sufficient main-
tenance, was rejected in S.A. Assembly by a
majority of three. This year a still larger idea,
giving both the widow and children a claim on the
estate for maintenance (in case the house-father
has bequeathed his pile to the church or to a
Flossie, and left his family unprovided for) was
endorsed by a majority of 26. Even this slow
world moves a little now and then.
The annual holiday which Premier Reid
promised so cordially just before the last N.S.W.
election (the police vote being strong in his
electorate) appears to have many flies on it, after
all. Sunday Brunker explains that the bobby
must apply for his annual 14 days leave and give
“ some reason why his request should be granted.”
If the tired and heavy Robert is to have his holi-
day as a matter of right like any other public ser-
vant, why should he have to “ give reasons?”
Maloney, backed by Trenwith, Kirton,
Hancock and the Democratic party generally,
raised the Old Age Pension question last week in
Vic. Assembly. Premier Turner got angry after
a while, and cast the stale fish of contumely at
them. His case is a pretty hard one and is some-
thing like this : “ I believe in Old Age Pensions,
but they would cost £250,000 a year and I have to
find the money. The Council wouldn’t pass a Tax
Bill for such a purpose, and it wouldn’t pass a
Pension Bill either. I don't know how to shift
the Council, and the people who tell me I should
do it never show me how it is to be done.” After
all, talking about Democratic programmes in Vic.
Assembly is about as barren as sowing beans on a
pyramid. There is only one reform worth con-
sidering in Victoria : the firing-out of the Council
which makes all reform impossible.
A BACK-HAIR VIEW.
THE ELDER SISTER : “ You may think I don’t know anything, but I
could give you a few wrinkles."
THE YOUNGER : “ I daresay—and not miss them either!”
Poor old Duncan Gillies is a sorry figure
in the Vic. Assembly to-day. All his former
vigor and force have departed, leaving him merely
a driveller in a lost cause living on his old-time
reputation. To every suggestion he disagrees with
Gillies now raps out the old phrase, “Playing to
the gallery,” with sickening reiteration. That one
sentence is apparently the best thing in the way
of epigram that the late Agent-General has at his
command. In fact, Gillies is not only the “late
Agent-General ” ; to all intents and purposes he is
“ the late Gillies.”
A LARGE ORDER .
CONFIDENT OWNER: “ Now, Tom, you have your
instructions. If you’re tackled by anything
this side of the distance-post, you must sit
down on the horse and fairly LIFT him home.
We’re all on him.”
The charge made by George Hutchison,
M.H.R., that one of Premier Seddon’s deceased
relatives had been a dishonest person when he
was alive, and other things of the kind, moved
Seddon to call for a formal enquiry, and Hutchi-
son was invited to present his evidence and
blacken the deceased’s character in proper legal
form. But though the court of enquiry sits in a
patient sort of way, Hutchison never turns up.
Nor does he seem inclined to present his evidence
to the House itself. Even his own party doesn’t
drink with Hutchison now —at least not very
often.
Judging from all the hysterical gun-cackle
from Maoriland, it would really seem that M.L.
contemplates declaring war against Prance
The leave of all members of the Permanent Artillery
has been stopped. All the fortifications are now' manned,
and steps have been taken to provision the men for an
extended period. Ammunition has been overhauled, and
Martini Henry rifles are being issued to the new corps in
Wellington in place of Sniders. As regards the volunteers,
transport and victualling arrangements have been made.
. . . Precautionary measures have been adopted by the
defence authorities in all the chief ports of the province.
The fires are being kept banked on two steamers ready in
case of emergency to lay a mine-field at the entrance of
Wellington harbor.
The Kingston (S.A.)
Govt, doesn’t favor the
suggestion of Caldwell,
M.P., that public accounts
should be periodically in-
vestigated by a committee
of finance. Why the ave-
rage Treasurer opposes
enquiry into his adminis-
tration is, perhaps, not
such a mystery after all,
considering the methods
prevailing. A good Trea-
surer is worth a lot of
votes to his party, and
often a good Treasurer is
simply a Treasurer who
hasn’t been too closely in-
spected.
Conciliation in indus-
trial disputes is of com-
paratively little use unless
the arbitrator is allowed
to conciliate with a club.
In Maoriland the State
provides a Conciliation
Court to adjudicate on in-
dustrial disputes, but,
though its decisions are
almost always accepted, it
happens now and then
that the losing party re-
fuses to acknowledge the
award. So a brief and
logical Bill now before
Parliament provides for
the fining of that insurrec-
tionary loser anything up
to £5OO. Where it is the
trades-union which kicks,
that body’s funds may be
seized to make good the
fine, and, if they are in-
sufficient, a levy, of as
much as <£lo a member
may be made to fill the
gap. Which is a level-
headed idea. Conciliation in industrial disputes
is a great idea, and has saved Maoriland many
thousands in strike losses. But it must be accom-
panied with power to flatten out the party who
won’t conciliate.
At N.S.W. general election, the con-
stituencies were implored by the Ereetrade press
not to return Protectionist candidates, as such a
course would inevitably lead to their “tinkering
with the tariff,” if they achieved office. The
reptile press, however, forgot that Premier Reid
could be his own tinker at the very shortest notice.
■ N.S.W. Premier Reid says he won t take
the Agent-Generalship—“ even to get away from
Crick.”
Besides Fane De Salis, W. B. Dailey, and
John Haynes, the late Henry Parkes
duced a Bill into N.S.W. Parliament for the
abolition of capital punishment. The second
reading of the Bill was moved 25th Jan.,
1861, and was defeated by a large majority.
And yet, though Parkes advocated the
abolition of hanging, he never went out of
his way to save a condamne. He even
hanged the wretched Hewart, to say
nothing of several persons whose offences
would have been punished in England
with a few years’ gaol.
As Q. elections draw near
politicians begin to crawl before
“the R.C. vote.” During a recent
debate in Q. Assembly, Labor-man
Kidston’s was the only voice raised
against voting money to ex-Premier
Byrnes’ relatives. As Kidston
pointed out. Byrnes has really left
no record of service except what
was handsomely paid for. On the
other hand, Lilley who gave
about 40 years to public duty
(also well paid for)—was allowed
to pass out of sight in a private
hearse without any official re-
cognition whatever. And Lilley
was a greater man than Byrnes
ever could have been. —but, then,
he was a democrat hated by the
boodlers.
Maoriland again leads the
way among the Australias by
abolishing the plural vote at
municipal elections. Under
the new Act every owner
of an estate worth £25 in
all, and every tenant or
lodger who pays a rental
of <£lo or more per annum,
is to have one vote and no
more. London County Coun-
cil is run on the One-man-one-
vote principle, and no dreadful consequences have
ensued there up to date.
Premier Braddon, of Tasmania, threatens
to appeal to the Privy Council against the claim
* he s ™ all spot’s Upper House to amend money-
bills. Ihe las. Council, an indissoluble mstitu-
tion, elected on a much narrower property-suffrage
than that of Victoria, has amended money-bills
for many years and the House of Assembly has
m a purely formal manner and submitted,
Th ® J a «' Government has never put on its hob-
nai ed boots over this question, and taken a
at v the , d ” adf " l U PPf' H ™ se > . s °
that body has absolutely bossed the financial
of th ? country. The Council s attitude on
th .® Income-tax has moved Braddon to state, in a
nu . ld and gentlemanly voice, that he is at last
£ om ß to really kick in moderation. But the case
reqn ir es a big-booted Richard Seddon, who will
ICC out a moderation,
Tasmania’s Upper House presented eight
alleged reasons for objecting to the renewal of the
income-tax. Two of them read as follows :
Because for revenue purposes the income-tax is un-
necessary, as the statement made in the Council by the
Chief Secretary upon flames fui nished by the Treasurer
shows that, notwithstanding all the increased expendi-
ture, there will be a surplus of revenue for the year 1898
of at least LIUU.OUU. , .
Because it has been promised that during next session
of Parhament Customs duties will be largely relieved.
Which is all so like the average dunderheaded
House of Property. The Tas. Council holds that
because the customs duties are being reduced,
with great loss to the revenue, the income-tax
should also be reduced, at further loss. It must
be a comforting thing to be Treasurer to a crowd
like that.
A Scoatch joke.—Quong Tart : Quong
Tartan.
The bright side of things. Rejoice that
you are young ; for, though you have an intellect,
it has not yet reached alarming dimensions.
Rejoice that you are middle-aged ; for middle-age
is the time for philosophical folly—which is the
biggest kind of folly—and there are few forms of
folly better than that. Rejoice that you are old ;
for old age is the time for dropping that load of
ignorance which we call knowledge. Rejoice that
you are dead ; for you are, doubtless, sorry to be
dead —and sorrow chasteneth.
“Father Steven, R.C. chaplain to the
German garrison of Marienwerde, has been dis-
missed from his post by order of the Minister of
War for having omitted to deliver the customary
laudatory oration upon the occasion of Emperor
William’s birthday. When remonstrated with by
the general commanding the garrison, he excused
himself on the ground that he was too hoarse to
deli ver a sermon on the day in question. This
explanation has not been accepted, however, and
he has been placed under arrest on a charge of
Use majesti.’’—- Ex.


pi ■
2s,
<SC3
« m
NOT A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
First Bear : ‘ What’s your hurry, Jim ? ”
Second Bear : “ There’s a couple of men coming’,
over there! ”
First Bear : ‘ ‘ Have they got guns ? ”
Second Bear : “ No ! Kodaks ! ”
Australian Depots
Catalogues and Instructions Free.
BAKER $ ROUSE
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
375 George St., Sydney;
AND AT
260 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE;
65 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE ;
81 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
THE UNIVERSAL VERDICT OF ALL HOTELKEEPERS is:
IT IS INDISPENSIBLE ! IT IS INVALUABLE !
THE No. 1
The Hotelkeepers’ Special Bar Cash Register.
This Register
HAS BEEN
SPECIALLY . . .
MANUFACTURED
TO SUPPLY THE
. . NECESSARY . .
REQUIREMENTS
—FOR —
HOTEL BAR
BUSINESS.
Mr. W. C. Wilson, pro-
prietor of Scott's Hotel,
Melbourne, writes :
“ I have much pleasure in
testifying to the efficacy and
convenience of the Registers,
which answer the purpose for
which they are intended most
completely, and I can strongly
recommend them to any one
conducting a business in
which much cash is handled.’’
i&fit
lar'i-
a
It is Supplied..
with :
1. A Special Arrange-
ment of Keys suited to
the purchaser’s class of
business.
2. A large-sized Cash-
Till with wide base.
3. A Customer Coun-
ter, a Lid Counter, and
Adding Mechanism that
can be reset to Zero.
Full Particulars on appli-
cation to
The National
Cash Register
Company’s
HEAD OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALASIA:
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
or to 364 COLLIN'S STREET (Melbourne Office).
W. A. LING-HAM, General Manager.
rn
(?<?
m
99
1
A
ri
*
*
*
***
*
*
m
«
mSk
i
‘W
\\\\\
n
'i
j>
i
l
ln*
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
- Monday
- Tuesday
- Tuesday
- Wednesday
Hair, Horns & Bones
Sheepskins -
Tallow -
Hides -
Thursday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchoombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
EVERY CYCLIST
Should make a point of examining the Tyres when
purchasing a machine to see if they bear our Regis-
tered Trade Mark. This precaution is advisable, as
a few unscrupulous agents pass off on their un-
suspecting customers poor imitations of
as the genuine article, with the result that instead
of obtaining a pair of the finest Tyres made
they have only a poor substitute.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
First in 1888. Foremost Ever Since.
TRADE
MU VIA!
TIE DIIILOP FUEUIIiaiIG TTKE GO. Ltd.
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
And at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, and
CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.)
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ Bargo Re daily paper advts. of situation 9
wanted and employes wanted which give the addres
as (say) “ 8.X.”, “Alpha,” or “A.8.C.” to such-and-such
a P.O. An advt. lately appeared in a daily paper—clerk
wanted. Address—(say)—Alpha, st. P.O. I know
the man who got the job, and this is how he did it. He
waited till the last mail of the day had arrived at
the P. 0., then called and collected some 80 letters ad-
dressed to “Alpha.” These he carried off, but first
posted his own application for the position. The genuine
advertiser called and got only three replies, and as my
friend, the desperate smarty, had the strongest appli-
cation he got the billet; by collecting the 80 replies
the night before he had reduced the chances against him
from 82 to 1 down to 3to 1. He afterwards told me that
some of the applicants whose replies he had collected
could have run “rings around him” as regards testi-
monials, “ but I had to get that job—spent my last four-
pence the day I got it.” Another case : Know a woman
who changes servants weekly. Never patronises a
registry-office or advertises for a new one—simply
collects the replies of some person’s ad. for “ Young girl
to do housework, etc.” In same way servants short of the
necessary shilling swoop down on another “ slavey’s ”
“ situation wanted ” ad. and collect replies. Also know
one party who has been consistently working another
man’s “ Nervous Debility advt.” for the last three months.
Tells me a gold-mine is not a patch on it.
* • * *
A well-known Sydney solicitor fell in rather
neatly the other day. A debtor in an insolvent estate who
intended to leave the province on business was brought
before the Registrar and asked to pay a comparatively
small amount he owed in the estate. The solicitor, who
appeared for the debtor, spoke highly of the honorable
character of his client, whom he had known for many
years. His client, he said, couldn’t pay then, but he
would send the money from the province he was going to.
The assignee, however, was not to be put off ; he wanted
a guarantee that the money would be paid, and he rather
originally suggested that as the solicitor had such a very
high opinion of his client, he (the solicitor) should
guarantee the amount. The lawyer man was taken aback
at the novel suggestion, and stammered that it wasn’t
fair to him ; besides, he added, the debtor might die next
day and he (the solicitor) might have to pay. In that
case, blandly remarked the official assignee, the guarantor
would not be asked to pay. * So the Registrar made an
entry to that effect mentioning that if the debtor died
within a certain time, the solicitor would not be asked to
pay. The record is perhaps unique.
* * * *
A Melbourne paper remarks that Major Howie,
the city’s richest absentee, receives £40,000 a year in
ground rents from property which he never set eyes upon.
Premier Turner might seriously consider the fact that a
5 per cent, absentee tax would bang the Major to the
extent of £2OOO a year, and he and the other absentees
would probably crush for such a decent sum that in five
years the Mildura railway could be built with the money.
* » » *
A harassed Sydney publican has threatened his
boss brewer with an appeal to law to have a thumbscrew-
ing agreement abolished on the ground that the agree-
ment establishes a “ tied house.” Chief Justice Prender-
gast, of Maoriland, some time ago decided that such
houses are illegal there, “ as the tie operates in restraint
of trade,” but, so far, N.S.W. courts have been dumb on
the subject.
* * * *
In a northern border town recently the store-
keeper wanted a job of bricklaying done and called in a
local bricklayer who agreed to do it. Storekeeper subse-
quently wanted him to take out the price of the contract
m store goods. Bricklayer refused, and would not go on
with contract except on a cash basis. Storekeeper offered
him £3 to relinquish contract; bricklayer agreed and gave
an unstamped receipt for amount. Storekeeper laid in-
formation against brick gentleman for giving unstamped
receipt, and got him fined £2 and costs.
B.H. Water Supply shares are being unloaded
in England (a register was lately opened in London) as
fast as safety will allow. Water shares have always been
in high favor ’tother side ; and it is quite possible that
investors there have not all quite realised yet what it
means to hand over the entire works in 21 jears
without compensation. It is this English unloading
which makes the co. unwilling to allow' concessions that,
though they would pay In the long run, would reduce the
proportion of profit to turnover for the present.
• * m m
“ S.S.” : The coupon system is quite a boom in
Melbourne suburbs, and all business people are forced to
adopt it. It means the introduction of another middle-
man, and as profits in groceries, butchering, &c., are cut
very fine as it is, the customers who think they are
pocketing a bonus are paying to fatten an additional
superfluity. Here and there, though, one hears employes
complaining that wages are being cut to provide the
requisite.
• * » *
A nice point, of much interest to sailors,
awaits N.S.W. Supreme Court decision. A British-
registered steamer shipped her crew in England,
and ultimately arrived in Sydney. Here she was char-
tered for the interprovineiai trade, and was put on the
N.S.W. register. Some of the crew then refused to go to
work. They were prosecuted under the N.S.W. Act for
disobedience to lawful orders, convicted, and ordered to
forfeit 10 days’ pay. The ground of appeal is that by put-
ting the ship on the Australian register the men became
liable to the above penalty, while by the English Act,
under which they shipped, they would be liable to a for-
feiture of only two days’ pay. The question involved has
far-reaching consequences, for the coastal wages are
almost—in some cases quite—double those paid for deep-
sea voyages. If the contention of the owners is correct,
then it will be impossible to maintain the standard of
wages on Australian coasting ships. It will only be neces-
sary for “ colonial ” traders to charter an English ship, or
for English owner to send out a ship, with a crew engaged
for deep-sea voyages, and run her on the coastal trade
here. The inevitable result will be to lower the standard
of Australian wages to that paid for deep-sea cruises—in
other words, to reduce them almost 50 per cent.
* * * *
An ex-employe of Melb. Tram Co. applied to a
line manager for a billet whilst the Royal Commission was
sitting, and was told to apply at the close of the commis-
sion, “ when there would be plenty of good billets about.”
And certainly the number of dismissals since made justi-
fies the prophecy.
* * * ■
Cabled that Edison has taken out five patents
in connection with the working of Maoriland ironsand.
The whole of the M.L. west coast is strewn with deposits
of black titanic ironsand, but it occurs with particular
richness along the stretch of beach between Manakau
Heads—a few miles from Auckland city—and the Sugar
Loaves at Taranaki. Fortunes have been expended in
trying to payably work these deposits, the difficulty being
in the fluxing ; but iron produced in small quantities has
been pronounced by experts to be better than anything
else known for manufacture into steel. A clever Pitts-
burg Yankee was imported years ago, and apparently dis-
covered the secret, as he produced ingots from the furnace ;
but just when the shareholders were congratulating
themselves on their good fortune the expert, in a fit of
ungovernable rage, shot an acquaintance over a game of
cards, and got ten years.
* * * *
The passing of Married Woman’s Property Acts
in various American States has given rise to quite a
series of conflicting decisions as to whether the new state
of the law permits a woman to enter into an ordinary
business partnership with her husband. The Supreme
Court of Maine has very recently decided that husband
and wife cannot become business partners.
* • *
Tas. Great Western Gridiron railway-grab gets
afloat but slowty in London. Indisposition of John Bullion
to rush the good thing is being quoted as proof positive
that the concessions granted by the Government are not
such a good thing after all. The Bulletin smiles. There
is no mistake about the value of the grab, Mt. Lyell
deteriora ion notwithstanding ; flotation depends more
on the size of the cut demanded by the promoters. And
the Baker-Rymill crowd was never abnormally modest in
that connection.
* • * *
S. A. Treas. Holder’s best hope now is in ex-
cessive mortality among the ancient gilded ones of his
province. His budget was built on a bountiful harvest :
but the earlier rains were followed by a dry Sep-
tember and October, and furious hot winds have
shrivelled the grain beyond all hope of repair. In many
districts farmers who reckoned less than two months back
upon a gross yield of, say, £6OO, will be lucky now with
£2OO. Tens of thousands of acres that were to have been
left for wheat are being cut for hay ; and already hay and
chaff are up to starvation point in the market.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
R.S.Iil. UN de piete
B, & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
l? 4 CASTLEREAGH ST., *9 S 3
7 X SYDNEY * *
KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawribrofcinff Branch:
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER 3MCOKTXH:.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS,
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
u
head office
Intersection Hunter, Bughand
Castleeeagh Streets,—
• SYDNEY •
fa,,Esta b ushed - 1879.
Office, in AustrM**
Annual Income a n d In vested
Funds Exceed £200.000 Sterling
Banlv of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas Walker, Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
Auditors :
F. W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office- Old Broad Street.
\Vith Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
tlie United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors i
JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
The Universal Land and Deposit
Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
Of 250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I xEBENTURES ISSUED, redeemable in three or five
years from date of issue. Interest : 3 years, 6 p.c.
per annum ; and 5 years, 7 p.c. per annum—payable
quarterly or half-yearly at option. The holder of Deben-
ture Bonds has a security in the assets of the Company—
past, present, and future. Deposits to limited amounts
received at 5 p.c. per annum. THE UNIVERSAL LAND
AND DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED has never reconstructed
or suspended in any way since its formation in 1891.
Advances made on Freehold Property, Bills Discounted
on deposit of Deeds. Business arising out of Real Estate
transacted in all Australian colonies. Depositors in the
country can remit by cheque, personal attendance at
Sydney unnecessary. Correspondence invited. Fullest
information from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
THIS ASSOCIATION is noted for its PROMPT and
LIBERAL SETTLEMENTS, having paid away upwards
of £200,009 in Losses in Victoria and N.S.' Wales.
The United Australian mutual
FIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
Established 1879.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
CAPITAL PAID-UP ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
.. £500,000
.. 38,000
.. 218,260
HEAD OEEICES . 79 P SYDNEY r ET
and 405 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
The Capital of this Company is £38,000 Paid-up, with a
Reserve Liability of £213,260, which, in regard to its
liabilities to the public, is equal to that of the principal
Insurance Companies transacting business in Australia.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &o,
Tb* Trustees, CxccGtorS,
AND
Conjpaijy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ... £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. It. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : G 4 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,500,000
Paid-up £3,069,662
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esa., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; lion N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : il. L. Heron.
Inspectors: Win. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 JSi.sliop.sr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEOItGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, Soutli
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Frnp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Ydeiaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
lwurne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassali, ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M‘Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—4s4 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne
The |ank of gjorth Oueensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 095.
Code— Moueing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarlsze & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and. throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
Should be read by ail Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Friday, Nov. 11, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 19, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Nov. 22, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Buninyong, Tues., Nov. 22, 5 p.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 12, 2 p.m.
■Bunvah, Tues., Nov. 16, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 19, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT/
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 12, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 19, 2 p.'
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CIIKKENT FAKES TO AU FOKTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves! —Foot of King Street, Sydney.
N GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
A voiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Prancisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
-VIA ~
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
■JAESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
T ' STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & 00., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
offa'n Wkea4e4.
s9leu) Wkeodery
juigmotii €ii €•
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
Woolloston-house, Gastlemaine,
November 30th, 1897.
My dear Mr. Malyon,—
I have used .vour ointment. Ligmolliene with distinct
success in my own case, but with greater as an emollient
unguent for the face of a young lady suffering from
“Acne,” very common during puberty, and you should
push it in that direction. Kindly send me another box
of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D. WOOLEY, M.D.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record pro-
gress with regard to my old enemy “ Eczema Capitas,”
from which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treat-
ment for some years under the prescriptions of Pro-
fessor M'Call Anderson and other eminent derma-
tologists, with only partial and temporary relief.
When I met you I commenced somewhat sceptically
your ointment Ligmolliene, and after about two months’
treatment I may honestly say my enemy is defeated,
and lam perfectly well. I will only add that since I
commenced the treatment of myself I have prescribed it
to others, and am still doing so with brilliant results.
Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain vours sin-
cerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.RiC.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
William Henry Malyon,
MANUFACTURING CHEMIST, Ballarat.
All Chemists, ss. ai.d 7s. 6d. per box.
AGENTS
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS.,
Wholesale Druggists,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Austra 'an,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Pore .
FOE MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Eockton, Friday, November 18.
'S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, November 15.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
November 18.
S.S. Marloo (from Melb.)
Tuesday, November 15.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Saturday,
November 12.
Best d) Cheapest Monte to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YTJILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every' alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, 165 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, 127 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker £ (Jo’s [foe
—TO
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HO MART,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 0500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them everv assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
ffj‘jl»raith, & Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
Eor Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotalions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourneaddress—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and every Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,"ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S> INI. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackayi
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passent/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents :
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Brido-e Street
MELBOURNE -A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agenov
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


A Silver Watch
FOR NOTHING-
-1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE :
I T* E T*M* F*R E* E*Y*Q*Y j
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
“The Manager English Watch Co.—Miss Shellerg
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and chain re-
ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
them. All Saints College, Bathurst, 19th July, 1897.”
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
A. Solid. Silver Watch
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY!
Can you read this :
M
W*A * S
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions :—That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address-THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Geonre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
L juuuvn-ru
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s : 12
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is 6d ; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Roumania,
(id ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 0 Costa
Rica, 6d ; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is ;
100, 2s 6d ; 150, 5s ; 1000, 47s 6d; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
102 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
“ BUILT. LIKE A WATCH.”
STERLING CYCLES.
/^\rx \
Fitted with MORSE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
(PERKY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
ON€ HONCST Maw.
IYEAR SIR, —Please inform your readers that, if
written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering' from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
feet. It has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
J y. Clarkson’s
JEte-Invi g orator.
We still offer £lOO Reward for any
case we cannot cure.
This Remedy stops all Ailments in
24 hours ; restores Vigor, cures DE-
BILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER, and
all other Wasting Effects. Sent sealed
to any part of the Colonies, 7/6
bottle* 3 bottles kl. Guaranteed,
to Cure.
Clarke’s Blood Mixture, 2/8; Eno’s Fruit Salts, 21;
Fellows’ Syrup, 4/-; Mother Seigel’s Syrup, 1/11 ; Pain
Killer (Perry Davis’), 1 - ; St. Jacobs Oil, 1/11 ; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
Sole Agents,
Consulting' and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate List on application.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
x.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., L + -d. f
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS :
KTICHOLSOKT &
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CO.
VELTEN LACIER BEER.
An Ideal Summer Drink. Refreshing, Wholesome, and Perfectly Pure.
ASK ALSO FOR PELICAN STOUT.
The Best in the Market.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKINB DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EG3S, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
De icious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. "
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Delicious wan MIIUSUI .
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitlv followed. The proprietors entertain the great=s confidence in the ai tide, and canrecoin-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparat on of a good Cusnrd. Giveit a trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUnc, & CO.. LEEDS, fciV.. -
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KEN I and LIVERPOOL S i kfaE I S, SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
E.U.C.S.H., L.R. C.P.E., L.H.C.S.T., L.M.R.C.P.E.,
mm
m
m
i
/
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
Maw South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Ciarjiiont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
woild-wide trav els, discovered a
Mew Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formula! formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This Mew Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed hy fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
~ . .. Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroujrhly
trace rd d from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring Irotn hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged. ___
KTo IVEsexx or Woman
, , j without first assurimr themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
IS your nrS or If Tis yotir intention to marry, send for Dr. TARE RANT’S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
-Hce Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 161 pages, blocked in gold including numerous Prescriptions
ll an.i Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Wa ids should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
jompumu .... n;....,..,,,,,., im., or.rl nsoprt.alnpri the surest, a.nn safest, uipt.horl
Price,
Illustr;
ori'd'n, a traced"iheir deadly sources andYnsidi’ous'dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
m- TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion
liver Complaint Bright's Disease, Consumption, and other complaints whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of yourJetter,reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure.
you experience
Dangerous
You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
Symptoms,
Foul Breath Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak Sore, Sunken,
o, Dark cire ed Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, P.lea, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels Bad Taste Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing o Saliva
Twitching
TARRANT makes
Absolutely 2STq Charge
, . nenanlfation • but as One Pound is all that, is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
tSaint"includin^f'Special >1 aints, Skin Diseases, Liver .Troubles,
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, _
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms,
Mp, i Icia and other complaints too i.,..—. --- ... - ~ .. ~ ~
■ v„i r first letter, thus proving bona tides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrarit a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT'S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
Tf von are ill be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who’will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED-
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, Gr.P.O., Sydney.
Please mention The BuetjEtin when
writina.
David graham $ Co.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS-
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’ - - ATREF &
; TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cellular Cloth’ug :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
ALSTON’S
PATENT
IRON
Made in All Sizes,
from
£5 lOs.
WINDMILLS
The First Cost the Only Cost. No Attention Required.
The Best Investment for Hons , Stock or Garden. I make
WINDMILLS a Special Line; not a.Side Show.
A FRIEND IN NEED
is A FRIEND INDEED
My Mills are Imitated by many,
but excelled by none. Hundreds
of Testimonials Received.
8 GOLD MEDALS AWARDED.
Write tue your requirements. Send for Catalogue
JAMES ALSTON,
Patentee anti Manufacturer,
MORAY ST., Near Queen’s Bridge, MELBOURNF,
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
~IL
MELBOURNE.
Conveniently situated dose to Station, Steamers and
centre of city.
ROOMS 2s. to 10s.
MEALS Is. and 2s. 6d.
BOARDERS 30s. to <£3 3s.
n SECIIER UliTCIi FREE-
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505..
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we "ill send you this WATCH FREE i.
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
put delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. I'. Note (ami
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wondeiful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to you •
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address —
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Established Over 52 Years.
FOB SALE :
ALT- ARTICLES OF
GOOD QUA LIT.V.
/GALVANISED Barbed Wire, 10s6dcwt. ; Roofing Felt,
r 7 covers 200 ft., 9s roll; American Axes, 4|lb. to Oil).,
35s doz. ; Axle Grease, 2s Od doz. packages; Hay Knives,
3s ea. ; damaged Black Fencing Wire, 6s (id cwt. : damaged
Galvd. Fencing Wire, 8s cwt. ; Black Barbed Fencing-
Wire, 8s cwt. ; slightly damaged Galvanised Plain Iron,
14s per cwt. ; Flemming’s Boiler Composition, 20s cask :
Dynamite, taking a few cases, Is per lb. ; good Fuse, from
5d per coil ; Flax Engine-packing, 6d lb. by coil ; §, 4, § rd.
India-rubber Packing, 6d lb, ; Muzzle-loader, Single-barrel
Guns, 15s ea. ; Double-barrel Breech-loaders, 30s ea. ; iron
Hay Collectors, 30s ea. ; Chaff Knives, Is ea. ; 2-pronged
Hay Forks, Is 3d ea. ; wooden Hay Rakes ; Bullock Bows,
Id per lb. ; Axle-arms, 2, 3}, 3 h, Id per lb. ; Crosscut Saws,
Is ft. ; Pit Saws, Is 3d ft. ; Walker’s Horse Nails, Id lb. ;
Leather Girths and Hobbles, 9d ; Globe Horse Nails,
slightly touched, 2d lb. ; Blue, Black, Green, Lead-color,
White Paint in 281 b. kegs, 15s cwt.; other paint, from 10s
cwt. ; over 500 tons Bolts and Nuts up to 36in. long, and
one of the largest stocks of Ironmongery in Australia.
CHEAPEST PRICES.
JOHN MACINTOSH & SONS,
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers,
307, 321, 276, 280, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous Farms of South Africa.
Extra Large Beautiful Black, White, Cream, Brown,
Navy, Grey, &c., 3 for ss. ; worth 12s. 6d. Post Free,
securely packed.
When ordering, send Postal Notes for 55., and add 3d.
extra in stamps. Thousands have profited by us; join
them, write now.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
213 Chapel Street, Prauran, Melbourne.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QXJAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOTJNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the dep&t, 257 George-street,
Sydney.*
Owing to the Prince of Wales’ birthday
interfering with mail arrangements, The Bulletin
is forced to go to press this week a day earlier and
thus omit much current matter. Why the people
of Australia should profess to keep up the P. of
W.’s birthday, of which the people of England
take no particular notice, has always been a
mystery to this paper. However, any excuse for
a holiday. Albert Edward’s natal day is probably
as good a day to go fishing on as any other in the
almanac.
*
7\
-j\
-f\
PO you UN PERSIAN P BICYCLES?
WE WANT YOU TO LEARN ALL ABOUT
“ RED BIRD SPECIAL,” “ RED BIRD No. I,”
and “BLACK BIRD” Cycles.
We want you to make comparisons, so you will be able to tell the good from the
fair, and the fair from the bad.
There are many reasons why “BED BIRD” Cycles are the best. Here is one
point of their Superiority :
Other makers of high-priced Bicycles use 25 per cent, carbon tubing in frame con-
struction. We don’t. We use nickel steel. Nickel steel tubing is twice as expensive,
and more costly to work, but makes the strongest bicycle-frame. 25-per-cent. Carbon
tube loses over one-half its strength when brazed. Nickel steel loses not 3 per cent, of
its strength when brazed ; therefore, “ BED BIRD ” frames are stronger, more rigid,
and faster than all others.
All Mechanics who know anything about cycle construction acknowledge “BED
BIRDS ” to be the best, unless they receive a commission to sell other wheels.
Drop us a post-card, and we will send you a Catalogue of good solid sense, from any
of our Agencies.
The goold Bicycle Co. [imited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
234 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, Vic.
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE, Q.
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Factories—BßANTFOßD, Canada.
Agents in Town and Country.
Sanlig'lit in Your Homes.
TTSIE THIiE
New Sunlight
Incandescent Burner
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burners
Complete, 6s. 6d.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Melb. Cup result was fairly “ up to form,” and
quite in accordance with the doctrine that it is folly to
back common stuff for the big race at Flemington except
on a very wet day. Grafter was only beaten by a head
last year ; moreover he had run second for Melb. Stakes,
the one good test race of the season. Eight times within
the last 14 years the first or second horse in Melb. Stakes
has been first or second in Cup. What better tip can
punters ask for? Cocos had won the Derby, and Wait-a-
Bit, despite his previous cowardice, was a reasonable
public hope. The Ballarat horse has now been placed
among the first four in a Newmarket Handicap, two Aus-
tralian Cups, a Caulfield Cup and a Melbourne Cup.
* * m *
Mr. Forrester made no mystery of his belief that
The Grafter could beat Bobadil for the Flying Stakes last
Thursday. “ Bill ” backed the big horse heavily, advised
enquirers to back it (J. C. Williamson, for instance, took
four “ponies” to one on the owner’s tip), and wore a
beaming face before the race was run. W. R. Wilson, on
the other hand, looked nervous and seemed to be trying
to bluff himself into the idea that Bobbie couldn’t lose.
* ♦ * *
When will the public learn that Caulfield Cup
“ form ” is a delusion and a snare as regards the chances
in the longer race at Flemington? Massinissa was an
absolute failure, like Parthenopasus, Trenchant, Paris,
Sainfoin, Tim Swiveller, Gnaroo, Chicago, and other
veterans in the days of yore. The Grafter has twice run
nowhere at Caulfield previous to finishing second and
first for Melb. Cup. Gaulus, for that matter, was also
among the “nowheres” at Caulfield, in ’97. This
year we had Massinissa and The Chief in front of
Wait-a-Bit and Grafter, but when they met 17 days later
in Melb. Cup, on same terms as before, the extra half-
mile and the broader course gave a very different result.
Given a burst of speed and a bit of luck, anything may
shine in a Caulfield Cup, whereas the hero of the national
event must be a stout horse. If not the actual best at the
weights he, or she, is always one of the best.
The Provost, unbacked, finished a long way
behind the leaders in a hurdle race at Caulfield. Yet on
the strength of that very unsuccessful performance, this
scribe suggested The Provost as a likely winner at
Flemington, and the Westralian horse took the 3 miles
race on Cup Day.
The “ objection ” scandal is clear proof of some-
thing wrong in Australian horse-racing. Pat, the winner
of the G.N. Hurdle Race, last July, was objected to on
the “ interference ’’ ticket. So with The Grafter for the
Cup. And in each case backers of the winner were re-
minded that the result of Tim Swiveller’s Caulfield Cup
had been upset on a second appeal.
Hear the moan of the jock who rode the first
favorite (Clarion) in Melb. Cup : “I was knocked back at
the first turn, and almost ran into the fence. Later I
made up some ground, but as soon as I was getting once
more into a good position I was bumped and knocked
about, and, entering the straight, my horse galloped on
the heels of another and made me think we would have
another Caulfield Cup smash. At that point there was
an opening, and I thought I had a chance, but the bump-
ing beat me, and that’s all I know about the race.” What
a pleasant yarn for the punters who took 5 to 1 about
Clarion winning on his supposed merits 1
* * * »
Ikey Mo was outrageously insulting in many
cases on Cup-day. When things are for the moment
going wrong with that “ plucky,” “ honorable,” and “ in-
variably courteous” parasite, he is apt to become very
foul-mouthed. A good many punters, who were told to
wait anxiously for their Grafter money until after the
last race, wouid have been justified in pulling the aggres-
sive beaks of their respective Ikeys. “O, for the Tote 1 ”
was a general cry.
* » * •
Consoling for the idiots who backed losers on
the strength of alleged nocturnal visions. Said Alf.
Joseph to an Arous admirer : “ One of the reasons that
made Clarion such a hot favorite for the Melb. Cup was
that a certain lady [Wanted, her name and lateaddress.—
Ed. B.] dreamt that Clarion won the Cup, and that she
herself was dead before the race was run. As a matter of
fact, she died in the meantime, and many people who
knew of her dream backed Clarion, but the Carbine
horse, as you know, did not win. Talking of dreams, I
may say that at least half of the horses in the race have
been dreamt of as the winners. Eleusinian, Trapper and
Battalion were all dreamt of, and backed with me to win.
One gentleman lost £BO with me over Battalion in this
way.” The Buddetin would like to know how many of
these weird “tips” emanated from gentry whose busi-
ness it was to lay agin’ ’em. Shakespeare’s Richard
the Third was a “ metallician ” at heart when he re-
marked in his opening soliloquy : “ Plots have I laid, in-
ductions dangerous, by drunken prophecies, libels and
dreams.” It is usual for the stage Richard to elevate his
eyebrows and simulate suppressed laughter when he
comes to “dreams.”
* a a a
Outside of legends from the St. Albans’ stable,
l here isn’t the least evidence of Manfred being more than a
second-class animal. He doesn’t look like a flier, and he
never offers a suggestion of his alleged fleetness when he
carries the Wilson colors in public. Still they go on
believing in the brute. The stable-boys, to a nipper, had
their money on Manfred again this year, and hoped that
the illogical device of a strange jockey on his back would
tempt the son of Robinson Crusoe to “ gallop.” The
strange jockey was Dicky Walker, who appeared to be
taking Manfred quite seriously. All the way down to the
starting-post he administered hard smacks to the horse’s
neck, but this particular form of encouragement had no
effect. Perhaps it would have been better to stroke his
hindquarters with a hot poker.
* • * •
Suppose a man went to Oxenham, 18 months
ago, and asked, “ What odds against this : An owner
getting first and second, in Melb. Cup ’97, with two sons
of the same sire, and the second of these being first in the
Cup of ’98?” H.O. would say, “It is all i have to a
pound.” Nothing happens but the impossible.
* * » *
Cup-day was, more than ever, the day at Flem-
ington this year. Newspapers try to perpetuate the
fiction that the Oaks has particular attractions for ladies,
but, as a matter of fact, the Thursday meeting has lost
much of its sassiety importance. Given equal weather
conditions and a reasonable amount of success for favor-
ites in the Carnival’s early stages, the gate-money result
is—Cup-day, 1; Steeplechase, 2 ; Derby, 3 ; and Oaks, 4.
* « » *
Coincidence backers were bound to fancy Tox-
teth for the Veteran Stakes on Oaks day. Mayo’s horse
is by Lochiel —The Oaks.
a * * a
Probably \V. R. Wilson was lucky to get a slow-
run race for Symmetry in the Oaks, and lucky again in
the blocking of Picture, who was twice prevented from
doing her best in the sprint home.
* * » *
Cocos had bad luck in his alleged “fluky”
Derby race, for something galloped against one of his
heels and cut him considerably. In the Cup race he sus-
tained further damage.
* * * a
Alec Taylor reckoned that Wait-a-Bit couldn’t
be beaten for the Cup. When the Malua horse had lost
the first “game” race of his life by half a neck, and the
protest had been dismissed, old-man Taylor was quite
pathetically crushed.
• * • *
Melb. Argus sent a special reporter to the Vic-
torian Club (Melb.) on “ Cup Eve,” and that awe-struck
myrmidon grave the world a beautiful word-picture en-
titled “ Calling the Card.” His treatment of the majestic
figures in the foreground was soft and sympathetic :
“ These men never talk in units. Only some of them
talk in hundreds. The leviathans, between the puffs of
their cigars, sit back, and in low, unpretentious voices
drop thousands from their lips like ripe plums in a wes-
terly wind. What grand heads these men must have for
figures, thinks the novice. It is a wonderful gift, for they
never make mistakes.” Ye gpds !
Clarion, Manfred, Dreamland and many others
who performed such wonderful watch-breaking' (and
heart-breaking) gallops in their Cup “preparations,”
finished in the actual race down the course—a too common
occurrence with animals that have been “ thoroughly
wound up.” Dreamland in particular is a most un-
fortunate gee, as once before the little heart he possesses
was galloped out of him a few days prior to the Cup.
* * • *
Noticeable the “ soft spot ” in the sons and
daughters of the mighty Malua. For instance, the four
that were hacked for last Melb. Cup at one time or other
—Wait-a-Bit, Aroha, Marusa, and Malto—a nice faint-
hearted quartette to make a recovery on. Wait-a-Bit’s
soft spot, however, seems to be hardening.
» • » *
At the complimentary gobble in honor of Sep.
Miller, chairman of the Vic. Racing Club, the humorless
Brassey informed them that 40 years ago he won a steeple-
chase. Even Byron Moore smiled, and irreverent waiters
whispered behind their hands.
* m * *
On Melb. Cup evening, one unlucky indi-
vidual was showing a sheaf of betting-tickets. He had
taken a number of trebles ! Had struck Hymettus and
Cocos all right, and had these two with about a dozen
different starters for Melb. Cup, including Wait-a-bit,
Merloolas, Massinissa, The Chief, and others, but, alas !
nary a Grafter. Hard luck !
• * » »
Of all the jockeys who rode Melbourne Cup
winners from 1861 to 1897 only three had a mount in this
year's race—Steve Callinan, Dawes, and Jack An win.
The latter is getting to be quite a veteran as Australian
jockeys go. He won on Bravo in 'B9.
* • * *
There were some remarkable runs of luck in the
drawing of Tatt.’s big sweep, which closed with 50,000
subs. Take a few of them :
No. 49013 drew £lOO prize No. 8149 drew Dreamland
010 „ £lO „ 48472 „ £4O prize
023 „ £5O ~ 48483 ~ a non-starter
025 ~ anon-starter 489 ~ ~
45283 „ £lO prize 41700 I „ £5O prize
287 I „ £lOO „ 41700 ) „ Woodlark
287 ),, anon-starter 41718 „ anon-starter
47322 „ £lOO prize 13257 „
323 ~ Reka 258 ~ £lOO prize
24115 „ The Chief 41582 ~ anon-starter
120 „ £lOO prize 592 ~ £lOO prize
8141 ~ a non-starter 593 „ £5O ~
The Bulletin instances the foregoing by way
of consolation for numerous persons who bought parcels
of 10, 20, 40 or 100 tickets (consecutively numbered) and
probably didn’t get a draw of any description. Con-
sidering that the odds against any one ticket securing
a £lOO prize, a £5O prize, or a horse were 146 to 1, the
fact of two tickets getting two of such prizes apiece is
certainly extraordinary.
* • » *
“ Cantle A treat to find the Melb. Cup not
won by a brilliant boy, but by a sound tradesman, as
rider. Why cannot crack jockeys last like the ballet ?
* * * *
“F.C.”: The Flat, after Melb. Cup race, af-
forded an interesting lesson on the tote. From the “ hill ”
could be seen small, excited knots of bettors gesticulating
violently, then a break-away and a vision of an individual
turned upside-down in a hurry, with a vigorous tossing-
about of arms and legs ; then a couple of white helmets,
lockup and peace —till next time. One small welsher,
when last seen, was high in air on the shoulders of a big
brewer’s-drayman, disappearing in the bushes near the
Saltwater River ; and presently the drayman returned—
alone ! Writer was led to notice these little amenities as
comment on stability of the tote by the fact that he had
backed Amberite, as per Bulletin advice, and so didn’t
have to look for his bookmaker.
* * • •
“K.”: Just to show what a howling farce the
police raids on Wren’s (Oollingwood) tote-shop are. On
the word of a punter (a gent, compared with whom Judas
Iscariot was probably a perfect nobleman) we were passed
through the tea-shop into the tote-room. It was a busy
day, and from behind iron bars five men in masks and
striped gowns marked the sheets ; everything was fair
and square, and when you won someone from round the
corner (of a pigeon-hole) passed out the stuff. But what
was to prevent me (a stranger and perhaps a d.) from
bailing-up the lot and calling in the police ? Nothing.
* * * *
The imported sire Gozo easily tops the list of
winning sires in ’Stralia this season and there is every
probability that he will continue to hold the pride of
place till the season closes. Trenton comes second, with
Lochiel third ; but the St. Simon horse, Bill of Portland,
may supplant one of these latter ere the curtain falls.
* * * *
The big crowd that attended at Flemington on
Saturday had great weather to assist it in “suffering
a recovery.” Bobadil’s failures were not sufficient to run
the punters off, and he started at 10 to 9 on for the
Spring Stakes. At the distance, the favorite was
in the lead, but under the whip. Cocos then took
command and appeared to be winning without an
effort, but Lee-Metford put in his claim and after
a slashing set-to won by half a neck. A protest
was entered by Cocos against Lee-Metford for boring, and,
being upheld, the race was awarded to Cocos. For the
Flemington Stakes, Graceful, stable-companion of Bobadil,
was made favorite at sto 4, but she finished nearer last
than first, and the winner turned up in Condiment, an
Bto 1 chance. Another 8 to 1 chance in Catspaw won
the V.R.C. Handicap ; and Pirate, at 5 to 1, carried off
the Steeplechase from Tremolo, the fencing being good
and falls few. The public could, of course, stand nothing
but The Grafter for the C. B. Fisher Plate, which he won
comfortably from Battalion ; and then Eleusive sent a
good many away happy by starting a 3 to 1 favorite for
the Final Handicap, and winning easily from Kallara.
m * * •
Sydney galloway Battler, who was one of those
to try his luck among the horses without success, has re-
turned to pony ranks, and made the fact known by win-
ning at Kensington at his first two tries. Pony-racing is
an interesting study. Some of those who went up with
Battler and are now scoring amongst “ horses ” whenever
asked, were not reckoned to be within pounds of him
amongst the ponies.
Why cannot Australian turf authorities agree
upon some uniform plan with regard to nomenclature ?
At present there is a Coreas in Queensland likely to win
Q.T.C. Derby, whilst in M.L. a horse of a similar name is
a good favorite for N.Z. Cup. At 'Ome they solve the
difficulty by affixing the numerals, 1., 11., etc.
» » » *
“Correction”: “ Sporting Notions ” (22/10/’9B)
states that Alex. Robertson was killed in a Sydney Cup.
“ I think it was in Tattersall’s Cup, 2nd Jan., 1888, that
Alex, and the horse Silvermine were killed.” (A fatal
accident in a Tatt.’s Cup is the same as a ditto ditto in a
Sydney Cup for the’purposes of objection to circular-
course scrimmaging).
* * • *
The other Sunday, in an Adelaide suburban
synagogue, the preacher declared that he would rather
live on a Tottie’s earnings than on the proceeds of
gambling—or words to that effect; the precise language
is probably too blue for this unrighteous print.
* » * *
A unique cricket record was registered in Melb.
t’other day. Hawksburn set Carlton the tidy score of
393. Carlton responded with no wickets for 101 on first
day. The match, according to V.C.A. rules, had to be
finished during the week, play starling at 5 p.m. and
stumps being drawn at 6 p.m.—a manifest disadvantage
to batsmen. Hetherington got run out for 108 on Mon-
day night, and the respective scores on each night were 1
for 179, 1 for 258, 1 for 324, and 1 for 396. Carlton thus
won by nine wickets. T. Warne 140 not out, Brooks
141 not out, three century scores. The Carltons have
shifted from their old ground on Sydney Road, where
they have been playing for nearly half-a-eentury, to an
oval in Princess Park, and the match was played on abso-
lutely new turf.
* * * *
The match, First N.S.W. Eleven versus next
Fifteen, began on Sydney Cricket Ground last Saturday,
and brought to the front a couple of good young ’uns in
Duff and Deane, who quite collared Howell’s bowling,
scoring 141 not out and 80 respectively. Duff plays with
and is a consistent scorer for N. Sydney, whilst Deane
throws in his lot with Burwood. Deane, by the way, is a
younger brother of Mr. Syd. Deane’s. He used to play at
Lawson, on the Blue Mountains ; and, in one season there,
scored no less than nine centuries.
Broken Hill’s most sensational cricketer this
season was lately for a year chairman of the S.A. Baptist
Union —the nearest approach the hard-shells have to a
bishop. Then his throat gave out, and he left the
pulpit and went into the tobacco business.
» * » »
George Giffen, it is chronicled by an admirer,
“ walks 16 miles daily before breakfast with a view’ to
striking cricket form.” But George has a long way to go
to wipe out his evil reputation of last year.
» # * m
Old Jesse Hide, who a score of years and more
ago taught S.A. cricketers and appeared in early inter-
provincials, playing this season tor Cornwall County,
made 91 (of a total of 405) and then was caught. Also he
took 4 wickets for 31 and 3 for 74.
* * * ♦
S.A. team picked to play Victoria in Adelaide
this Saturday (12th) contains ten of last year’s men ; a
new man, Peters, who is a fair club bat, making up the
eleven. Lyons has been shaping poorly, and is included
on his reputation, but he is very partial to Vic. bowling.
The S.A. team chooses its captain by ballot this year for
obvious reasons. Giffen is a wretched skipper, but no
one has ever had the pluck to nominate a rival. A ballot
will probably result in the selection of Darling. On paper
the match looks a good thing for S.A.
* * * *
George Giffen made 58 for W. Adelaide against
Sturt the other day on a very bad wicket. His batting
was in his old form and delighted his friends, but the ex-
champion has apparently lost his ancient bowling powers.
The English crowd who derided Stoddart’s team
last year— after it had been decisively licked by Aus-
tralia—as not being representative, should be silenced by
the licking Stoddart and co., without Ranji, gave Eng-
land’s best at Hastings, and the additional fact that
Hearne, who was a painfully plain and ordinary bowler in
Australia, is top of the English averages this season. In
Australia, our best team is superior to England at pre-
sent ; in England, where conditions are different, the boot
is, perhaps, on the other foot.
* * * *
Gympie has its Sabbath football and other
sports, too; and to cleanse the district of that impurity
the local parsons lately promoted a movement to secure
Saturday half-holidays. But the miners, who would have
had to work an extra half-hour on other days, reckon
that eight hours underground is quite enough, and stand
off. So the movement, which was smiled upon by some
of the managers, is at present devoting itself to the con-
version of the workmen —with poor results, so far.
JT * * *
There were no less than 11 swimming fixtures in
and around Sydney last Saturday afternoon. At Farmer’s
Baths, F. Lane showed some great swimming in a 92,vds.
handicap. N. Martin, off 9sec., won. Lane finished
second, and covered the distance in 53 3-Ssee.
» * * *
Young Corbett, the 13-year-old son of one-time
N.S.W. champion swimmer " Billy " Corbett,
take the place later on of his popular Bell was
Saturday at Rockdale, Sydney, over 15 y • > ■ jrwere
giving the little ’un 3sec. start. At 100yds, ’ the pa
level, and for the last 50yds. they swam neck ana ne _,
Corbett just winning in the last couple o y
touch. m m
The Maid of Kent-Irex match doesn’t seem to
have been a fair one, on the g™ un f! : ‘ a decked
Foy’s craft is a half-decker the Britisher is a decKeu
yacht. Boating men consider Foy was lucky 8
the course without a capsize. „
George Towns certainly had 11 ar when^holdiiw a
row in England for the Sportsman Cup. drift
commanding lead from Barry he ran into «»«“e " n '
timber, and was compelled to row ashore j
boat. Towns then challenged Barry for a maHh,, and the
Britisher wanted to row in Nov., but Towns was 8
any ice and snow. When Laycock rowed Hanlan on the
Thames in winter, the water he shipped during T , .
rows sometimes used to freeze hard, and ty
thaw it out in front of a fire. Nice weather for
tralian to train in. 0
Edward Hanlan Ten Eyck, the young American
sculler who won the single amateur scuds at Henley last
vear. and who would have been a certainty for this year
had the Britishers not manufactured an excuse for bar-
ring him, is about to turn professional. With a little
maturity, apparently, Ten Eyck will be able to go over
and take his revenge on the English pro s.
• • » *
Billy Edwards, the Melbourne boxer, fought
Yankee Frank Craig, the “ Coffee Cooler,” for 1 200 a-side
in South Africa, recently. Craig, who, a bit back, «as
boomed as a tip-topper at his weight, showed that he has
not utterly gone off by outclassing the hard-hitting Aus-
tralian, and winning in eight rounds. Australia, vvnicn a
few years ago could show a champion in every class, nas
now but one to its name, Bob Fitzsimmons, and it re-
mains to be seen if he retains his form in anything but
newspaper fighting.
* » * *
Australian greyhounds taken to America by Mr.
R. de B. Lopez, of Sydney, have done well. A daughter of
two Australian Waterloo Cup winners has been carrying
off some stakes in England ; and Mr. Sam Bladon is now
on the road ’Onie with Bogan, the last Vic. Waterloo up
winner, and the youngster, Bald Coot, with an eye to the
next English Waterloo Cup. Tarana[s Pride also went
with Mr. Bladon, who is a regular Bill Kelso at his own
game, and if the puppies show their Australian form, the
Times may make the discovery that Australian dogs, like
its horses, are little, if any', behind the British article.
Few men rode right through the great Warr-
nambool road race on the one machine, as the western
roads by no means upheld their reputation. Voisey, of
Castlemaine, the fourth man, was an exception, for he
rode a 221 b. “Swift” machine right through without
mishap.
* » * •
There was some tall riding at the recent Ade-
laide cycle meeting. “Swift” Walne, as usual, did some-
thing phenomenal on his favorite track. On this occasion
he rode half-a-mile in 59sec. from scratch, threading his
way through his field with consummate skill, and winning
not only the heat, but the applause of the multitude. He
failed to get through in the final, being beaten by “ Bob ”
Lewis, another Swift rider.
» » * *
An idea of the magnitude of the feeding arrange-
ments made by the Dunlop Tyre Co. in connection with
the recent Warrnambool-to-Melbourne road race will be
gathered from the following list of food consumed by the
competitors during the ride, exclusive of what some of
the riders carried themselves: —Bdoz. fresh sheeps’-
tongues, 101 b. Holick’s malted milk, lOgal. fresh milk, 6
loaves of bread, 201 b. Macßobertson’s pepsin chocolate,
24doz. small mandarins, 20doz. bananas, 301 b. muscatel
raisins, 20 sticks of celery, 161 b. of sultana biscuits, be-
sides cold tea and lemon ad lib.
* * m *
It was at Twowharves post-office that two cane-
cutters got into an argument about their respective
knowledge of Jack M‘Lean —for a space champion sculler
of the world. Said one : “ Why', blowme, I went to
school with him for years. Know him well! I should
think 1 did.” “ Bah ! " from the other. “ What of
that? Me’d him worked tagetha fa months. Best axe-
man I ever see. When he stawted choppin, ya couldd’t
see him fa chips, he was that quick. Gev me the biggest
hidin’l ever got, too.” “ Oh, that was easy enough to
do!” “Was it? You couldn’t do it, anyhow!”
“Could.” “ Well, put up ya hands’n’we’ll see.” And
at it they wont. About round 10 M‘Lean himself hap-
pened along on horseback, and was asked who the com-
batants were. “ Blessed if I know,” he said—“ never
saw either of ’em before in my r life ! ”•—and rode on. Left
’em fighting.
AT THE ROOMS.
Observe yon person, fat of jowl,
Who royally surveys the scene—
He does not shriek, or roar, or howl,
He simply sits—and looks serene.
That gentle, foggy-spoken man,
Is Joseph, the Levi-a-than.
Didst see Jack Cohen book a bet ?
A silently impressive sight!
Great Oxenham’s stern face is set
In form majestical to-night,
But Westbrook condescends to smile
In such an unpretentious style.
The “ Count ’’ (Lord knows his other name)
Wears ne’er a laurel on his brow,
Despite the splendor of his fame,
He lays the odds to lose a thou.,
As though he were (which isn’t true)
A mortal, just the same as you.
Gaze on them all, but shade your eyes
A moment from the dazzling glare,
For diamonds of largest size
Are mounted in the rings they wear.
The smoke-clouds curling through their lips
Melt into air, like punters’ tips.
And "twig" the Argus on his knees,
A-jotting down a rapid note
Of all the wondrous things he sees,
He cries, “ Confusion to the Tote 1 ”
Then reverently bends him low
To lick the boot of Ikey Mo.


I7IOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
. ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ellis’ Kina-st rci't Codec Enlace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
HaVc Yog Read
48
“The Breech-Loader
and How to Use It ? ”
A concise Treatise on the Gun,
with valuable Hints on Shoot-
ing ; by W. W. Greenek.
If not, send 35., when a book
will be forwarded Post Free.
ALL SPORTSMEN should
have a
Greener’s Patent GUN-SLING.
They are Indispensable. Post Tree, 7/6.
Write C. W. BUCKLAND, 16 Curral Road,
Elsternwick, Melbourne; or Box 326, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
BICYCLES
FOR . .
Garden City’
LADIES.
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.”
Frank Grimley
I Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
\ 263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
66 DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMPS.
COMPONENT SETS;
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
FILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment .
also,
‘ Perfect,’ * Garden City’ & WolfF American
BICYCLES.
Frank Qrimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
TX/'E are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
'' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT &. BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
&3T Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
ST. PAULI
CIRL U BRAND
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
“ Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. JF. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
A
IS
your
WIF€
PRETTY
nearly tired out after a ride on her cycle ?
What else can you expect if you let her
ride a machine weighing pounds more than
your own ? Get her a
Featherweight
which has many good qualities beside actual lightness. Send or call for an ART CATALOGUE, which will give you
full particulars.
Sole Agents for “SWIFT” Cycles with Dunlop Tyres.
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
391 George Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Charters Towers, Rockhampton, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin,
Launceston, Hobart, Bendigo, Hamilton, Warrnambool, etc., etc.
Edmund Barton had the ill-luck to fall and
break his arm the other night; and as Barton
is a heavyweight, the break was a bad one. lhe
friends of the Federal leader will be glad to hear
that it is mending as quickly as can be expected,
though Mr. Barton is not yet able to leave his bed.
Mrs Maclurcan’s cookery book is having
an excellent sale, the first edition being exhausted.
The book which can be bought from all the local
stationers, only costs 3/6, and as it is suited to
Queensland and contains over 750 recipes, the
value given far exceeds the sum necessary for its
purchase.*
Be statement in issue of sth inst. that
Saul Samuel 50 years ago cowhided a Sydney
citizen on Homebush racecourse, 1 he Bulletin is
informed by an eyewitness that there was no cow-
hiding in the matter, the facts being that when
Mr. Samuel ordered certain non-subscribers off the
course, the person in question, seeing that all non-
subscribers were not so served, refused to go and,
in resisting the police, committed a technical
assault, the charge for which was dismissed on the
ground that the police had exceeded their duty in
the matter.
Recent analyses of Sydney Lager Bier and of
all other beers on Sydney market show wonderful figures
in favor of Sydney Lasrer, and it is thus scientifically
demonstrated that Sydney Lager deserves to be the
national drink of New South Wales. Supposing that a
man drinks three pints of liquid per day ; then he will
in a life of 71) years on this average drink some 10,000
gallons. Suppose that instead of Sydney Lager, that a
man drank 10,000 gallons of deleterious highly-alcoholic
liquor. It wouldn’t matter if he could replace his liver,
kidneys and stomach with a fresh set every 12 months—
but tlien a man isn’t a machine of that sort. It' one of
his inner and delicate mechanisms go wrong, he breaks
down all over. 10,000 gallons !—enough to float a ship !
Isn't the thought enough to make you solemnly kneel
down and swear to be faithful to Sydney Lager for the
rest of your lifetime !
Apropos the lately-reported incident in a
Bendigo mine, when a descending cage loaded
with mitiers crashed into bearers across the shaft
at 2455 ft., it transpires that the platman (the per-
son in charge of the landing), who ought to have
withdrawn the bars, was a youth of 19, just put
on at the job. A prosecution followed—fined,
40s. ; fine to go to the three injured miners. And
here is another of the excitements of Bendigo
deep-mining. In the Shamrock, the other day,
two men wore being hauled up from the 2800 ft.
level. The cage had gone only 50ft. or so when
there was a terrific crash on top of it. Yet,
though the engine was strained on its bed and the
engine-house shook and swayed, the steel-rope
held. Presently the driver slowly lowered to
2800 ft., and then tried to communicate with the
men ; but the signal-wire would not work. Half-
an-hour after, while he was still trying to signal, the
two men walked up to the engine-house ; they had
crept into a neighboring mine and been hauled up
that way. Then they went down to search their
own shaft—and found that a couple of hundred-
weight of sandstone and quartz had fallen away
from 1320 ft., and had hounded down 1410 ft.
before it had met the up-coming cage. The two
men weren’t even scratched.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ Melb.” : Miss Patterson, aged 61, died
suddenly at Hawksburn railway-station this week.
She had stitched into her clothing a memo, to
the effect that, in such an event, she was to be
taken to her address, which was given, and not to
the morgue. Unfortunately, she had been lying
a good while there before the scrap was found.
Lisson, condemned for killing his sister-in-
law at Sydney—he also tried to kill a man whom
he regarded as a business enemy, and his own two
children —has had his sentence commuted. The
official medical authorities consider prisoner to be
now sane, but there is little doubt that he was
irresponsible when he ran amuck. Anyhow, few
people nowadays consider that anyone should be
hanged except for deliberate murder done for the
sake of gain.
“ D.C.L.”
when applied to a man is a high academic distinc-
tion. When applied to whisky “ D.C.L.” is the
highest distinction it can possess. “D.C.L.”
(Black Bottle) Scotch Whisky is perfect.
“ T.J.S.” : No reason for “ Disgusted ” to
be so at the spinelessness of N.S. W. civil service ;
it is simply “the survival of the fittest” over
again. The process of weeding-out persons of
individuality, or who dared hold an opinion at
variance with that of their red-tape superiors, or
who declined to recommend unwarranted public
expenditure to suit their friends, or who bucked
if undeservedly sat on, whenever the livers of those
superiors prompted them to sit, has been going on
for years. Writer was once in a district where a
grant of some .£4OO had been made before he took
charge. M.P. wrote Minister to know why this
grant was unexpended, and writer was told to
report. lie reported that the expenditure was
quite unwarranted, and would only serve two
people. Up came an official from Sydney, in-
spected, informed the scribe that he agreed with
him, but, to block agitation which might interfere
with the departmental sleep, it would be better to
expend, say, <£so to £lOO, and let balance of grant
lapse. Also, in future it would be well if he bore
in mind that “a public officer’s first duty is to
draw his salary as quietly as possible.”
Miss Edytli Latimer, the young Australian
actress, now with Wilson Barrett’s co. in England,
whose portrait appeared in last issue of The Bul-
letin, is the daughter of Mrs. Latimer, of the
Grand Pier Hotel, Manly, N.S.W.
Dearß. —Dead, Richard Brotchie, long-time
printer of Melb. Leader and Age. Remember
Brotchie as a young man, fat and comely, overseer
on Melb. Morning Herald. Liked by all hands.
A quiet, gentle, humorous sort, whose life seemed
a perpetual chuckle. He never altered much.
Always good-tempered, with a kindly word for
all who deserved it, and silence for the unspeak-
able. Yet he suffered, most of his life, from rheu-
matic gout. Had a theory as to its origin—beer,
When the paper was down, Brotchie and this
ancient used to repair to Hansen’s- a night pub.
in Bourke-street, frequented by theatrical and
newspaper folk. And there beef and beer, of
heroic measure, were consumed, and thus the
seeds sown, the harvest of which was reaped in
later years. For beer is surely an agent for the
breeding of the accursed result called gout.
“ There’s one comfort,” sighed Brotchie, the last
time we spoke together—“it was British.” Ah !
he was a good fellow, and should make a first-
class angel. — Old Jack.


Sure Cure
for Colds
When the children get their feet wet and
take cold give them a hot foot-bath, a bowl
of hot drink, a dose of Ayer’s Cherry Pecto-
ral, and put them to bed. The chances are
they will be all right in the morning. Continue
the Cherry Pectoral a few days, until all
cough has disappeared.
Old coughs are also cured; we mean the
coughs of bronchitis, weak throats and irrita-
ble lungs. Even the hard coughs of consump-
tion are always made easy and sometimes
cured by the continued use of
Ayer’s
Cherry
Pectoral
Your own doctor will explain this to you.
He knows that wild cherry bark is the best
remedy known to medical science for sooth-
ing and healing inflamed throats and lungs.
You may rely upon Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral tfo
stop your cough.
Beware of worthless imitations. The name
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral is blown in the glass of
each bottle. Put up in two sizes.
D.S .MAI R
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/0 ; Cleaning, 2/6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
26; Stats, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. M AIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appiiances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post./ Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydney.
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
VLAITB and TAILS,
2Din. lent;, f/ti. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worlt'ed up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. z*si,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-etreet,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door
Send stamps (or full Price Li t ‘.
Prompt attention given to Country' Cj'.Uro,
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NKff SOUTH WALKS ISARISERS SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdrossers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.'
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites ‘‘■ttSSKKST*
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/(1 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/0 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Sealpets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
A •SIfiTANTS 'Engaged for the Country.
“ J.S.T.” to The Bulletin :
In “T’s” recent article, wherein he accuses “the
Baron ” of “ rats,” and incidentally wipes the floor with
“ Creeve Roe,” he denies the existence of any sex-
problen), and suggests that if the human race will go in
the altogether nobody would maunder about one. Quite
so, that would about settle the problem ; but most of
the population would have to be einploj'ed in the regis-
trar’s office. There is nothing prurient about natural sex
relations—that only comes in with the dalliances of
surfeit, and “ the problem ”is here. Sexual relations are
absolutely necessary to the health of any properly-
developed adult. The youthful savage had to hustle
round and learn the arts of the chase and war, and when
he reached manhood, and the sexual awakening came, he
cast round for a mate, took her off by force, and settled the
problem forthwith. Now we're civilised, a man muststifle
his desires at the expense of his health until such time as
he has accumulated sufficient oof to afford the luxury of
marriage, hence the hordes of dyspeptic men and anemic
women. Either this, or he gratifies vicariously at the
expense of his Respectability. Because this appetite has
been shooed at by Mrs. Grundy, wherever two or three
men are gathered together there the cerulean story is in
evidence. .You don’t find people gathering in clubs, or
the back rooms of pubs., to weave yarnlets round yester-
day’s hash, or the succulent viand of to-morrow. And
because of this conventional veil, drawn over what,
within limits, is right, every small boy’s mind is agape,
and he seeks to tear the veil aside at the first promptings
of a feeble adolescence, with the result that half the
male population, when they reach an age when
they should be most virile, are already physical
wrecks, on whom a swarm of don’t - you - feel - well-
young-man quacks fatten. With the decadence of
churchianity not Christianity and other hypocrisies,
the legitimacy of sex-hunger will be recognised, and may
result in the municipalisation of Flossie, in whose court
the poor man will be allowed to proceed in forma pauperis.
“T.” looks on the presence of the inevitable infant as
proof of the solution of the sex-problem, whereas the
probability of that damp, unpleasant entity, and the food
it will guzzle, and the clothes it will crawl out of, and the
general sin and blasphemy it will create, prevents its
solution. Anyhow, the ever-increasing poverty and the
practice of monogamy don’t dovetail, somehow ; and not
only have we a sex-problem, but it is intensifying yearly.
The Bulletin submitted this to “T.,” so that, if
he wanted very badly to howl in reply both howls
might appear together. “ T-” promptly howled
at great length, but his remarks are condensed as
follows ;
0) Poverty isn’t increasing; at least if there is any
virtue in all available statistics it isn’t. Instead, it has
been decreasing, taking the civilised world as a whole,
for many years. The remote field of 100 or 1000 years
back looks green ; that’s all. You can’t logically say
poverty is increasing because the Australian gold-boom is
past; that was merely a small local circumstance. (2)
There is no evidence that the sex-problem (so-called) is
intensifying at all. It is more talked about, but that is
quite a different thing. (3) “J.S.T.” holds that the
“ civilised ” man, being a miserable victim to Grundyism,
is becoming very largely a premature physical wreck.
Well he lives much longer than his ancestor, the old un-
Grundied savage, and is apparently healthier, so perhaps
the alleged man of to-day, who is an alleged wreck through
the alleged sex-problem, isn’t quite so awful a circum-
stance after all.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H* Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
N.Q. conundrum : “ What’s the differ-
ence between a sugar-grower and a school-
teacher?” “ One cuts cane with ‘boys,’ and the
other cuts boys with cane.”
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLORODYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Cut from the inquiry by the Auditor'
General, Westralia, into the expense-and-allow-
ance account of Mr. Harry Wainscot, the senior
official liquidator :
1. The Auditor-General : I want to elicit certain infor-
mation connected with the statement of disbursements
you sent in on March 18 last. There are certain charges
made which I want explained. There is a charge—
“ Umbrella, Bs. 6d.” Will you kindly explain why you
charge that item ?—Mr. Wainscot: Because it was neces-
sary.
2. There are also the following items :—“ Tips, Gerald-
ton, 15s. ; ” “ tips, Cue, £2 ; ” “ liquor, £1 4s. ; ” “ water-
bags, 7s. ; ” “ milk-bags, 4s. ; ” “ man, for services, 3s. ; ”
“housemaid, Cue, 3s. 6d. “chemist, Bs. 6d.” “Why
do you charge clothes, 16s. 5d V ” —lt was necessary.
3. Were they clothes for yourself ?—Some for Mr. Kelly
and some for myself.
4. There are also other items —“ Utensils, ss. 6d. ;”
“ glasses, 3s. 6d. ; ” and “ overcharge on luggage, £4 11s.”
What is this last item ?—Luggage, paid for to Gascard.
They do not carry luggage for nothing.
5. There are other items —“tip to driver, 5s. J tip
to waiter, Lawlers, £1 ;’’ “liquor, 12s. 6d. and wash-
ing, 165.” Is it usual to charge washing- in your travel-
ling?—Most certainly. You must have washing done.
You cannot go all round these fields without. One has to
go round the circuit, and just fancy, can anyone pack
enough linen to last him the whole time he is travelling
the circuit? Allow me also to point this out : I ought to
have charged more than what is mentioned there. I
destroyed two or three suits of clothes on that journey.
Why should I have to provide new clothes for the benefit
of the service ?
6. Then come the items —“Tip at Menzies, 55.” ; “ tips,
Coolgardie, £1 45.” ; “driver, Niagara, 55.” washing,
£1 10s. 9d.” ; “ tips, 45.” ; “ medicine, 4s. 6d.” Is it usual
to charge medicine in your travelling expenses? —Most
certainly. If a man is sick, and his sickness is caused
through travelling, he ought to be repaid the amount
paid for medicine.
€77'c
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address— 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
OUR NEW WILD BOAR’S TUSK
BROOCH,
r\ With Chain & Bell Pendant,
' Silver-mounted, 5s 6d.
Gold-mounted, 14s.
iM
-*vr..x
Our GOLD NOVELTY BROOCH, 18s 6d.
With Octagon Amethvst and Pearl Bird.
%...-K ! !iI
GOLD AMETHYfcx HEART BROOCH,
13s Cid.
3
GOLD 2-BAR PEARL BROOCH,
9c., 10s 6d ; 15c., 17s 6d.
16c., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 255;
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
NEW GOLD BIRD BROOCH, 8s 6d,
With Looped Chain to Heart, 9s 6d.
ALL GOODS FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
9c., 23s 6d ; Plain, 225.
15c., 37s 6d.
Silver, 5s pair.
SOLID PLAIN FLAT.
9-oarat, 17s 6d. 20s, 255.
16-carat, 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, ss.
9c., 23s 6d ; Plain, 225.
15c., 42s 6d.
Silver, 5s pair.
9-carat, 13s 6d pair.
15-carat, 27s 6d pair.
Silver, 3s 6d pair.
PLEASE SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SLIPS OF VERY LATEST LONDON NOVELTIES.
Any NAME or MOTTO,
9c., 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
Raised Gold Letters,
5s extra.
18c. HALF-HOOP.
6 fine Diamonds, £7 10s.
Smaller stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 fine Diamonds, with
3 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals,
or Pearls, £3, £4, £6.
5 lovely Opals, 465, 60s, 60s.
(DI3
18c. TABLET.
1 fine Diamond, with
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
27s 6d.
3 fine Diamonds, 50s.
18c. TWO-HEART.
1 fine Diamond, with
1 Ruby or Sapphire, 355.
2 fine Diamonds, 455.
15e. LITTLE GEM.
Ruby, Opal, or Sapphire,
21s.
REAL AMETHYST BUTTON HOOKS, 2s 6d EACH.
REAL AMETHYST HEART PENDANT, 2s 6d EACH.
SOLID GOLD
Faith, Hope, and
Charity
PENDANT, 5s ea.
With Pin and
Chain, 8/6.
OUR NEW
TWIN
BIRD
BROOCHES.
Plain Gold,
7s 6d pair.
With two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d pair.
NEW GOLD HORSE
AND STIRRUP
PENDANT, 13s 6d.
Ask for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.
R.OYA.L WA.RR.A.TSTT OF AFFOIKTTMTEnNTT TO “THE QXJEEU.”
A&k for
Wl>i&ky ai)d
‘Scbwcppe
SCHWEPPES
SODAWATER, &c.
Ask for
Braody a t)d
‘Scbwcppc’
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DA.PTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near SYDWEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
cr
FINE SILVER.
e«j|
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWARKA”
. . BKAND OP. .
SOFT LEAD.
■lrcliasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEF
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


N £rr RaSSn)(iSSci)’S AlfaliQe Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Slood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
A. Few of Them.
- 4.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving- of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen. —Dear
Sir,—l think,it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I'shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. —I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing- your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a, wreck through inremperanee, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It is with great pleasure I inform you that
lam a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks.—l am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting- no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of mv friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas. —“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. — “ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &c.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefifas well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
IDission in the Herbal HJorld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING •••
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents—which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ • WARNING
Herr Rassmvssen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OE THE .
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
2>ut together in Australia.
IMPORTANT
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a lai-ge number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques cm Money Orders payable to Hans RclSSlXlUSSeil.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
LIST
OF THUS
ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERE, RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy .of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how longstanding'.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Blood Fills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flalulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking 1 Herr Rassmussen's A.LFALIKTE VITALITY FIT.T.S (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BROOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening 1 the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Hassmussen’s Head Offl.ce:
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS:
547 Creorg’e Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
KAI.CrOORI.IE Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller)
KANOWNA ... Issabella-street (next Friedman’s)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street)


Marshall-Hall’s skilfully-contrived triumph
over the Church Party at Melb. University is
made only the more apparent by the howls of the
defeated ones. The other day the Congregational
Unionists of Melbourne spent hours in bemoaning
their discomfiture, and the end of their little
meeting was a resolution to the effect that the
University should take immediate steps to prevent
any future musical professor from speaking scorn-
fully of the unco guid. It isn’t the alleged “ im-
modesty and agnosticism of Marshall-Hall that
hurts them badly. It’s his anti-parsonic tone
they object to. “ Impiousness ”is want of re-
spect for the blessed “ cloth. ”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere. *
The manager of a West Coast (Tas.) mine
recently had a little joke at the expense of a
mining reporter, by telling him with an air of
mystery that “in No. 2 crosscut a body re-
sembling unpetrified coprolitc had been struck.”
The reporter expressed surprise at the metal being
discovered in Tasmania, and suggested that it
would open up a new era in mining on the coast.
‘ Do you know the metal, then ? ” asked the
manager. “Oh yes, I’ve seen it and handled it,”
said the cocksure scribe, “in fact I’ve got some of
it in my collection.” The manager congratulated
the reporter on his knowledge and the report duly
appeared. Then somebody advised the poor re-
porter to have a look in the dictionary, and a
wild guffaw rang all along the coast.
A Run on Eggs. We can hatch chickens with
incubators, but before you get your chick you must get
the egg. A good hen lays an egg a day. We saw in a
late issue of yours that a poultry-owner was the lucky
possessor of a hen which laid two eggs a day. The ex-
planation, no doubt, is that this poultry-man knows
what to feed them on. He has evidently paid a visit to
our Melbourne or Sydney warehouses, bought one of our
new green bone-cutters, and gets two from one. M‘LEAN
BROS. & RIGG LTD. have still a few of these egg-
producing mills for sale. Buy one before too late.*
The Bulletin breathlessly clips this from
Sydney E. News :
It may be mentioned that the steamer Airlie, notwith-
standing the heavy rain experienced yesterday, was to-day
in the pink of condition. This state of affairs is due to
the watchful care of Mr. Powell, chief officer, and Mr.
Marshall, second officer.
‘‘ There is some talk of forming a Society
for the Prevention of Dogs Scratching up the
Public Streets.” —Gallymont correspondent of
Carcoak Chronicle {N.S. W.).
“When the pigs begin to fly.” Rouge-
mont again (the Wide World Magazine) :
One day I decided to go and explore one of the islands,
in search of wombats, whose skins I wanted to make into
sandals for myself. I knew that wombats haunted the
islands in countless thousands, because I had seen them
rising in clouds every evening at sunset.
What sort of bats ? Why, wom-bats ! But not a
word about the bandicoot bird or the long-winged
goanna.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Whilst a troop of Australian Horse out
Mudgee way was resting after drill, a private,
running his charger alongside one of the officers,
lighted his cigarette from that of his superior.
The latter took this in good part, but said : “ In
the British army you could not have done this,
Harry.” “ Right you are,” was the prompt reply,
“ but in the British army you would not be an
officer.” —Coonamble paper.
Amusements.
ITER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
THE DRAMATIC EVENT OF THE YEAR !
■Every Evening, at 8; Wednesday Matinees, at 2.
The Romantic Play,
UNDER THE RED ROBE.
JULIUS KNIGHT as GIL DE BERAULT.
ADA FERRAR as RENEE.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—5s., 3s., 2s., and Is.
T»ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction M. B. Curtis.
EVERY EVENING! and Matinee Saturday.
DANTE, The Great Juggling Genius.
Now filling this sumptuous Theatre to its
utmost capacity every night.
The Great DANTE BOOM. Sydney season extended
One Mouth in consequence of the Great Success.
PRICES—3s., 2s., Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Miss Katherine Russell
(Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
Business Manager ... Mr. George Buller.
Enthusiastic Reception oi Alfred Dampier.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING !
Emphatic Success of the Great Drury Lane Drama,
Duchess of Coolgardie
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING 1
Admission—Dress Circle, 3s ; Stalls, 2s ; Family Circle,
Is; Gallery, Sixpence.
IJ1HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
To-night and Every Evening!
MA<S<al€ MOOR€
Supported by Mr. H. R. ROHE UTS and Specially
Selected Company, including Mr. HARRY LESTON.
The Latest London Success, a Farcical Comedy, in 3 acts,
■A. Prodigal Father.
PRICES—3s., 2s., and Is. ... Box Plan at Elvy’s.
mOWN HALL, SYDNEY. ~
“■ Sole Lessee and Director ... Philip Newbury.
Next Saturday, at 8 o’clock.
I/- TH€ “POPS.” I/-
... A MAGNETIC PROGRAMME . . .
Miss ITarrie Lipman, Mr. Gooud, Miss Maud Dalrymple,
Mr. Rodda Perry (male alto), Mr. Tralford Foster, Mods
Wiegand, Madama Spada, Mr. Philip Newbury, and the
Marvellous BIOGRAPHE.
Plan at Paling’s. Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
TO-DAY (SATURDAY) MATINEE.
A GREAT and GENU'NE SUCCESS Achieved by
MiSS FL0RRI6 W€ST
(THE DAZZLE R).
Mdlle. CORA CASELLI, D. H. CASTON, The BOVIS
BROTHERS, SISTERS TERRY, FOREMAN and
FANNAN, POPE and SAYLES, FANING and
DEVOE, and our Grand Double Company.
Plan at Paling’s, George-st.reet, from 10—5.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Mr. FRED. POPLAR. Miss KITTY WAGER
LAST 2 NIGHTS \ Mr. GEO. BEAUCHAMP.
LAST 2 NIGHTS / Mr. GEO. H. WOOD.
Miss Peggy Pryde Miss N- Wilson
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. WALLACE KING.
|3P“ PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musqrovb.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING 1 *
The Enormously Popular Comic Opera,
1 LA P 0 U P € €.”
Interpreted by the Full Strength of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as Usual. ... Box Plan at ALLAN’S.
Australian metropolitan [ife Assurance Co.,
LIMITED.
THIRD ANNUAL REPORT.
Revenue Account for Year ending 18th August, 1808.
£ s. d.
Premiums (no re-assurance) 5508 18 0
Interest and Rent 907 3 2
Transfer and Office Fees 3 11 5
Calls on Shares 2892 19 6
£9312 12 1
Claims under Policies (no re-assurance)
Government Taxes
Dividends to Shareholders
Expenses of Management—
Procuration of New Business
and Commission £2067 2 3
Salaries, Medical, Directors,
Refunded Premiums (cases declined) ...
Written off Office Furniture
~ Investment Account
Balance o I Revenue Account
£ s. d.
750 12 10
45 0 0
194 4 0
4176 8 3
27 7 2
2 0 0
6 10 0
4111 9 10
£9312 12 1
Balance Sheet.
LIABILITIES.
Subscribed Capital ...
Less Uncalled
Capital Paid-up
Assurance Fund
Advanced by Director ...
Unclaimed Dividend ...
v
£ s. d. £ a. d.
12,000 0 0
7,000 0 0
... 5,000 0 0
... 13,217 5 9
... 1,500 0 0
... 1 10 0
£19,718 15 9
ASSETS.
d.
0
0
0
0
7
2
0
0
10
2
TERENCE J. HAROLD, Managing Director. JOHN URE, M.D., Director.
I have examined the Books, Accounts, and Vouchers of the Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Company,
Limited to 18th August, 1898, and certify that the above Accounts are in accordance therewith. I have also in-
spected all securities held by the Company, and found same oorrect.
FELIX Lu. EVANS, Auditor.
Brisbane, 24th October, 1898
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
SPORTIN6 Lire.
Instant and Cyclonic Success of this newest narrativ e of
Sport and Sensation, illumined by Scenic Splendour.
Enthusiastic Reception of Mr. and Mrs. HOLT and
their Brilliant Dramatic Organisation.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Lessee ... Erskine Scott.
Every Evening! Every Evening!
The Immensely Popular and Realistic Drama,
“TH€ : K€LLY : <snN<s.”
Beautiful Waterfall Scene (Real Water).
Under the Staffs Management of Mr. John Wallace.
POPULAR PRICES !— 2s., One Shilling, and 1300 Seats
at SIXPENCE.
IJOU THEATRE, MEL GO URN E.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING!
Tl)€ Brotigb Coipcdy Coy.
First Production in Australia of
“THE LIA.RS.”
An original comedy, in 4 acts, by Henry Arthur Jones.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Glen’s.
The Hot Weather
and a Malarial Climate
generate
FEVER AND AGUE,
Clements Tonic
RESCUES & RECUPERATES
A MAN REDUCED TO SKIN AND BONE.
(bt ottr special reporter.)
Having received information of the
singular success of Clements Tonic in curing
Mr. K. S. Gibb of intermittent fever, and
general debility arming out of that com-
plaint, our special reporter called on the
late sufferer at his residence, No. 21 Francis-
street, Sydney. Mr. Gibb was in, and said
he would be pleased to furnish full
Particulars of His Illness
and the manner in which Clements Tonic
expelled it from his system.
“Avery obstinaieand difficult complaint
to deal with is this fever,” said Mr. Gibb,
in answer to a question put to him by the
reporter; “not so much the illness itself,
but its after consequences are to be
dreaded.”
“Will you be good enough to tell me
where and how you first contracted this
disease ?”
“Certainly I will. It was in Queensland,
800 odd miles up country from Brisbane,
and in a malarial district. Almost any
country in that latitude is malarial, if there
is plenty of water about. I was a store and
book-keeper on a large sugar plantation in
the Northern District of Queensland, which
is somewhat low and marshy. Unfortu-
nately, being new to the district, and not
taking proper precautions against the night
air,
I Contracted Fever and Ague.
I was forced to go to bed immediately. It
was no use fighting against it. Everynow and
again I got a shivering fit, which made me
shake like an
Old Man with the Palsy.
Then would come a state of high fever,
when my temperature would goup atquitean
alarming rate. The local doctor lived some
distance off, but drove over to see me and
ordered me the usual medicines, including a
large quantity of quinine. He also gave
very special directions as to my diet and
general treatment.”
“ How did you get on?”
“ Well, as you see, the fever didn’t kill
me, but it left me in
A Very Bad State.
I got over the first heat of the disease, but
the second stage of my illness was worse
than the first, and I was a
Victim to General Debility.
I was so thin and weak that it was
quite as much as I could do to move my
limbs. I had taken so much quinine that I
positively couldn’t take any more—it made
me sick and gave me an intense headache
and drumming in the ears. Everyone up
there had a different remedy to recommend
me. but none were of any use. I tried hot
baths with plenty of eucalyptus leaves
soaked in the water. I tried gentian,
cardamoms, and nux vomica ; and perhaps
some of these things might have strung me
together for a little time, but they were of
No Lasting Benefit.
When the fever had left me I thought
myself convalescent, and expected to
have had an appetite. But just the
contrary was the case; I had to force
myself to eat, and just lie on the bed staring
at the ceiling with no hope or desire for
anything, and without sufficient strength to
Brush a Fly Away
from my face.”
“ What did the medical man say ?”
“ He said mine was a very long and pain-
ful case, and as soon as I was better, I ought
to go away to a hilly district for a change
of air One day an old bushman who came
to see me, offered to tell me oisoinething that
would give me an appetite ; he said he had
Known it Pull a Man To-
gether when Nothing Else
Would do Him any Good.
At the time I took little interest in any-
thing, but I had just enough curiosity to
ask him what it was. He didn’t tell me
then, but next day he brought me half
A Bottle of Clements Tonic.
He told me how to take it, and gave me the
first dose himself.”
“ Did you notice anything ?”
“ No, I didn’t, for I forgot all about it.
But my friend came next day, and asked me
how I felt, and I had to tell him that I had
forgotten to take any more of the medicine.
‘You Look a Little Brisker,
anyhow,’ he replied, and I certainly did feel a
trifle brighter. He then took a parcel and
placed it on the table by the bedside. It con-
tained half-a-dozen bottlesof Clements Tonic,
which he had taken the trouble to get
expressly for me. ‘ Now,’ he said, ‘ I hope
you won’t have to take the lot, but there
"he bottles are if you should require them.’”
“ How did you get on?”
“From that moment
I Took No Other Medicine,
nor did I try any of the ‘local treat-
ments,’ as I used to call them, which
were continually being recommended to me
1 think I told you I was little else than
Skin and Bone.
Well, after a few doses of Clements
Tonic I started to eat. I didn't seem
able to get enough of anything, as the
people round me were afraid to give me too
much at a time, owing to my great weak
ness. 1 began to
Feel Quite Cheerful,
too, and took a lively interest in the news-
papers. Whole nights I had used to lie awake,
but now I slept like a top from 10 o’clock to 8
o’clock the next morning. I was able to
get up and
Walk Short Distances,
and a marked improvement was noticed in
me every day. The way 1 put on flesh was
wonderful. People who saw me said miiK
was a case of
The Quickest Recovery
from the after effects of fever that they had
seen, and thesame people had prophesied that
I wouldn’t get well for a year or two, but
they were all wrong. In two or three
months I was knocking about the plantation,
and getting fatter and
Stronger Djiy by Day.
I told them what had cured me. I don t
know what is in Clements Tonic, butit seems
a thorough
Specific Against Fever,
ind it pulls one round wonderfully quiokly
when quinine and other drugs usually
used for that complaint have no effect.
“ I suppose you have no objection to your
case being made public ?”
“Oh, no, none at all, and I think that
steps should be taken to inform po°Pj®. 111
marshy districts of the protective qua.lit ref
of Clements Tonic, and that it should be
supplied by the squatters to - -,
All Ailing Station Hands.”
Our reporter then, having thanked Mr.
Uibb for his courtesy, took his leave.
•elated at Sydney, thto 18U) d# o/ April, UM
beleie ate, 0. 8, IOLBT, J.P«
EVENING IN THE BUSH.
The sun is slowly sinking- in the west,
A mellow radiance fills the evening sky—
And clear from yonder mountain’s distant crest
The Jabberwock gives forth his plaintive cry.
The wombats, rising quickly into view,
Soar to the summits of the forest trees,
Where, in her nest, the gentle kangaroo
Guardeth the eggs her nimble foes would seize.
The oof-bird sitting on a golden reef
Sings loud of “ Debs,” and “ Prefs” and oountless gain,
While with a swiftness almost past belief
Fleet-footed parrots gallop o’er the plain.
The gentle boomerang with placid eye
Crops thoughtfully the dazzling azure mead •
And wallabies with eroakings seaward fly
To catch the larrikins on which they feed.
The octopus from out his leary lair
Makes twilight hideous with his fearsome howls.
And generally does his best to scare
The basking shark and other tender fowls.
Perhaps you’ll ask me how I came to know
About these wond’rous things I haven’t seen ;
I simply ask you, if you do, to go —
Well, somewhere else where I have never been.
LONDON E. NEWS.


TEDIIS
A. H. MOORE & 00.
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYDNEY
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Beduced Price List.
The SLASHING Racquet 15/-ea.
The CHAMPION Racquet 15/- ~
The PERFCT Racquet 20/- „
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- „
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet 30/- „
Repairs, (id. String.
RACQUETS RE-STRUNG,
From 6s.
The UNI Tennis Ball,
12s. per Dozen.
This is tile Rest Bail obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz 9/6
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... 5/6
Red Enamelled, per doz 7/6
Hotels.
&T Poverty fointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
KTortto. Queensland.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
" of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to he obtained from J. W.
Missing Friends. ___
IN THE ESTATE OF SUSANNAH
FISHER BOBY, Deceased.
If C. W. E. BOBY, born at Lyttelton, N.Z.,
in 1852, will apply at the office of the undersigned
he will hear of something very much to his
advantage.
W. H. QUICK, Solicitor,
Wellington, New Zealand.
AN AUSTRALIAN AGENCY.-HOLDS-
WORTH & CO.’S Missing Friends and
Next-of-Kin Agency traces missing persons, in-
vestigates claims of next-of-kin, obtains copies of
wills, letters of administration, certificates of
births, marriages, deaths, etc., etc., and makes
general searches and inquiries.
Offices : 101 SWANS!ON STREET (oppo-
site Town Hall), MELBOURNE.
Publications, etc.
MRS. MACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s, 6d.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestio
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n-
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
IAMOND SONG BOOK
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bonnd
together between the covers of one book. National Songs
of every Country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC, COMIC,
SENTIMENTAL, and other songs. Many old-time favour-
ites long since out of print, priceless on account of tender
memories, and cannot be had elsewhere. Complete list of
the Songs for a Stamp. This wonderful book will be sent (post paid)
throughout Australasia for 2s. 6d, from ANGLO AMERICAN
PUBLISHING CO., Commercial Chambers, Sussex Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. Stamps 2d. extra. Agents wanted for this and other Fast
Sell mg Books. Mention this paper when writing.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS!
"FTAVING devoted special attention to the Second-hand
Book trade, I have in stock at present nearly all the
Books Prescribed for the Junior, Senior Matriculation
First, Second and Third year course examinations for
1899 and 1900. Special attention is drawn to students
and teachers that they can be purchased from me at
nearly one-half of their published price, namely—Abbott’s
Via Latina, 3/6 for 2/6 ; Ransome’s History 3/6 for 2/6 ;
Geikie’s Physical Geography, 4/6 for 3/- ; Hughes’ Class
Book Modern Geography, 3 6 for 2 - ; Geikie’s Class Book
of Geology, 4/6 for* 3 - ; Abbott’s How to Parse, 3 6 for
2/-: Todhunter’s Algebra, 2 6 for 1/6 ; Hall and Knight’s
Algebra, 4 6 for 3/ ; Hall and Stevens’ Euclid, 4/6 for 3, - ;
Todhunter’s Euclid, 3/6 for 2/-; Lock’s Arithmetic, 4/6
for 3/-; Lock’s Trigonometry, 4/6 for 3/- ; Oliver’s Botany,
4/6 for 3-; Oman’s History of Greece, 4 6 for 3-; Hor-
ton’s History of the Romans, 3/6 for 2/6 ; Balfour Stewart’s
Physics, 4/6 for 3 - ; Otto’s German Grammar, 5'- for 3/-;
Lodge’s Modern Europe, 7/6 for 5/6; and hundreds of
others too numerous to mention. By post, 3d. extra
E. W. SKINNEE,
Telephone, 3043.
Second-hand Book Arcade,
105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
I’rench Sybil), 2s.
. LETTERS,
LUVC 12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS. 3s.
SECRET
s°r
LOVERS
f 8 aokaEe
Supply Agency,
Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
£2TSend Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
Improved Edition, “ Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 2/(5,
post free.
Melb. Women’s Franchise League gathered
30 women and 12 men together in Russell-st. one
night lately to talk suffrage agitation. This is
part of what happened :
Mrs. Riekaby thought men were indebted to women for
everything—life, honor, the very air they breathed, and
the grand brains which they inherited from their
mothers. She had never met the man who had a better
brain than herself.
A Rude Man : “Dieken 1" (Loud laughter from the
chosen 12).
Mrs. Riekaby and MissSomebody-or-other(hysterically):
“ Shoo ! you wretch ! ”
The meeting broke up in disorder.
“E.F.” bewails “a failure in Australians”:
Now that we have the text of the played-out Mr.
Rougemont-Grien’s addresses, the wonder is that he was
not so plainly and unmistakeably confuted at once that
he would have had to retire instantly into confusion and
cannibalism. But the few Australians who tackled him
seem to have done it on petty details, instead of on the
broad and strong facts. Louis Becke, for instance.
Becke is the most wonderful man I ever met for knowing
the latitude and longitude of places. I believe he gener-
ally sleeps with an Admiralty chart under his pillow lest
he should wake up in the night and feel lonely. Instead
of pointing out to Grien that it was impossible for a man
to be aware of the existence of the old settlement of
Somerset on Cape York and yet know nothing about the
Gulf of Carpentaria ; and that when the same gentleman
passed through Apsley Strait and then sailed west,
he was going away from the coral regions into the
Indian Ocean (still, he found a coral atoll there
outside coral limits, never heard of before!) When
I knew Becke he could place nearly every rock in the
seven seas, but instead of using that knowledge to con-
found Grien, he condescends to enter into an argument
on the practical character of turtle - riding. Then
there’s Hogan, M.P., who (though he was never in
any more cannibalistic place than Collins-street,
Melbourne) wrote a kaleidescopic sort of romance
called “ The Lost Explorer,” and he says, according to
Pall Mall Gazette, “theN. W. corner of Australia, the
scene of the alleged adventures, is the one large tract of
the great Southern continent that is still in the main a
terra incognita to the white man.” Rot! The N.W.
corner may not be as well-known as the S.E., but it is no
more a terra incognita to white men than Hyde Park,
Sydney. Then there was Carr Boyd, who skirmished
round little matters of detail. Why did he not point out
that Grien could not possibly go overland from Cambridge
Gulf to Carpentaria without blundering on the telegraph
line, or coming across cattle-stations very nearly all the
way? Then there was Carnegie, in London, who lately
made the dashing trip to Kimberley and back through
the heart of the continent, which may be said to have
shut the book of Australian exploration. No, the Aus-
tralians should have simply tied Grien down to dates and
localities, then they could have opened their respective
year-books and said, “ You say that you were at so-and-so
in such a year. Well, just then there was a mining rush
there, or a station had been formed there, or a new lock-
up had just been put up”; that would at once have
reduced him to powder. Instead of which they gave him
every advantage, by engaging in loose arguments over
questions that were not at all vital, and left Rougemont’s
absurd “facts” unchallenged. No, the Australians did
not come out of it too well.
Handsome Nickel Puzzle Matchbox.
Exact Size and Design as Illustrated.
C ¥
r\
*
f
i 1 *
With Name Engraved on Eeverse Side
NOVEL, USEFUL, and AMUSING. Pose Paid, is. Id. ;
Extra Good A 1 Quality, Is. 7d.
OUR MONSTER GIFT PARCEL.
100 ARTICLES for ss. And A GIFT FREE.
To introduce our Illustrated List, to obtain new Cus-
tomers and make ourselves talked about, we will
SEND, Carriage Paid any Colony, our Monster GIFT
Parcel, containing all the below-mentioned articles
(100) for Postal Note 55., or Three for 14s. One
pair Handsome Motto Pictures, 24 x 10, look and
wear like oil painting's; 1 Beautiful Pure Silk Hand-
kerchief, with Worked Flowers in Colored Silk ; 25 Asstd.
Xmas and New Year Cards, sold retail 3d. and 4d. each ;
1 Bottle of Good French Scent; 24 sheets Ruled Note'-
paper; 25 Square Envelopes; 1 Penholder; 1 Pencil,
Point Protector, and Indiarubber 6 Ball-pointed Pens ;
12 Self-threading Needles, asstd. sizes, a wonderful inven-
tion —a blind person can thread- them ; 1 Oval Pocket
Mirror, in Polished Case; 1 Japanese Cabinet Photo.
Stand ; and our Illustrated Price List.
Also an EXTRA GIFT of half-a-dozen A 1 quality Cam-
bric Handkerchiefs sent with each parcel. In return for
the WONDERFUL VALUE we give you, we certainly
expect you to show your friends the whole lot, and give
our name and address.
H. POT IE R & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAII CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold b.v all Chemists.
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds , Bruises, etc .
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
moutii & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d. extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers, Pitt-st., Sydney.
KILLS AL3L INSECTS.
THE MARVELLOUS INSECT POWDER.
NO VEXATIOUS DISAPPOINTMENTS
mu
IMI
ueßrcta
mrnmw
KILLS flies, the carriers of disease germs.
KILLS MOSQUITO US, AND ENSURES A NIGHT’S REST.
Harmless to Animal Life.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
THE UNWELCOME GUEST-
WHERE HE COMES, HOW HE COMES
WHY HE COMES.
1m
Death
comes a n
unw e 1 -
come guest
to all ; yet
many
people un-
coil scion s-
l 1 ’ in Fite
hi n.
Theywre
the people
who neg-
lect them -
selves;
who, b e -
coming ill,
go on day
to day till
disease
overtakes
them, and
death that
is preina -
ture be-
comes in -
evitable.
Perhaps you are one of those people, and are not
aware of it. You have something the matter
with you, but, not having any experience, treat it
lightly, while it gets worse and worse, untimately
destroying you.
Phe wise man will at once put himself in the
witness-box, and ask himself the following ques-
tions, as will the wise woman :
Do I sleep badly ; do I wake up in the morning,
even when I appear to have slept all night, fagged
and jaded, with lack-lustre eyes and an inclination
only to go to bed again. Do I eat badly, or, when
Ido eat “well,” does my food agree with and
nourish me ? Do Igo about my work dejectedly—
do I suffer from headaches, pains in either the
limbs or body, and indulge in depressing retros-
pections ? Do I, in short, suffer from a loss of
mental and physical elasticity—that exultant
appreciation of life which all healthy people must
have ?
If to even one of these questions the answer be
“Yes,” then that man realises that he wants a
tonic —something to give him an appetite, to
steady his nerves, and to make him strong and
active in the daytime, and afford him calm and
refreshing sleep at night.
Such a tonic is Minerva Tonic, the world’s
greatest and only permanent restorative, the
praise of which is general and unstinted.
Professor Macadam, Consulting Chemist to the
British Government, writes : —“ Minerva is a
judicious combination of iron, phosphorus, and
alkaloid compounds, which will be found highly
serviceable as a tonic remedy for strengthening
the system.”
Very Rev. Dr. O’Haran, P.S., to his Eminence
the Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney, writes :
“Minerva is most palatable and energising.
Everyone who has had experience of it pronounces
it admirable. ”
Mr. G. D. Clark, ex-M.L.A., Grand Lodge of
Good Templars, writes : —“ It is most helpful in
clearing the brain, stimulating thought, and mak-
ing work a pleasure.”
Mr. Wm. Stevenson, Manager of the Presby-
terian, Sydney, writes : —“lt is a strengthening
and invigorating medicine. It is especially suit-
able for the Australian climate. ”
Also Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P. ; Mr. Stutch-
bury, Chief-clerk of H.M. Customs, Newcastle ;
Mr.' Luckham, of the Bulletin office ; Mr. Selby,
Eeldheim, Gotthelf and co., and thousands of
others join in recommending it to the Australian
people.
All chemists. Price Is. 9d. Direct from the
Sydney Depot, 5G Margaret-st., by enclosing
2s. 3d., which includes postage.
i’ll Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (under oover)
t o any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
I’rirr, I Os. (id.
Sole Agents :
lhe Result
Craig & Aitken, 680-332 Gaorge-st., Sydney
cub
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
THE LAST OP SIX.
PRICE Is.;
per Post Is. 3d.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing' in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FUNDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splend.d Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. J tress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, ~5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Hiding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Sil ts, 21 -. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suit-, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., IS/G. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Klegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 <>. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
OUR SPECIAL BELTforLADIESisI
REALLY T MARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, hr ak down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity,
bur Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing- current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK BARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELEOTRTC
ERA and Price List (post
free), y ivirig illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGEN 7,
iourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor
GENTLEMENisSIMPLYaWONDER
Drunkenness.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
61MSJJ,
The CELEBRATED and only SAFE,
SURE, and SPEEDY ANTIDOTE
TO DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form '. Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operatessoquietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WE HAVE NO AGENTS-
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address—
THE EUCRASY CO,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
D?ROBERTS’^T— -=r .£
•ttSF 8
j3SV3S/(i A/WS*
boy
AND WO V/VOS
Of £. VER Y
DESCRIP T/orf
D-ROBERTS^
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
AND ALL D/SOFDERS OF THE
STOMA CH & LIVER .
or ALL chem/sts ///r X 2/ r /EACH
BE/\CH & BARNICOTT L°. BR ID PORT.
MELBOURNE.
POST FREE
V/atcKes-Clocks-Jem/ellery-BirtHday*
WEDDilNlc l CriRJSTEIvllfjG PRESENTS
H-NEWMAfj- l75SI77-ELIZA5ETri S T •
OPPOSITE G-PO
MELBOURNE.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €ri)brocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits.
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Cnjbrocatioi?.


STEWART DAWSON & COS
RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS.
Value Unapproachable.
No. 9.—S.D. & Co.’s |-plate Hunting English-Lever Watch,
full jewelled movement, chronometer expansion balance, sunk
seconds, enamel dial, strong Hall-marked silver cases, best value
pr icurable, £4 10s.
No. 6. —S.D. & Co’s “Derby” Double Chrono-
graph, gives an instantaneous record of any event
in minutes and seconds; the movement is f-plate
lever, jewelled in rubies, fine chronometer expansion
balance, Brequet spring. In solid silver cases, open-
face £6 10s., hunting £7 10s.; in 18ct. gold cases,
open-face £2O, hunting £22.
Beware of Imitations.
No. 12.—S.D. & Co’s “Excelsior” Keyless English Lever is
unsurpassed by any watch ; it is compact, convenient, and reliable,
dust and damp proof, has very best f-plate movement, full jewelled
in rubies, real chronometer balance, heavy Hall-marked hunting
silver cases, each guaranteed for five years, £6 10s.
No. 4. —S.D. & Co’s Lady’s Hunting
■“Defiance” Watch, with f- plate
jewelled movement, engraved solid
silver cases and tinted and enamelled
dial. These beautiful watches surprise
*>v«rv purchaser, £1 10s.
No. 11.—S.D. & Co’s Special Value in Wal-
tham Watches, has best finished movement, enamel
dial, gold hands, heavy hunting Hall-marked silver
cases, and is recommended as a reliable timekeeper,
£2 7s. 6d.; keyless, £3.
No. 7. —S.D. & Co’s Gent’s Keyless Hunting
English Lever, has finely finished movement, ex-
pansion balance, enamel dial, strong keyless wind-
ing, Hall-marked silver cases, £3 10s.
S.D. <fe Co’s Ladies’ Presentation English
f-plate Gold Lever, in massive 18-carat Hall-
marked cases, movement jewelled in finest
rubies ; chronometer balance; Brequet spring;
unsurpassed as a timekeeper, £2O; also in plain
case for monogram. Warranted 10 years.
j S Lad y’ s Gold Keylesa
Watch, has finely finished and full jewelled move-
ment, strong 18ct. gold hunting cases, richly en-
graved and decorated, a reliable timekeeper, com-
bining the maximum of excellence at the minimum
or cost, £5 10s.; also made a size smaller. £4 10s
Silver cases, £2 10s.
No. 10. S.D. & Co’s English Hunting Lever Watches, contain snecial oatented im.
moJem en t S enS f Ul ?i ng dur ‘ lbi I ht y> timekeeping, and freedom from accident in wear The
Sr Hall marSd jew f lled in rubl 0 es > the cases are strong sterling
silver, Jdall-marked, £3 10s., warranted for three years. Special quality, with chronometer
imitationL^^ 1106 ’ 3 PalfS 6Xtra j owels > £4 10s - Unequalled value, beware of worthless
C°’.s Lady’s Gold Keyless
Waltham Lever Watch, with best finished f-plate
movement, patent safety barrel expansion balance,
jewelled, strong solid gold engraved hunting cases,
perfect keyless action, sunk seconds, and enamelled
dial, £6 10s., exceptional value. Silver cases,
£3 sa.
No. S.—S.D. and Co’s Gent.’s Gold Keyless
Hunting Lever Watch, has fine quality f-plate
lever movement, jewelled in rubies, chronometer
expansion balance, perfect keyless winding, strong
18ct. gold cases, £l5 10s. ; in open-face, £l4 10s.
.No. 2.—S.D. and Co’s Lady’s
Finest Quality Hunting* Keyless
Lever Watch, f-plate full jewelled
movement, expansion balance, richly
engraved silver cases, £3 10s.
No. 3. —S. D. and Co’s Lady’*
Magnificent Gold Keyless Watch,
has exquisitely finished fine f-plate
jewelled movement, strong 18ct.
gold case, elaborately engraved, per-
fect keyless action, open face, £6los.
In hunting cases, £7 10s.
t a , — S.D. and Co’s Magnificent Keyless 2-
plate English Gold Lever of the very best make,
with finest finished movement, jewelled in rubies,
real chronometer expansion balance, perfect key-
less action, massive 18ct. gold hunting cases, £22 :
open-face, £lB 10s.
On receipt of Remittance,
Stewart
any of the above Watches will be sent (with guarantee), Securely Packed and Carriage Paid, at our risk, to any part of Australasia.
Dawson & Co., 412 Georg’e-st., Sydney,
Melbourne, Auckland, Perth, London.


The Australian Ujidouis’ Fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
fPHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
- 1 - which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity.
Board op Directors:
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENYVICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman ;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211.000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
I 111 I, LMMIIM'iIIIIIIWIIHMBMI llll'l'l »Ii'IIIHI
J THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORI.U.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Soldi in Bottles, 6d., iand 2/- each.
Proprietors: GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG,
Sole Agrents for New South Wales:
TIU,orK & CO., KENT and UVERPOOI, STREETS, SYDNEY.
12-1
T»OOK OF iVATUIiE
® ' —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK TOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address:
HOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s NoVels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is Od.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s. •
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is; by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking- made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.,.ls ; post 1/3.
Deca.meron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free-Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc.,’ 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Wonien. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIB ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
HICK SIMMONS.
♦ :
New Departure . Cash Trade Only .
♦
All SportiQg Materials at Lowest CGt Prices-
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The EARGrEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS!
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
BATS. —Special Line Youths’ All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9, 5/6
~ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4/6
11s 6d
16s 6d
13s Od
10s 6d
14s 6d
9s 6d
12s 6d
18s Od
P. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle
„ F. H. Ayres’ ditto (International)
„ Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President)
„ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle
„ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive)
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring) ... !..
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring-)
STUMPS WITH BAILS.-Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special)
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod
„ Brass Tops, Brass-shod
„ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod
~ Full Size
TAN LEG GUARDS.—Youths’ ..
~ Men’s
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape
BALLS.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match...
~ Duke’s P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best
~ Wisden’s Match
CRICKET MATS.-Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney)...
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s Od
~ With peg 3, runners, &c., &c. ... 40s, 50s, 60s Od
5s 6d
7s, 7s 6d
... 9s 6d, 12s 6d
l2s 6d
4s 6d
ss, 6s 6d
6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d
10s 6d
5s Od
6s 9d
4s Od
80s Od
BATS.—Cobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6ct
„ Feltham’s ditto ’ 6s 6d
„ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s 6d
„ Lilywhite’s All-cane Handle ... v ... 16s 6d
~ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) 15s 6d
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto ... 6/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s 6d
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) .. ... 16s 6d
~ Dark and Sons’Patent Cork-cased Handle... 15s Od
~ Dark and Sons’ All-cane Handle 8s 6d
GAUNTLETS. —Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 6s Od
„ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s 6d
„ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair... 8s 9d
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s 6d
BATTING GLOVES ... 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Od
„ Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s 6d
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d
BALLS. —Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
„ Wisden’s Match 3s 9d to 4s Od
~ Compo.—Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
„ Match, ls; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ ...Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
„ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men’s, 83, 10/6, 12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Stumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT EOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
Do Yon Want a Pleasant Eveningat Home,
or to give an exhibition? The
<SRBPHOPHON€,
a most marvellous instrument ; reproduces the music
of great military bands, famous opera singers, and
celebrated comedians in laughter-provoking monologues
produced upon the stages of the great cities of the world
bimple to operate. Will not get out of order.
Write or Call for Catalogues or”any information.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UNITED
IMPORTING COMPANY,
117 Crarence Street. SYDNEY, N.S.W,
West Australian
International Mining 1
and Industrial
Exhibition,
To be OPENED on 21*t MARCH, 1899,
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to Be obtained froin FRED; THOMAS, 80 Pitt Street, STDNET.
Mum!: A Pas-de-Quatre.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
«Thank heaven, we’re off at last! ” and Fynne,
the supercilious, lighted a fresh cigarette as the
mail-steamer’s huge mass began to slide slowly
past the valedictory crowd upon the wharf.
“What miserable humbug this handkerchief-
waving business is ! ”
Mrs. Thickeredge, who was waving her hand-
kerchief, didn’t answer, and Herbert Fynne
looked as black as was possible to his demoiselle-
like features and wax-dolly complexion.
“It’s really quite touching,” he said close
to her ear—“ this parting display of conjugal affec-
tion. You don’t act the devoted wife at all
badly ; but don’t you think the farce has lasted
long enough ? ”
Mrs. Thickeredge—a tawny-haired woman of
the highly-vitalised stamp—flashed round at him
a glance of lightning. “ Farce ? ” she echoed in a
tone that told him he had gone too far ; and, as
he walked away, she looked swiftly from him back
to the grey-tweeded figure of her husband, merg-
ing now into the general mass of the crowd of
farewellers.
“Poor old Ned! ” She said to herself. “ After
all, he’s thrice the man Bertie Fynne is ; no pretty
little nainby-pambyisms about Ned. And yet—
what a strange thing a woman is ?—with all this
boy’s airs and graces, and trumpery little cyni-
cisms, he can stir my heart as Ned could never
stir it. Heart ’—stuff ! I haven’t any heart! But
I suppose I must smooth down the lad’s ruffled
feathers.”
Fynne was again unfortunate in his observa-
tions. “ Got it over ? ” be asked, shading his eyes
with his hand. “ Dearest hubby no longer visi-
ble? What an ass a man does 100k —gazing, and
glowering, and waving farewells —when, all the
time ”
The conceited simper with which he broke off
called up no response upon the woman’s face,
grave and a little stern, as she answered, with
emphasis upon the second word : “My husband,
Mr. Fynne, is in every way your superior. I will
thank you to remember that you cannot afford to
sneer at him —yet! ”
Under-breath the last word was, but Fynne
heard it, and told himself, with an inward sneer,
that no doubt she thought this the correct thing to
say; it would hardly be decent to capitulate out
of hand. He was too callow to comprehend the
complications and contradictions possible to ill-
placed passion.
But, wise in his own little way, he professed im-
mediate penitence. Pladn’t dreamt of anything
like a sneer, he half-whispered ; but he was only
human, and it was rough on a fellow to see her—
well, perhaps she’d understand him better later
on. Didn’t she think the harbor looked all the
lovelier because they were leaving it behind them?
—and so on.
» * * *
“ Good evening, Mr. Thickeredge ! Has she
gone ? ”
Mr. Edward Thickeredge—loitering about the
Domain-gates—took out his cigar and turned
hastily.
“Hullo, Polly!—I expected you from the other
direction. Oh, yes ; she’s gone. The ‘ Benares ’
sailed at noon.” He gave her his arm and they
turned into the Domain. “ What a heavenly
night!— light as day ; just the thing for—lovers !”
A certain half-heartedness about the last word
made the girl look up quickly, showing to the
moonlight a dark cspidyle face that was in keeping
with the liberal curves of her figure. “ Are you
sure you’re glad she’s gone ? ” she asked.
“ Yes—oh, yes ! Certainly ! But, you see, my
dear girl, it’s this way. She’s a splendid little
woman, and she trusts me so thoroughly that—
that”—
The girl strove to withdraw her arm, but
Thiekeredge held it fast.
“Now, don’t be absurd, Polly ! Surely I can
do justice to her without any slight to you. I
can’t help respecting her, you see —even though ”
—he ended the sentence with a kiss.
“I see!’’ the girl said, not very confidently.
“But you haven’t told me who’s gone with her.
She’s in somebody’s charge for the voyage, I sup-
pose ? ”
“ Well, strictly speaking, in the captain’s. As
for the rest, she’ll be well looked after by a friend
of mine.”
“ Gentleman-friend ? ”
“Yes.”
“ Young or handsome, or both ? ”
“What a little inquisitor it is! Young, cer-
tainly ; and, as to looks, I don’t admire the style
of man, myself, but no doubt Fynne would be
considered handsome.”
“Fynne, did you say? Is his other name Her-
bert?' Is he in the Lands Department? ”
Thiekeredge stopped short and stared at her.
“ Why, yes ! I don’t know what his first name is,
but he is certainly in the Lands Department.
Gone to Europe on sick-leave. Do you know
him ? ”
She wouldn’t meet his eye. “ I did know him a
little —three years ago. He had rooms at mother’s.
And —you were saying your wife trusts you
thoroughly. Do you trust her thoroughly ?”
“Entirely!* But why do you ask the question
as if in connection with mention of Fynne ? You
don’t consider him dangerous, do you ?—a band-
boxy, scented little animal like that ! ”
“ There’s no accounting for a woman’s fancy,”
the girl said, with her head half-turned away from
him. “Nineteen out of twenty of us, perhaps,
would prefer you to him, but the twentieth might
love him, for all that, with a love you could never
inspire ! ”
“ Why, what the dev— deuce is all this, Polly ?
How dreadfully high-flown and romantic we’ve
grown all in a moment ! You almost speak as if
—tell me—was there anything between you and
Fynne ?”
The girl laughed constrainedly. “Why, I do
believe you’re a little bit jealous ! Is it about me,
or about your wife ? Her, you say, you trust en-
tirely.”
“ And I do ! I suppose I’ve deprived myself of
the right to blame her, if she—-well, if she should
do as I am doing ; but there’s no more chance of
such a thing than of that moon going backwards.”
* * * *
“ I should just as soon expect that moon to set
in the east ! ” was, curiously enough, what—much
about the same time—Mrs. Thiekeredge was
answering to a similar question about her husband.
“ No, no, Bert—Mr. Fynne, I mean —I’d stake
my existence on old Ned’s fidelity. And—and—
it’s more than I deserve.”
“ Nonsense, Amy—l may call you Amy, mayn’t
I, now?— and call me Bertie, as you were going to.
You deserve anything the world can give; and,
in any case, Thiekeredge could never have appre-
ciated you as I do. You were a ‘ jewel of gold
in ’ ”
“ Eh ? ” sharply.
“Well —er —no! I didn’t exactly mean to call
the poor chap names; especially, dearest, as you
have now found the right man and I the ri'ght
woman.”
It was poor stuff enough—and she knew it—but
she loved him, or thought she did, and it was very
pleasant, in that quiet corner of the moonlit pro-
menade-deck, to sit and listen to such amorous
murmurings mingling with the soft rush of water
from the cleaving stem.
But this halcyon sort of thing didn’t last—
couldn’t, in the nature of things—for Mrs.
Thiekeredge had the more than average brain
which often accompanies the animalism that is
not animalism for its own sake. And, in the over-
continuous intimacy of board-ship existence, she
couldn’t help discovering that inside Fynne’s
handsome head there was nothing to compensate
for the sub-feminine characteristics that had, even
from the first, been as a jarring note to the typical
womanliness of her own personality. There is a
love that can love even where it cannot respect.
She had thought hers was such, and the discovery
that it wasn’t brought her idol with surprising
rapidity down off his pedestal. Feet of clay she
had suspected all along, but she wasn’t prepared
to find that her god was mud throughout, and the
result of the discovery became immediately
patent to the concentrated world of the Benares.
“Dropped him, sir,” said one observer to an-
other, “ like a hot potato ! ”
To which Number Two—“ Dropped him!
Dropped it, you mean ! Women of that stamp
may play for a time with a boy or a barber’s-block,
but they always want a man, in the long run, to
take the taste out of their mouths ! ”
* * * *
Meantime the man she had left behind her was
experiencing his little disillusionments. The girl
he had thought so deliciously unworldly and in-
genuous had developed an unpleasantly-practical
solicitude about the whys and the wherefores of
the situation.
“ She’ll be coming back some time, I suppose ?”
Polly Banbury asked, one night about the time
the Benares was feeling her way up Channel in a
fog.
“Coming back? Why, of course, my dear; I
never pretended otherwise.”
“No ; I know you didn’t. But—what I want
to know, Ned, is—how is it to be ? Are you goin’
in for a divorce, or what ? ”
“Coin’ in for a divorce!” The expression
jarred horribly upon Thiekeredge—a not unrefined
and somewhat convention-ridden man—and it was
half-a-minute before he answered.
“ I have no grounds, my dear girl, for divorce
proceedings. Couldn’t we—couldn’t we go on just
as we are ? ”
“What! —when she’s back? Why, sooner or
later, she’d be sure to smell a rat!—and then the
fat would be in the fire, and no mistake ! ”
“Smell a rat! Fat in the fire!” he mentally
repeated. “ Really, after all, there is half the
battle in being a lady ! Now, this little girl”—
“This little girl” lost no time in making
matters worse.
“ You see, Ned, you and me will just have to
understand each other! It’s either her or me—
and I want to know which ? ”
“ My dear girl- be reasonable ”
“ To know which ? ”
“ Polly, I ”
“Which?”
“ Well, then— you ! ”
“ I don’t believe you ! No man who meant it
would have taken so long to make up his mind.
Not that I care very much, after all—now T under-
stand you’ve only been fooling with me. You
stick to your wife, old man, and I’ll stick to ”
“ Fynne, I suppose ? ” A faint sense of jealousy
mingled oddly in Tliickeredge’s mind with a cer-
tain feeling of relief, as the girl, without another
word, walked off and left him.
“Better so!” he said. “The game wasn’t
worth the candle. Hanged if I don't wish Amy
were back again ! ”
And Amy, at the other end of the earth, had
already wished the same.
* * » *
Mr. and Mrs. Thickeredge, when a twelve-
month had re-united them, sat one evening in the
Botanical Gardens and retrospected.
“Only fancy Fynne being married,” quoth,
languidly, the lady. “He hasn’t lost much time
since his return. Miss Panbury ! who is— or was
—Miss Panbury—any idea, Ned ? ”
“I—ah—fancy I’ve seen her somewhere.” He
had sat with her a score of times on that very
bench! “By the way ’’ hastily —“ what did
you think of Fynne? Thrown a good deal into
his company on the voyage, of course.” r. . J
He looked carefully away across the harbour as
he spoke, and didn’t see the flush that sprang to
her cheek as—also hastily—she answered : —“Too
much ! There’s nothing in him, Why, you good
old faithful Ned, there’s nobody like yourself,
after all ! ”
Her good old faithful Ned squirmed as if the
seat had been red hot. He could almost have
thought she suspected and was “ rubbing it in,”
“Faithful ! ” he said, without venturing to look
at her. “Why, my dear Amy, who could be
otherwise—knowing that the first thought in his
far-away wife’s loyal little heart was all the time
of him ! ”
It was her turn to wince. Could he have heard
anything? But, no—the dear old felloiv judged
others by his honest, single-hearted self.
She sque.ezed his arm. “ How quite too utterly
delightful it is,” she whispered, “for each to have
such perfect trust in the other ! ”
“ Darling! ” he was beginning, with responsive
pressure, when from behind came noiselessly over
the springy grass a couple who glanced down as
the Ihickeredge pair looked up ; then four aston-
ished eyes gazed into four no less astonished for
half-a-dozen seconds before Mrs. Thickeredge rose
to the situation and her feet.
“How d’you do, Mr Fynne? Really, now,
this is an agreeable surprise! And this, I pre-
sume, is Mrs. Fynne? Pray present me. So
charmed to meet you, Mrs. Fynne! Let me
introduce my husband ; that is, if you don’t
remember him. He was saying just nbw that he
thought he had met a Miss Panbury somewhere.”
Mrs.—Polly Panbury—Fynne hooked -on in
turn to the situation. “ Yes ; I rather fancy I
remember Mr. Thickeredge’s face. (The wretch ! ”
—mentally—“ why, it was on ;this very seat he
gave me the first kiss).”
“Sorry to have disturbed your matrimonial con-
fidences, Thickeredge.” Fynne’s sarcastic drawl
belied his words. “ Delightful thing, conjugal
felicity—especially after separation.”'
He flashed his teeth at the husband, but his
gaze, resting upon the wife’s face, asked unmis-
takably “Mum?” and “Mum!” Her blue eye
answered as distinctly as did Mrs, Fynne’s bright
black orb to Thickeredge’s unspoken question to
the same effect.
And thus to Sydney’s myriad “Mums” was
added yet another.
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.


Correspondent Colebatch, who too-freely
wired the report of the Westralian Parliamentary-
fight that didn’t take place, is chess champion of
the province—and a chess champion may do almost
anything. For a comparative youngster, and
especially a diffident one, Colebatch has figured
pretty considerably, his first important public
appearance being as chief lay witness for the
Crown in the Broken Hill strike-conspiracy cases
—he happened to have the most complete sheaf of
notes of the “ trolly ” speeches.
When the big American troop-ship Arizona
was about to sail from Seattle for Manila, the man
who was to have commanded her suddenly de-
clined to become responsible—with a Chinese crew
—for the safety of 1500 lives and 1,000,000 dollars.
The Sydney friends of Capt. John Barneson,
formerly trading here in the George Thompson,
will be interested.to know that he promptly filled
the breach and took the vessel to her destination.
Capt. Barneson is member of a Seattle shipping
firm and is a nephew of the octogenarian Capt.
James Brennan of Sydney.
Gentlemen ! ! —You can walk into any tailor-
ing establishment in Sydney, and you will not find a
better or more wisely assorted stock of summer suilings
than at Hordern’s in Pitt-street. The superior style and
excellent fit supplied by our first-class cutters have given
universal satisfaction, and although the price of a suit to
order is only 455., gentlemen need have no doubt as to
the value being equal to similar suits quoted elsewhere at
three guineas. (A complete range of samples posted free
to any address in city, suburbs, or country towns in N.S.W.)
HORDERN BROTHERS, Economical Tailors, 203, 205,
207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*
IS THE SOURCE OF
ALMOST every AILMENT
THAT AFFLICTS MANKIND.
I
Sill
XNI
.surmiM.
Dr- Williams’ Pink Pills
MAKE RICH, RED BLOOD, THUS RESTORING HEALTH,
WILLIAMS
rftJNK
OJILLS
ALE
COPLE
“ Too Little Blood.”
ANOTHER PALE AUSTRALIAN GIRL
MADE ROSY-CHEEKED AND STRONG.
Miss Rose Kennerdale, of Carnarvon-street,
North Auburn, Sydney, suffered severely from
“ too little blood.” She says : “About 18 months
ago I began to lose the good health and spirits I
had previously possessed. I became quite pale
and bloodless. My blood was being slowly drained
from me, and I could hardly lift one foot after the
other. I also suffered severely from headaches. I
gradually became worse and worse. The hot
weather tried me, for I would feel the greatest
lassitude during the whole day—in fact, I would
toss about bed at night and would gasp for breath,
while to walk fast or ascend a hill was simply tor-
ture. Sometimes, after walking, my heart would
beat alarmingly, and I would be obliged to stand
still for a few minutes, with my hands to
my sides, to obtain a little relief before
making another start. I really used to think
that I would suffocate. I lost all my
color, and my hands were bloodless and shrunken.
I hadn't the strength to eat. A doctor told me I
was suffering from anaemia, or bloodlessness, that
my system was completely run-down, and that I
would have to undergo treatment for six months.
I was under his care for some time, but I seemed
to get little better, and began to despair. I tried
two or three remedies without success, and, see-
ing the advertisement—Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People—you can understand my joy
when after the second box I positively found my
health improving ; really, I could hardly believe
it. I thought it too good to be true. My color
came back, and my headaches ceased, and I shook
off that terrible languor. My appetite returned,
strength came to my limbs, I was able to move
briskly, and work was no longer a dreadful burden.
My health.is grand now, and I feel as if I couldn’t
be too grateful.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have positively cured
anremia, all ladies ailments, nervous prostration,
elmn.kr biliousness, indigestion, sleeplessness,
heart weakness, measles, rheumatism, neuralgia,
partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, St. Vitus’
dance, nervous headache, >md the after-effects of
influenza, dengue, typhoid, and scarlet fevers,
severe colds scrofula, chronic erysipelas, &c. Sold
by chemists and storekeepers, or the Dr, Williams’
Medicine Company, Sydney, N.S.W., will for-
ward, on receipt of stamps or post-order, one box
for 2/9, or half-a-dozen for 15/3. Be sure you ask
for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills ; it is only Dr. WiU
Haras’ Pink Pills which have performed the thou-
sands of cures, as advertised.
STRENGTH and ACTIVITY.
Read tljc Cvideoce of Those Hade Well.
Weak and Depressed.
That is the way thousands of people feel during the Summer
months. It is one of nature's signs that humanity cannot
undergo months of indoor life in imperfectly-ventilated build-
ings with impunity. Those who feel thus may not realise that
there is anything seriously wrong with them. They doubtless
think “ Oh, I'll be alright in a few weeks."
“But will you?"
Breathing daily the poisonous gases arising from impure
air, your blood has become poor and watery, your nerves un-
strung, your appetite fickle, the least exercise tires you, and you
feel —as it is often expressed —“ all out of sorts." In this con-
dition your system is very susceptible to disease.
What you require is is a tonic to help nature fight your
battle for health. There is only one always reliable tonic,
and that is
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
These pills do not purge and weaken like other medicines.
They make rich, red blood , build up the nerves, and make weak,
depressed, and easily-tired people cheerful, active and strong.
Nervous Debility Cured.
A STRONG, GRATEFUL TESTIMONY
FROM ONE WHO HAS SUFFERED.
“ Drill Dool Woolshed, N.S.W.
“ July 18, 1898.
“The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Company, Syd-
ney. Dear Sirs, —Your letter to hand to-day, and
it is with sincere pleasure that I now write to you
that I am receiving the greatest benefit from the
use of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Mine was a very
bad case of debility. I was BECOMING VERY
WEAK, and I suffered from piles and neuralgia
very severely. It is now about 15 months since I
first got some of your pills, and I have been taking
them off and on whenever I could afford to buy
them ; but my case certainly required that I
should take them continuously for three or four
months. I have been taking the pills now
for two months continuously in the larger
dose, and, thank God, I am in a position
to continue them until I am quite cured,
which, I think, will not take more than two
months more. I have got seven boxes yet, and I
shall send for more before they are done. lam
glad to say that I am improving every day ; the
neuralgia has gone, also the piles, and I am
GAINING STRENGTH AND WEIGHT
FAST. I have gained over a stone in the last
month. I have taken 14 boxes since I began to
take the pills regularly, but I do not care if I have
to take 100 as long as they effect a cure, as I now
feel confident they will. I have spent a lot of
money on patent medicines and specialists with-
out any good results, and I thank God and Dr.
Williams for the hope that has been given me.
“ Yours very truly,
“JAMES TIFFIN.”
♦
Upon parents and guardians rests a gri?at respon-
sibility at the time their daughters are budding
into womanhood. If your daughter is pale, com-
plains of weakness, is “ tired out ” upon the
slightest exertion; if she is troubled with head-
ache, backache, pain in the side, if her temper is
fitful and her appetite poor, she is in a condition
of extreme peril, a fit subject for the development
of the most dreaded of all diseases —Consumption.
If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no
time in procuring Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
will assist the patient to develop properly and
regularly ; they will enrich the blood and restore
health’s roses to the cheeks; bright eyes and
lightness of step surely follow their use, and all
danger of consumption and premature death will
be averted.
The Cocky’s Handy Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The soldier has his glory, and the sailor has his
joy,
And we’ve heard in song and story of the little
cabin-boy;
The shearer’s mostly beering when he isn’t on the
strike;
The city clerk’s careering on the “ time-ex-
tended’’bike;
Their web of life they spin it on a fast and fevered
plan,
But for fun they aren’t in it with the “cocky’s
handy man.”
Then it’s feed the squealing “dinnis,” and it’s
yard the milkers up ;
The sun’s behind Maginnis in—“Hi ! Patsy,
chain that pup!
Put up thim rails behind you, there, you good-for-
nothinglout;
’Tis often I remind you—Holy Smoke ! the pig is
out;
Here, Tiger—heel him—heel him! head him,
Patsy, at the fince ;
Hurr—hiss, Tiger 1 wheel him, there, you gaping
want-o’-sinse.”
And “dinnis ” listens gravely to the wild halloo
they raise,
Then runs the gauntlet bravely into Dan Ma-
lowny’s “ pays. ”
The carrier is jolly, and the drover doesn’t care ;
The navvy’s full of folly, and a demon on the
“ tear ”;
The miner has his “ moments,” and the syndicate
the mine ;
The “ push ” a'ruction foments when it’s out upon
the wine;
But for rorty.joy and rapid under Heaven’s
spacious span'
The chance you cannot cap it of the “cocky’s
handy man. ”
Then it’s git up, Captain—Punch, there—that’s a
coo-ee from the stack-;
They’ve got the blanky lunch there —but Kitty’ll
save my wliack;
Her eyes are black and blazing, but for me they’re
ever kind,
And in their depths a-gazing I can read a willing
mind.
Gee-off [—this blessed lurching knocks the neatest
load awry,
And clouds of flies are searching in recess of nose
and eye.
Way—woh—look-out! it’s over. Oh, condemn
the crimson hole !
Pm booked an early “rover”—hear Maginnis
bless my soul!
There are places and positions worth' the while of
man to hold,
And phases and conditions with the shining sheen
of gold ;
But, O ! the situation when I Kitty’s waist en-
fold—
I’d change not for creation fair the billet that I
hold ;
Through Labor’s ranks a-ranging find a. fellow if
you can
Who’d lose by places changing with, the “cocky’s
handy man.” ~ .
Vic.
BEN SUN.
Two Derelicts.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD known Lydia Sylvester as an actress of old
women in various travelling companies. When
salaries were regular, or landlords trusting—strong
waters moved her to confidences. These were
either bitter bewailing over a spoilt career, ending
in barnstorming, or pathetic hopes of a future yet
to be hers. But as she had never asked me to
carry a bag for her, or wished me to make love to
her, I had kindly recollections of the warm-
hearted, if maudlin, old lady. Therefore, when
the secretary of the Association told me she had
applied for relief I offered to call and report.
On Poverty Point I met a number of actors be-
guiling the tedium of awaiting engagements by
laughing over one of Ricky Cumberland’s stories.
Somebody had told me that Ricky was once a
star Romeo, but I had never met an old actor who
was not. I mentioned my errand, and the Rabe-
laisian grin died off Ricky’s ribald lips.
“Dying!” he repeated in the tone of one re-
ceiving a terrible reminder.
♦•• * * '
“It was I introduced her to the business.
Forty years ago you’d have said she couldn’t die.
There was no dying in those days.”
Ricky had offered to accompany me—the slow-
ness of his hobbling gait being compensated for
by the swift succession of his reminiscences. :
“ In the sixties I might have started down this
street sober, but I’d never get so fax without
wanting a cab. ' They’d simply drag me into the
.houses. In women and waistcoats I tell you Mr;
Richard Cumberland headed the bill. But now—-
I’ve almost forgotten what it’s like to be called
mister. I say, young man, this is a most God-
abandoned city,” he said, stopping impressively.
I thought he alluded to a highly-colored damsel
who had just passed, discharging a battery of
ogles.
“ It’s an awful city. I declare to you that I
have stood on that Point this morning, sustaining
a brilliant flow of anecdote, and not a man asked
me could I construe a long beer.” ;
Luckily, I had sixpence—it was only two days
since my last treasury—and so was able to rise
to the occasion. After we came out of the bar,
Ricky’s garrulity became intensified.
“Ah! we knew how to drink in those days. It
was that made us the men we are. Never mind
what Cassio says. Shakespeare was probably
drunk when he wrote it. I’ve always had to be
when I’ve played it. There’s something in blank
verse that demands beer. In those days the actors
drank, the critics drank, the audience drank, and
one helped the other. I remember once going in
front with a skinful to see Brooke as Sir Giles.
Knew the piece backwards, of course—had played
in it with him. But this night he gripped my
soul with Satan’s .tongs ; at his last exit he had
acted every drop of liquor out of me, and I was
.sober, Sir—preposterously sober. Just thinking of
that, performance makes me shiver even now.
Could he have done that if I had had nothing but
tea and lettuce in me? I tell you the reason you
have no great actors nowadays is that your
modern teetotal please-and-thank-you fashionable
audiences haven’t got enough ginger ; they’d only
be languidly interested if they were sitting
o.ut the Day of Judgment in tableaux. I re-
member a theatre in Geelong—then a big show-
town —kept by a publican, where a sober
man couldn’t get an engagement. Once,
when I was on the spree, the boys shipped me on
the boat, and I was landed on the pier perfectly
unconscious, with my card pinned on my back, and
driven up on a lorry to the theatre. The manager
—so I was told afterwards—chalked a cross on my
back, had me put to bed till I was sober, and then
gavemea threemonths’engagement. Ah, they were
men in those days. . . . Ranters, eh ! My boy,
you don’t know—your generation can’t conceive
what they were. They’d act your hair into ring-
lets and out again. None of your modern London
waterflies—making up with napkins under their
chins and voices only fit to soothe a baby to sleep
with. ’Spose some of them are passable —why, it’s
only in trousers. Put ’em in tights—where are
they then ? ”
By this time we were turning down a narrow
side-street—once populated and attractive in the
gala days of the boom —now with just enough
squalid life in it to supply trade to the public-
house on the corner.
“ If you had Lydia Sylvester’s name, or mine,
on your boxes you could go anywhere in Aus-
tralia and every landlord would boast of your
staying with him. There used to be strings of
cabs waiting at the stage-door for her. She’d
dodged them out the front till they tumbled, and
at last she used often put on my wardrobe and a
beard and get out through the fellows that way.
Because she used to string ’em all on and say no
to none. There was a fellow offered her .£5O to
be allowed to touch her ankle—and when he wanted
more she told him to add another nought ; he did,
and then she tore up his cheque and told him not
to be a fool. Hah ! She used to bathe in milk—
yes, and champagne.
“Here’s the place, Ricky,” I said, stopping
before a decrepit weatherboard cottage with its
verandah-posts out of plumb, and a. French horn
emitting melancholic groans somewhere in its in-
terior.
Our knocking brought a worried-looking woman
to the door, together with a smell of chops. I ex-
plained my mission, when she grew' somewhat more
gracious.
“ She’s gone quite ratty—goes on h’acting and
wantin’ to dress up. But I had to pawn the last
of her dresses yesterday. She owes ine six weeks
rent. I only got a shilling on it—a blue-spangled
tights thing. Lord knows how she ever got into
it. ’Twouldn’t go round her neck now.” She
then showed us in, down a passage ending in a
perspective of a kitchen and yard beyond, where
two dirty children w ? ero making mud-pies. Then
—to the accompaniment of a roulade by the
unseen horn-player—she opened a door. Ricky
and I entered.
* * * *
Lydia—a toothless, wizened hag, with death in
every feature—was half up in the bed, one hand
clutching a small hand-mirror and the other feel-
ing in a small box on the quilt.
“ My God ! ” whispered Ricky, “ she’s making-
up ! ”
A few ends of grease-paint were in the box, but
she had not strength to sustain her arm. A few
ghastly dabs of rouge had been all she could
accomplish. The landlady explained that the
dying woman had insisted on her make-up box
being gi ven to her; then attendance on the chops
carried her out of the room.
* * * *
“ Hallo, Ricky ! You’ve come, then. I knew
you would forgive me.”
She recognised Ricky, and I grew suddenly
conscious that I ought not to be present. But the
room was small, and Ricky blocked my exit.
“ Ricky, I treated you badly, old man; didn’t
I ? Kiss me ! ”
My back was turned to them—and they ap-
peared quite unconscious of me. I was staring at
an old box with many labels on it, but I distinctly
saw, as well as heard, Ricky’s dry, withered lips
meeting hers. Mixed up with the horn-player’s
scales, the dirty children’s cries, the rattle of the
landlady’s pots, I heard Lydia wandering on, in
and out of delirium, while Ricky, for the first
time for many years, tried to attune his voice to
tones of tenderness.
“But I loved you all the time, Ricky. The
house is full and he’s in front; he has offered me
five thousand a year, but he says he can't marry
me yet—oughtn’t Ito take it? Damn it! don’t
take all the stage —who the hell wants to look at
you? . . . Good-night, Ricky. . . . Number 3001,
Church of England department, old Melbourne
Cemetery. . . . You’ve forgotten it. . . . I know.
. . . Go and have a look at it for me. . . . Listen,
there’s my entrance-music. Lights up !—damn it !
lights up. . . . Ah, Ricky, if the boy had only
lived, I must have been true to you.”
* * * ♦
When I got Ricky outside, he made for the
public-house, instinctively. When he swallowed
his rum, he began to look more like his old self.
Then he started to moralise, and, after another
rum, to tell me a long, disreputable story of
Lydia, a naval officer, and a yachting-trip. The
old dirty lights were rekindled in his eyes, as he
warmed to it—but the picture of him wiping the
rouge off the face of the dying woman was still
with me, and I left without hearing the end.
THE STROLLER.


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; re-doring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. Ihese
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine m
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is and 2s 9d each.
a
r,
v
/*/*>
1
*
csm:
DOUBLE BARREL.
Dorothy : “I feel as if I have refused two men to-day.”
Barbara: “Why? Only George proposed.”
Dorothy : “Yes ; but when I said ‘No !’ he was like a man beside himself.”
58
YEARS
FOR
LADIES.
■W-. c. ZEXjTDIR.XIDG-'E] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 Y()|{|{ STHECT, SYDNEY
(0pp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post f rom all the colonies promptly
attended to,
iST A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is atonoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
faetured only at 78 Nbw Oxford-bt., London. ffJV Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
AND PERRINS
}
OBSERVE THAT THE
m i 4a 1 ' • -
i •'^■ -■, . ' ’'4.V
SIGNATURE
d
ri/
/ S-'
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
; *r
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
I
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAYID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
■• ; ■ . ' . u.V, * •
FOR
23 Years
Owbridge’s Lung Tonic
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
jungloruc
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No *Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, fiiore effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull,
Sold in bottle*, at I*. 1 id., 2s. 2d., it. 6 d.,
and 11*., by all Colonial Chemist*, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendor*.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial House*.
t.rrai.n.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving, full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
, ►♦♦♦♦♦ ♦♦♦♦ •
THE EU1.1.1 TiN NEWSPAPHR CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
onninnon s
Cures While Sleeping 1 .
hush mass
T33STIMOKTIAL.
Adamstowu, September 11th, 1896.
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,— Being a sufferer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
qpiigh, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the mo t effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away, and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified.
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonniogton’s Irish Moss
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, SORENESS OF THE
S&VSS SsUMpIiON. and aU ° ther Complaints
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONNING-TON’S.
Bonnington’s Pills


jgjfcgjgfHE URG'fe
SBH B MAKE#s
ESTABLISHES
1847.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting'
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS GO, LIMITED
Bead Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
AustralasianHeadq’rt’re,IfiS-lCflWilliam-at. Melb.
New South Wales Address ■
3S Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated. Catalogue Free. °n application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd,
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AN® . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
OB
e and
LUNCH RON, 12.30; DINNER, 6.30.
Superior Accommodation. Moderate Charges,
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is pet Post, Is. 3d.
Mammatt’s
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Sit
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<S>HE Abbot
WWi
%
v\\\vv
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TUB BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
WortbiQgtoi) P(in)pii)g Ei>gii>c Conjpaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) JSsIIKO. JI32SSC3IEX (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
IS®
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, N.S.W.
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. -Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
l£ept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
m
m
mm
. - ■
What is_Health?
Jf heutn at ism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Ac.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FAJtIiKR, 345 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure.
Sell Applied.
Jars (concentd.), 4/6, post 4/10
DEPOT*;
OLEAC
Sydnkt—M. H. Horwitz, 34 Pitt St.
Adelaide-Harris & Kemp, 6 Rnndle St.
Melbourne—Fred. J E. Phillips, 317 Collins St,
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much fof
ft
colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-rnaki
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
• -
Sells only the Very Bei
G all the PRINCIPAL
with
Best Articles.
PLACES
y>- '•
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the O ITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE — for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may bo made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF
BEST in the WORLD.
age;
SAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR ST
~*7E PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATES (
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
*
$
0
&
*
&
&
0 Clarence St., Sydney
Ropp Straight Line Furnace.
Huntingdon Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockhreakers
Gates Rockhreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills.
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Boot Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-Working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, &c.
Bathos
' .r- . "V /
Baking p ow j erß
INSOLVENT ESTATES of Weadon, Thomas & Co.,
Gunraakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth Streets, Mel-
bourne. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF THE STOCK :—l4 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
£B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price <lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each’
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel fnll choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latent improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced ' 7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in any size sfaof. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
\
“1“ H E LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PAN Y, 137 ELIZABETH STREET
I MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
/YGLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes fall Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/11 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Racing Sets, 82/6.
IW SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent,
cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to’date JE7, £'B,
£9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. .
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 25 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
ENGINEERS &
GREGORY & CO.,
MACHINERY
74
Clarence st.,
Sydney.
435
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Tlie Geo. S'. Blake Maxifg. 00.,
DIRECT ACTING STEAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
"W. S'. & .Xolaxx Barnes Co.,
FOOT, HAND, and STEAM POWER MACHINE TOOLS and GENERAL MACHINERY.
33. S'. Sturtevant Co.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FORGES, etc.
Represen
tative in Western Australia—J. BARRE JOHNSTON & 00.,
New Zealand—J. BURNS & CO.,
Fremantle.
Auckland.
