

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best,
Cadbury's Cocoa
14 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
R. €3-» «sc. 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPI OSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE—
-59 and 91 YORE STREET, SYDNEY,
Whole sale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briscoe & Co., Melbourne; Briscoe, Mac Neil & Co., Wellington, JT.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe & Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, London.
H
v
Over 2200 Hydro-Kxtract, rs aoui -nd at work
° <£>
<RAo<A«o
o
o
R. A. HEItVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° se mt street, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR BROADBENT’S st.aTKTven HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting*
.A»x*cL see that you get it-
PROOF
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“ COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
PROOF;
m
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
IfiHRETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
Ei. J. & D. CI7RRA.3\r,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
.Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
HOBART.
——
Hadley’s Orient Ijotel.
After all, is the Best.
//
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTIMG
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Clisa.pness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWiCI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS. N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
. Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor,
Joshua Brothers’ Australian Brandy.
Boomerang Brand.
The Report of the British Commission to the Brussels Exhibition of 1897, which has
iust been received, speaking of this product, says : ‘ This Brandy w r as
nidged by a jury of experts in French Brandies, and so WORTHY OF
COMMENDATION did they find it that they awarded it a GOLD MEDAL.
It cannot but be with the utmost satisfaction and congratulation that English-
men find that they have in their own colonies a product of this class ABLE
TO COMPETE FAVORABLY WITH THE OLD-ESTABLISHED
BRANDIES OF THE CHARENTE.”
In Cases, Casks, Flasks, and Half-Flasks.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., Sole Agents for New South Wales
and Queensland.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
THORNE’S WHISKY
A 1 LIQUEUR. THORNE’S WHISKY.
The Bulletin
Yol. 19.—N0. 955 ]
[Saturday, June 4, 1898.
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"RT APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. BRITANNIA.
Conrad’s Tales of Unrest, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and
4s ; Winter’s Peacemakers, 2s 6d and 3s (id, post 3s and 4s ;
Lander’s Lucky Bargee, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s;
Kingsley’s Prisoners of War, 2s 6d and 3s (id, post 3s and
4s ; Locke’s Derelicts, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s;
Merriman, H. S., Young Mistly, Cs, post 6s 6d; Villan’s
Machiavelli, 7s 6d, post 8s; Low’s Pocket Book for
Mechanical Engineers, 7s 6d, post Bs.
PER R.M.S. CUZCO.
Pulpit Commentary, St. Matthew, Vol. 2,6 s, post
6s 6d ; Tomes’s Dental Surgery (new edition), I4s, post 15s;
Nevi'nson’s Thirty Years’ War, 4s, post 4s 6d ; Arniitage-
Smith, Freetrade .Movement, 2s 6d, post 3s ; Beresford and
Wilson’s Nelson and his Times, 10s 6d, post 11s 6d;
Astrup’s With Peary Near the Pole, 10s 6d, post 11s 6d ;
Bloundelle-Burton, Across the Salt Seas, 2s 6d and 3s 6d,
post 3s and 4s ; Rutherford’s Life of William Moon, ss,
post 5s Gd ; Stott’s Missionary Work in China, 3s Gd, post 4s.
UNDER LIFE’S CHANGING SKY :
A Tale of the Early Days. By J. Campbell Browne.
Wrapper, 6d, post free Bd.
THE BOOK OF DIET, by Dr. Philip Muskett, author of
“ The Art of Living in Australia,” “ Feeding and
Management of Australian Infants,” <fcc. Wrapper, 2s 6d,
post 3s. _______
GEORGS ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
G. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
„ George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to sendees) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
Ask
for
Cameos!
will]/
s=:
CICIIRETIP
The flag under which reigns supreme-
PEACE! CONTENTMENT! HAPPINESS!
THE BED PAGE.
“The Outcast of the Islands ” is a story of the
Malay archipelago, 20 or 30 years ago. Peter
Willems, the chief character, is the most dramatic
figure Conrad has yet described or created. He
is a man proud of himself, and of his position as
confidential-clerk to an important Dutch trader
at Macassar. In a moment of intellectual weak-
ness, he helps himself to his employer’s money;
is found out, and contemptuously discharged.
His half-caste wife jeers him ; the thought of his
social fall is insupportable ; and he is on the point
of suicide when his first patron, Captain Lingard,
takes him away to Borneo. Lingard is a tender-
hearted old sea-dog, of immense local repute as
trader and navigator ; and to his pet trading-place,
a river so difficult of entrance that he has hitherto
defied competition, Willems is brought. When
Lingard leaves, exhorting patience, Willems
quarrels with Almayer, Lingard’s jealous
agent. His empty life so weakens white pride
that he is caught by intoxicating passion for a
Malay girl, Aissa. The Malays and Arabs work
upon this passion to induce Williams to betray
Lingard’s secret river-entrance ; and the old man,
returning with Willems’s wife and projects for his
rehabilitation, becomes Willems’s bitter enemy.
The sweetness is gone from Aissa, and Willems
sees his position with horror. He purposes flight
with his wife—who represents for him regained
manhood, self-respect, civilised status —but is
shot by the jealous Aissa. So the book ends.
“ Almayer’s Folly ” introduces some of the same
characters at a later day. The plot revolves round
Lingard’s agent, Almayer, whose stupidity and
selfishness helped to. drive Willems to his tragic
fate. Almayer also is Dutch, and he endures
Bornean exile for the sake of his half-Malay
daughter, the idol of his heart. She loves him,
but her instincts as woman and savage draw her
irresistibly to fly with Daln, a Malay prineelet.
Almayer dies miserably.
* * * *
If in these stories the author has had a definite
aim, it was to present a picture of the semi-savage
life of the Archipelago at the point of contact
with white races. He has succeeded splendidly.
But the sombre note is personal to Conrad. His
atmosphere of gloom never alters ; all his paths
tend to disaster. Even his language has a grave
and sighing cadence : the picture is black against
a background of grey. This is comment merely,
not complaint; for an author chooses what aspect
of his subject he will, and Conrad has chosen to
show what is probably the dominating aspect.
But, after all, one sees in life what one looks to
see. The melancholy in Conrad’s books is the
reflection of his own.
* * * *
Conrad, in fact, is very like Loti. He has eyes,
and can put his visions in words now pale, now
fiery ; but those visions are always less of in-
dividuals than of puppets in the life-drama—
strange figures joyous or sad, but most sad when
most joyous, seen dimly walking through the
mystery of the world ; tragic shadows for a
moment obscuring the stars. Conrad’s effects,
like Loti’s, are less those of fiction than of poetry.
The characters come and go in the thraldom of
circumstance, and behind them looms the curious
earth, the sinister sea, the profound and secret sky.
They fade, and of them all remains only the sense
of the burden of human fate, the impression of in-
communicable grief. Like Spinoza, like Rossetti,
like all the race of mystics, these men see life sub
specie eeternitatis, see through the temporary into
the continual, beyond the appearance into the
essence, past the trivial individual destiny to the
general and predestined doom. And their books
have the flavor of themselves, are vain attempts
to shape and color and place within others’ grasp
the dreams which themselves have hardly seen or
touched, which they never have succeeded in
seizing.
* * * *
Like all his artistic kindred, Conrad has keen
sense of the color, the shape, the visible beauty of
words. His sense of their sound is dull—or he
has not had time or inclination for the difficult-
delicious task of adding sound-impression to
color-impression. His sentences, indeed, swing
to a peculiar music ; but his words are mute. In
the interesting note attached to “ The Nigger of
N arcissus,” when published in The New Review;
Conrad declared that “ fiction— if it at all aspires
to be art—appeals to temperament. . . . The
artistic aim when expressing itself in written
words . . must strenuously aspire to the plas-
ticity of sculpture, to the color of painting, and
to the magic suggestiveness of music—which is the
art of arts. And it is only through complete, un-
swerving devotion to the perfect blending of form
and substance ; it is only through an unremitting,
never-discouraged care for the shape and ring of
sentences, that an approach pan be made to
plasticity, to color, and the light of magic sug-
gestiveness may be brought to play for an evanes-
cent instant over the commonplace surface of
words—of the old, old words, worn thin, defaced
by ages of careless usage.” And Conrad con-
tinues—
To snatch in a moment of courage, from the remorse-
less rush of lime, a passing phase of life, is only the begin-
ning of the task. The task approached in tenderness and
faith is to hold up iniquestioningly, without choice and
without fear, the rescued fragment before all ejes and in
the light of-a sincere mood. It is to show its vibration,
ita colour, its form ; and through its movement, its form,
and itfi colour, reveal the substance of its truth —disclose
its inspiring secret: the stress and passion within the
core of each convincing moment. In a single-minded
attempt of that kind, if one be deserving and fortunate,
one may perchance attain to such clearness of sincerity
that at last the presented vision of regret or pity, of
terror or mirth, shall awaken in the hearts of the be-
holders that feeling of unavoidable solidarity ; of the
solidarity in mysterious origin, in toil, in joy, in hope, in
uncertain fate, which binds men to each other and all
mankind to the visible world.
To arrest, for the space of a breath, the hands busy
about the work of the earth, and compel men entranced
by the sight of distant goals to glance for a moment at
the surrounding vision of form and colour, of sunshine
and shadows ; to make them pause for a look, for a sigh,
for a smile—such is the aim, difficult and evanescent, and
reserved only for a very few to achieve. But sometimes,
by the deserving and the fortunate, even that task is
accomplished. And when it is accomplished—behold !
all the truth of life is there: a moment of vision, a sigh,
a smile—and the return to an eternal rest.
That is Conrad’s theory of fiction ; and the pass-
age eloquently represents his style. He swims in
a flood of harmonious sentences, whose waves of
words are blown higher and higher by the need
which his temperament feels of making its impres-
sions clear to itself, of transferring them intact
in form and weight and hue to the temperament
of his readers. “The Nigger of the Narcissus”
is a later and deliberate effort to make the theory
valid. It is a sea-dithyramb, a phantasmagorio
vision of strange vague sea-figures moved across a
lighted circle into blackness. Certainly the
author has realised his intention. The reader
sees the crew of the Narcissus as Conrad’s
memory sees them, through a glamor of fantastic
wizardry—“a crew of shades” who “pass and
make a sign, in a shadowy hail.” No book gives
a better impression of certain phases of the sea
and sea-life as viewed through an individual tem-
perament. And, after all, the book remains de-
tached, episodic—a section of the universe cut
cleanly out of its surroundings, varnished, framed,
and hung on the wall of literature. Mr. Conrad’s
dogma has played him false. What he has accom-
plished is a tour de force and nothing more. What
he should have accomplished, to reach the highest
plane of art, was not to bring a bit of universe
to the reader, but to take the reader to the uni-
verse. You may not see any more of the universe ;
but at least you do not see the picture-frame and
the limits of the wall.
* • • •
There are two stories in Conrad’s last book,
“Tales of Unrest,” which show the asked-for diffe-
rence in method. One of them, “ The Return,”
is spoilt by that accumulating of words which is
Conrad’s besetting sin. (He is not intellectually
profound, and his words, apart from their intrinsic
effect, have, as a rule, only an emotion to justify
them —not a thought. Often Conrad labors his
emotion too long.) The other, “The Idiots,” is
•ne of the best short-stories extant; and, though
only a short-story, it makes a more definite, a
more abiding, and a more artistio impres-
sion than the six-times-as-long “Nigger of
the Narcissus. Only the briefest abstract
can be given. The actors are French peasants.
The first scene shows the impression made on a
tourist by four idiot children met by the roadside.
Later he learns their tragedy. Coring Jean-Pierre,
returning from his military service, found the old
people very much aged and the farm neglected.
His peasant’s devotion to the land impelled him
to marry at once, that fresh hands might come to
till and care for it. Twins were born—they were
both idiots. The blow was heavy. When a third
child came the parents watched it closely. That
child, like the other two, never smiled, never
stretched its hands to the mother, never spoke,
Jean-Pierre pondered dully, with fire at his heart
of clods. His wife’s mother persuaded him, the
atheist, to go to mass. A year or so afterwards a
fourth child was horn. That child turned out an
idiot too. Jean-Pierre is desperate. His wife’s
mother, sitting one autumn evening, is confronted
by her daughter : “I have killed him.” To her
“No! It’s impossible! Why?” the daughter
speaks—
“ Theere’s no mercy in heaven—no justice. No i. . .
I did not know. ... Do you think I have no heart? Do
you think I have never heard people jeering at me,
pitying me, wondering at me? Do you know how some
of them were calling me ? The mother of idiots-that
was my nickname ! And my children never would know
me, never speak to me. They would know nothing ;
neither men—nor God. Haven’t I prayed ! But the
Mother of God herself would not hear me. A mother !
. . . Who is accursed—l, or the man who is dead? Eh?
Tell me. I took care of myself. Do you think I would
defy the anger of God and have my house full of those
things—that are worse than animals who know the hand
that feeds them ? Who blasphemed in the night at the
very church door? Was it I? ... I only wept and
prayed for mercy . . . and I feel the curse at every
moment of the day—l S"e it round me from morning to
night . . . I've got to keep them alive—to take care of
my misfortune and shame. And he would come. I
begged him and H-aven for mercy. . . No ! . . . Then
we shall see. . . . He caine this evening. I thought to
myself: ‘Ah! again 1’ . . . I had my long scissors. I
heard him shouting. ... I saw him near. ... I must
—must I? . . . Then take! . . . And I struck him in
the throat above the breast bone. ... I never iieard
him even sigh. ... I left him standing. ... It was a
minute ago. llovv did I come here ? ”
Horror climaxes thus ; the rest tells of the wife’s
death, half-suicidal, by falling in the sea. The
fragment has the force of Aeschylus.
B.C. : Justification of the charge that Prof.
Morris’s “ Austral Dictionary ” is utterly misleading to
aliens comes in Literature of March 19. “ What, for
instance,” asks the critic, “ would the ordinary news-
paper reader in London make of such a head-line as
‘Latest about the Cretan Corroboree,’ which appeared in
the Sydney Herald during the Cretan troubles in the
spring of last year?” Presumably Morris meant Melb.
Evg. Herald ; but in his airy, inaccurate way he put the
“ Herald ” merely—and Grandmother gets the blame !
Again: “The sundowner, whose very name suggests
twilight, is the tramp or plunderer of the west, while the
‘ Kanaka,’ or South Sea Islander, is the accomplished
thief [and of the west!]. The latter adores women, and is
benevolently inclined to ohildren [as Q. sugar-town police-
records show], but these excusable weaknesses do not
hinder him in his habit of pilfering, and his native quick-
ness of intelligence, sharpened in the pursuit of his ill-
gotten gains, renders valuable assistance to enterprising
Europeans opening up the country.” Of larrikin . . .
“it is neither more nor less than the word * larking ’
pronounced in broad lush ‘fashion.’” And so on.
Poor Australia!
Re ‘ Never-Never,’ Chaa. J. Turner writes from
Apis Creek, C.Q. : —George Hobler, once well-known on
the Hunter Itiver, N.S. W., took up the Weewaa station,
on the Namoi, in the early forties. His eldest son (my
cousin) told me that he considered Never-Never an
aboriginal phrase meaning the far interior, because when-
ever lie questioned the blacks on his father’s station re-
garding the interior they referred to it as ‘ Niver Niver.’
But ‘O’B.’ writes: Major De Winton, a one-
time lieutenant in Wynyard Square Barracks, Sydney,
whose name, ‘ Winton,’ was given to the bush settlement
in Queensland’s Never Never, still haunts the military
clubs in London, and has been publishing his remini-
scences in an English magazine. According to him, low
pubs, in Chatham (Eng.) 50 or 60 years ago were known
among soldiers as ‘ Never’(? Never Never), because they
never closed—were kept open day and night. Pubs, in
Australian Never Never similarly defy licensing laws.
Query: Is the Australian Never Never simply the land
where onoe the shanties never shut ?
“ Carrying your swag,” “ humping bluey,”
“.carrying Matilda,” “ pushing the knot ” any others?
And derivation of last?
Scotty : What is the derivation of “So long” as
an adieu? Dr. Burns, of New Orleans (in ’7O when
first it came out) claimed “ Salaam ” as the origin. In
the hush the general expressions now are “Be good!”
and “ Hooray ! ”
7x7: Between the lower waters of the Namoi
and the Castlereagb, the word “ brushing ” is used in the
sense of “ narked,” or “ out of temper.” Tradition says
usage originated in a oertain cocky, when angry, shamb-
ling with his trouser legs brushing, whioh makes the word
all the more funny when applied to a petticoat-wearer.
“ Brushing” is peculiar to the locality mentioned, and is
not understood elsewhere. In New England, for example,
“narked” is the word for the same idea. Slang varies
with locality. On the N.S. W. plains, say from Liverpool
to Bourke, the word “alright” is used by bushmen as
an adjective ; and it means a lot, too. Butin some towns
the word is changed into “ all-cigarnette,” and in others
into “all cusli” (? derivations). In many places the
salutation “good-day” or “good-night” is simply
“Hooray! ” —day or night time is all the same to the
bushman. I haven’t seen noted the common expression,
“ fair into my tomahawk,” meaning “ it i” 1 suits me.”
B.E. : Is the local preferetice for participles
new or Australian ? Heard a Sydney observe to a
stone-throwing companion, “ You didn't shot it far
enough;” to which the reply, “I can shot it as far as
you!” [“Shot” is common Australee.J Also, our
slavey yesterday in a back-fence confidence: “ He needn’t
think he’s going to left me.”
To Correspondents. — O’B. : Publishing item no force
anonymously . A.J.G.: Little pith; and always give
exact references for such quotes Pelican : Mrs. Foott
resigned her position on Brisb. Queenslander staff some
time ago, and is now at Wagga(N.S. W.) Grammar School.
.... Piripi: Dull’s dull in Chinese or elsewhere. You can
read heaps of such translations —and better —in the “Shi
King” trans. included in Lubbock’s “Hundred Best
Books.” “ Deniliquin " writes : Either Burns or Byron,
in reply to a critic, ends a piece with the line—“ But
damn the ass's heel! ” Which? And what piece ? Who
knows? J.A.W.: “ Omar ” too long for B. Please call
for MS.
The Australian Slanguage.
’Tis the everyday Australian
Has a language of his own,
Has a language, or a slanguage,
Which can simply stand alone ;
And “ a dickon pitch to kid us”
Is a synonym for “ liei”
And to “ nark it ” means to stop it,
And to “ nit it ” means to fly.
And a bosom friend’s a “cobber,”
And a horse a “ prad ” or “ moke,’*
While a casual acquaintance
Is a “joker ” or a “ bloke.”
And his lady-love’s his “ donah ”
Or his “ clinah ” or his “ tart ”
Or his “ little bit o’ muslin,"
As it used to be his “ bart.”
And his naming of the coinage
Is a mystery to some,
With his “quid” and “half-a-easer"
And his “ deener ” and his ‘‘ scrum ” I
And a “tin-back ” is a party
Who’s remarkable for luck,
And his food is called his “ tucker"
Or his “ panem ” or his “ chuck."
A policeman is a “ johnny ”
Or a “ copman ” or a “ trap,”
And a thing obtained on credit
Is invariably “strap.”
A conviction’s known as “ trouble,"
And a gaol is called a “jug,”
And a sharper is a “ spieler,”
And a simpleton’s a “ tug.”
If he hits a man in fighting,
That is what he calls a “plug,”
If he borrows money of you
He will say he “ bit your lug."
And to “ shake it ” is to steal it,
And to “strike it ” is to beg,
And a jest is “ poking borao ” ..
And the jester “ pulls your leg."
Things are “ cronk ” when they go wrongly
In the language of the “ push,”
But when things go as he wants ’em
He declares it is “ all cush.”
When he’s bright he’s “ got a napper, : "
But he’s “ ratty ” when he’s daft,
And when looking for employment
He is “ out o’ blooming graft.”
And his clothes he call 9 his “ clobber *•
Or his “ togs,” but what of that
When a “ castor ” or a “ kady ”
Is the name Jhe gives his hat!
And our undiluted English
Is a fad to which we cling,
But the great Australian slanguage
Is a truly awful thing !
W.T. GOODGB in Orange Leader.
Vagabond Verses.
I have had enough of women, and enough of love,
But the land waits, and the sea waits, and day and night
is enough:
Give me a long white road, and the grey wide path of the
sea,
And the wind’s will and the bird’s will, and the heartache
still in me.
Why should I seek out sorrow, and give gold for strife?
I have loved much and wept much, hut tears and love are
not life ;
The grass calls to my heart, and the foam to my blood
cries up, 7/’
And the sun shines and the road shines, and the wine’s in
the cup.
I have had enough of wisdom, and enough of mirth,
For the way’s one and the end’s one, and it’s soon to the
ends of the earth ;
And it’s then good : night and to bed, and if heels or heart
ache,
Well, it’s sound sleep and long sleep, and sleep too deep
to wake.
ARTHOR SYMONS.
Where forlorn sunsets flare and fade
Oh desolate seajand lonely sand,
Out of the silence and the shade
What is the voice of strange command
Calling you still, as friend calls friend
With love that cannot brook delay,
To rise and follow the ways that wend
Over the hills and far away ?
Hark in the city, street on street,
A roaring reach of death and life,
Of vortices that clash and fleet
And ruin in appointed strife,
Hark to it calling, calling clear,
Calling until you cannot stay
From dearer things than your own most dear
Over the hills and far away.
Out of the sound of the ebb-and-flow,
Out of the sight of lamp and star,
It calls you where the good winds blow,
And the unchanging meadows are:
From faded hopes and hopes agleam,
It oalls you, calls you night and day
Beyond the dark into the dream
Over the hills and far away.
W. M RENLEI.
I am fevered with the sunset,
I am fretful with the bay,
For the wander-thirst is on me
And my soul is in Cathay,
There’s a schooner in the offing,
With her topsails shot with (ire,
And ray heart has gone aboard her
For the Islands of Desire.
I must forth again to-morrow 1
With the sunset I must be
Hull-down on the trail of rapture
In the wonder of the sea.
CARMAN or HOVEV.


RS
mP:
e-
AND
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
—WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
m
f
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
■Pitts t«S A SERIOUS MATTER —A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
-33 J “ 1 tho“hfbi”t d^tio»o.-abuse that unfit h.m althe walks*
life, should, without delay, consult these etmnentKS't've of
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent tnac mey ua jj j
u
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verb,a 8 e of a smgle man,
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-tonewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the
which has made both fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAJN &
WALLACE.
m
In the Laboratory.
lil&L
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your faoil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back ?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the ears ?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes ?
Is your memory impaired ?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating ?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has'the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
All Trams stop at the Door .
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age thankstothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be infi-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City-
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
SLjttA
? 7<PE.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
Reseed at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 1G colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Fanner —m fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
Price, lOb. ;
or including a scries of Medicine & Advice, £l,
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYD3NTI3Y.
Tleasc mention this Paper when writing .] Cokkespondence, P.O. Box 1339.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, an
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made ali e- ong
stud, of pKIVATE NERVO US & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in Ins profession. The various .*•
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and su g
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely -.—Frequent headaches, g\aa -
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling o
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the snoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or lace, fai ™
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, tor he is no
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
£1
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dk. gibbons
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
:i:n
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, . send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of. Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All’communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or,
if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULIAIIUJN
in MenN
Waited or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit —A benefit that you feel, know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address-
k J. HINTON-WILLIS, J
pk cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melb. Jk
The modern medical institute,
41 Exhibition-street, MELBOURNE.
(Under the direction of the leading Specialists of
Australasia.
Health, Strength, Vigor, Manhood,
Absolutely and Permanently Restored.
It is a common practice of quacks and pretenders to
issue flaming advertisements and still more flaming books.
We do none of these things. Our business is to CURE
SUFFERERS. Write to us and we will correspond
with you by return post.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. 6. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came'on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that It was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
‘BULLETIN’ PAMPHLETS.
No. ll.— The Suffield Case : the Evidence at
the Police Court and at the Trial, with a
Plan of the Scene of the Alleged Out-
rage, and a Commentary on the Methods
and Manoeuvres of Botany Bay Justice.
Sixty-four pages. Price, 6d. ; post-free,
7d. in stamps.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Light a/*xcL Life. w
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address— S. WARD & CO., v
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
OH, MY BACK!
V.
A
IT PAINS IP I BEND OVER.”
IT PAINS IN THE MORNING.”
IT PAINS AT NIGHT.”
■I AM TIRED ALL THE TIME.”
WEAK BACK is a very aggravating complaint. Ii
makes life miserable, and thousands would be cured
if they know how. Plasters give only temporary relief, if
any at all. Drugs are often worse than useless.
DR. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT
is the proper remedy for all such distressing complaints.
It warms the back and kidneys with a gentle glow, gives
the muscles an elastic feeling, and cures permanently.
You will never need another plaster if you will try it.
it2T Our “ Book No. 2” gives price-list and full particu-
lars. Call or send 2d. in stamps. It will be sent in plain,
sealed envelope by return post. Rupture.— lf Ruptured,
send also for “ Pamphlet No. 1.” Address : MAGNETIC
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S. A. ; or
W. H. SOUL & CO., 158 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
itone for past follies and avoid
uture pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man \ve will mail
ONE copy KN TI It KL V
Fit EE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ ’ P 0 Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VARIC0 OELE
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address
Wm. LANGSTON, M.E.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.


TATTERS ALLS
Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart
Waterloo 0. June 9.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me ■ Shares in the above.
Name. 7
Address
Rosehill C. June 25.
50,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me 1 Shares in the above.
Name
Addi •ess
£ : s
GRAC'D NATIONAL HURDLE. July 9.
50,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me : i shares in tlie above.
N ame ‘
Address
Australian Waterloo C. July 12, 14, 15.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name__.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Price tyedaeers
‘friends of the family’
—AND—
Up-to-date (Derehants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalarge
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE ladies.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality; best manufacture, newest
design, 10/6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made
from own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 5/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
CBO «ft <>B2 tScorge Street, Syduey.
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SNAPLER,
SYDNEY and SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Years.
MOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HO VIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
[otels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tet>. ,
No. 312.
Head Office
Tel.,
No. 312.
73 HOTTER ST., SYDNEY.
Read s Liver Pills
Cures all Liver Ills . .
A perfect remedy for Dizziness, Nausea, Drowsiness, Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Coated Tonirue, Pains in the Back
and Side, Torpid Liver, Indigestion, Dyspepsia. Small
price, 2/6 per Box. Only address—
H. READ, 145 Collins-st., Melbourne.
of in-
■medy
Mrs.
“nRONKENNeSS” CUR'
Lady having cured her husband secretly
temperate habits, will gladly send particulars Of r
to anyone forwarding stamped envelope. Wnti
C. FORREST, Box 1412, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
L
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the knoiv-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRABY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheel! 4ft. 4in. high, or lower, silver dash, com-
plete, with lamps, £8 17s. 6d. SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s • Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ; Double-seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES,
70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles, 70S. PARK SADDLES, 58s.
LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s.'6d. BOYS’ SADDLES
(best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
//. ItILLIER,
135 & 137 Sussex-street, Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of
Vehicles and Saddlery, Sarven Wheels, Spring’s, etc. Send for a Catalogue.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in the
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so If you order frorh this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOB A CAIALODUE.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
OS’ Send for Price List.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Carriage Man’f’g. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
FAG-SIMILE OF
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
THE
FOR
m
TRADE
MARK
REGISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
Qju
i9<jb-
§3\JL "binJc OiA~Q *3
C U; ~&£jmU ,
t,
* £\ teX&wG
/\Z*vv
ttl<i
KOKoiPHAiR
Perfectly Harmless,_C_lcari,_Cool_, aj r. i - _ - cjyjG,
Perfectly
Stores Ac.
THE KOKO
LOOK AT OUR FRICRS !
We beg to notify customers that by buying; from us q ur SPECIAL
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu- No. 2.
facturers—not dealers.
nnr RF.NT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
t SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buekboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break a,nd lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real T leather m-
cludintr break and lamps, £26. LADIES
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
syaney
Including Splash
hoards , Silver Dash Bail
and Lamps.
£8 18. 6.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
-aVifffl’f/SiLOTIOK i. notgrea.y.doel note,„l,.ln Olyn.,in.,.ndll.
a^A6%~4"«^.™^™H3sSHS'^sWs"b«sfSs
whilst for excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is maicniess. r *. , . c ii ma tes.
bottle, «/-. This Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs and stores
S. HARVEY, LTD., 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists ana si
3HJ
THE
‘ !E»I TJLXX1 9
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should nob fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor* is something superior to any others offered to the P«'me-
lt i s specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding.
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ,
know the exact kihd of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use fo
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two > cars.
_ . i Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, s.
Price ! gi nß ie Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, s. . tra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Grey Day.
The still grey day is ending
In hollow and on height,
The lighthouse seaward sending
White rays of steady light :
A little cloud is leading
A great cloud west by north ;
Woe waits on ships unheeding
That blindly venture forth.
All day the sea, dull-heaving,
Moaned low like one who ail '.
While spectre-hands were weaving
A veil o'er distant sails.
All day with drooping feather
And wings devoid of gleam,
The sea-birds grouped together
Forbore to wheel and scream.
Salt-arms and river-reaches
Were glazed and leaden-hued,
And, haunting sodden beaches,
Went grey-haired Solitude.
The dead leaves in the forest
Sank earthward all aswoon,
The green marsh-frogs that chorus d
Had ta’en a sadder tune.
Lost loves and sins long hidden,
Through some unguarded gate,
Entered the soul unbidden
And made men desolate.
And fears beset the fearless,
And laughs were stayed to sigh,
And eyes long dry and tearless
Grew moist, and none knew why.
Gleamed red the covered ember
Beneath its ashen grey,
And some said, “ I remember,”
And some, “ ’Twas such a day ! ”
And all were lonely-hearted,
Sight innard-set and blurred,
At touch or tone they started
And groped for fitting word.
Down-cast, in weeds, went Nature,
Stilling man’s mirth and song ;
And mourning through every creature
A grave and ancient wrong.
Light fades on hill and hollow,
Night falls, and close behind,
Storm-rage and seawrath follow
With wild cries on the wind.
RODERIC QUINN.
Nunc Dimittis.
Lord, let me go before this sweetness closes,
Before my quickened heart is dust again,
One morning hour be mine among the roses,
Heryoung arms round me, her young lips astrain;
But ere I mar her pleasure with my pain,
Lord, let me go !
Lord, let me go ! My heart is old and jaded,
I cannot cleanse it of its early stain ;
The glory of to-day will soon be faded, _
Her lips will cling, her arms enclose, in vain j
Before I mar her pleasure with my pain,
Lord, let me go !
f |1»» m T> a kvr
THE PAGAN.
Satana.
She draws all men to serve her, and her lure
Is her pulsating, human loveliness:
The beauty of her bosom’s rippling lines,
The passion pleading in her eyes, the pure
Soft contour of her cheek, her dainty dress,
With all the rich aroma of her warm,
Lush womanhood perfumed, her supple form
Curving and swaying like a living flower,
Aflush with life and youth. These are the
signs
By which she queens the hearts of men, the
power
By which she makes her sovereignty secure !
But though her red lips mock me of their wine,
And that low laugh of hers fills me with fire,
As, spent with loving, in her scorn I lie ;
Yet some day she will come to me and twine
Her slender arms about me ; and desire
Will plead in those eyes that were all disdain,
And break her bosom with a sob of pain,
And her hot lips will lavish all their store
Of wanton kisses on me—then shall I
Remember all her queenly coldness, or
With kisses make her breathing beauty mine ?
T. TO F.
The Rose out of Reach.
A red rose grew on a southward wall,
There was never a rose on the tree so tall;
Though roses twined at iny lingering feet
Roses and roses, scented sweet,
And roses bent to my love-lit eyes,
Roses flaming in wanton guise,
And roses swung at my shoulder height,
Damask and crimson and golden and white,
With a curse for all and a frown for each
I longed for the rose beyond my reach.
The gold sun shone in the summer days,
The wee buds opened a hundred ways ;
Winds of the morning whispering sweet,
Tossed the blown roses down at my feet,
Dainty petals for lover’s tread,
Ruby and ivory—brown and dead !
But morning to nooning, noon to night,
One rose only glowed in my sight—
Silently, all too rapt for speech,
I worshipped the rose beyond my reach.
I stormed her tower on the southward wall,
To drop fatigued from the bastions tall,
Thorns made sport of me, red as the rose,
A hundred wounds ran biood at their blows,
The soft little roses red and white
Changed to the bitterest foes in spite,
Scourged my face with their stinging wands,
Mocked my toil and my bleeding hands
Till I learned at last what they strove to teach
The great red rose was beyond my reach.
And so I watched in the autumn days,
“ Summer is dead,” so I mused, a-gaze,
“ The cold mists creep when the night is nigh,
Day after day the roses die,
Storms of winter will gather soon
Frosts will follow the coining moon,
Here if I wait where the blooms are cast
My love will drop to my arms at last.”
But wild winds laden with death for each
Blew the red petals beyond my reach.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


JtCistrailaS) /iiitGal D *{T'T* 7 ■ f ,
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established " * BCI L v C* 8 € ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.J-LO. M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;
Esq ' * rS w ' , A , [EEKS ’ Es( b ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ;
uuftßi’n ABBOII, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A..F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income .. .. .. Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
T , ™! te l FUndB " Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
ine LASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,000.
HTead. Office s 87 F'itt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Rates i2/&day£ upwards
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “ BUILDERS’ BOON’’
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
/o i a.i ~ , » . . , cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(o-lOths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
Pd
fifß
«riK
P^i
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
your residence, get a little extra
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Adelaide.
Geo. Ross, Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water ”
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
OF PIANOS IN
Tb€ Fio?St aod Largest HCiSic WarcboCS?
THE
THE
THE
THE
THE
THE
Alili
IKT
WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO .£35
FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS
WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS
THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYD3VEY.
THE MARBLE
. . PITT STREET, SYDNEY
In the heart
of the city.
ONE OF
THE SIGHTS
OF AUSTRALIA!
Within 100 yards or less
of four leading theatres and G.P.O.
Massive Marble Columns.
Superb Oil Paintings.
Handsome Decorations.
Illumined by Electricity.
Every Visitor says : “ Do not miss The Marble Bn-
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.]
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
T™ above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical. DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; alsb
Without Plates, by means « }Bridf/en/orJe.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Chilis Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
JI e A^ fit any mo,lfch with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
OS King ■st., S v tiney
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
Ladies. —Call and
see our CHIOAP
i'l ACH INKS,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc.
S. ROWLEY Sc CO,,
ROYAL ARCADE,
opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
tm
LE
MPA
LI WITS
BIN BURY?
i m?
m
Trade
Mark
;7| n fROPRItTOdS i' l i|
wDisiaiEßs CompanylT,:
EDINBURGH. ou^*
fees'
,' " n \ •* jniM ifu/iStu
( •UU/sfl, f
< VJO fan, faC/jIJ / ■rrvuJH»/l‘* v
u.u
Drink
(Ijoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“ for the stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L.
9
THE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE Is. ; . . per Post Is. 3d.
Sydney Lager and Bock Bier,
BEST - -
CHEAPEST
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
last N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all corners.
Costs LESS than any other Lager in the market.
BOCE
BIER
is
a Perfect
Winter Lager,
Quality.
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney, in
Ins analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol.
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour
Brewed and
Bottled by
Obtainable) in draught or bottle at all leading hotels,
bottled Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld„ Moore Bark, Sydney,
Aoc. J. Mlm.li Sec, T. H. jJL*.
Facts Respecting Hixson’s Tobaccos.
1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
Yafyke? Doodle.
llie §ales of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year, Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
Cbanjpiol)-
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
CooqOeror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Bark Twist.
Cei)tei)i)ial.
Bark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Monopole, Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 955.
SATURDAY, JUNE 4, 1898.
Pbice, 6d.
1101 TO YOTE ON FEDERATION DAY,
FRIDAY 3a D> JtTND.
:o;o■
AUSTRALASIAN FEDERAL CONSTITUTION BALLOT PAPER.
Are you in favour of the proposed Federal Constitution Bill I
“ YES.”
ONE n\ aAJ -
ONE VdTB f
C? Celebrated Slate and that family o/
&
%
O
£-7^/
Aiptt-'jZrfhoid) 7*krfy for raip 0/7 /'rJctct^
“TO-MORROW WILL BE FRIDAY.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
(i Australia for the Austra.lia.ns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney, .
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ice
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To A mateurs in Til trek and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British.
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
A Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. If.
Solomon and Co., 32 Hout.-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.— W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria. S. Australia,
Westralia and Maor Hand.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynnc-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now. sent to Queensland.
TjfceTSSxzlZd&Ti.
SATURDAY, JUNE 4, 1898.
The Case for the Bill.
On Friday, June 3, New South Wales, Vic-
toria and Tasmania have to decide whether
they will or willnotgive the requisite majority
for the acceptance of the Federal Constitu-
tion. South Australia follows on Saturday,
June 4, and Westralia is due at some as yet
unfixed date. Under these circumstances,
The Bulletin takes this opportunity to once
more sum up the Case for the Bill :
(1) It is agreed on all hands that Australia
wants Federation. Even the men who scoffed
at any kind of union when the Enabling Bill
was under discussion now allege that they are,
and always have been, true Federationists, and
are not against the movement itself, but only
against the present scheme. Their past career
certainly belies them, but they say so.
(2) There is no possible guarantee that,
if Australia loses this chance of union,
it will get another. No one knows what
there is in the future. The confident as-
surance of Heydon and Want and Reid
and Hiogins and Ebenezer Ward and
others, that there will be plenty more chances,
and so the loss of this one doesn’t matter, goes
for nothing. Heydon isn’t the Deity, nor
anything resembling Him ; neither is Want, or
Reid, or Higgins.
(3) If Australia rejects this Bill, and does get
another, the next one may be worse instead of
I letter. Heydon, Want and co. say it will be
better, but, again, neither of these gentlemen is
the Omniscient.
(4) Anyhow, the nation which won’t have
any Constitution till it gets a perfect one, will
never have any at all. The best it can hope for
is to get something better than it has, and the
Federal Bill provides that. If the State Con-
stitutions (which are simply awful) were pub-
licly discussed, and carefully overhauled by the
people, they would probably all be rejected by
popular vote. If the public fully understood
the Constitutions it has got, the benefits of the
one olfered to it would become more apparent.
(5) The Federal Constitution provides for the
payment of a sufficient salary to every men) rer
of each House. At present, in New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, and Westralia,
Council members are unpaid, therefore on y
men not dependent on their labor for a liveli-
hood can sit, or, if they do sit, can be con-
stantly present to look after the public interests.
One-half the Legislative machine is thus in the
hands of the Rich. In Westralia the Assembly
is also unpaid, and in Tasmania payment is
only nominal, therefore in these two provinces
the Rich practically boss both Houses. The
Federal Constitution gives the Democracy its
first chance to run the whole Legislature.
(6) It abolishes all property qualifications for
members, whereas in Victoria only Rich Land-
lords are eligible to sit in the Council.
(7) It makes both Houses elective on the
same franchise. No plural voting is allowed ;
there is no property qualification of any kind,
and NO PERSON, MAN OR WOMAN,
WHO HAS A VOTE FOR THE ASSEM-
BLY OF HIS OWN STATE CAN BE
DEBARRED FROM HAVING A VOTE
FOR BOTH HOUSES OF THE COMMON-
WEALTH PARLIAMENT. At present the
Victorian, South Australian, Westralian, and
Tasmanian Councils are elected by property-
holders or leaseholders ; the Victorian Assem-
bly is largely bossed by the plural property
vote ; and the people of New South Wales have
no voice whatever in the election of one-half
(the Council) of their Parliament.
(8) Both Houses of the Federal Parliament
can be dissolved and sent to the people, when
they come in collision with the popular will.
At present when the Victorian, Tasmanian,
S. A. or Westralian senator opposes the popular
will the only thing is to wait for various periods
up to nine years, till his term expires. In New
South Wales and Queensland the only remedy
is to kill him, or wait till he dies—generally of
old age.
(9) Therefore the proposed Federal Parlia-
liament will be the only one where both Houses
will be accessible to the people, where they
will be elected solely by the people, and where
they will be responsible to the people.
* * • *
(10) The Federal Constitution provides a
remedy for deadlocks. If the Council refuses
to accept a measure passed by the Assembly,
and after a joint dissolution and re-election it
still refuses, the two Houses sit together, and a
three-fifths majority of the members present
can carry the Bill. This is not a perfect
remedy, still it is a remedy, and as the two
more populous provinces (New South Wales
and Victoria) possess more than the three-fifths
majority, the power ultimately rests with the
bulk of the people. Even a partial re-
medy for deadlocks is better than none.
In New South Wales and Queensland
the only remedy for Council obstruc-
tion is to make a whole lot of new Coun-
cillors (if the Governor permits), or wait till
the old ones die. In the other provinces
the only remedy is to wait many years till the
majority of the Councillors go out by the slow
effluxion of time. And, when they do go out,
the people in general are no better off; the
small gang of propertied electors send the old
crowd back again.
N.B.—The above is the Constitution which
the bitter Tories of Australia—the nominee
Councillors and the men who have been
elected on a narrow property suffrage—ask
the people to reject on the ground that it
isn’t Democratic enough.
* * * *
(11) The Lower House of the Federal Legis-
lature is elected practically on a population
basis. In the Senate, the provinces have six
members each, regardless of population. This
is the system adopted by the Federal Govern-
ments of Switzerland, the United States,
Brazil, Chili, Mexico, Argentina and Venezuela.
It has worked well in all these places, and has
never been regarded as undemocratic. Ger-
many carries the system so much further than
it is proposed to do in Australia that the small-
est German state has 44 tinies as much repre-
sentation (in proportion to population) as the
largest. In Canada, too, the smallest state has
times the proportionate representation of
the largest. Also there are in the Convention-
Bill Constitution the following safeguards:—
(a) The House which represents the majority
of the people has the power of the purse.
(b) If the Lower House refuses to agree to a
measure passed by the Senate the matter
ends there. But if the Senate refuses to
assent to a measure passed b}' the Lower
House the latter can demand a dissolution
of both Houses, and, if the deadlock still
continues, a joint sitting. Therefore, the
House of Representatives, which represents
the majority of people, has a veto on the
one which only represents the majority of
States ; the latter has no veto on the
popular House.
(c) The proposed Constitution gives the
democracies of Tasmania, South Australia,
and Westralia a little more than their fair
share of power for the time, and until
population becomes more equally dis-
tributed. But the democracies of New
South Wales and Victoria will have a
larger share of power than they have now.
At present they run one-half the Govern-
ment, and the Rich Men of their respective
Councils run the other half. A large share
of power is taken from the Rich Men of
New South Wales and Victoria, and a part
of it is transferred by the principle of
equal representation in the Senate, to the
democracies of the three smaller provinces.
(12) The three Democratic provinces of New
South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia
(under the proviso that every person who has a
vote for the Lower House of his own State
shall have a vote for both Federal Houses, and
that no plural vote shall be allowed) will be in
a position to return a vast Democratic majority
in both Federal Houses from the very first.
Any alterations in the Federal franchise will be
made by that Democratic majority. But the
provisos that there shall be no plural vote and
that every person who has a vote for the Lower
House of his own State shall have a vote for
both Federal Houses, are embedded in the Con-
stitution.
(13) The Constitution may be altered by the
vote of a majority of both Houses, a majority
of the people, and a majority of the States,
The Democratic provinces of New South Wales.
Victoria, and South Australia command all
three majorities.
N.B.—The Fat Men of New South Wales
in particular demand that this Constitution
should be rejected because it isn’t sufficiently
Democratic.
* * * *
(14) The most populous province (N.S.W.)
hasn’t enough people to make one city like
London, Paris, Berlin, New York, Vienna,
Pekin, or Canton, and it only keeps ahead of
Philadelphia, Chicago, Tokio, and St. Peters-
burg by a close shave. Compared with the
area to be protected, the strongest of the Seven
Provinces doesn’t amount to much; the weakest
is barely a row of pins. By amalgamating the
separate military departments and creating a
national army, Federation will make the best
of what defences we have.
(15) It will combine five post and telegraph
departments ; make postal rates uniform ; save
the cost of four out of five Postmasters-General,
and greatly reduce working expenses.
(16) It will save the cost of four out of five
Agents-General.
(17) It will create a uniform tariff outside the
Commonwealth, and absolute Freetrade inside.
All the costly and troublesome paraphernalia
of border-customs and customs-officers will be
swept away. By making trade absolutely free
over an entire continent (for the ultimate adhe-
sion of Queensland is inevitable, and the special
arrangement with Westralia lasts only five
years), it will be the greatest Freetrade move-
ment which the world has seen this century.
The Freetrader who is against Federation under
such circumstances is an anomaly.
(18) The Commonwealth Bill gives power to
the Federation to take over the State debts.
And, as the Federal Government’s credit will
be better than that of any individual State, the
Commonwealth will be able to consolidate the
debts at reduced interest, and thus save, pro-
bably, ,£1,000,000 a year. This will be an im-
mense reduction of the public burdens. And
against this the whole cost of the Federal
Government is reckoned, by the N.S.W. Finan-
cial Committee, at .£380,000.
mm* *
(19) The Federal Constitution leaves the
fiscal problem absolutely open, and the ques-
tion of Freetrade or Protection is left to the
people to decide—all the allegations about
“ Bkaddon’s Blot” to the contrary notwith-
standing. Braddon’s famous amendment pro-
vides that one-fourth or any less proportion of
the customs and excise revenue may be re-
tained by the Federal Government towards its
own expenses, and three-fourths must be re-
turned to the States. This leaves the Federal
Government absolutely free to pay its expenses
out of direct taxation, or out of customs and
excise, or partly by one and partly by the other.
(20) The Constitution does not, unfortu-
nately, provide definitely for the taking over of
the railways by the Commonwealth. But it
gives the Commonwealth power to take them
over with the States’ consent. It is proposed
in some quarters that Federation should be
postponed until the federalising of the railways
is arranged. That also means waiting till the
States consent. And there is no reason for
waiting. The federated States will consent
just as soon and just as easily as the unfederated
States would.
(21) The Constitution Bill provides Aus-
tralia, for the first time, with what is practi-
cally a final Court of Appeal of its own.
Hitherto the final Court of Appeal has been in
England, 16,000 miles away, and justice has
been hideously slow and remote in consequence.
(22) It leaves the fixing of the Federal capital
to the Federal Parliament—the Parliament from
which the property-vote is absolutely excluded.
But the Federal capital must be severed from
the State which now owns it, and made into a
separate Federal Territory, therefore it will be
neither in New South Wales, Victoria, South
Australia, Tasmania, or Westralia. It will
simply be a piece of territory cut out from one
of these States, and no separate State will
monopolise the advantages to be derived from
its possession.
(23) Whatever is bad in the Constitution the
people can amend or repair in. the manner
described in Paragraph 13. At present, the
people of New South Wales can’t repair their
Constitution without the consent of the Coun-
cil, which they didn’t make and can’t remove.
Also, the people of the other four federating
provinces can’t repair their Constitutions with-
out the assent of the propertied class which
runs their respective Councils.
* • * *
(24) Under the proposed Federal Constitution
the people of all the provinces will be taxed on
the same scale. All the complicated processes
by which Tories all over Australia have en-
deavored to prove that their particular province
will pay an undue share of the cost can’t alter
this simple and obvious fact.
(25) Federation is the only thing which can
prevent the ultimate dismemberment of New
South Wales. While a great part of the South
is nearer Melbourne than Sydney, and a great
part of the West is nearer Adelaide than
Sydney, and while provincial tariffs shut these
districts off from their nearest market, and
provincial railway management refuses them
nleans of communication with it, they will
always tend to leave New South Wales and
unite with their more conveniently - situated
neighbors. Nothing can make a district
belong naturally to Sydney if another big
city or advantageous port is 100 or 200
miles nearer. If provincialism lasts, these
districts will secede from New South Wales
when they are strong enough to assert
themselves. Federation will remove the tariff
barrier now, and the railway barrier later on,
and destroy all motive for secession.
(26) If New South Wales wrecks this Federal
movement as it did that of ’9l (both of which
were started by its special invitation) it will,
probably, be a long time before the other pro-
vinces listen to further invitations from the
same quarter. »
(27) If another Convention is held, with
Queensland in it, then, instead of three Demo-
cratic and two Tory sets of representatives to
draft the Constitution, there will be three Tory
Governments represented. There will be no
reliable Democratic majority as there was at
the last Convention, and the allegedly
rapacious small provinces will have more
votes, and the next scheme will, probably, be
less liberal than the present one.
The Bulletin presents these reasons to the
electors for their consideration. If anybody
has a better collection to present in the anti-
Billious interest, that collection has, so far.
been very carefully concealed.
For Australia!
It is decided, seemingly, that patriotism is a
sentiment, a tradition, one of those curious
hereditary instincts which humanity, thank
goodness ! is now fast outgrowing. Quite
obviously, patriotism does not pay. It leads an
otherwise sensible individual to peril his liberty
or his life in quarrels which, at best, can only
remotely concern him. And when a man has
only one life, his plain duty to himself is to
make the most of it—to satisfy his tastes and
appetites, to eat and drink and be merry, so
that when death comes all too quickly he can at
least say, Well, I have lived and loved; there
was nothing better—and so, Cood-night! That
a man with health, and friends, and money, and
a bounding joy in mere air and the sun, should
fling all away for a bit of rag on a pole and an
insane shibboleth—as, for example, thousands of
well-to-do Southerners did in America in ’6l -’65
—is clearly the height of human foolishness.
And patriotism is not even in accord with
ethics. Often the so-called patriot fights for a
cause which, as far as unbiassed intelligence
can see, is morally doubtful or morally rotten.
Besides, the mere fact of a man being born
upon some arbitrarily-delimited portion of
earth-surface gives no reason why he should
count other such accidental babies brothers, and
rank as actual or potential enemies the people
of equal personal merit born outside his precious
pale. If love of country be an exalted emotion,
love of humanity is still more exalted. How
mean, how narrow, looks “ Our country, right
or wrong ! ” beside Tom Paine’s grand utter-
ance, “ The world is my country, and to do
good is my religion 1 ” And yet
* * * *
Human nature is human nature still. It may
be outgrowing patriotism, but it has not out-
grown it. Were our intelligences higher or
our emotions purer, as we merge the individual
in the general, the parochial in the national, so
we might be content to merge the national
in the human. But men cannot transcend
themselves. And, as the nineteenth century
closes, the worship of humanity, so lofty in
theory, still seems to the bulk of humanity a
pale and bloodless thing in practice. That
may be a blind and foolish instinct which im-
pels a man to love best his own child, not
another’s ; to love best his own country, not a
stranger’s. Yet we trust in it and follow it,
and—bad cause or good—we are seldom led
astray. For, somehow, to the comjnon intelli-
gence of humanity, the man who gives his
life for a bad cause still seems to have more
elements of the sublime in him than the man who
gives convincing reasons to prove he ought
not to fight. Everybody knows that to shed
blood is no proof of doctrine ; but the man
who sheds his own blood somehow seems to rise
superior to doctrine. He does not really do so,
of course, and it is irrational of human nature
to be even momentarily hoodwinked into dream-
ing that he does. But apparently human nature
cannot help itself : it is built that stupid way.
And it is ardently to be hoped that, whenever
they are called in defence of their country,
rightly or wrongly, logically or illogically,
Australians will fight. At present they are
only asked to vote for their country. That is
not much, but it is a great deal.
* • » »
It is true that Australian patriotism is no
whit more justifiable than patriotism in general.
Australia is beautiful and terrible —there are
other lands as beautiful and terrible. Air as
sweet swims under other skies as fair ; grander
heights frown elsewhere upon deserts still more
desolate than ours. There is no reason why a
man of open mind should choose to dwell here
rather than among the storied scenes of elder
countries, why a man of romantic fancy should
be thrilled and inspired by our spaces and soli-
tudes rather than by the rivers and mountains
of America or Europe. From a cosmopolitan
standpoint, Australia can appear uninviting,
even unlovely. And it may be that united
Australia will act no worthier or braver part
than Australia disunited. The same passions,,
the same prejudices, will govern after union as
before. Ultimate loss there cannot be; but
present profit may be slow of realisation. And
yet
» » * *
Australia is our own country, and the pride
in united Australia will be the safeguard of
our own country. In the streets and lanes of
cities there is little room for the spell of father-
land to work ; but who is there—horn in the
bush, having eaten and slept in the bush, in
whose boyish blood bush scents and sights and
sounds have mingled—who has never thrilled
with passionate exultation that, come what
may, he is part of Australia and she of him ;
that his life has been fed at her generous
sources ; that his spirit is impregnated and
colored by her spirit; that the destiny of him-
self and his children is inextricably involved
with the destiny of this hostile, mysterious,
magnificent island? Who that has ridden
solitary in the bush through the hot day-
silence, or upon a silent night-long path—or,
camped bv some creek-side, has listened to the
strange whisperings of the she-oaks when the
ashes fell from the last pipe, and the starred
blackness closed round like a cloak—or,
wakening at the dawn-streak on a western
plain, has shivered for one half-conscious
moment with a sense of individuality lost in
the interminably-surrounding spaces—has not
felt that this country of unique emotions is a
country which a man would live for, which
a man could die for? And who is there-
having voyaged faraway ; having grown weary
with the ‘clamor of foreign tongues, and sick
for the sight of a friendly face in foreign cities ;


and having at last turned homeward with glad-
ness—who has not breathed with delight Aus-
tralian air before Australian shores were
sighted ; whose pace upon the deck has not
quickened with longing for Home ; who has
not at last been overjoyed, landing at the
western port, to see once more the familiar
flowers and trees, and smell once more the
sweet odour of Australian earth ? Other coun-
tries are as good as Australia; but others can
never be our own. And were the plain benefits
of present union to be lessened a thousandfold,
and the outweighed hindrances to be increased
as much, the glory and pride in assured nation-
hood would still make union infinitely prefer-
able to discord which is a national danger and
may at any moment lead to national disaster.
• * * •
There are many men in this country who do
not belong to the country, whose hearts swing
to a foreign rhythm, whose blood is of necessity
fired by foreign aims and ideals. It is natural
that these should look to their own individual
welfare, heedless or scornful of patriotic dreams
to which they must remain always strangers.
They have their own flags, and ours is to them
an unmeaning strip of cloth ; they have exulta-
tions and enthusiasms begotten far away, and
ours for them may well seem to have no concern
or justification. There are men born in this
country whose minds have narrowed to the
width of the city or the province which bred
them, so that they are blind to the grandeur of
the broadening horizon, and callous to the leap-
ing of the babe in the womb of nationhood. And
there are men who have so thriven by the main-
tenance of feuds and barriers that, no matter at
what cost to the community, they would destroy
any union which took one iota from the tithe
of private profits which disunion enables them
to levy. The appeal of the present is to Aus-
tralians, not to aliens. The appeal is to Aus-
tralians, not to the men of a parish or men of a
province. The appeal is to Australians, not to
calculating self-seekers. And it is to Aus-
tralians who are worthy of their opportunity
and of their country that the challenge comes
to stand up for the promise of a nation, for the
indissolubility of a race—for Australia.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Awful Burden.
The Bulletin once had some respect for
Premier Reid as a rather able manufacturer of
inaccuracy ; now it only regards him as a coarse
and clumsy and loud-mouthed Munchausen of
a very unconvincing order. In his Newcastle
speech last week Reid first told his audience a
lumbering tale about how the Commonwealth
would have to raise £7,000,000 a year in cus-
toms and excise, and, of this, N.S.W. would
have to pay £3,010,000, so that her payments
in customs alone would be £2 per inhabitant
yearly. And he added that he was “ bound in
honesty” to mention that this was “a larger
burden of taxation through the Customs House
than has ever been known in the history of the
world.” Whereat it is alleged there were
“cheers.” Reid’s honesty, as usual, consisted
in a hard and unscrupulous telling of the thing
that didn’t exist, the tale being delivered with a
snufflesome air of truth. By way of evidence,
the following are a few returns of the amount
per head per annum collected as customs duties
in various places in the years set forth :
New South Wales: (1886) £2 Is. 9d.; (1892) £2 3s. 7d.
per head per annum.
Victoria: From 1887 to 1891 the customs taxation
varied from £2 Is. 7d. to £2 10s. lOd. per head per
annum.
Queensland : From 1887 to 1890 the customs varied
from £3 2s. sd. to £3 13s. lOd. per head per annum.
Since. 1890 it has never been below £2 Bs.
South Australia : (1890) £2 3s. 2d. ; (1891) £2 3s. lid.
Tasmania: From 1887 to 1892 the lowest figure was
£2 Is. Bd. per head; the highest, £2 10s. lid. Is still
above £2.
Maoriland : Since 1886 the lowest customs revenue has
been £2 2s. lid. per head per annum ; the highest,
£2 11s. 6d.
Westralia : Lowest customs revenue in last 11 years,
£3 13s. 4d. per head per annum ; highest about £7 10s.
Present amount, over £5 per head per annum.
The Seven Provinces combined paid (in 1887) £2 3s. Id.
per head in customs duties ; (1888) £2 6s. 9d. per head ;
(1889) £2 6s. 6d.; (1890) £2 4s. lOd. ; (1891) £2 4s. Bd. ;
(1892) £2 4s. Id. per head.
The moral of which figures (all taken from CoGH-
lan’s “ Seven Colonies ”) is that the alleged cus-
toms tax of £2 per head per annum, if the exigen-
cies of the Commonwealth should require it, is
not a crushing impost, but one which most of
the Seven Provinces endure constantly without
noticing the burden. Also, it isn’t a larger
burden of Customs taxation “than has ever
been known in the history of the world,” but
an affair of the commonest occurrence. Further,
Premier Reid, despite his sham aspect of
moderation, is merely one of the ordinary
crowd of slanderers who are deceiving the
people with bogus statements and bogus
horrors in the interests of Provincialism. And
when the same politician tells the people about
the other alleged evils and dangers of the
Federal scheme they had better measure his
reliability by the above stupendous misrepre-
sentation and judge the rest of his facts ac-
cordingly. Reid’s “ honesty ”is calculated to
make any decent person feel sick.
4.
Heydon’s Muddled Tale.
L. F. Heydon at Narrabri (N.S.W.), as re-
ported in Sydney Telegraph
Mr. Heydon said as far as the Bill was concerned the
opponents might leave off working further, as it was
dead and buried already. The Premier was against it,
and also two-thirds of the Assembly and three-fourths of
the Council. The colony at heart was all against the
Bill. The Convent ionists got a start through the plaus-
ible reaping-in of Mayors. But a reaction and a revulsion
had set in. The finance commission’s report was its
death-blow. He had been a Democrat all his life. (!) That
immense body, the Labor-party, were strong and patriotic
against it. They were the bone and sinew of the country,
and were heart and soul against it. It threatened dis-
aster and loss to New South Wales. Everybody was in
favor of a wise Federation. It was easy to do it in a
better form. New South Wales was doing better than
the other colonies. Therefore, it was unwise to take
partners who were doing badly. New South Wales had a
land revenue of £2,000,000 last year, which more than
paid the interest on her debt. New South Wales grew
and sold more than the others combined.
If N.S.W. is all against the Bill, then The Bul-
letin assumes that Heydon wouldn’t mind re-
pealing the 80,000 minimum and letting the
Federalists and anti-Federalists meet on the
same level, so that the majority would decide.
For it is a miserably mean and cowardly thing
to insist on 80,000 start over an enemy who is
beaten already. But when Heydon, about the
hardest Tory bigotan N.S.W., tells the public
that he is a Democrat and always has been one,
people are apt to lose faith in all his state-
ments. The wretchedly illogical old gentleman
further says that it is “ unwise ” to federate
with the other provinces—and that he wants to
federate. Which of these two varieties of the
illogical old gentleman is the public to believe?
And when L. F. Heydon declares that he is in
favor of a w'ise Federation, the statement looks
very ridiculous, seeing that he was one of
the little band of provincial bigots who
deluged Sydney with anti-Federal literature
before the Convention was elected and before
the Bill existed. Further, N.S. W. didn’t have
<£2,000,000 of land revenue last year by a good
way, and, if it had, that sum wouldn’t have
paid its interest bill by fully £260,000 ; also,
the N.S. W. Statistician flatly contradicts the
inflated statement that N.S.W. grows and sells
more than the other provinces combined. And
this unspeakably ignorant person, whose figures
are always wrong (and always wrong in his
own favor) professes to teach and enlighten the
people !
O
The Fast Records of the Anti-Billious.
All the leaders of the Anti-Billious push are
alike in one thing —they all constantly assure
the people that they are true Federationists
and it is only the alleged injustice of the present
Bill that they object to. Obviously they can’t
well say anything else. If they said that they
were against all forms of Federation, and that
if a perfect scheme framed by the archangel
Gabriel came before them they would curse
just the same, then their criticisms would lose
weight. Yet almost every prominent member
of the Anti-Billious mob ivas more or less
against Federation before the present Bill was
in existence. In every province except S.A.,
when the Federal Enabling Bill was first intro-
duced, the semi-liostile crowd began operations
by requiring that the Federal party should not
only show a majority before anything could be
done, but should also poll a large minimum
vote. In N.S.W., Neild, Hughes, Lyne and
others were in favour of putting the minimum
vote which could ensure acceptance as high as
100,000, so these politicians, long before there
was any Bill or any details to object to, had a
great yearning to give Disunion a very long start
over Union. When the work of drafting the
measure had only commenced, and no one
really knew what kind of measure it would be,
the N.S. W. Legislature raised the minimum
from 50,000 to 80,000. Levien, M.L.A.,
asked for an impossible minimum of one-lmlf
the electors—about 150,000 affirmative votes.
Neild demanded 100,000. Crick, Dick,
Haynes, Hogue, Lyne, M‘Gowen, Neild and
a lot more of the anti-Billious voted for the
second reading of the Amendment Bill with
the proviso in it that one-half (fully 150,000)
of the voters of N.S.W. must say “ Yes”
before Federation could be accomplished, even
though there were not 100 votes among the
“Noes.” Almost every present anti-Billite in
the Assembly voted to make union more diffi-
cult and disunion more easy by, at least, raising
the minimum from 50,000 to 80,000. In the
Council, Salomons’ speech on the Amending
Bill was a long, bitter curse at Federation in
general, and a regret that the new mini-
mum wasn’t higher than 80,000. Attorney-
General Want supported Salomons through-
out. Heydon was part of an anti-Federal
league which deluged Sydney with unreliable
anti-Federal literature before the Convention
was elected, and urged the people to remain
disunited. All these individuals now obtain
a hearing from the people on the assertion that
they are true and genuine Federationists ; that,
as such, they wouldn’t oppose the Bill but for
its inherent defects; and that, being true
Federalists, they are unbiassed critics—not
provincial bigots who object to union of any
kind. And they all assure the people that if
will only be beguiled into dropping the
bone that is here they—the above mentioned
individuals —will toil their hardest to get them
the shadow by-and-bye. The Bulletin, judg-
ing the anti-Billious from their past records, is
of opinion that the same crowd will object just
as much to any Federation scheme that can be
invented, and that if the country is persuaded
to drop the bone now for the sake of the
shadow which the anti-Billious gentlemen pro-
mise to provide by-and-bye, it had better bring
its bed along with it, for it will have a long
while to wait.
4.
Equal Representation.
Germany has been so often quoted by the
N.S.W. anti-Bill crowd as a strong case against
the proposal to give the Federated States equal
representation in the Senate that The Bulletin
is moved to point out that this particular piece
of evidence, like most anti-Billious logic, is a
sinful falsehood, and that the argument is
really the other way about. The one point on
which it presents any shadow of truth is that
it is proposed in Australia to give every State,
large or small, the same number of senators,
and this is not done in Germany. Yet, all the
same, in Germany the small States are much
more over-represented than they will be in
Australia. The two extreme cases in the Aus-
tralian Federal Senate will be N.S.W. and
Westralia, and by giving them six members
each in one House (the one which has least
authority) the Westralian voter will have (in
one House only) considerably more representa-
tion than the Cornstalk. In the other House
things are about right, and when Westralia
grows up even the disproportion in the Senate
will disappear. In the German Bundsrath,
Prussia, with. 32,000,000 people, has 17 mem-
bers ; Schaumberg-Lippe, with 41,000, has one
member. Therefore, one elector of Schaumberg-
Lippe has 44 times his proper share of repre-
sentation —instead of eight times, as in the
worst Australian anomaly. And the little
German principality has no room to grow, so
the tremendous anomaly is permanent, not
merely temporary, in Germany, a mass of
small States have 21 votes in the Bundsrath
for less than 5,000,000 people, while Prussia
has only 17 votes for 32,000,000. The small
and medium States, all put together, have not
much more than half Prussia’s population, and
they have much more than three times as many
votes. Switzerland gives two members to each
canton, or one to each half-canton, large or small.
Thus Uri, with 17,000, and Zug, with 23,000
people, when compared to Berne, which has
just the same representation for 541,000, are
fully 2£ times as awful a discrepancy as the
worst discrepancy in Australia. The old Swiss
Constitution-builders were so ignorant, for
want of Neild and Heydon to help them, that
1-| million people have four votes, and 1£
millions have 18, in the State Council. The
United States, Mexico, Chili, Argentina, Brazil,
Venezuela—in fact, every Republican Govern-
ment which calls itself a Federation—allows
equal representation to each State in its Upper
House, regardless of either population or size.
The statement that the system is a new and
rash experiment is so utterly false that the sys-
tem of equal State representation in the Federal
Upper House is practically universal. And,
instead of being a failure, it is the only Federal
system which has been tried for many years
with success. Absolutely the only Federation
which can be quoted as an argument on the
anti-Billious side of the case is Canada, and
even Canada is a better argument in favor of
the proposed Australian system than against it.
There Quebec and Ontario are equally repre-
sented with 24 senators, and the difference in
their population is much greater than that be-
tween N.S.W. and Victoria. And the differ-
ence between the senatorial representation of
the largest and the smallest State is so great
that one voter in British Columbia has
three times the voting power of an elector
in Ontario In fact, of all the Federalists
in the world, the anti-Billious of Australia is
the only one who asks that representation
should go according to population in both
Houses, or who asks anything even dimly
resembling it ; and the bargain that N.S.W.
and Victoria have made with the smaller pro-
vinces is not only absolutely fair according to
the practice of every existing Federation, hut
is a great deal more favorable than that which
the large provinces have secured from the small
ones in either Germany, Switzerland, the
United States, Mexico, Chili, Argentina, Brazil,
or Venezuela.
♦
Branker’s Bunkum.
The Bulletin has always wondered how such
an utterly hopeless muddler as old Sunday
Brunker ever came to be a Minister, ’even in
the very ordinary Ministry of George Reid.
It wonders more than ever now after reading
Brunker’s reasons for opposing Federation.
The following is carefully scissored out from
the report (in Sydney Telegraph of May 30)
of the stupid old man’s outpouring at Minmi ;
said outpouring being the result of three
months’ deep thought :
Mr. Coghlan’s letter to the Premier the other day
showed that the customs and excise of the colony would
have to be increased to 27 per cent, to support this Feder-
ation. (Applause.)
A voice : “ Keep groins'; good lad.”
Mr. Brunker : That sum was fixed by one in whose
figures he believed and had always believed. Twenty-
seven per cent, increase meant to a man with a family
receiving only £lOO a year that his additional taxation
would amount to £27 a year. How many of them could
bear that? (Exclamations of surprise.)
Brunker actually doesn’t know the difference
between charging a 27 per cent, duty on im-
ports (which they do in Tasmania to-day with-
out noticing the burden) and taking ,£27 per
cent, of everybody’s income ! Probably he
thinks, too, that the same tariff will require
everybody to have 27 children and spend 2s. 7d.
in drink. A 27 percent, tariff in N.S.W. is
estimated to produce ,£3,000,000 a year, or
possibly less ; and 27 per cent, charged on every-
body’s income would yield about £16,500,000 a
year ; that’s all the difference. Brunker only
alleges that N.S.W. is to pay millions a
year more than anybody ever proposed. More-
over, it isn’t a question of paying 27 per cent,
more, but 27 per cent, altogether, which makes
Brunker’s mistake 1 J millions larger still. And,
having mistaken a 27 per cent, tariff on imports
for 27 per cent, income tax, the innocent old
cow-merchant says sadly that he is afraid many
families in N.S.W. will be utterly ruined.
Another lovely item from the same speech :
He was in favor of questions upon which deadlocks oc-
curred, after the failure of the joint sitting of the two
Houses to settle them by an absolute majority, being
submitted to a referendum. (Applause.)
Poor pious Bunkum believes that in case of
deadlock the two Houses should sib together and
decide by a bare majority. And if the deadlock
continues after that then the holy ox-dealer,
who has evidently got his patter off by heart
without understanding a word of it, thinks the
referendum should be resorted to. Bub if the
two Houses sit together, and a majority decides
the question, and the Speaker has the usual
casting-vote in case of a tie, how can the dead-
lock continue? The Bulletin doesnotsuspect
Brunker of being a wilful perjurer, but re-
garded as a godly and well-meaning fool, he lays
over every other politician this paper ever
heard of. Even Shambles Patterson, of Mel-
bourne, was a Solomon by comparison. But
when the pitiable old man goes round doing
his little best to blight the prospects of the
Australian nation by telling such tremendous
untruths, even if he only does it out of sheer
stupidity, he grows into a Dublic calamity.
~
London Times on Federation and the axe-
grinders :
Opposition to the Bill, however much it may be theore-
tically tempered by declarations of sympathy with the
principle of Federation, is for all practical purposes
opposition to Federation. Every trouble has been taken
in repeated and prolonged debate to hammer into shape
some form of federal compromise that may be accepted
by all parties favorable to Federation in all the Australian
colonies. Those who now refuse to accept the Bill can
cherish no reasonable hope that another and a better Bill
will be offered for their consideration. The choice which
lies before them is this Bill or no Federation. Those who
disapprove of the Bill may consider that no Federation is
the better of the two alternatives, but there has been no
catch vote and no exceptional circumstance attending
either the election of delegates or the debates of the
three successive sessions of the Convention which might
serve to justify the supposition that, if the work were all
to be done over again, there would be any greater likeli-
hood of producing a Bill absolutely satisfactory in all
its details. Compromise is the soul of corporate
action. The compromise which one man objects to now
might be changed for a gospel which another man would
object to then, but if the Commonwealth were to be re-
cast a hundred times, compromise would still remain
essential to the acceptance of a scheme which Is to affect
the affairs of six States and upwards of three millions of
persons. The best efforts of Australian statesmanship
have been devoted to the production of a Commonwealth
Bill. The result, we are told, is defective. Unquestion-
ably it is defective. Every Commonwealth Bill will be
defective. The cure is to be found in the power given to
the Federal Parliament to remedy defects, but, as matters
stand, there is no escape from the conclusion that the
man who refuses to give a Federal vote until he is pre-
sented with a scheme entirely satisfactory to him is an
anti-Federationist in adtion, whatever he may please to
call himself in theory.
And no solider gospel was ever preached.
The question of Leg. Council reform grows very
cold in N.S.W. At Bathurst Premier Reid
assured the public that he much admired the
present Council, and fully appreciated its great
services, and that he intended to preserve the
nominee principle and make no violent or revo-
lutionary changes. When the proposed Coun-
cil reform is such a mild little thing as this,
N.S.W.’s Fat Man might as well have done it
any time in the last three years by shoving
through a little Bill of six clauses ; the chances
are that the Council wouldn’t object in the least.
Anyhow, the announcement that next election
is to be fought on this spectral little question is
too thin. If the Federal Bill passes, the N.S.W.
election will be a fight between the Billious,
who want to give effect to the popular vote,
and the anti-Billious, who want to throw the
Referendum overboard, and disfranchise the
People bodily by rejecting the measure. In
that case, Barton will probably run one cr' wd,
and Want and Lyne the other, and wobbler
Reid won’t be needed. And, if the Federal
Bill doesn’t pass, the fiscal issue will rage once
more, only the Protectionists will probably
throw their incapable Lyne overboard and have
Barton for their leader.
One of the most glaring of Premier Reid’s
many glaring hypocrisies is his complaint that
this Federal scheme will probably result in fix-
ing a Protectionist tariff on the Commonwealth.
When Reid, the boss politician of a province
that is nearly half Protectionist in sentiment,
asked five Protectionist provinces to federate
with N.S.W., he knew that there would almost
certainly be a strong Protectionist majority in
the combined Legislature. Also, he knows that
there will be the same comparative certainty in
any Federation which can possibly be formed
out of such materials. Therefore, if he was
going to raise this difficulty, he should
never have started the movement ; and when
he raises it now he ought to explain that the
same difficulty will be there next time, and
that when he raises it he is objecting, not to
the present Bill, but to Federation in general.
The alleged Federationists who point out that
this scheme may mean an increase of some of
the N.S.W. postal rates to bring them in line
with those of the other provinces (unless the
rates of the other provinces are reduced to
bring them in line with those of N.S.W.) also
fail to mention that every Federation involves
the same difficulty. Most of the objections
advanced by the alleged Federationists who are
doing their best in the cause of disunion are
objections, not to the scheme now on hand, but
to every scheme that can be advanced either now
or hereafter.
♦
Premier Reid, in his Newcastle speech last
week, said that if “ the bonus of Jd. per ton
per mile on coal now paid by the Victorian
Government ” was continued after Federation
was established “it would be an absolute
breach of the contract of Federation.” (The
Telegraph, a week ago, told its usual lie by
saying that the bonus was £d., instead of Jd.,
but that is a mere side-issue.) What Premier
Reid carefully avoided mentioning was that
the said bonus was granted for two years only,
and expires next October. Also, he made no
mention of the fact that while Victoria has, for
two years, indirectly subsidised its land coal
traffic to the extent of per ton per mile
(though even then it only carries coal at the
same rate as in N.S.W.), N.S.W. has, for about
a dozen years, indirectly subsidised its sea coal
traffic to the extent of 3d. per ton. It did this
by abolishing, at the expense of the general
revenue, the wharfage rates at the two
great coal ports of Newcastle and Wol-
longong. Strangely enough the Telegraph,
which curses so bitterly about the Victorian
subsidy, defends the N. S. Wales one.
Also, it states, on no evidence at all,
that the Victorian temporary subsidy will be
kept up, after Federation is established, while
the N.S.W. permanent one will be abolished.
And, after cursing all bounties, direct and in-
direct, with a terrific curse, it calls upon the
Cornstalk public, in its leading article of 26th
May, to vote against Federation lest it should
lead to the abolition of this bigN.S. W. bounty.
But the paper which alleges, for the sake of
making a case against Federation, that 100
half-pennies make 16s. Bd. is capable of just
about anything.
+
Justice Hood’s discharge of Hobby, the biga-
mous hubby, on the ground that he was drunk
on the occasion of the Kinsman matrimonial
performance, once more illustrates the fact that,
though the letter of the law insists that drun-
kenness does not palliate any offence, offences
are and should be often palliated by it.
Judges almost invariably instruct juries to dis-
regard the plea of drunkenness. When the
plea is ,pressed they cite the old dictum th fe
when a man gets drunk he takes the risks of
breaking laws, and as getting drunk is a
voluntary act the after facts are all to be con-
sidered as voluntarily perpetrated deeds. The
dictum and the inferences from it are constantly
breaking down under the tests of everyday
experiences. Men get drunk involuntarily,
and men who get drunk voluntarily tumble
into crimes outside the range of vices to
which they knew themselves liable ; yet
judges re assert the old dictum and oblige
juries to reject the plea of drunkenness.
While judges like Justice Hood give effect
to common sense and natural law grave
evils may be avoided; but why should it
be left to the discretion of a judge to give or
withhold such effect ? Why should not drun-
kenness, as a state of mind, go, like insanity,
among other facts of the case to the jury ?


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
£49,349,231
4,187,992
10,508,995
1,513,749
198,159,549
7,613,284
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1897
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1897
ASSURANCE IN FORCE .
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WTLLIAM MoMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C. ;
Hon. CHA§. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Tblkphonk 2761.
(LATE OF MELBOURNE)
TAKES THE LEAD for
Qifelike and Artistic portraits.
NEW STUDIOS :
308 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
OVER LLOYD & COLLINS’.
The nose and the eyes ! Sydney D.l.
wants everybody to be as blind as itself :
TO THE ELECTORS.
EFFECTUALLY KILL THE BILL.
LET THE NOES COMPLETELY SWAMP THE AYES.
Lord Rosebery’s mother —the 79-year-old
Duchess of Cleveland —has just returned from
a tour in India, during which, amongst other
youthful escapades, she made the ascent of one
of the Himalayas.
Melbourne has had a celestial visitation
s.s. Bucephalus, from India, dumped at Port
Melbourne 50 dusky Orientals, nearly all young,
and most of them closely resembling Ranp s other
brother. These mournful-eyed Asiatic fellow-
subjects of ours imagined they were coining to
work for princely wages on Australian sugar -
plantations, but found themselves stranded in
Melb. without 18d. amongst them. Charity will
have to cover their multitude of shins it they
cannot make a honest living, as so many new-
chuin Eastern niggers do in Melbourne, retailing
vermilion photographs and unchartered cigars to
the innocent and confiding people Who polish the
Bourke-street verandah-posts between Russell ana
Swanston streets. The Sikhs say there are 40
more on the water, which suggests anot
deplorable effect of the Ranji boom in Australia.
SIMPLEST—MOST DURABLE—BEST.
Light
Running
aiuoH ma||
Sewing
Machines
Write for Illustrated Price List
(Free).
Genuine Needles, Parts and
Fittings for all Machines.
Madame Weigel’s Paper Pattern?',
Catalogues and Journals.
J. W- Johnston & Co-,
746 George Street, Haymarket,
SYDNEY.
222 Swanston Street Melbourne.
67 Queen Street Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ Straight from the Heart. **
Criterion “ The Idler.”
Her Majesty's “Sign of the Gross.”
Lyceum “The Orphan Heiress.”
Royal Standard “ Fun on the Bristol."
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Little Minister.”
Royal “ Shall We Forgive Her.”
Bijou Myra Kemble Co.
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Alexandra Wilfred Hayes Co.
Town Hall Newbury’s Saturday “ Pops.”
The “Squire of Dames,” which was put
up for an undeservedly short season at Sydney
Criterion last week, is, next to “ The Middleman,”
the piece in which Cartwright shows best, so far
as Sydney has yet had a chance to judge. The
management which gave this pretty and effective
comedy only three nights at the end of the season,
while “'Moths” was allowed to haul its draggled
wings through a whole week of damp and melan-
choly, deserves to be presented with the large
stale pussy-cat of public opprobrium. The
“ Squire of Dames ” is a steal from the French,
and has all the French brightness and crispness of
dialogue. Also, it has a novel motive, as compared
with the average comedy. The cynical hero,
being rich and otherwise unemployed, passes his
weary life away helping lovely woman out of the
sort of difficulties which lovely woman is always
falling into. He warns young married ladies who
are about to “ fall,” and they mostly take his
warnings kindly. He recovers compromising
letters, and wrestles with the gay deceiver to
make him give up the photograph, and when the
deceiver has got into the house at a compromising
hour he gets him out again. Girl-wives who flirt
with the beautifully-moustached beguiler are re-
monstrated with at their own residences, and
where a maid has fallen in love with an unworthy
object the object is hauled off effectually, free of
charge.
* * * *
The “ Squire,” in short, is a pleasant and
novel busybody, and his part isa difficult one to play.
Obviously, the tired, cynical deputy-Providence
who spends his life doing good by hauling off the
object of a lady's misplaced affections needs an
infinity of tact ; even the work of telling the lady
that he knows about her misplaced affections is
full of difficulty, and the business of recovering
the compromising letters without a fight, and a
black eye, and a disgracefully wrecked ear, and
the loss of one coat-tail, has much trouble in it.
Cartwright did the part well, though now and
then this scribe had a vague idea that
the lady ought to be remonstrated with
more gently and less like a kindly and
well-meant ton of bricks. There was a general
brightening-up of the company during the brief
season of the “Squire.” Miss Noni Rickards
made her first real success as a small girl in a short
frock and a broken heart. Miss Gethyn Darragh
did another of those bright, perky American girls
who seem to come naturally to her, and spoke her
part through her adorable little nose in a charm-
ing fashion. Miss Lamb seemed to have got rid
of some of her stiffness. The tremendous Story
Gofton struck out a rather novel line as a learned
professor with a lost memory, and looked less like
his own huge self than usual, and Thursby took
well as he always does. The Cartwright season,
which looks as if it was beginning to pay good
dividends at the last moment, is supposed to end
this week with a brief attack of the “ Idler.”
»* * *
Bland Holt continued his “ Life of
Pleasure” into a fourth week after all, and the
new drama doesn’t go up till this (Saturday) even-
ing. Curiously enough, no Sydney manager seems
to have thought of putting up a new piece on
Friday, though it is a holiday, and the night of
the great national and patriotic drunk when the
engineer will get down and scrape the remains of
Reid and Lyne and Hevdon off the wheel. This
seems a serious oversight somehow. “Straight
from the Heart” is the rather clumsy name of
Bland’s next venture ; it is a perfectly new drama
so far as Sydney is concerned, and it is guaran-
teed, so far as the staging goes, to be as gorgeous
as a bird of Paradise.
** * *
At Sydney Lyceum the “Orphan Heiress”
will be bathed in woe and dragged through a
tangled wilderness of tears till further notice.
Probably it is the dark and premeditated shoving
of the heroine into the den of lions that is the
secret of such success as has attend' d this haggard
literary shriek. There is a terrible moment during
which it seems just possible that Miss Bensusan’s
shapely limbs will be partaken of as light refresh-
ment by the animals, so the gallery gets lots of
thrill for its 6d. As the bush reporter always says
in his account of the banquet given at the agri-
cultural show where the alderman’s hog gets first
prize: “ The board groaned beneath the good
things provided.” The good things on the board
in this case are Miss Bensusan herself, raw and
without gravy, and any hasty kind of lion would
eat her with her clothes on at first sight. This
easting of the heroine to the lions in the nine-
teenth century is somewhat novel, and if
Diver, as a preliminary, were to buy a
second-hand rack cheap, and dislocate her
in the scullery, her shrieks of agony being
smothered with the dishcloth or the hall mat, it
would be a further novelty. The drama could
hardly be made more grotesque than it is in any
case, so that matter needn’t be considered, and a
play in which the bad character gallops his horse
on the head of the long-lost parent just when she
is about to find her child, after 17 years of search,
is so harrowing that a little more harrow wouldn t
matter. The joke about the pork-trotter, which
brightened up the gloom somewhat, begins to look
a trifle wan ; the fierce sun of criticism has shone
on the trotter, and diminished its freshness some-
what. All the same, the pig’s foot in question
does its best to frivol pleasantly in the dark places
of the drama, and this paper is grateful to it
accordingly.
** * *
The Early Christian hasn’t yet announced
his departure from Her Majesty’s, and as business
is satisfactory he will probably continue to be a
bright spot in the pagan world for some tune
longer. The public likes him ; he has a.ll the
merits of going to church without the desolation.
All the same, this paper sometimes wonders
whether that Early Christian was a paying in-
vestment. The speculation leads nowhere ; there
is nothing so absolutely unsatisfactory or so end-
less as the attempt to think out what might have
been if the thing had been that wasn t, or if the
thing that was hadn’t been at all. And whether
the world would have been better or worse to-day
if there had never been any Early Christian is a
huge mystery. Anyhow, these Early people
kept alive a gospel which is essentially one
of poverty and humility and non-resistance,
and all the rich and arrogant and hard-
fighting nations profess it to this day.
The only nations in this world which don’t fight
are a few which never heard of the gospel of
non-resistance. Therefore, this writer’s theology
is mixed, and he regards Williamson’s imported
martyr as a pleasant spectacle which is evidently
intended to convey a great moral, only the moral
has apparently been drinking and has come home
with its hat in a very confused attitude over its
left eye.
*m * *
The Tivoli is to be adorned for a short
season by John Coleman, he of the inimitable
Scarecrow Dance, prior to that bright particular
humorist’s departure for the United States. When
he departs it is to be hoped he will have a safe
journey, and won’t be captured cn route by any
serious-minded Spaniard who wouldn’t be able to
appreciate him. Miss Peggy Pryde has so far
grown on the Sydney public that she is now voted
one of the brightest variety ladies the city has yet
seen, and George Wood, the somewhat different
comedian, is too well-known to require recommen-
dation. As for Miss Marian Ainsworth, the feet
of that agile danseuse grasp the public with both
hands and speak for themselves with a loud voice
that requires no bush ; and The Bulletin can
only trust that they will lend an ear to these few
words of appreciation and accept them with a
smile, and that the laurel which this paper re-
spectfully places on their hair may never fade.
A polished, conscientious actor of Titheradge’s
class is valuable even in a poor melodrama, and
when he talks platitudes to the doleful occupant
of a garden-seat the dialogue is almost impressive.
“ Shall We Forgive Her ” gets better treatment
in many places than it deserves. Hans Phillips
is well placed, Charles Holloway plays effectively,
and Miss Ida Gresham (as the heroine), Willard,
Miss Leighford, the Gourlays, and Geo. Chalmers
help the agony along. As for Johanna, she is re-
presented by Miss Duggan in a way that delights
The Bulletin, and commands its heartfelt
blessing.
“ Dr. Bill ” is putting in a second week at
Melb. Bijou, and a generation which knew not
the “ kangaroo dance ” in the long ago seems to
have taken kindly to its revival. “ Dr. Bill,” on
the present occasion, is more of a farce than a
comedy ; the humor is laid on with a trowel, and
the points are hammered into the audience’s
understanding just as far as they will go. On the
opening night the show looked sick and weary
towards the finish, but since then there have not
been any solemn pauses, and the prompter isn't
called upon to find the missing word in a loud
tone of voice. Also the dude person who lifted
his feet extravagantly at the outset is not such a
high stepper as he was, and W. J. Montgomery,
in the name part, begins to get the better of his
Shakespearian tendencies. Farcical comedy being
more or less asked for in Melbourne at this par-
ticular moment, Miss Myra Kemble and co. will
try “ The Alhambra Girl ” when “Dr. Bill” has
served his turn. Probably on Saturday.
** * *
Wilson Barrett terminates his hardwork-
ing career at the Princess’s to-night (Thursday)
with a last grand final farewell production of
“ Virginius,” and after whittling his unhappy
offspring for the sake of his family pride, the mas-
sive Roman will doubtless make a speech. On
Friday the Firm’s theatre will be closed for
rehearsal of the new-coming show, also in order,
perhaps, to give Barrett and co. a chance to get
elsewhere before the end of the week.
** * *
Saturday brings Australia’s well-remem-
bered Pattie Brown back to the Princess’s, where,
by the way, she made one of her very early marks
in “ Harbour Lights.” Miss Pattie, in herself, is
rather a national event, and, if W. and M. had
merely advertised her to walk across the stage
“ by arrangement with Mr. Rickards,” she would
find a lot of people waiting outside the early door
for the joy of seeing her smile once again. She
will appear, however, in conjunction with sundry
new people from London, and a main body of
Australian co., and Barrie’s bright “ Little
Minister,” dramatised from his verra Scawtish
novel of the same title, will give the season a big
Caledonian send off. Pattie Browne, supported by
Pillars of the Auld Licht Kirk o’ Thrums, should
fill a long-felt want.
*# * *
The new management at the Alexandra
made a fairly promising commencement on Satur-
day, and if the company, whose very weakest
point is wardrobe, can keep up a good supply of
five-act horror the big house may continue to flash
an electric-light around the district for the next
few weeks. “ The Ladder of Life ” is a crimson
narrative of a bad favorite son dumping all his
misdeeds upon the head of his younger brother.
The suffering relative has to endure three acts of
unjust suspicion ere the forged papers, and the
murdered body of the girl who went astray, are
debited to the real offender. Wilfred Hayes
undertook the suffering in a capable manner, and
the performance generally went a little higher
than the average Haleck standard.
*# m *
The first-class fooling of the Poluskis, and
the Kelli no Family gambols, and some new
Sisters, and a great improvement in the weather,
account for a furious rush of business to Melb.
Opera House just now. Also, the concert-boom
gives no indication of going wrong. Wednesday
afternoon musicals at the Athenaeum are a suo-
cess, and Newbury’s Saturday-night Pops at the
Town Hall go as vigorously as ever. A new con-
cert co., imported by Lemmone, will take up the
running when the “ Pop ” season closes.
* * * *-
From Wellington, M.L. :
Burward Lely is here giving concerts in conjunction
with an excellent little Polish violiniste. Full houses
nightly, and Smythe’s face fairly beams. The Lely is
certainly a most, fetching tenor, and would be an even
more fetching performer if he were not so terribly exact.
He will give you the name of the song he is going to
sing, but before he sings he will tell you when it was
written, who wrote it, who the author was, who he or she
married, what and where the children are, who they
married, if they married a duke, what happened to the
duke, &c., then he will turn his lengthy figure round to
Mrs. Lely at the piano, and the song starts. Dunvard
reminds me of Stanley, who never came to climaxes until
he had made it clear to the audience that such an event
occurred when a solitary bunch of bananas was fortu-
nately found 92 miles from Squibsklski, in latitude 88,
on the night of the 15th day of June, 1887, at 9.30 p.m.,
Greenwich time. Amy Sherwin is also here with quite a
large co., but is not doing too well. Lely got in first.
How can Wellington in the dance season stand two con-
cert cos., with H.M.S. Royal Arthur in port as well?
“ Shall We Forgive Her? ” the long-winded fiction
That filled Melbourne Royal on Saturday night,
Has struck, with the weight of its dull leaden
diction,
The soul of this ballad and flattened it quite.
The plot comes to pass in the commonplace
manner
Of dramas which picture impossible life,
And nothing is new save a gruesome Johanna.
Who raises objections to Oliver’s wife.
The husband’s a fool, and his girl is too frightened
To trot out the truth when he’s looking for lies ;
Johanna, her countenance spectrally whitened,
Awaits the disturbance that’s bound to arise.
For the wife has a Past which she wishes to cover
With hunks of repentance and slabs of regret;
In the prologue she sinned, and her drunken old
lover
Turns up—and Johanna makeS trouble, you bet!
The Past, after all, wouldn’t very much matter
If the culprit owned up to her early disgrace,
But the drama proceeds, and the characters
chatter,
Whilst gruesome Johanna, with chalk on her
face,
Stands hugging her elbows—a virgin unpleasant,
Who lurks in the foreground and hatches the
plot ;
She doesn’t say much, but, whenever she’s present,
You feel that Johanna is bossing the lot.
The husband gets suddenly stricken with blind-
ness
Through hearing the Past which Johanna has
found :
His wife wanders off to lament his unkindness,
And leaves Miss Johanna to hover around.
Then Reverend Titheradge pleads for the sinner
(She looks very pretty, in spite of her shame),
The drama grows steadily thinner and thinner,
But ghastly Johanna goes on all the same.
And e’en when the husband recovers his vision,
And falls on the neck of his penitent Grace,
Johanna is there, with a smile of derision
And fresh coats of chalk on her treacherous face.
Johanna remains whilst the curtain is falling,
Alone on the hearth-rug, suppressing her rage—
As an uncoffined corpse she is simply appalling :
Her equal has never been seen on the stage.
The story is stupid, and clumsily tearful,
But Virtue at last gets the better of Vice ;
The cast isn’t bad, and the scenery’s cheerful,
And seats can be bought at a popular price.
So the gallery youth, seeking fun for his “ tan-
ner,”
Likewise the stalls and the circle below,
May pardon a drama that suffers Johanna
To shine like a spectre surrounded by woe.
At Poverty Point.
Signor Steffani has recently unloosed a small flight of
singing-birds on the Sydney public. Florence Schmidt,
at present gathering sheaves of golden opinions and
pocketfuls of golden coin in her native Bananaland, is
probably the greatest of these warblers, hut she is fol-
lowed ciosely'by Hetty Holroyd, noted already for the
frozen purity of her voice, and piquant Florence Mack,
whose concert a couple of weeks ago, in the Centennial
Hall, was a decided success. This little lady’s voice is by
no means a strikingly powerful organ, but it is perie-
tratingly sweet and flexible, and in fioriture reminds one
of those sparkling intricate plaits and twists of spun-
glass presented to glass-blowers’ patrons. In the face
she hears a striking resemblance to Letty Lind, and
she likewise possesses a little of that much-adored dancer’s
verve and snap ; in short, she seems designed by nature
to shine in Australia’s national amusement, comic-opera.
When Wilson Barrett did his “one-night-only” per-
formance of “Otbello” in Melbourne, on Wednesday
evening last week, he “passioned” with much frenzy,
and gave rise to a ludicrous situation. Having stifled
Desdemona in a business-like fashion, he came down
stage, being first supposed to draw the tapestry together,
leaving the smothered Miss Jeffries comfortably corpsed
on the bed. But in his enthusiasm he did not quite close
the arras, and, while he was elocuting in the foreground,
half the audience were tittering at the comic sight of
the beauteous corpse in the rear, sitting up and arranging
her draperies to picturesque advantage. Having seen
that the curves and lines of her ample form were correctly
displayed by the fall of her white robes, Maud Desdemona
lay down arid went dead again, while Barrett continued
his riot.
Wilson Barrett’s co., or some of them, went to see
Titheradge act, at Melb. Royal, the other night, and
thought nothing, absolutely nothing, of his alleged his-
trionic talent. Which was exactly what the Barrett co,
might have been expected to think. They saw a finished
artist in an unreal, melo-dramatio character, and were
struck only by the fact that ho didn’t perform on barn-
storming principles.
One of the Poluski Bros., of Rickards’co.—the broad
comedian brother, with the baggy pants—has been in the
business for 37 years. He was a four-year-old when he
started.
Pattie Browne is nowadays stout in moderation, but
her face and figure are very little older, for stage pur-
poses, than when she went away.
Wilson Barrett is billed for a nine nights’ season in
Adelaide, owing to which he will put on six pieces. Poor
old Cinderella Adelaide 1
Prompter: “Nearly ten years ago, when well in,
Harwood sold off all his wardrobe and play-books, saying
he had done with acting for ever. Arcadian Cole bought
the play-books. Harwood never displayed any of the
admiration of Shakespeare so much affected by Thespians.
He admired a good dinner.”
Melb.: “ Waggles says that when Acting-Gov. Madden
visits the Princess’s, the stall baldheads ought to form the
letter M with their heads. Impossible. Too many. The
hairy ones might do it.”
At “ Othello,” t’other evening, the boudoir-scene
evoked a mournful wail of frustrated hopes. After being
“ unpinned ”by Emilia —a perfunctory proceeding withal
—Desdemona, in a lavish r obe-de-nuit, approaches her
couch. Just on the edge of expectancy, however, the
lady carefully shut off the audience’s delicate interest
with a screen. Apropos, I should think much skill is
required to get gracefully into bed.
“Latest Melba pars, to hand state that the Australian
nightingale and her . j. drew 30,000d015. for three per-
formances in ’Frisco. At this rate, the further informa-
tion that “ Melba intends to visit Australia next year, but
the question is still an open one,” doesn’t sound very
encouraging, for there are no 10,000dols. “ houses” to be
found here. Yet there is still a chance of David Mit-
chell’s daughter striking this hemisphere within the next
three months.
A leading article in a recent Argus spoke of Friar
Lawrence as a character in “ Hamlet.” The editor, seem-
ingly, has joined the Society for being Very Tired of
Shakespeare and didn’t trouble to note the curious mis-
take. Curious because everybody associates the Friar
who married Romeo and Juliet with the cell where he
performed the ceremony. And there is no cell in “ Ham-
let” except for the ardent playgoer who expects to get
“ new readings ” aud “ more light ” from Wilson Barrett’s
appearance in the name part.
Carrie Moore jumped into Ada Reeve’s part in the
“ French Maid ” in Adelaide, and made a real success.
Carrie is a little Melb. girl of 16, and has only been with
W. and M. two years.
Ada Reeve and Bert Gilbert have both abandoned
cycling. In Adelaide the fair Ada was upset and got a
sprained ankle, which kept her out of “ The French
Maid ” for a week. Gilbert, in the middle of the follow-
ing week, collided with a cab, and was unable to sing his
songs. Same day Carrie Moore, who was playing the
Maid, vice Reeve, was thrown out of a dog-cart, and
nearly broke her arm. For full details, apply to Pete
Hughes, whose language is too unorthodox for the holy
city, anyway.
The Kickapoo Co., (’Murka) is sending a vaudeville and
minstrel show to this country, via Hawaii. Australia
awaits with anxiety the first parcel of Kickapoo goods.
To Australia.
Australians, riding knee to knee,
Meet these betrayers man to man,
Show all the carping crew that we
Strike home to-day in freedom’s van 1
What matters it if kith and kin
All prosper ’neath our nationhood ;
Has our own courage grown so thin
That we need fear our flesh and blood ?
Comrades ! sole heirs by pride of place
Of all the land, of all the sea,
Ours is the task to lead our race
On to the glory that will be.
Remember, those who bid us dwell
Cooped in a mean provincial den,
Would rather reign as lords in hell
Than serve in Heaven ’neath nobler men.
Here, with our feet at Union’s gates
And eager hands on freedom’s rungs,
Dare true men tempt the fickle fates
At the false call of craven tongues?
“ No ! ” rings our answer from the West;
A hundred years have proved that we
Were right to trust that what is best
For all, for one must better he.
Vanguard of progress, onward ride
O'er these provincial, sordid ranks,
Strike home for union deep and wide,
A world awaits to give you thanks !
KENNETH MACKAY.


SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
Tb€ R€ALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison. «5r A.ttwooti, Sole Proprietors.
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
R. BELL & CO.’S
- - British Vestas
(THE BEST.)
Obtainable Everywhere.
Aus. I
Reps. )
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings,
Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge, _
CYANIDE „ h ,
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71 /o
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald,
11 Pttt-st., Sydney ; lUCurrie-st., Adel. ; Queen-st., Brisb.
guaranteed
98/100%
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Westralian Government has borrowed
£500,000 at 3i per cent, from the A.M.P. Society to go on
with. The loan is for three years, to give the credit of
W.A. time to improve in Britain, it being practically
admitted that the record spendthrift among the Seven
Provinces couldn’t raise a loan there now except on terms
that would be next door to ruinous. But, unless the
Federal Government takes over the Westralian debt
before 1901, the chances are that its state three years
hence will be a vast amount worse than it is now. Ten-
ders have been called for the stupendous Coolgardie
water scheme, which will cost two or three millions, and
there are signs of a deficit of £250,000, or so, and, in one
wav arid another, the present loan will only keep Wes-
tralia off the London market for a few months. Wes-
tralia should have made arrangements to borrow the
whole A.M.P. Society in one act. Or else it should have
fixed that 3J per cent, loan for 20 years, with the proviso
that, in case of Westralia joining an Australian Federa-
tion, the Federal Government should have the right to pay
it off at a year’s notice.
* * » *
The Insurance and Banking Record, in its
report on the Colonial Mutual Life Insurance Society,
estimates that the interest realised on the funds last year
was only £4 os. lOd. per cent., which agrees very closely
with this paper’s statement that the interest-rate was
about £4 Is. And as the Colonial Mutual directors, at
the annual meeting, said not a word about the dubious
position of the society, but, instead, congratulated each
other enthusiastically on its progress and soundness, and
the sagacity and foresight of the people who brought it to
its present state, The Bulletin again draws attention to
the figures. Two important features in the safety of an
insurance office are the rate of interest earned upon its
funds now and the rate which it is estimated will be
earned in the future. Any office can be solvent on paper
if it estimates future interest-earnings high enough, but
any well-managed institution always assumes its future
interest-earnings a good deal lower than the present ones,
in order that there may be a safe margin in case of a
sudden drop in rates. Therefore the following figures,
taken from the latest report in the Insurance and Bank-
ing Record, are interesting :
Earned* Mar Sin
earned in future
A.M.P. Society .. .. £4 18 10 £3 10 0 £lB 10
City Mutual .. .. 581 400 181
Maoriland Govt. Dept. 4 19 0 3 12 6 166
Mutual Life Association 418 7 4 0 0 18 7
National Mutual .. 417 2 4 0 0 17 2
Aus. Widows’ Fund .. 415 7 4 0 0 15 7
Colonial Mutual.. 4 0 10 4 0 0 10
The Mutual Life Association, considering its margin of
18s. 7d. per cant, insufficient, is reducing its assumed
future rates of interest. The Colonial Mutual is appar-
ently quite satisfied with its margin of lOd.
The trouble with the Colonial Mutual is just
this : It is highly probable that its interest earnings
would not be so much lower than those of every other
large office if it were not that a lot of its assets are really
old boom losses for which the management never had the
courage to make provision. To bring the interest earn-
ings of the Colonial Mutual on a level with those of the
Widows’ Fund, which is itself below the average, it
would be necessary to write-off about £382,000 of the
alleged funds as lost. To get on the same level of solvency
as the Maoriland Government Department it would be
necessary to write off about £445,000 —over one-fifth of
the entire assets —and also to make an additional reserve
of about £BO,OOO in order to reduce the assumed future
interest rate to the M.L. Department’s level. To get to
the A.M.P. Society’s level would cost about as much. But
if the Colonial Mutual management wants the public to
believe that it has no serious losses unprovided for, and
that it merely earns so much less interest than other
societies owing to some cause that is unexplained (a thing
that is very hard of belief), then it obviously requires to
reduce its estimates of future interest to about £3 6s. in
order to have the same margin of safety as the next insti-
tution on the list—and that would necessitate an extra
reserve of about £160,000. To get the same margin of
safety as the A.M.P. it would require to reduce its esti-
mates from £4 to about £2 12s. per cent., which would
necessitate an additional reserve of something awful.
Whichever way it is looked at the Colonial Mutual seems
in a bad situation.
There is no legal standard of solvency whatso-
ever as regards life assurance societies in any of the Aus-
tralias. There is no independent valuation of the assets,
and (except in the one case of the M.L. Government
Department) no State supervision whatever. And the
fact that the alleged supervision by the great, scattered,
utterly-disunited body of shareholders and by the press is
a dismal farce, is sufficiently evidenced by the fact that
the Colonial Mutual holds its annual meeting year after
year, and the officials congratulate each other on the
remarkable progress and soundness of the institu-
tion, and no questions are asked. Probably there is very
little chance of effective State supervision from the seven
disunited Governments, but the Federal administration
should be able to do something. Meanwhile there should
still be time to put the Colonial Mutual on a sound basis
if the board will only gather up its courage in both hands
and move vigorously in the matter. But, apparently, the
size of the trouble scares it.
• * * •
A quaint little life-office, whose very existence
is a secret to most people, is the Australasian Insurance Co.
It is a proprietary concern with a capital of £25,000, and
another co., the Australian Alliance, seems to be the only
shareholder. It has a premium income of about £l4OO a
year, and it hangs out in an obscure fashion somewhere in
Melbourne. The fact that the premium income is about
£7O a year more than it was six years ago seems to suggest
that it does a little new business now and then. The total
sum insured under all its policies is £38,936 2s. 9d., and,
as the capital and reserves amount to £44,425, it could
pay up promptly to the last farthing, even if every one of
its policyholders dropped down dead to-day (Thursday).
And even the A.M.P. or the “three American giants
couldn’t do that.
• * * *
Standard Mutual Building Society (Melb.),
which is doing pretty well for a building society these
times, made a profit of £476 for the half-year ended
January, 189 S. This is equal to about 19/5 per cent, per
annum on capital—a figure which very few societies reach
nowadays. The Standard is laboriously paying off its
deposits at the rate of an occasional shilling in the £, and
in the last six years it has reduced the load from £120,000
to rather unde'r £57,000. It has paid no dividends for six
years and its earnings are now about one-fifth what they
were ’in ’92 ; yet it is a very respectable survivor, and
appears to have some prospects before it-though not the
sort of thing that would have been called prospects ten
years ago.
♦ * * *
The N.S.W. wheat harvest of 1898, from 992,484
acres of land, is estimated at 10£ million bushels. And
the ill-luck of Victoria in the matter of last year’s drought
may be gathered from the fact that its crop is estimated
at 10£ million bushels also, from 1,638,019 acres. In ’97
N.S. YV. averaged over 10 bushels to the acre while Victoria
reaped less than 4i. In ’9B N.S.W. has over 10£ bushels
to Victoria’s 6&. How Victorian agriculture has lived at
all through the three drought years which have struck it
in succession is a mystery.
» ♦ » •
Melbourne Storage Co. puts up a doleful kind of
record by reporting £2B profit for the half-year to 31st
March—2s. lOd. per cent, per annum on the nominal
capital of £40,000. Almost the only unmortgaged asset of
any size seems to be the accumulated loss of £15,673.
• * * *
The Insurance and Banking Record gives a
list of 24 Australasian fire and marine insurance cos.
which have disappeared within the last ten- years. Four
small ones went broke ; seven were bought up by other
Australasian cos., and Bull annexed the remaining 13.
* • • *
St, James Building Society (there is no luck in
building societies that are named after saints) held a
meeting in Melbourne lately, and announced that a loss
of £10,071 had been made during the half-year through
the sale of properties below the absurd paper-value put
on them in the books. The balance-sheet now frankly
admits that of the £215,000 capital about £130,000 has
gone in depreciation. And the chairman gently broke
the news to the meeting that, though the remaining
liabilities are only about £40,000, and the assets on paper
represent £121,000, leaving an apparent surplus of £BO,OOO
for shareholders, these latter are never likely to get any-
thing. The alleged £121,000 of assets are simply proper-
ties that stand in the books at the old impossible prices of
the hoom, and the only present hope is that they may
realise enough to pay the £40,000 liabilities. So St.
James may be considered extinct, and another £215,000
of Australia’s alleged wealth evaporates.
* * * *
B.H. Block 10 has apparently settled down to
an average profit of just over £20,000 per half-year ; the
figures for the last three periods have been £23,340,
£23,634, and (for the half-year just ended) £20,546. In
the same time there has been treated at the mill 41,519
tons, 55,132 tons, and 53,866 tons of ore. The ore goes
into two general classes —-one concentrates and siimes,
the other “ tailings.” The former include, approximately,
80 per cent, of the lead and 50 per cent, of the silver,
with about 2 per cent, of the zinc ; the “ tailings ” carry
practically all of the rest, and average 28 per cent, zinc,
12oz. silver, and 7£ per cent. lead. Yet the co., despair-
ing of profitable local treatment, has just sold 100,000
tons of “ tailings ” for ss. per ton on the mine ; they are
to go to Europe. At present quotations the metal in
these “ tailings ” is worth about £7 15s. per ton (of
“ tailings ”) ; so that the buyer has a pretty big margin
to work on. The proceeds from the sale fairly belong,
of course, to all the half-yearly periods during
which the concentrating mill has been running ;
at the present rate of production ss. per ton is equal to
£8250 per half-year. Last half-year’s profit was equal to
7s. 7£d. per ton of ore, or £1 Bs. 6d. per ton of concen-
trates and slimes. The co. received on the average 17s.
lid. per ton less for its concentrates than during the pre-
vious half-year (that is, about 3s. 4d. per ton less for its
ore) ; but, owing to economies in the mine, the profit in
this last half-year was only Is. Old. per ton of ore less
than it was during the preceding half. And as the man-
agement expects that the mill will do still better work
(and if it doesn’t some stiff remarks will be called for),
and as the mine has an abundance of ore of the same
grade as has been dealt with lately, though some of it is
harder, prospects are pretty good. Everything, of course,
depends upon the price of the metals ; assuming that a
trifle less than current quotations continue to rule, and
that the “tailings” can be disposed of, the shilling
monthly div. ought, as before said, to be just possible.
Seeing that there is, theoretically, over £7 worth
of metal in every ton of Block 10 “ tailings,” and that
onlv ss. per ton is got for it, and seeing that £20,000 per
half-year can be paid in divs. from tip other part of the
ore, and seeing, further, that exparlSients in the treat-
ment of this “tailings” material are proceeding in a
hundred places, it is a matter for serious consideration
whether the co.’s interests lie in the direction of imme-
diate sale. Certainly 1250 tons of it are being produced
every week, and storage room is of some account.
* • * *
B.H. Block 14 ’s profits have been tumbling
seriously. The course in the last three half-years has
been—£2l,69B, £17,763, £14,150. But this is partly due
to a reduction of the carbonate ore handled, and partly
to a falling-off in the ore-buying business. The mine’s
hope is in the lead market. On the last half-year’s
figures, it would take a fall of 4 l-sd. per oz. of silver to
counterbalance a rise of £1 per ton for lead ; and, as
in two years a fall of 3jd. per oz. for silver
has been accompanied by a rise of £2 15s. per ton for
lead, it has been argued that the mine is pretty safe.
But, though a persistent fall in silver would certainly
strengthen the lead market, anything beyond about £l5
for lead would open up scores of lead-mines pure and
simple, now discarded. There has been, the general
manager savs, a further slight improvement in the re-
covery of the metals (that is, rather less has gone away in
the “ tailings”) ; but whether this improvement counter-
balances the admitted change of the ore to a harder
character, involving greater expense both for mining and
milling, it is impossible to say. Block 14 will probably
suffer more from this change of character than any
mines except the South and North. The latter doesn’t
count, and the writer has come to the conclusion that it
never will until we know a much better way of handling
sulphides than we do to-day.
The B.H. Junction is the Awful Example.
Just when the Melb. people were beginning to know
something about mines and mine management, the con-
trol of this show went to Adelaide ; and when presently
a new run of rich ore was found it was obvious that the
South Australians were the right people. But if worse
use could have been made of this new development Thu
Bulletin is anxious to have particulars of the plan. Just
at present, it isn’t glad to remember that it said about 22
times that a day of reckoning was coming ; it is only sad
because it remembers that, while the ore was being dragged
out by the roots, the shareholders, fattening on dividends,
weren’t taking any warning. Fifteen months ago, the co.
having been too busy pulling out the ore to fill up the
holes it was making, the mine took the responsibility on
its own shoulders and closed up ; the only satisfactory
feature of the proceeding was that it didn’t make a grave
(as it easily might have done) for 50 or 100 workmen. In
the two half-years that preceded this collapse, the profits
amounted to £70,749 ; since then, in the same period, no
profits whatever have been made ; but, instead, a balance
of liquid assets over liabilities, amounting to £27,232, has
been wiped out of existence, and an excess of liabilities
over assets, amounting to £18,141, has been put in its
place. True, some machinery has been bought; but those
purchases do not alter the fact that, though 67,800 tons of
sulphides have been sold, not enough has been realised in
the 12 months since the collapse to pay current working-
expenses. It would hardly be a fair thing, perhaps, to
remember that, when the collapse occurred,, the manage-
ment pooh-poohed it as quite a little thing in fact, rather
a good thing, so far as it went. But, as the general
manager has just now again told the shareholders that he
stands by the opinion he then expressed (that “ the ore
would be raised much cheaper and to greater advantage ),
Tiie Bulletin wants to know, in view of the figures quoted,
what sort of a humorist he is ?
* * * *
Lake George copper-mine, N.S.W. Manager
Trewenack taking a rest after putting the new smelting
system into shape; Manager Collins, formerly of Went-
worth mines, in charge. Stated now that the cost oi
working and treating a ton of ore has been brought to a
shade under 17s. a ton, and that only 3 per cent, of coke
is used in smelting. The ore will need to be verj low
grade not to pay now. What a prospect there is for the
opening up of other copper ore-bodies in the country it
this can really be done with a mine handicapped by 20
miles road-haulage !
Mt. David (N.S.W.) —415 tons, 4520 z. Paids
running between 4s. and 4s. 3d., with many sales daily.
There is a millstone of debt on the neck of the co„ but
with a few more such crushing's it will be much reduced if
not wiped out. The “boss” reports having sft. of 2oz.
ore in one part of the mine.
* * * *
Victory Forest Reefs—another N.S.W. mine in
which faith has been lost through monkeying. All the
gold got by battery treatment seems to go m exes., and
the authorities appear to spend their time in contemplat-
ing what glorious things might be done with the mine it
they had money to adopt a different method.^
Cobar Gold Mines (old F<prt Bourlce), N.S.W.:
Reconstruction determined on in London —a new co. to
be formed, capital £200,000, all shares to carry a liability
of 55., with a certainty of calling up 4s. Amongst tne
estimates of necessary expenditure is £7500, for sinting
and equipping a shaft 400 ft. deep. Writer would much
like to have the contract, at the money. Also, ,‘° r
a cyanide plant. A contract has been made with the
Johannesburg Consolidated Investment Co.—already inte-
rested to the extent of 26,000 shares —to have a call on
unapplied-for shares up to 30,000. The mine has again
been thoroughly sampled since Mr. Buckland has been
acting-manager. The average is quite as high as the
average ore-values given by Janin, Callahan, and others
who sampled it two years ago. The tailings from the
100-head American modern stamp-mill, which was ex-
pected to leave them too poor for cyanide, average 4dwt-
lgr., and a quantity of these have been put through the
small cyanide plant, some distance away, at a cost under
2dwt The chairman said that ex-manager O Gorman
frankly admitted his error in thinking he could recover
practically all the gold by amalgamation, and that the Uig
cyanide plant should have been erected in the first in-
stance. His confidence in the mine remained unshaken.
He offered to put his own money in the mine and retain the
management, but, when told that an entire change was
essential, he acquiesced and tendered his resignation.
The chairman also remarked that “the remuneration of
the new directors will be materially reduced from what it
has been.” They take it away with one hand and give it
back threefold with the other. Six directors, whose
names are given, are to have £l5O a year each —£50 extra
for the chairman. That makes £950. “ The directors
shall also in each year in which 10 per cent, has been paid
on the ordinary share-capital receive such asum, not exceed-
ing £2OOO, as shall amount to 5 per cent, of the net profits
of that year.” If it pays anything, this mine will pay more
than 10 per cent., in which case these directors, who have
never seen the mine, will draw £2950 yearly. That is more
money than received by all the directors of all the other
mines of Cobar and for 100 miles around —and one is mak-
ing a profit of over £lOO,OOO a year ! The mining manager
gets £lO a week ; the directors will draw over £5O a week.
This is a barefaced whatdyecallit, which surely will not be
endured in silence by the Australian shareholders.
• * * •
Madame Berry West (Vic.) has made a good
showing since it struck the lead a few years ago. Gold,
£229,152; divs., £40,187, and many more in sight. A
cheaply-worked mine. It crushed during the last half-
year at a profit 3579 tons of tailings from the old Madame
Berry shaft which yielded ldwt. llgrs. to the ton. The
directors walked off—the grasping rascals !—with a total
of £3O in fees. 'The mining-manager, greedy man, once
accepted a bonus of £25, but that was a long time ago. If
Bull investors would like to run mines a little cheaper let
them send a commission to Ballarat. It would pay them.
* • * *
The latest re Westralia : “ Perth. This place
is absolutely dead—no business doing, everybody over-
stocked, and small merchants either compromising or
assigning. Coolgardie. —Mining dying a natural death,
nearly all shut down ; saloons have reduced drinks to 9d.
and 6d. No mine giving divs. except Burbank’s.
Machinery being sold at any price. Kalgoorlie.— Livelier
than usual, owing chiefly to the alluvial controversy.
After all the trouble some of the shafts sunk on the Ivan-
hoe Venture lease have been abandoned. An attack made
on Lane re the treatment of Gt. Boulder tailings by the
Konnemann process. A slander action will probably'
come out of it, anyhow. Kanowna. —This is the liveliest
place I have seen for a long time. About 10,000 persons,
and about 7500 employed digging for alluvial. A much
higher proportion than usual are on payable gold, some of
the claims good enough for fortunes. Some three miles
away a rush has broken out on the Golden Valley leases ;
three out of seven shafts bottomed are on good gold.
There is a big prospect for this place, and hotels and
stores are going up in all directions. The finding of these
leads is, at this juncture, a most fortunate thing for the
country.” A few yields-by-crushing from Kanowna
cement claims : Kelly and party, 98 tons, 6690 z.; Travena,
176 tons, 5250 z. ; O’Connor, 200 tons, 5250 z. ; Evans and
party, 49 tons, 105 oz. ; Macdonald and party, 21 tons,
750 z.
* * • »
Southern Boulder four leases, winding-plant,
poppet-legs, with a main shaft 220 ft. yielding some 30,000
gallons a day—all sold by auction. The buyer, Lane —
S.M. Herald calls him “Zellina.” Such is fame ! Price
unstated. Often an undesirable thing to state price if you
want to sell again—as you mostly do.
* * » »
The Londonderry mine (Coolgardie) has a strong-
room at the 200 ft. level for the storage of rich rock. This
was broken into last week, and specimens to value of £5OO
removed, and the theft so cleverly done that it was not
noticed for some days. Anyhow, it is satisfactory to
know that there is still gold in the Plunderderry rich
enough to steal.
* * * *
Up to the end of April the mines at Kalgoorlie
produced 16 tons 16cwt. of gold. Five produced over a
ton each, while the Great Boulder turned out about a
third of the total.
* • • •
From Clermont to The Bulletin “50 tons
of cement from Madge and party’s claim yielded 3560 z.
The Bony Brim’s crushing of 50 tons gave 321 oz., while
Eli and party put through 68 tons for 2560 z. Dobbin and
party have cleaned up for 4oz. per ton. These returns
for alluvial are quite phenomenal. The depth of the
claims varies from 90ft. to 110 ft. ; wash easily raised.”
* » * *
Sale of the Number One mine, Croydon, to the
British public reported off. Alleged reason—Bull too
busy reading the war news.
Sensational developments are expected shortly
in J. Bull’s Croydon property, the Croydon Consols. The
golden shoot running from No. 7 Golden Gate ground is
reported to have been tapped.
Some Croydon April erushings : City of London,
72 tons, 2350 z ; New Klondyke, 33 tons, 1620 z. ; Moon-
stone No. 1 South, 105 tons, 6930 z. ; Gilded Rose Lease,
33i tons, 89oz.
* * * »
A peculiarity in Croydon returns is that the
yield of Rogers’ No. 1 Golden Gate is published quarterly
instead of monthly. Result, monthly return of field’s out-
put always incomplete. The No. 1 being one of the
largest producers, the returns should be given regularly.
If not, why ?
* * • *
The Croydon outside camps show signs of re-
covery. Here, scratching is now giving place to legiti-
mate development. There are several fortunes in store
(writes a Bulletin correspondent) for the experienced
capitalist who will take up some of the low-grade quarries
at the Mountain Maid and Tabletop, ana work them
systematically. If on the Towers, these quarries would
have paid divs. years ago.
« * t f
The half-yearly report of Mt. Lyell, followed
by the Argus strictures thereon, caused that property to
slump upwards of a million in value, from which it has
since partially recovered. More was paid in divs. than the
mine earned,"and there was a slight falling-off in the value
of all metal contents, but the great trouble seems to be the
impossibility of working the big show without taking and
smelting that part of the lode the value of which is only
14s. per ton. Again Tiif. Bulletin wants to direct atten-
tion to the fact that while the production of Mt. Lyell is
double that of the Great Cobar copper-mine, the profits
are a long way short of double the amount. Not hard to
guess what this means when additional Cobar smelters
get to work. Some of the recent copper consignments
from the Great Cohar contained over 7oz. gold to the ton.
The increase in gold is, no doubt, partly made up by
smelting ore from the Peak mine. If wholly thus
accounted for, then from 4oz. to over 7oz. on such a big
output proves that the Cobar tributors have now a
mighty fine gold-mine in the Peak. Melbourne has at
last taken a strong interest in the development of the
Cobar-Chesney—otherwise, there is no interest in Cobar
stocks taken bv anybody.
• l * « *
Ed. Bulletin. —You have not gripped the
figures of Mt. Lvell. Sticht’s report on the ore reserves
must be a ghastly document to those who paid £15 or so
shares. In effect he says there are only 1,781,300 tons of
55s. ore available, and to get this out a proportion of the
17s. ore (say 182,350 tons) must be mined and smelted ;
practically reducing the average to 51s. 7d. per ton. The
55s. valuation is only assay value and subject to smelter
losses. During the six months ending 31st March, co.
treated 62,868 tons of ore assaying 4'25 copper, ’177oz.
gold, 3'69oz. silver; the gross contents of this material
were :
Copper .. 2,671'89 tons, value .. £136,221
Gold .. ll,127-63oz. „ .. 46,733
Shver .. 231,986'92oz. „ .. 25,131
£208,085
The absolute recovery in form of blister copper was:
Copper .. 2, - 237’25 tons, value .. £120,368
Gold ... ll,103-75oz. „ .. ',636
Silver ... 201,493oz. „ .. 21,828
£188,832
Showing a loss on smelting of 6s. Id. per ton of ore.
Assuming that the co. is able to treat its 55s.
ore without having to mix a portion of the 17s., its profit,
based on the costs of the past six months, wUl only he 14s.
per ton.
Gross value of ore .. ... .. £2 15 0
Mining and smelting costs ... ... £15 0
Smelter losses .. .. ... .. 0 6 1
Realisation charges 0 6 7
Administration, &c _ .. 0 14
Depreciation and renewals, estimate 0 2 0
2 10
£2 10
£0 14 0
Administration and depreciation are estimated ; latter
item is probably considerably under likely expenditure,
and the former was nearer 2s. per ton during past term ;
then again the practice of debiting mine prepa-ratory
works accounts with a portion of the working costs is a
bad one. This item figures as an asset of £9400, and
represents a charge of Is. 3d. per ton on all ore treated
to date. Profit and loss account is a proper place
for this alleged asset. When new smelter plant is in
operation the co. will treat at least 250,010 tons
per annum. This output would pay 14s. per share per
annum on basis 55s. ore, or 10s. 7d. per share on 51s. 7d.
ore—equal respectively on shares of £10 to 7 per cent, and
5J per cent, per annum, and would, in something under
eight years, mine, tram, smelt, and otherwise deal with
the whole of the pay-ore in the mine. In other words,
the investor assures himself of his 7 per cent, or 5J per
cent, as the case may be for the period named ; hut if he
accepts literally the following violent remarks of Sticht
he stands a better chance of becoming a celestial so-
journer than of getting hack his original £10 per share,
plus legitimate interest: —“ With regard to the value of
ore below No. 4 level the testimony of present exploration
is confusing. Much of the ore is known to be low grade.
. . . For the present, estimates of value of the ore body,
as a whole, must draw the line at No. k level, even more
firmly than estimates of the quantity only." Let it be
understood that the co. has done a very considerable
amount of work below the No. 4 level, both at the inter-
mediate and No. 5 levels, and the sickening significance
of the above is apparent.—Jay.
* v * *
No provision is made in the Mt. Lyell balance-
sheet for depreciation, and, in fact, mine and plant
figure as a better asset by some £55,000 than they did
six months ago. Why ?—in face of Sticht’s trenchant
remarks All the plant used in the reduction of
the company’s ore is in first-class order, and, considering
local conditions, some of which have a grave bearing on
wear and tear of apparatus, has done a satisfactory
amount of work during the half-year.”
• * • •
Since March, 1897, the Mt. Lyell Co. has raised
£153,093 by the issue of new shares, and now proposes to
raise another £150,000 by the same means.
. » * *
The Mr. Lvell people frankly admit that the
copper contents of their ore have fallen. They had been
led by Dr. Peters to expect an average of 41 per cent, ;
the present manager estimates an average of 31 per cent.
On that basis the profit would be about 19s. a ton. As
the co. is not in a position to .find a 4s. quarterly div., and
provide funds for the erection of extra furnaces, 25,000
new shares are to be issued at a premium of £3. This will
provide for an output of 1000 tons a day, which, at 19s. is
£950 profit. Averages of all mines fall with tonnage, and,
unfortunately, in this case the grade at the start was so
low that it cannot stand either a fall in average or in the
metal-market.
* • * *
In the liquidation of the General Gordon South
(W.A.) it has been ruled that the distributed in
the same way as divs.— all shares ranking sdike. A very
good ruling, too ; and why was it not followed in the case
of the G.G. Extended?
* * * *
The latest sensational gold-find is reported at a
place called Warragul, Vic., where a big dyke has been
“ assayed in different parts for 1877oz, to the ton.” P.S.
—The assays prove to have been based on an ounce speci-
men 1
* * * *
Stated that Queensland Govt, definitely de-
clined the proposal to run a railway to Cloncurry, because
the scheme embodied the long lease of land along the
route. What a tail our cat is growing ! The unspeakable
Papuan land-grab took place months ago, and not a
move was made against it by that or any other Govt, till
public indignation had been awakened per newspapers to
the gigantic nature of the steal. Writer is not yet able to
give the names and number of politicians wbo have a bit
up their sleeves in this filthy business, which may, and
apparently should, end in the degradation of more than
one highly-placed personage. Also, remembering the
beautifully philanthropic and patriotic speeches they
made, it iiow begins to look as if Lowles and Vine were
wolves in sheep’s clothing. Patriots !!
* • • *
EitzGibbon’s Board has given occasion for
another outbreak re the encouragement of local coal-mines
in Vic. The Metropolitan Board has accepted an outside
tender for 1500 tons of coal in preference to a local offer
asking 2d. a ton more. The Board has a bigger excuse
than the City Council had when it did likewise, since the
C.C. only saved ltd. per ton on its deal. Fitz used the
usual fat argument: “Must guard the people’s interests.”
The people’s interests!
The flotation of the Bright District and Smoko
Reef mine, Vic., is attempted, and accepting the statements
made as anywhere near the mark, it seems to offer a
reasonably fair run for one’s money.


r
cs
ORIENT
CLOTH INd
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Sui ts, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excejJted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
(°£To tc )
SYDNEY.
Society
A Faithful Man
FOR THE BULLETIN
Sydney s brace of newly-made knights
jumped at the chance of exhibiting their brand-
new labels at the recent Guvmentouse meeting re
St. Andrew’s Cathedral exchequer. And, though
the Congregationalist magnate, James Fairfax,
planked down only £lOO for the privilege, as
against Edward Knox’s £250, the strength of
James’ temptation may be gauged by his willing-
ness to benefit, by even one poor Nonconformist
century, the coffers of an arrogant and accursed
Prelaticism.
* * * »
The Royal Hotel, George-street, Sydney,
where a few people met last week to compile
felicitations to some newly-made K.B.’s, is the
hotel in which the first meeting was held to pass a
resolution denunciatory of W. C. Wentworth’s
bill in favor of establishing a colonial aristocracy
by means of titular distinctions. It was at this
latter meeting, 65 years ago, that Deniehy,
M‘Encroe, Parkes, Flood, and others, emerged
into Australian political history.
* • * •
Dear Bulletin. — Re Australian liners.
Once upon a time, an Australian liner was wrecked
in mid-ocean, on a desert island, in broad daylight.
All the saloon passengers were saved, and got
ashore with only the loss of their luggage. There
were plenty of provisions saved from the wreck,
and a fine water-supply was found on the island.
Yet, owing to the fact that none of the passengers
were possessed of evening-dress clothes, and a
first-saloon passenger on a liner cannot dine with-
out evening-dress, the whole of that well-bred
ship’s company slowly died of starvation, and
their skeletons are there to-day to prove my asser-
tion, This story points a moral and airs a griev-
ance. I went on board a liner to get to London,
and laid myself out to have a good loaf, in pyjamas,
flannels and slippers. How was I deluded ! I
found that, though I escaped choir-practice,
■prayer-meetings in the saloon, the services on
Sunday, card tournaments, sports, balls and
dances, yet one thing I could not escape, and that
was dressing for dinner. I soon ran out of linen
and patience. Since then, I always travel second-
class, where you can go around all day with a
flannel coat and trousers, where shirts need not
be changed three times a day, where people’s souls
are not considered so much worth saving as for’ard,
and where, if wrecked as above, etiquette would
not run so far as starvation. Wanted, a ship run
on strictly atheistic principles, where “ God Save
the Queen ” would not be played more than twice
a day, and where a man would be allowed, in the
tropics, to dine in a loin-cloth, if he felt so inclined.
—Locust.
* * * •
Lyttelton (M.L.) Times is very wroth with
Admiral Pearson for adhering to strict etiquette
in not advising the local dignitaries of his ap-
proaching arrival in the Royal Arthur: “It was
the custom of Admiral Bridge—who did not, by
the way, make an ostentatious use of the title of
‘excellency’— to advise the local authorities by
telegraph of the time when he expected to be in
any particular harbor. That was perhaps not
strict etiquette, but it was ordinary politeness and
sound common-sense—two things that are closely
allied. And, if the new Admiral did the correct
thing in coming into Lyttelton harbor un-
announced, and waiting in solemn state the visits
of local officials, the Mayor of Lyttelton recipro-
cated by calmly ignoring the existence of the
Admiral and the Royal Arthur. No doubt he had
read in his paper that the flagship had arrived ;
but, having no official intimation of the fact, he
simply waited developments. He is probably
still waiting.” What a tail our cat’s got!
* » * *
Curious that while the P. & O. s.s. Aden
was wrecked coming from China, the China was
wrecked coming from Aden. By the way, the
China was an unlucky vessel from the very first—
she was partially burnt wh n under construction
in dock.
» * * »
Railway Commissioner Mathieson is moving
the Vic. Govt, to the end that he may be per-
mitted to run a pub. in connection with inland
trains. He desires to attach a car that will have
all the advantages of a bar, peroxided beauty in-
cluded, The Bulletin presumes, so that the
Department may scoop much profit by the way,
and travel may enlarge the passenger’s head as
well as his mind.
» * » *
Rarely has there been a more remarkable
fate than that of the N.S. W. railway-man pierced
to the brain by a long lead-pencil which he was
carrying, point-in« ards, in his mouth and which
was struck by the engine of an incoming train.
When he sharpened that pencil he whittled his
own lrfe away.
• • * •
An amusing matter at the recent N.S.W.
military encampment was the endeavor of some
of the imported swashbucklers to surround the
great Australian language. Dead failure, mostly •
“ haw! ” doesn’t run well in harness with
“ blanky ! ”
* * * *
Broken Hill birth-notice: “The wife of
So-and-so, a son (still-born). Thanks to Divine
Providence and the skill and attention of Dr.
the mother is now progressing favorably.”
Kangaroo : “Australia tends
more to American plutocracy than
to English republicanism, where
the question is between master and
servant. Under English articles a
defaulting seaman forfeits ‘ two days
pay for one,’ but in the Australian
interprovincial articles
the fine becomes ‘ six
days pay for one.’ The
Imperial authorities
offer only <£3 reward for
naval deserters ; five of
the Au.stralias gracious-
ly add to that reward
<£s, and free travelling
expenses for naval po-
lice ! In view of a sup-
posed law against
Sunday work in port,
steamers often over-
carried or left behind
cargo which would
prevent them leaving
before Saturday mid-
night. Recent court-
decisions, however,
seem to indicate that
the law was merely in
the seaman’s eye.
Writer was in a barque
at an Australian port.
Owners wanted (say)
£lOOO for her. Could-
not get it, so took out good stores and fitted
her with old gear from her sister-ship which
lay astern. Underwriters rumored to have
written off <£3oo. She was wrecked later on.
Pumps too well-manned to let her founder, though
she tried her best to do it.
* * • «
Dear B. —Apropos the typical Australian
divorce-court husband who “just stepped out”
and never returned, I know a case in which a
wife, after placing his dinner before her lord and
master, took down her bonnet from one nail and
a jug from another, as per usual, saying, “ I’ll go
and get your beer.” Then she “just stepped
°u fc never returned.— D.E.N. P.S. —It
should be mentioned that the night was dark, and
the cyclist had no lights, and there was a lorry in
it, too. The husband “stepped out” in time to
hear her say, “ Damn you and your beer ! ” before
she died in the hospital.
Tommy Ah Noh was an English-edu-
cated, Australian-born Chow, who tookun-
to himself a white wife, in blissful uncon-
sciousness (or placid disregard) of the
fact that the lady had been a temporary
bride on several previous occasions. One
night, however, Tommy, having come
home unexpectedly, vvas roused from his
slumbering Maria’s side by a tapping at
the window and a gentle call for “Maliah !
' Maliah ! ” Tommy went outside, and
there found his compatriot, Ah Hoo —
with the result that the long-clawed
Lothario, after being badly knocked, was
kicked on*, of the front gate. Next, of
course, came the proceedings for assault,
crossed by a summons for trespass. Ah
Hoo s lawyer, proceeding, as he thought,
to serve up Ah Noh upon toast, inquired
if he, Tommy, was aware that his wife
had “ lovers ” before her marriage, and
that, in fact, she had been at one time
living with this very Ah Hoo? Where-
upon Tommy, in good English : “No,
sir ; I did not know it ; and I don’t con-
sider the question a fair one to ask. You
are a married man*yourself. How would
you like to have things your wife did be-
fore you married her spoken about in
Court ? ” “ Soilence in the Coorrt! ”
* * » *
They look upon tho “ boy ” in the
pestiferous, purple East as something
between an article of furniture and a
machine. He is, of course, most of the
time as full-grown a man as a Chow can
ever be. A good story is told of a Hong-
kong sassiety dame. One day when she
was in the bathroom her husband, desiring
to speak to her, knocked at the door, and
was bidden “ Come in.” In he went, and
found the lady stark naked. She let out
a startled yell. “Oh! it’s you, is it?”
she said. “Go out—go out at once. You
ought to be ashamed of yourself. I
thought it was the * boy.’ ” Hubby re-
tired to ponder. At latest he was still
'Hindering.
-yed, weary old man called at Yic.
-uu.se, the other day, and asked for admis-
s.uu. l’he haughty menial at the door refused
to let him in, and when he persisted sent for a
policeman, who “ lumbered ” him to the lock-up.
1 lie old man is now under medical observation.
He seemed to believe that Govt. House was a sort
of glorified benevolent asylum. The Bulletin
sees nothing in this belief calling for medical
observation.
* * * *
Cleanliness is not always next to Godliness.
The Haw-hawthorn (Melb.) local Board of Health
report attributes the prevalence of typhoid and
diphtheria in one part of the district to the
proximity of a certain church, the adjuncts whereof
were m a tiithy condition when the inspector came
around. O ! Board, wash our sins away.
* * • *
Papa Pinnock, P.M., of Brisbane, is an
interesting antique. Three weeks ago a
man was charged with having slightly bruised a
policeman’s lip. Two months without the option.
Later on the master of a steamer was summoned
before the same amiable old magistrate for allow-
ing his vessel to be loaded so as to submerge in
salt-water the centre of the disc indicating the
load-line. Fined forty skillings ! This in the face
of recent shipping disasters.
* * * *
A queer assault case came up recently
before a Northern magistrate. Casus belli: Busi-
ness man wanted to buy out stock-in-trade of local
undertakery. Being short of cash, he paid a visit
to a friendly medico, and suggested they should
go partners in the biz. Whereupon Aisculapius
flamed up, swore, hit Mercury under the jaw—
and had to appear before the P.M. next Monday.
* * * *
Melb. Mayor M‘Eacharn stated recently
that (in view of the number of children lately
drowned in quarry-holes and in the Yarra) he
would do his best to urge Parliament to make the
art of swimming compulsory. Every child should
bo taught to swim. A movement in this direction
was recently made by Vic. Education Department,
but it has resulted in next to nothing. Mothers
would write that “the weather was too cold for
Johnny to go into the water.” And the very
same day Johnny would probably have missed
ch*uth by a mouthful through bathing in the
IN THE BEGINNING.
SHE: “Now, who was the first man?”
HE: “Adam!”
SHE : “And the first woman? ”
HE: “Madam!”
Yarra. No boy or girl should be permitted' to-
grow up with the idea that if he or she should ever
happen to fall into deep water it is the duty of
some irrelevant stranger to plunge in and do a
rescue.
* * * *
When Gov. Buxton paid his first visit to
Morphettville (S. A.) racecourse last year he blun-
dered up to the old grand-stand gate-keeper and,
mistaking him for the president of the Club, cor-
dially shook him by the hand, much to his sur-
prise. The other day H.E. greatly disgusted the
old man by passing him with a stare. The Gover-
nor has now been struck off the veteran’s visiting--
list.
* * * *
Melb. Mayor M‘Eacharn astutely plays
the part of hospitable shipowner in his muni-
cipal capacity. Last week, lavish Mac. gave a.
smoke-night, in the Town Hall supper-room, to>-
the employes of MTlwraith, M'Eacharnand C 0.,,
and of the Met. Gas Co., which has a coal-contract
with his firm. In the course of speech-making, it
transpired that M., M. and co. were “ the first o£
the employers to raise the coal-workers’ wages-
(previously reduced) on the wharf,” and; the
“jolly good-fellowship” of business-ljaan.-
M’Eacharn having been duly set forth, the Mayor
was presently persuaded to sing a Sea whisk song
in his own particular weird tenor-baritone.. After
which Donald Malcolm Mac. doubtless, reckoned -
he had taken the sting out of Ben TiJlett and co.’s.
recent uncomplimentary remarks. Seeing that,
the festive potentate is playing the Mjayoral game •
in new directions, he may as well give a banquet
to the Democratic Club, and establish, himself as
a sort of idol of the masses.
* • » •
Fourteen iron-jawed ladies met in Melb.
lately to denounce the Federal Constitution Bill!
and everything and everybody connected with it..
One furious oratress, after casually remarking that
“Simon Fraser lived on the damnation of the ■■
country,” made a wildly dishevelled appeal to her
audience. “ Let us,” she cried, “go out into the
streets and bring in women who will show men >
how to vote on this question.” Not a single
woman present saw the shrieking humor of this
suggestion. Neither, of course, did the lady who
thus proposed to gather in the Flossies and:
Totties.
* * * *
At a Yic. artists’ “smoke,” the other
Saturday night, little Dr. Springthorpe adminis-
tered a nauseous pill to some of the budding
geniuses present. He told them Painting had ;
thus far lagged behind Poetry and Music in this
land of artistic temperament, and although a
scornful Michael Angelo roared “ Bunkum !” '
from the refreshment-bar, the audience was mostly
with the doctor when he said that “ the color
scheme was so delicate that it became weak, even i
melancholy.” The fact is, Victorian Art—he.,.
the Art that plays the name-part—is sadly lack-
ing in stummick. The country has raised several!
buxom singers, and some absolutely fat poets ;
(look at Bedford, for instance), but the meaty,
painters—where are they? M‘Gubbin is plump;
enough, but he is really a by nature ■
who has not followed up his. ; top-note as a pro-
fession.
* » *■ *
In the course of competition for local
favor this kind of telegram gets into the Argus :
POOWONG.—Tenders are being called for the- re-
erection of the Athenaeum-hall, and it is intended to pro-
ceed with the work as soon as possible. Mr. Staben,
of Poowong East, whose home was destroyed by the bush
fires, is now having another residence' erected on the old
site. The contract price for building and fittings com-
plete is £495.
* * * *
Startling at first to hear Melb. Women's
Hospital secretary firing off, without punctuation,
the names, states, and recommenders of the various
midwifery patients. Thus— “ Elizabeth Sarah
Jones married the mayor of Melbourne; Mary
Ann Brown married the town clerk of Richmond ;
Jane Tottie Robinson single by the mayor of
Prahran.” Sounds like awful wholesale bigamy or
betrayal.
* * * *
W.A. Acting-Judge James professes him-
self appalled at the magnitude of that province’s
crime-list. Coolgardie alone possesses a bigger
daily offence-record than Melb. and Sydney com-
bined. “It is a terrible thing,” observed his
Honor, “ that the assize should be of a magnitude-
which would positively be considered serious at.
the Old Bailey in London.” Hell-Dorado !
* * * *
At the top of Bourke-street, Melb., the-
other night, a small crowd was gathered about a
strange, wild man, who stood on the edge of the
kerb, and lifted up his voice, and laughed a weird
and awful laugh. There was nothing to laugh at
that anybody else could discover, but the lone
man laughed on with very short intervals for
wind, and his audience gradually thickened till it
blocked half the roadway. At length one man
approached the cachinnating stranger, and touched
him on the shoulder, and said : “ Hang it all,
there’s nothing to laugh at! Do shut up, old
man.'’ The other turned a dim, mirthless, par-
boiled eye upon him, and answered : “ Nothin’t'
w©f>' c^gcrt/^,
Tp.sja T5TO0|£<n>if$! astnxd
: wotfc ‘jr&niSe
“ felkis atp enured £> |! erred feTS”?
Hwaai®*® &|b®!L(1 lh>en!§$ fc)@>6tre
wmaj wstfs wre<ansr>0|;--
/S«v«U| wk®TO I I©v6 S(Je<onrs)
II cams* §£a£6S>t f<r» ePetima^
Cons Tonce Clyde


V,
wtlAvE You
' Forgotten
l !!Mi
A
$
xi
"DOSE’S CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. J 2P r *' Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
!Tor Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
ate highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
Tartaric, Acetic Acids, Cream Tartar, Garb
Ammonia, Almonds, Sorrento Walnuts, Seed *
(Canary, llemp and Millett).
CATALLARO LIQUORICE.
Wholesale Ouly
from
11 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY.
178 William-st.,
MELBOURNE.
14 Currie-st.,
ADELAIDE,
Also at Wellington (N.Z.), and Queen-st., Brisbane.
larf at, ain’t there? Why, yer fool ! dontcher
see that big white (spider eatin’ Ephraim
Zox?” Then the people understood, and pre-
sently a policeman came and took the laughing
man away to his repose.
* * * *
A queer find was made at Williamstown
racecourse, Vic., the other day. In a locker under
“ the Governor’s staircase,” the caretaker found
a baby mummy. The doctors say it has been
there five or six years.
» * * *
The Sydney Jewish Girls’ Guild spent
£llls. lOd. last year in collecting, by personal
canvas, ,£l5O. That’s a little over 1 per cent. A
lesson for those other professional charitable and
philanthropic societies, whose collecting expenses
run from 40 to 80 per cent.
* * * *
Boarder : “I dropped a lot of hooks on
the floor. Landlady came lounging up with, 4 I
thought another lodger had shot hisself. ’ ”
* * m *
Melb. storyette. An aged couple lived for
years in genteel poverty. The husband died. The
landlord stepped in and seized, among other
things, some hundreds of old newspapers the old
couple had slept on for years. These were sold
to the butcher. To the butcher ! Therefore it is
pleasing to know that the wrapping of meat in
any kind of printed paper has now been prohibited
by law in Melb. In other cities the complete tale
of the ’orrid murder arrives round the steak as
usual.
* • * «
The remarkable state of preservation in
which Mrs. “insurgent” Dwyer’s remains were
recently discovered in Sydney, after so many
years of interment, need not be so very surprising
in view of the fact that “mummified,” as applied
to a living person, is often—especially in a dry
climate like Australia’s—something more than a
mere figure of speech. Old men and old women—
more notably the latter—attain often in life to
such a desiccated condition that, as far as the
exterior parts are concerned, there is practically
nothing left for post-mortem decay. They’re pretty
well dust all the time.
Remarkable thing in connection with the
skeleton recently found in a cave at Woollahra,
Sydney, was that the denudation of flesh should
be so complete in so short a time. The Govern-
ment Pathologist declared that, but for the
abundance of proof that the owner of the bones
had been alive less than six months before, he
would have unhesitatingly fixed the date of death
at least several years back. The proximity of a
red-ants’ colony to the place where the bones were
found, is the probable explanation of the anomaly.
* * * *
Concerning a foreign young woman’s re-
cent lamentable suicide in Melbourne, The Bulle-
tin is told. that the doctors were quite ghoulishly
enthusiar tic over the physical perfections of the
GOT THERE ALL THE SAME.
“ Fancy Sparrow winning a fine big woman like
that.”
“Oh, he didn't do any winning —he gave in.”
body, as disclosed at the morgue. The unfor-
tunate deceased —with a magnificent 27 year-old
figure, a pretty face, and an abundance of raven
hair—is said to have divided the ghastly honours
of the marble slab with the heroine of a noted
Melbourne drowning-case of 10 years back.
• * * *
Don’t give away your old collars. They
picked up a corpse in a M.L. harbour recently,
and on the collar of same was marked the name of
a leading citizen. Police at once rushed to inform
relatives, but fortunately were met at door by
the leading cit. himself, thus saving much scene.
Melb. : “I see a statuesque, gold-spec-
tacled, tall, handsome blonde, in dark cerements,
with a brown veil hanging-
down her back, 4 toiling,’ as
it is called, in the alleys
among the wives of working
men. While I see faults in
them, I see a fault in her.
They are never trim and tidy.
She never steps out of a
glass case. They regard her
as an exhibit rather than a
human being.”
* * »
“Z.”: Be the ingeni-
ous little methods of the
country lock-up. I remem-
ber, in a N.S.W. back-
blocks town, a clever, but
ebrious, medico who had
made the acquaintance of
the lock-up on more than
one occasion, with result of
the usual five shillings or
the 4 rising.” The police
gaoler’s daughter fell seri-
ously ill, and, as the doc.
was 44 on a tear,” he was run
in, as the only chance of
getting his services. The
P.M; gave him a month as
an “habitual,” and while in
gaol he attended the patient
and pulled her through. But
when he came out he shook
the dust of that town from
off his feet.
Governor Buxton’s wife who, sad to say,
is a chronic invalid, has been advised against
facing another Adelaide summer, and this has
been very useful as a legitimate excuse for the
brewer-capitalist’s fit of home-sickness.
* * * *
The late Dr. Badham’s proposal to teach
youths and girls in the backbloeks by means of
correspondence is again receiving favour from the
heads of Sydney University. Big-hearted Charles
Badham held that every student who could not
afford to go to the University was entitled to have
the University go to him. He chafed at beiug the
professor of a privileged few.
• * * *
The great Australian holiday nuisance :
PARKES, Thursday.—Much indignation was expressed
this morning when it became known that a public holiday
had been proclaimed, this making three this week. About
a dozen applicants for land had come in to lodge applica-
tions for the Cobang blocks, and were prevented from
doing so. One of the applicants came from Gundagai,
and will, therefore, have to stay a whole week to transact
his business.
Public holidays seem to be conceded in N.S. W. on
lottery lines—any sort of gamble to while away
the tedium of a Cabinet meeting.
She was the winsome daughter of a
publican, and when the local revenue-officer
invaded the premises in search of irregulari-
ties, the damsel cheerfully ottered to un
lock the cellar door for him. The couple
traversed a darksome underground pas-
sage, the official leading, but when he
stopped at the cellar door and turned he
was astonished to find the young lady’s
hair down and her attire seriously disar-
ranged, as if she had been passing through
a severe struggle. Before the officer
had time to grasp the situation the dam-
sel’s arms were around him, and she hissed
into his ear—“ Clear out at once! or I’ll
scream out that you're assaulting me—and
where will you be then?” The official
saw he was “ on toast’’—handed back the
key, and departed, musing on the guile-
lessness of woman.
* » * •
To get on in Melb. (or anywhere
else) an honest man needs an immensity
of cheek. The champion cool hand turned
up, the other day, in answer to an advt. re
a lost purse. The loser herself opened the
door, and to her the visitor handed the mis-
sing article with the remark : “ You adver-
tised 10s. reward, madam, but as there was
.£5 in the purse I didn’t consider 10s.
enough reward, so I just took a quid for
my trouble. Good-day! You’ll find the
£4 all right.” And before the astonished
woman could recover her breath, he was
gone.
* * * *
He the liquor-question in Victoria.
Apart from the Sunday-trading trouble,
the police are also beaten by the country
shanty-keeper, who openly trades under
their noses, knowing that an excise officer
only can secure a conviction against him.
The one-eyed Act, if the exciseman sheets
a charge home on the shanty-man, rubs
it in hotly—first offence, fine of <£2s;
second conviction, <£so ; and third offence,
unlimited fine and two years’ quod.
There are two sides to every question.
The comic man who jokes about the toughness of
the fowls and the weakness of the coffee at his last
hash-house might joke about the other side when
it comes to providing board and residence for six
persons at less than £2 per week for the lot, vide
S.M. Herald advt
XJU ANTED, Board, Residence, by the widow of a
” much-respected gentleman—three daughters,
aged 21, 19,17 ; two sons, 16, 11. Lady will furnish
one bedroom ; requires two bedrooms; £8 per month,
in advance.
* * * *
Hobart Mercury advt. :
/GENTLEMAN wishes board, residence, widow
(young), no other boarders, "English,” Mercury.
* * * •
A novel funeral took place t’other day in
a S. Queensland town, all the mourners (six of
them) being women. Things went all right until
the undertaker (who was the only male present)
had to lower the coffin into the grave—a task to
which he proved unequal. On requesting the
assistance of the ladies in the matter, a wild,
infuriated feminine shriek arose, and the mourners
departed indignant, leaving the dear defunct
delicately poised on the edge of the yawning
sepulchre. Always be sure there’s a man-mourner
present at your interment. You never know what
may happen.
A WORK OF ART.
SHE : “He thinks my face is a perfect poem.”
HER FRIEND : “I’m afraid he can’t have scanned
it!”
The Anglican Synod at Adelaide declares
there is nothing m cremation opposed to any
principle of religion. Even churches move. Civili-
sation’s progress is retarded by the labor of
dragging them up hill, but they move.
One time their creed the priests excused
For burning men who still had breath ;
To-dav the creed has grown confused,
And burning’s Jawful—after death !
* * * *
The “metaphysical healer” is doing a
roaring business in Adelaide. Even a well-known
medico has climbed down, and is now under the
treatment of the man with the oily hair and
drooping eyes, who lays his hands on, prays, and
sings hymns in his own unapproachable style.
* * * •
The upper-classes section of the Kalgoorlie
public-school was, the other day, being “shown
off ” before the minister’s wife and the chief
inspector, and was making a sorry exhibition of
itself in the matter of Westralian geography.
Then, upon a suggestion, the inspector asked how
many of the youngsters—about TOO of them —were
Westralian born. Not a single hand was held up,
and on reference it was found that every child
present was a tothersider.
* » * *
The city of Rockhampton is a whale on
hygiene—a fact that perhaps accounts for the low
death-rate in that sultry city. Rockhampton’s
latest departure is having its milk chemically
tested—six per cent, of butter to be the standard
of good milk. Some of the milk purveyed ran
down to p.c. of oleaginous matter. Wonderful
how the test improved the quality. Milk that
assayed 2 p.c. on Monday gave place to milk
assaying 5 p.c. on the Tuesday, and higher still
on the Wednesday. Other cities might take a
lesson.
* * * •
Curious advt. from Melb. Age :
T ADY, young, wanted, for benevolent purposes. 159
-*-* Latrobe-st. E.
You see there are so many different sorts of
benevolent purposes.
» * * *
Judge Hodges re a recent Melb. Supreme
Court case :
However, moral or immoral, honest or dishonest, it is
the duty of the court to administer the law even for the
benefit of a knave.
The fool goes to the law, hoping he will get jus-
tice, and the cute rogue goes to the justice, hoping
he will get law.
* * * *
The health of cattle in Bananaland is a
matter of infinitely more importance than the
health of human beings. Hence the appointment
of tick-inspectors, the drawing of quarantine
lines, etc. At the same time, there is no attempt
made to secure the establishment of publio abat-
toirs or the inspection of slaughter-houses.
* * • *
“Be that Mt. Gambier hotel-gaol yarn,”
writes a Bulletin correspondent. “In the fifties,
Melb. gaol was known as Wintle’s hotel (Wintle
was Governor). His eldest son told the writer that
Wintle the elder received a circular from an Eng-
lish hardware firm, soliciting an order, and at the
same time saying that their traveller ‘ had often
patronised the hotel and spoke favorably of it.’ ”
* * * •
Temperance-lecturess Harrison Lee got in
a good one the other night about the threepenny
claiming to be better than the half-crown, because,
while the latter went to theatres and racecourses,
and such wickedness, the 3d.-bit was principally
given to going to church. But alas for the holy
threepenny’s immoral relations with the long-
beer !
* * * *
When the Presbyterian Church, in Vic.,
lately admitted six ladies to the new order of
deaconesses, the officiating parson said : “ We, as
ministers of the pastorate, receive you with pecu-
liar gratification ... in the exalted hope that in
you we welcome the forerunners of a long line of
faithful and pious women.” Ah! but it’s a long
line that has no turning. Old Nick can afford to
wait for the coining of deaconesses who will not
be peculiarly faithful and pious.
* * * •
A Perth citizen writes re the tragrant city
of the Six Families :
As if tiie cost of living and house-rents were not suffi-
cient burden on the poor devils who pay ta'xes, the
Perth municipal rates have steadily risen to 6s. in the
P. For some years there has been an increasing agita-
tion for better sanitary arrangements in Perth, but the
t’othersiders who are the clamorers are so neatly ex-
cluded from the franchise that (hey cannot do more than
cry aloud without having the slightest chance of redress.
The councillors are elected on a very restricted muni-
cipal roll, and the ratepayers represented are mostly of
Westralian origin, bred, born and reared amidst the
filth of ignorant meanness. They have done without
any sanitary or underground sewerage system. Why,
therefore, this idiotic and wholly unwarrantable attack
on their old-established germs ? A morning journal in
Perth has been publishing a series of articles on the sani-
tary state of that city -by an impertinent t’othersider,
one Horrocks, M.D., and the council has been casting
about for some means to make this meddling fellow sit
up. In his concluding remarks, Horrocks expressed his
indebtedness to Dr. O’Connor for information supplied.
The unfortunate O’Connor is the city Health Inspector,
and the wrath of the councillors knew no bounds. A
special meeting was summoned and the indignant citizens
blackguarded O’Connor to their heart’s content. “This
man was their officer and had no right to tell stories out
of doors. His views were for their private ears. They paid
him,” &c. Then a patriotic sand-groper complained
with tears in his voice that any man should have told
such lies about his beloved city. “Perth is one of the
healthiest cities in the world." (Death-rate at 23 per
1000 annually against 13 per 1000 in Sydney.) Another
declared, “It is the sanatorium of Australia." No men-
tion was made of the fact that in Perth alone, with its
population of about 24,000, there were 1400 cases of ty-
phoid in 1897 ! Casually a councillor named Sweet
elicited the fact that a month before Dr. O’Connor had
supplied the council with his opinions on the sanitary
condition and requirements of Perth, but the Mayor,
Premier Forrest’s little brother Alec., had kept back the
treasonable documents as calculated to discredit the City
of Typhoid. No one suggested that Perth should be
cleaned and drained ; all the rage was about the fact that
someone had commented on its unspeakable filthiness.
Very soon people will give up using street names in Perth,
and visitors will be directed by so many smells to the
right or left, as the case may be.
* « * *
A peculiar case came before Mr. Justice
Cooper in Brisbane the other day. A young half-
caste named Poingdestre, son of an aboriginal
woman called Lucy, of Normanton, died a short
time ago. Deceased was insured in the A.M.P.
for <£soo. He made a will shortly before his death
leaving everything to a Normanton storeman,
Welsh, by whom he had been brought up and
educated. Welsh was to dispose of everything for
the benefit of Poingdestre’s mother and sister.
But as deceased was only 17j years old at time of
death, the will was consequently invalid, and the
matter passed into the hands of the Curator of
Intestate Estates. Judge Cooper finally decided
that the estate belonged to the Crown, but recom-
mended that the Curator’s suggestion be adopted
— viz., that an annual payment of .£5O be made to
Welsh to he divided between mother and sister of
deceased.
• • « *
Some definitions :
Marriage : The final paroxysm of a madness that
destroys two fools.
Love : Paralysis of the intellectual faculties which com-
pare.
Courtship : The attempt to make a girl think you are
as good a catch as you think you are.
Life : The thing that makes you jump when your toe is
trodden on.
Death : That which enables you to bear insults with
patience.
Laziness : The successful control of the passion for
work.
—Kati-Kati, M.L.
* * * *
Thirty years ago Mrs. Wigan, wife of Dr.
Wigan, army-surgeon, kept a ladies’ school in
Launceston (Tas.), limited to four pupils. The
doctor died of paralysis, his wife of cancer ; one
HE KNEW .
HUSBAND: “ What does your mother say in her
letter ?"
WIFE : “ Oh—nothing much!”
HUSBAND : “H'm! that’s not like your mother .”
girl of spinal disease, two of consumption, whilst
the fourth was found dead on Cataract Hill. The
remaining inmate, Mrs. Arrowsmith, promptly
left for M.L., where she has just died in her 99th
year.
* * * *
LEGAL QUIBBLES.
A lawyer may be a good Christian, but it is
most untilial conduct.
A good “ action ” is its own reward.
When a man has an enemy he goes to law, and
makes two more.
Many an ass covers his ears with horse-hair.
A law-suit generally wears well.
Possession is nine points of the lawyer.
S.S.
* * * •
After a severe tussle, in which the con-
stable got considerably the worst of it, the drunk-
andisorderly was locked up. During the night he
clamored for a drink, and the sergeant, with a
wholesome regard for his own safety, caiefully
irrigated the prisoner through the door-trap with
a watering-can !


Cold Feet
Ladies’ Winter Boots,
Gent.’s „ ~
Children’s ~ „
and
Warm Slippers for all.
Call for warm, comfortable Boots
For outdoor wear
and
Cosy flannel-lined Slippers
For indoor wear.
We have employed every
energy in selecting our
choice stock for the season’s
requirements.
CALLAGHAN & SON
395 George-st., Sydney.
GLOBE TEAS hOTe w 0
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S LETT ER
Sydney, May 31, 1898.
Mr Dear Myee—
The Birthday races at Rand wick were frowned
upon by as bleak a wind as blows, and as ugly a
one. Nothing slays beauty with such deadly
rapidity as our west winds in winter. Under
their blighting influence the bluest eyes in the
world turn sandy-green, the shiniest, finest hair is
hard and coarse enough to stuff a horse-hair suite,
peaches-and-cream are transformed into boiled
gooseberries, and the only bright spot in a femi-
nine armory is the gleaming edge of the temper.
And the grand-stand of a racecourse has a
supremacy over all things that are evil when a
biting wind blows.
Those whose overcoats and jackets buttoned
tightest were the happiest people present. In
Sure frocking, the smartest dress on the lawn was
. Irs. G-. B. Simpson’s black moire antique and
jewelled belt. But the smartest dresses had a
forlorn appearance beside a homely cape or jacket.
I saw nothing very remarkable in the way of
overcoating. Our climate does not lure us
sablewards with the recklessness of a lower
temperature, and Australian wraps are permitted
to be bargains, duplicates, and all the rest of those
indiscretions that are shunned by other self-
respecting garments. I spent a good deal of
admiration on a vice-regal overcoat with a velvet
collar and Ouida-esque lines such as no woman can
resist. Then there was the droll overcoat of a well-
known haberdasher, shorter by a yard and a half
than the coat underneath. One of the few sable
capes present was worn by Miss Gotthelf ; another
belonged to Mrs. Gadsden, who resembled her
well-known portrait as elegantly as ever, in a sable
wrap with tails.
The latest thing m portraits is Tom Roberts’
study of the latest thing in knights, James Fairfax.
I went round to Mr. Roberts’ studio one day last
week to see the picture, and judged it to be as
subtle, faithful, and characteristic of the painter
as most of this artist’s portraits are. Streams
of visitors have been in and out through the
studio these last two weeks, and the audience is
sometimes three deep round the speaking likeness.
But there was a peculiarly fascinating baby pre-
sent at his father’s studio the day I went, and I
confess I can tell you more about the baby, who
was a little Tom Roberts, than about the knight
on the easel.
From one of those little papers that tell you all
about Shakespeare and the musical glasses for a
penny, I learn an interesting fact about the Prin-
cess of Wales. An article on eyes illustrates its
matter with photographs of orbs, taken away from
the rest of the face, and planted down in the
letter-press, with eyelids open beyond all chance
of a wink. Among others, the Princess of Wales
has been defrauded of her optics. The statement
that hers are among the most beautiful eyes in
Europe is followed by the statement that each eye
looks a way of its own. Briefly, that her eyes are
crosst d. I don’t call this a counter statement,
because the article explains later that there is no
beauty in the world like the piquancy of a cross-
eye. In the words of the magazine, to be crossed
is the “crowning beauty of a woman’s eyes.”
Surely these little magazines have some effect on
the rise of butter.
Hetty Holroyd’s concert attracted an unusually
large house to the Town Hall last Saturday. Miss
Holroyd is the third soprano whom Mr. Stetfani
has launched successfully on the public within one
year. Florence Schmidt gave her first concert
last June, and is now known all over Australia.
She still continues a triumphal tour through her
native Queensland, and sails for Europe in July or
August. Florence Mack achieved an artistic
success at her concert a few weeks ago, and will
probably appear in light opera shortly. And now
comes the youthful Hetty, with a brilliant organ
that must make a way for itself when her girlish
nervousness wears off. Her fluent and delicate
rendering of Qui la Voce covered the platform
with one of the biggest floral exhibitions I have
seen.
It seems as if the tide of the Cartwright Com-
pany has turned at last. The revival of a “ Mar-
riage of Convenience ” drew a crowded house last
week, and on Saturday night an over-crowded
dress-circle witnessed the first production in Syd-
ney of the “Squire of Dames.” Miss Mor'ley
made a re-appearance in the “ Marriage ” revival.
You will be glad to hear that the scars on her
pleasing face are not noticeable from the house,
and are quickly paling away in the light of day.
There was nothing new in the performance, but
the company played with a vivacity that grows as
the house grows. I particularly admired Miss
Stewart, as Marton, and any lady who wishes to
train up a maid in the way a discreet maid should
go is advised to take lessons from the diplomatic
soubrette in question.
Wit and repartee flash as bountifully over the
“Squire of Dames ” as limelight on a melodrama.
On the whole, the company are admirably suited,
and Noni Rickards, as a little schoolgirl, is a
huge improvement on Noni as anybody else. All
the ladies wear their best frocks, but the American
heiress shows a weakness for simple white effects
that is hardly justified by the orthodox American
heiress’ wardrobe. Miss Lamb is a charming
grass-widow in her black dinner-gown, with
jetted bodice and front of jetted net hanging
apart from the train. I noticed on Saturday that
her indifference to make-up has begun to yield,
and that the audience put an extra amount of
warmth into her reception, and sent a few flowers
her way.
Miss Stewart’s gowns are always worthy of
notice. In fact, it is a long time since we have
seen such smart and thoughtful frocks as this co.
has been revealing in every play. A subdued
but telling note is struck by Miss Stewart’s grey
crepe de chine over golden-yellow silk, with fleet-
ing and effective suggestions of golden under-
flounces. This lady owns one of those peculiar
figures that are the pride of London just now.
Not so long ago to have big hips was considered
fatal to grace. I once heard a lady deplore to her
dressmaker this failing in her physique. “ I have
such horrible hips,” she said. “ ’lps you call
them ; I call them ’umps /” was the dressmaker’s
withering comment. But modistes know better
than that to-day. Hips must bespoken of with the
utmost respect, for they are going to occupy a lot
of room in the fashions to be. Already the pannier
shows signs of a revival, and where the pannier
goes the hip follows.
A few years ago there was a wild storm in a
Sydney tea-cup because the Admiral didn’t go
into dinner before somebody who wasn’t as big as
an Admiral, in an Admiral’s opinion. An out-
sider might have seen reason in the furious raging
of that storm, if the one who went in first had
begun his dinner before the one who went in
second. But as there was no privilege of that
kind attached to the first place, the storm merely
revived memories of school-girl squabbles. And
now a thunder-cloud has broken over Maori-
land, and again an Admiral’s anxiety for the
courtesy due to him is at the bottom of the dis-
turbance.
It seems that Admiral Pearson and the Royal
Arthur anchored in Lyttelton harbor, and
were not called upon by the Mayor and Har-
bour Board until a whole day had elapsed. The
Lyttelton folk explained afterwards that they
had not been told an Admiral was coming. And
though they appear to have hastened out to the
Royal Arthur as soon as they understood it was
there, the Admiral’s dignity was “ riz.” He
left word he had gone for a sail, and was not
present to receive them. Then followed a stiff
refusal of all invitations, and, next morning, the
Royal Arthur got up before day-break and de-
parted, leaving behind it the impression that it
was not angry, but sorry—for Lyttelton. The
entertaining little episode has one reassuring
aspect. If our brave naval men fight so fiercely
over the etiquette of afternoon calls, surely they
will protect their country from such uninvited
guests as Spanish sailors with bearded lips and
clasp-knives.
What a pity that an organist has to play with
his back turned. For fully five minutes before
the vice-regal party arrived at the University
Chancellor’s reception, M. Wiegand played
“ God Save ” in his most patriotic style,
but vice-royalty actually entered the Great Hall
amidst a most depressing silence, despite the
agonising efforts of the vice-chancellor, the regis-
trar, and the beadle to secure repetition of the
hytnn. The most striking feature was, without
doubt, the new robes of Chancellor MacLaurin—if
all is not gold that glitters, certainly the greater
part was in this case. The aim and object of
opera-cloaks, too, seems to be that of originality—
Oriental draperies, tartans, chiffons, completely
ousting the orthodox cashmere and feather trim-
ming—in fact, one professor’s wife was strongly
suspected of having rushed off to the shivoo, at the
bidding of an impatient husband, before com-
pleting her toilet, so strongly did her outer gar-
ment resemble a dressing-jacket.
Culchaw was suitably in evidence, and when
the guests had finished wrestling with the Greek
motto at the top of the programmes, they turned
their attention to the “ objects of interest ” (other-
wise than animate) displayed round the walls.
These included such interesting trifles as “Dis-
articulated skull,” “ Casts of snakes death
adder,” and “Bernhardt’s drawing-desk, with
Zeiss’ improved camera lucida,” to say nothing
of a “Rocking microtome.”
The University Ball was a cheery hop this year,
with lots of youths and maidens and not too many
grave presences. Society sent more representa-
tives than usual, and seemed to find the jovial
atmosphere of the undergrad a pleasant change
from the frigid temperature of our public balls.
The genial union of animal spirits and culture
might melt the reserve of the most thickly en-
crusted matron. I noticed pretty Miss MePhill-
amy in white, embroidered o’er with pallid tur-
quoises, but most of the gowning suggested
that the people had come to have a good time
rather than show off their clothes.
“New life has crept into the Tivoli with Peggy
Pryde, the vivacious daughter of poor Jenny Hill,
whose vital spark has flickered right away. Peggy
is an indefatigable little person, with an immense
reserve of animation, and a personal appearance
that reminds you slightly of Ada Willoughby. In
ten minutes or so I saw her change her dress and
impersonation four times, and her dash and liveli-
ness redoubled themselves with every change. In
evening dress she sang a song that was half funny
and half sad. She disappeared for a minute
and came back in coster attire to whisk off a de-
scription of a coster wedding. Skipped out of
sight again, and returned in another costume with
a rattling song and story about a visit to Paris.
Her frisky smartness never flags for a minute, and
I felt sorry for the large dark gentleman who
came after her on the programme.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Toorak is almost in tears. One of its bachelor
idols has fallen from his pedestal. A certain
talented college-lecturer—he of the forget-me-not
blue eyes, angel voice and dimple chin—has
betrothed himself to a lady somewhat older than
his beauteous self. The lady (who will bring
money into the firm) has always been a rampant
advocate of platonic affection, hence Toorak feels
aggrieved, for it appears that the platonic theory
lias been used for some time as the herring on this
trail of true love. The girls thought he was at
least ‘ free from danger ’ in that direction.
“ Mrs. Premier Turner has lost and found her
earrings, all in one week. When she lost them,
Premier George informed the police that they had
been stolen. The detectives laughed. In a few
days, Mrs. T. found her barbaric ornaments,
which had simply been ‘ swept up with the dust.’
The fact that the room had been swept out mean-
while was forgotten. The incident is a mild repe-
tition of the loss of Mrs. Freeman Thomas’s jewels
on board ship, when it was found that the lady
had washed them down the sink when cleaning
them. But it is hard that the Melbourne thieves
should be suspected by these careless personages
of things they have not done. It must hurt their
feelings. It is a reflection upon their enterprise.
“ A sacred concert —‘Stabat Mater ’ and a few
extras —at Dr. Strong’s church (Melb.) the other
Tuesday night introduced a fetching little organ
solo, composed and played by W. E. Nott. If the
aforesaid ‘Romance et Berceuse’ (why this
foreign language?) was a strictly original Austra-
lian work, Nott may be expected to do something
brilliant in due course. Which is more than can
be said, so far, for Miss Adele Fawcett, who ranks
among Melbourne’s best contralto aspirants, and
seems now more than ever incapable of letting
herself go. One can appreciate the artistic singer
with no voice worth mentioning, or even the fine
voice that doesn’t know how to sing, but the
fairly cultivated vocalist who fears to put force
into her good notes is irritating.
“What with flannelette clothing and celluloid
hair-ornaments, the woman of to-day is as com-
bustible as a kerosene-kindler. A local victim,
overseeing the baking of her boy’s birthday-cake,
comi>lained off and on to the attendant Abigail of
a strong whiff of singeing, never suspecting that
her own underwear \Vas a-smoulder. At last the
cdor grow so pronounced that she thought the
house must be on fire, and rushed out of the
detached kitchen to inspect. Once in the air, her
skirts broke into a blaze, and flared up round her
head, where a ‘ tortoise-shell ’ circlet and dagger
pin were soon flashing and spluttering like a fiery
crown. Before the human torch was extinguished
the premises took fire in two or three places—
though, unlike its hapless mistress, the house was
ultimately saved.
“ A side-issue of the tragedy was the unlooked-
for taciturnity of deceased’s six-year-old son. At
school when the fatality happened, he was de-
tained there, at the victim’s wish, until after the
funeral, so as to spare him sad memories of his
mother. When he did go home he asked no ques-
tion as to his parent’s unexplained absence, nor
then nor afterwards expressed, even in the most
casual way. any consciousness of a change in the
domestic regime.
Wilson Barrett’s Othello, nice enough as colored
persons go, is rather spoilt, spectacularly speaking,
by the low cut of his corsage at the back. There’s
something too dowagerish in the rear view of those
bare shoulders of his, and the well-cushioned spine
which parts their plumpness, to suit one’s fore-
gone conception of the swarthy, sinewy Moor.
“Travellers’ tales testify that Jonahs aboard
the grounded ocean-liner deliberately intensified
their hereditary harmfulness by chainpagning
saloon-diners, officers and all, just because of a
birthday. Soured second-classers, who shared all
subsequent dangers and none of the preliminary
fun, declare that a clerical passenger, who left his
fellow-passengers to their vinous revels and went
upstairs primming his lips disapprovingly, spied
breakers ahead the minute he got on deck. The
poor castaways had a horrid time on the rescuing
vessel, where they overcrowded the rightful occu-
pants, and added so much to the work that the
stewards told them to wait on themselves. And
picture the feelings of that bride-elect doomed to
meet her fiance in London with ‘onebootoffand the
other on,’ like ‘ Diddle-diddle Dumpling, my son
John,’ while the liveliest Parisian trousseau and
ever so much jewellery lay at the bottom of the
Red Sea.
“The important question, ‘Shall we forgive
her?’ was asked for the first time at the Royal on
Saturday night re heroine Ida Gresham, haunted
by a stormy past in Queensland under the fist
of blackguard Holloway— ‘ engineer ’by name,
drunken navvy by nature. Ida herself, explain-
ing her presence in the drought-stricken, cut-
throat railway camp, says that when her‘people
at home died ’ (en masse, presumably), she crossed
the seas to former lover Holloway’s frowsy side,
in ignorance of his subsequent degradation.
“ But, considering that her ‘most filthy bargain
shows not the slightest trace of ‘ better days,’ it’s
strange how so high-toned a young person as
literary Ida can at any time have set her affec-
tions on hulking, ungrammatical, grimy Garth.
Anyway, she kept her neck out of the noose of a
legal marriage; and, after a term of unwedded
squalor, barely escaped with her life and returned
to England and mission-work under the wing of
Parson Titheradge. In no time the pretty
penitent re-entered matrimony—holy this time—
along with Hubby Willard who, while uneasily
curious as to wifie’s unexplained Bananaland
exile, smothers his suspicions till after the honey-
moon, when he takes to raking up the sore subject
with little satisfaction to himself and less to the
questionee. In the end, the skeleton is
unearthed through the exertions of spinster
“Joanna’’ (Eugenie Duggan) who helps Ida
Gresham with the house-keeping and nurses
a soft spot for Ida’s husband. The latter, by
the way, goes blind with the shock of wifie’s dis-
grace and drives his soiled dove out of the ark to
earn a fat living as sub-editress of an influential
woman’s journal. Parson Titheradge is winsome
from the start, when he appears at the railway-
camp all in pure white, in the midst of a water
famine with all the navvies ready to do murder for
a drink. Later on, as an English vicar, he pleads
for the prodigal to her unforgiving husband
(cherished in his blindness by Saint Joanna) de-
claring that, were the penitent free from to-
morrow, he would tender her his own clerical
hand. A woman might have done worse, perhaps,
than get a divorce from stiff-necked Oliver, on the
grounds of “Joanna,” and take his reverence at
his word.
“ In the Bananaland ‘ gulch ’-exile, Ida Gresham
flits about her unhallowed bower in grey home-
spun and red bandana turban. Later on, as model
English wife and mother, she affects pale yellow
muslin with black baby ribbons, chaste green
waist-belt, and posy of violets. However, it’s not
till she’s driven forth to grass-widowhood that she
indulges in grey velvet Russian-blouse dress, and
sweet silvery bonnet plumed with white. Thus
arrayed, she flops heavily and boo-hoos aggres-
sively on the spot where her baby’s chest would be
if, as inferred, the innocent actually occupied its
stage - cradle. That wise (if spiteful) virgin,
‘Joanna’ (Miss Duggan), in white cuffed and
collared black frock and plastered hair, represents
an obsolete type of ‘saint.’ The present-day
‘ unco guid ’ are often sentimentally soft-headed
in their dealings with sinners. A while back, a
local dowager took into her house a pretty young
‘brand,’ to try the effect of ‘home influence,’
though, at the advice of ‘ brand ’ authorities, she
kept her shut up as much as possible in the best
bedroom with nice books and fancy-work, until it
should be seen how the penitent shaped. Neat
frocks and trim house-shoes were supplied to the
prisoner to ‘restore her self-respect.’ She pleaded
for red stockings. Protectress hemmed and hesi-
tated, but gave in when she heard that ‘poor
Papa,’ in the ‘dear old days,’ liked to call the
‘brand’ his ‘Polly Red-stockings.’ Soon the
kindly dame noticed that hawkers, carriers, &c.,
took to loitering ever so long on the front veran-
dah before they rang the bell. Light broke upon
her when, coming in suddenly at her own gate,
she saw the postman staring open-mouthed at a
pair of saucy, scarlet ankles and black shoes dang-
ling out of the guest-chamber window. Bursting
in at a side door, the shocked philanthropist sur-
prised the penitent giggling hard behind the
sheltering pages of ‘ Home Heroines,’ while she
reclined comfortably on the bed drawn up close to
the casement, and twinkled her trim imp-
ishly on the sill.
“ Most women sported their new winter things
at Marshall-Hall’s recent orchestral concert.
The purple, heliotrope, lilac, and lavender family
is evidently to be the color-connection of the
coming season, vice the green-clan deposed.
“Things are looking up in the Cabbage Garden.
The first cauliflower-cargo of the season left for
Sydney and the North a couple of Saturdays ago.
Forsome time we have been importing kitchen-stuff
from N.S.W. —a record state of affairs. Methinks
that the heathen Chinee, as well as his white
brother in greengrocery, has been making his
modest pile out of the ‘recent drought.’ Tup-
pence per bunch for welly ni callot is a little stiff
for that humble root. As for cauliflowers and
tomatoes, we put ’em on the table for ornament
now. Lately we unfortunate, drought-stricken
Melbournites have had to elevate the despised
dried onion into an edible —boiled with white
sauce it isn’t nearly as repellent as its smell. A
girl of my acquaintance ate one for dinner lately,
and all her friends knew it before night. With
green-stuff at a premium, we copy Sam Weller—
‘ eats our biled mutton without capers and doA’t
care about horse-radish if we can get beef.’
“ A haughty person from ’Ome has been deco-
rating sassiety for a couple of years or so with a
single eye-glass, a paralysing mannah, and, in uni-
form, a positively killing swagger. And he has a
brother who sings. A Salon girl, making up a pro-
gramme for an afternoon-tea shivoo, asked him if his
brother would give his name as a performer. But
he shook his auburn head doubtfully, and replied,
‘ My brothah only sings in public when he quite
knows who his audience are. I don’t think my
brothah would sing before the Austral Salon.’
Paralysing speeches of this sort have gained for
the lofty one the name of ‘ The Shilling Shockah.’
“Lord Kilmorey—‘Kilmurray’ is the ’kreot
sound, and please don’t forget it—has just done a
deal in house property—sold a crib at Richmond
(Eng.) for ,£22,000 to the authorities, who have
turned the mansion into an Industrial School with
30 boys. The boys have the free run of the grounds,
and one man to five boys is the proportion of the
teachers. A London paper remarks frankly that
it looks like a job—but newspapers have a coarse,
underbred way of putting things at times. You
must remember Lord K. at Randwick some
time ago, a well - preserved aristocrat in the
train of a charming mummer and her ‘ Momma.’
The ladies are again in Sydney, to which attrac-
tive spot the erstwhile Lord Newry intends to
return in a few weeks.
“ Trust a woman to rub it in. This is how the
gossiper in Adelaide Ckitic neatly plants a nasty
one: —
Janet Lady Clarke donated £5 to the “ Austral Salon
Village” at the Old Colonists’ Carnival. Mrs. Gotch,
vice-president of the “Village” stall, followed with five
guineas. Lady Madden gave her patronage, and
attended a meeting of stall-holders at the Austral Salon.
Yours affectionately,
GOUIL-GOULI.
If anyone prefers fche gimple mou i d D f form now
reflected in Sydney glass of fashion, Dr. Mao-
kenzie’s corsets may be recommended. Shoulder-
straps accompany them, and the fastenings at the
side must be a boon to those stout people whose
arms can’t reach the middle of their backs. The
article in question is on sale at Frank Coffey’s
warehouse in York-street.
Lafcesfc about a we ll - known Vic.
«< th f, sets forth that whe n he was recently
t his text the Pharisee-publican episode,
g d u the Pharisee’s asseveration that
$ tithes of all he possessed,” and added-
Jf jf canfcly running . his over his flock-“ I’m
JgJg*, , fc jJ a few p g haris ees I could be doin’ wid
r‘. „
in this congregation !
Coolgardie beat Kalgoorlie in the recent
Leg. Council election. It takes two or three years
to get on a Westralian roll; so the older town,
which supported its Mayor, A. G. Jenkins, had a
long start of the newer one, which ran J. W.
Kirwan—mostly on the strength of the fact that
it was he who proposed the “ deputation of 10,000
that waited for John Forrest on a hot day outside
a pub.


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
Ciilar
Caraes
tm
BSO
Tnwat o«nn • ' » ,
CIGARETTES.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
RAFFAN'S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS.
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for ,Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 El)fin-st., MELBOURNE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Dumas, the new member of S.A. Assembly
for Mt. Barker, is, like Speaker Jenkin Coles, a
native of Sydney. He is a brother-in-law of
Russell Barton, who once sat in N.S.W.
Assembly.
N. : “It has not been the slightest use,
even now, trying to raise a Gladstone upheaval
of sympathy on this continent. Sala writes that,
lecturing in Melb., his mention of Gladstone
hardly got a hand. ”
Mrs. Maybrick, the husband-poisoner, is
in luck—that is, if it is possible for a person
under life sentence to be in luck. When a cousin
of hers died in Maoriland, the other day, he left
her £4400 to accumulate till she can get out to re-
oeive it.
Premier Reid’s appointment of R. M. Sly,
LL.D., to an N.S.W. Acting Supreme Court
Judgeship, intensifies the growing feeling that in
scattering Acting-Judgeships among the non-
political bar he is despoiling political barristers of
an old privilege.
A knighthood is almost as good as a
baronetcy for the native-born Australian if the
well-ventilated theory of a certain Sydney scien-
tist be true. The theory is that the native-born
have not sufficient stamina to carry on the race
for more than three generations at most.
While Gladstone’s father was a monarch
amid the Liverpool slavers, Cook, the vinous
tragedian, appeared there one night drunk on the
stage. Audience hissed. Cooke staggered to the
footlights, and blurted out: “ Men of Liverpool!
Every brick in your accursed city is cemented
with the blood of a slave ! ”
“ Skin-shivering stories anent the death of
Mrs. Oscar Wilde, are being whispered about,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent.
“The most-to-be-pitied woman on earth, Mrs.
Oscar Wilde, was a granddaughter of the late
Q.C. Horatio Lloyd, and lived for the last two
years with her two boys at Genoa.”
King Kayser, of the great Bischoff tin-
mine, Tas., has resigned, but it is said that he will
aot as consulting-engineer. He was Boss with a
big Bin Waratah. A stranger, looking for work,
arrived by the train one day, and meeting Kayser
enquired the whereabouts of the Bischoff mine.
“lam de Bischoff,” replied the big man; and he
was, too !
THE DEAN.
Bananaland Govt, appoints some queer
characters to the position of tick-inspectors. One
of these gentry, a gentleman of highly-scientifio
tendencies, paid a visit to a blacks’-camp imme-
diately on his appointment, subjected the niggers
to a microscopical examination, and wanted to
dip them in a composition of his own invention.
He is still at large.
The strongly-treated three-column portrait
which accompanied Sydney D.T.’s Gladstone
obituary was drawn by young Harold Ashton,
son of Julian R. Ashton. Australasian dailies
have failed dismally so far with their illustrations,
and the local draughtsman with sufficient breadth
of style to overcome the difficulties of the rotary
press will be able to make big cheques.
The David Syme Queensbuthdy leader was
all that could be expected of a man who has de-
clined a knighthood with thanks, and who may
yet be a baronet, although it did refer queerly to
the “giddy” heights of the throne, and talk of
her-gracious hearkening to the plaudits and joy-
bells that herald in her eightieth birthday with an
eye moistened by recollections of the past.
Gov. Hampden : “ There is no royal road
to old-age pensions any more than there was a
royal road to wealth.” Isn’t there? At any rate,
there is a Fitz-royal road to both, and the present
Dukes of Grafton, Richmond, and St. Albans—
descendants of illegitimate sons of Nell Gwjmne
and other mistresses of Charles 11.-are living
witnesses of the fact. The British Pension-list is
another witness.
Kennerley, over whose will there has been
such a legal flare at Hobart, was a cheerful old
man of hospitable nature, and also, at one time, a
political figure of importance in the Isle of Grim
Remembrances. While on a trip to Europe, he
visited Paris, and was never afterwards tired
of narrating his experiences. So fond was he of
describing his trips to St. Cloud, Fontainbleau,
and elsewhere, in what he called a “ Charibang,”
that he came in time to be known as “ Old Chari-
bang.”
Marcus Clarke once got hold of a quantity
of gilt tokens, imported by an advertising firm in
Melbourne. At a little distance
it was not easy to distinguish
one from a sovereign. Mar-
cus filled his pockets and
called upon his pet
money-lender, whom
he found standing at
the door of his office.
“ See this, you sor-d-
-did s-s-on of Jacob!”
he stuttered. “Look
on th-ese, and weep ” •
and he flung a hand-
ful of apparent gold
into the air. Ikey
raised his hands in
horror. “He’thmad,
h e’t h mad!” he
cried. “Mithter
Clarke, don’t be tho
foolith. And when Clarke threw away an-
other lot it was too much for the Hebrew. He
rushed into the roadway and began to pick up the
tokens. Then he “realised.” And soon after-
wards he played his joke. As Clarke said woe-
fully, It was funny, but it d-d-didn’t p-pay, my
b-oy!” vr j, j
Pressure is being brought to bear to make
insolvent a very prominent Australian politician,
whose affairs have been becoming more and more
involved for years past. The success of the pro-
ceedings would involve the collapse of a Ministry,
and greatly affect politics generally. The crisis
has been expected for months, and cannot be post-
poned much longer.
Dear B.—One of Gladstone’s philological
niceties. A relative of mine, who, late in the
70 s, was a guest at the G.O.M. ’s literary break-
fasts in Harley-street, London, returned from one
of them saying that Gladstone’s most startling
utterance that morning - had been, “ There is
really no such word as ‘ reliable ’ in the English
language ; ‘ trustworthy ’ is the correct word to
use.”— Chapel Place.
All four Sydney dailies combined to kill
John Gilbert, R.A., a second time last week,
although the famous illustrator died in October
last. The Evening News even devoted a leade-
rette to him. Next day the D.T. admitted its
error, the Gilbert alluded to in the cable being a
prominent Irish historian—but the others just
allowed the dead-and-buried Academician to die
again without comment.
Although rumour probably errs in sur-
mising that the projected addition of another
judge to N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench will be
for the exclusive purpose of taking on John-
Norton-business, The Bulletin would hardly be
surprised if John should yet require, not merely a
judge to himself, but a whole Full Court to deal
specially with the incidental developments of
John upon the legal war-path.
Present at recent Melb. Old Colonists’
Carnival was Mrs. A. C. Macdonald (wife of the
secretary of the Australian Geographical Society),
who remembers Ross’s visit to Hobart, in
1839, with the Erebus and Terror, on their Ant-
arctic exploration voyage. Mrs. Macdonald’s
father was a West Indian planter, who, having
freed his slaves before emancipation was made
compulsory, afterwards settled in Tasmania.
A well-known Sydney habitual female-
drunk caused much joy to those near enough to
catch her sotto voce comments when she recently
honoured a fashionable Sydney sanctuary with her
presence. “ Gladstone 1 ” she muttered, when the
parson brought on the board the “lamented death
of that great Englishman.” “Humph !—Glad-
stone was my godfather. But he wasn’t an
Englishman. He was a Scotchman—and a d d
mean one at that! ”
Cabled that Gladstone’s last words were
“Our Father which art in Heaven.” Statement
subsequently qualified to the effect that his abso-
lutely last words were “ a disconnected remark in
French.” Cartloads of pious sermons and poems
will be preached and written about the first utter-
ance, but never a word will be said about the “dis-
connected remark in French.” No Englishman is
ever pious in French.
Parkin, an oppressive person who visited
Australia years ago with a view of booming Him-
perial Federation, got his reward among the
latest batch of Birthday “honours.” Not much
reward—only a C.B.— but quite enough for
Parkin. A much more famous person of the same
name is chief “gaffer” in the roadside pub scene
in “Silver King.” “Tell us about the ’Atton
Garden murr-der scene, Mr. Parkin.”
St. Albans Wilson helps his brother, S.R.,
into the Segenhoe Estate, Singleton, N.S.W. ;
tenant-farming is to be a feature of the manage-
ment. This is getting back to the brothers’ old
occupation. Nearly 30 years ago they were millers
in the north of South Aus. ; their place—the first
mill at Pt. Pirie—was burned in ’76. After that
they turned to gold-mining, and so gravitated to
the Barrier. W.R. was manager of the long-since
discarded Day Dream; S.R. of the B.H. Prop.
But, in money-making, W.R.’s talents were far
the greater; and, lately, S. H., broken in health,
gave Westralia best (he had the bad luck to plump
for the Murchison), and now turns to a new
question altogether.
Dear Bulletin. — Re that par. of May 7th.
Rev. J. G. Gell was selected by Arnold, of Rugby,
at Sir John Franklin’s request, as head of a Govt,
college which was to have developed into the first
university in Australasia. He came out in ’39 or
’4O, but "he scheme seems to have fallen through.
The idea was taken up by the Church of England,
and Gell became the first warden of the now dor-
mant Christ’s College. He was, I believe, a con-
temporary at Rugby of J. R. Buckland, who in
’46 became the first head-master of the Hutchins’
School in Hobart. In Stanley’s “ Life of Arnold ”
there are several letters to Gell and Franklin about
this college. Arnold took a lively interest in these
provinces, and “actually owned 200 acres in Maori-
land. ”— Y ello wbush.
What’s in a name i
One of the four Yio.
municipalities which de-
clined Mayor M‘Each-
arn’s invitation to the
Federation Confer-
ence is named Deakin.
THE NEW WOMAN.
DOROTHY (aged, 10) : “ Mother , when shall I have
finished my education? ”
MOTHER: “ When you are a B.A.”
D. : “ What is that? ”
M. : “ A Bachelor of Arts.”
D. : “Don’t you make any mistake, mother — I’m
not going to he a bachelor. I’ll marry some
fellow or another! ”
When Field - Marshal Madden, Adminis-
trator of the Vic. Govt, was under examination by
the Law Commission, it was most noticeable that
his manner towards that enquiring body quite
changed after he returned from luncheon. Previ-
ous to mealing he looked like coming into conflict
with president Higgins who, on the previous day,
had ordered a witness to leave the room. After
the adjournment he actually apologised for being
late, was most affable, and asked permission to
modify several of the statements he had made
when his stomach craved for food. Query: What
does his Waxcellency take for lunch? Probably
pork and lemonade.
Sydney Consecrated Press makes Cardinal
Moran say that Gladstone was once on the
point of becoming R.C. “He does not seem ever
to have had the grace again, but he remained a
champion of the authoritative teaching of the
Church.” The only “authoritative teaching ” the
G.O.M. ever championed was that of W. E. Glad-
stone. Further, there has hardly ever been a
Protestant of distinction of whom it has not been
asserted by the R.C. Church that he was at one
time on the point of entering her fold, only, some-
how —he didn't. And the narrowness of the
escape appears often to have resulted —as in
Gladstone s case —in violent antagonism to the
Pope and all his works.
ON THE QUAY.
MR. HAYSEED: “ She looks ready to go.”
MRS. HAYSEED: “ Yes; she’s right down to the
pencil mark!"
Mrs. Cox, of Avoca, Vic., has won fame as
a gold prospectress. She has been at the game for
years, and got “on to it” now and again in a
small way, but has at last cut something good that
promises to be lasting. She has sunk on her latest
reef, opened out, and knocked down a five-ton
crushing that glitters all over. The working
woman is past 50, and lends flavor to her per-
formance by riding five miles to her work every
morning on a thumping big bay.
Longstaff has completed a striking full-
length portrait of Miss Ethel Gray, daughter of
George Gray, the mining-man who is just now “ a
princely patron of the Turf, ” as horse reporters
have it. The 15-year-old damsel stands in her
riding habit as she lives, a pert little billy-cock
hat well back on the head, and rich golden brown
hair hanging loose on either side of the piquant
young face. The pose of the figure is charmingly
natural, and the picture a masterpiece of quiet
effect.
S.M. Herald advt. :
BOLUS—M'CURE.—ApriI 13, by the Rev E Tre-
mayne-Dunstan, Herbert Rothwell, youngest son
of Edward Bolus, Balmain, to Jessie, second daugh-
ter of George M‘Cure, of Sydney.
Now, if Herbert 8,. Bolus—
A-weary of solus —
Had made search of the nation around
For a maid with a nomen
Of congruous omen—
Than M‘Cure could no fitter be found !
S.A. Advertiser Bonytl o i’s knighthood
is the latest phase of the Adelaide Hospital
quarrel. Bonython earned Premier Kingston’i
gratitude by sticking to him during the stormy
times of two years ago. The bauble was to have
been thrown to Bonython at Jubilee time last
year, but there was a hitch, which it is stated
caused some heated letters between two notabili-
ties. Bonython has been on the Advertiser from
boyhood. He became part-proprietor in 1879, and
is now sole owner of a paper which is said to yield
about <£20,000 a year.
On Queen’s Birthday, Michael O’Donnell
was released from Yatala (S.A.) labor-prison after
being imprisoned for thirty-two years. O’Donnell,
when a young man of 24, had a row with one
Forrester, a publican, at Gilberton (S.A.), and in
the course of a scuffle the latter was stabbed by
O Donnell with a shoemaker’s knife, and died a
few minutes after. Chief Justice Hanson, who
tried the case, and Crown-Prosecutor Wearing
died years ago ; Strangways, who. defended him,
is now in England ; Boothby was then, and still
is, sheriff, and O’Donnell, now a man 56 years
of age, emerges from prison to re-commence life !
T.D. : “ M‘Elhone was not the only man
whose oratorical outbursts destroyed the peace of
residents near Sydney Parliament House. Crick,
John Haynes, and one or two others can always
be heard on the opposite side of Macquarie-street.
The men one can never hear are ‘ Mudgee ’ Jones,
Sydney Law (Balmain), and Bigg (Newtown) — for
the sufficient reason that they never speak. For-
tunate that the Assembly Chamber is at the end
of the Legislative block furthest from the hospital
—otherwise the jawbone of the Parliamentary ass
would have slain its thousands.”
Vetus : General Miles, U.S. Commander-
in-Chief, seems to be aged, like Winfield Scott,
who was Generalissimo when the civil war began.
The old complaint. Yet Von Moltke was the
same age as the century, thus 64 in the Danish
war, 66 in the Austrian, 70 in the French. How-
ever, it is the young, in general, who pant for
war. German Emperor William shunts out even
the men between 40 and 50, without mercy, and
is all for youth. Yet Moltke was not singular
among the German leaders of 1870-1 for being ad-
vanced in years. In fact, not one really young
German general distinguished himself in the war.
The Emperor may make a huge mistake, accord-
ing to the genius of his nation.
Those N.S.W. Leg. Assembly - members
who go in twos, either because they are brothers
or through mere similarity of name, figure
thus, by latest showing, for and against the Com-
monwealth Bill : Two Campbells (Alex, and Archi-
bald). for ; two Browns (H. H. and T.), against;
two Clarkes (F. and H.), one for and one against;
two Piddingtons (W. H. B. and A. B.), one for
and one against; two Phillips (M. T. and S.), one
for and one against; two Thomsons (D. and J.),
one for and one against ; two Fitzpatricks (T. and
J. C.), one for and one against ; three Jones (R.
and T. and Russell), two against and one on the
rail ; two Smiths (S. and T. R.), against. Another
curiosity of the list is that of the members, sons
of ex-Premiers—one, Farnell, goes for the Bill,
and the other, Parkes, against. Again, of those
who carry the Milesian O—one, O’Sullivan, is for
the Bill, and the other, O’Reilly, against; and
again, of the Mac’s—two, M‘Lean and M'Millan,
are counted for the Bill, while the other two,
M‘Court and M‘Gowan, are against.
Colonel Seratchley, writing from Thursday
Island to his son Victor in 1881, told of an emi-
grant-ship bound for Victoria in 1858 with 300
Chinese on board, having gone ashore and been
seized by aborigines on the Vic. coast. Accord-
ing to Seratchley, the 300 were put in a stock-
ade and eaten by the natives —a few each day,
till all were consumed. Peter Seratchley
would not lie. He said the story was told
to him, and implied that he believed it
down to the last of the 300. He added :
“Things are not so bad now in Aus-
tralia. ”
Dicker Hamilton, a well-known
old-time sport, once put up at a hotel
near Flemington course, and ord-red
luncheon. “ A chop and potato will do,”
said Dicker, “and a small bottle of
Bass.” The waiter brought in a dish,
and Dicker sat down. “Take the cover,”
said he. The man obeyed, and Dicker
beheld —the landlord’s bill for past patron-
age of the kind. Dicker stared, then
laughed, and called for the landlord, who
was outside the door. “My dear boysaid
he, “I always knew you to be a smart chap ;
but I never knew you were so good at cooking
accounts —eh ? ” And Dicker got his lunqli—he
generally did—on the nod, once more.
Australian birthdays for June include :
Chief Secretary Peacock 37 and Premier Braddon
69 on Saturday 11th, Kingston Ministry Son 16th,
Archbishop Murphy (Tas.) 83 on 18th (Waterloo
Day), Chief Justice Griffith 53 on 21st, President
Baker (S.A.) 56 on 22nd, Bryan O’Loghlen
70 on 27th, Principal Secretary Critchett Walker
57 on 28th, and H. B. Higgins (Federal Odd-man-
out in Victoria) on 30th.
“ Trotter Bethune ” to The Bulletin :
“Medico” is inclined to be facetious in referring to
the Tichborne claimant. I visited England in ’72, and
heard the Claimant deliver an address toa large audienoe
in a marquee erected in a field near Portsmouth. He was
introduced by Guildford Onslow, and his speech, though
somewhat faulty in the aspirates, was in perfectly correct
English. I cannot believe that his language could have
deteriorated so much in 13years as alleged by “Medico.”
Knowing the fate of the real Tichborne, who was mur-
dered on the Haunted Stream, in Gippsland, manj years
before, I went out of curiosity to see if the Claimant was
really Arthur Orton, whom I had known in Gippsland in
1860, and who was an illegitimate half-brother of Tich-
borne. I came away quite convinced that the Claimant
was not Arthur Orton, but Thomas Castro, another ille-
gitimate half-brother of Tichborne and of the Chilian
herdsman whom Tichborne encountered in his travels
across the South American continent, and who followed
hint to Australia. The Claimant confessed two or three
years ago that he was Arthur Orton, but that was done
because he was paid for it and was in great poverty and
distress. He sought afterwards to retract his confes
sion, and, besides, it is well known that the Orton
family have ever recognised him as one of its members.
I am inclined to think, myself, that Cresswell, now in
Parramatta Lunatic Asylum, is really Arthur Orton. I
think I should know him if I saw him, as, although 38
years have passed since we met, all resemblance to the
Orton of long ago can hardly have been obliterated in the
Cresswell of to-day. One thing, however, is certain, and
that is that the lately-deceased Claimant was neither
Tichborne nor Orton. I maintain that he was Thomas
Castro and no other.


** THREE GOOD THINGS»
. . Madh in Enqlanb. . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire Sauce
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
Holbrook Pure Malt Vinegar
"68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook’s Sauce h * s been awarded more Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OP OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “ PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
Two Australian Pioneers.
FRIENDS AT LAST.
One of the grand women who helped to make
Australia what she is, and of whom her adopted
country is proud, is (Mrs.) M. A. Bentley, now
residing at 163 Alexandra Parade, N. Fitzroy, and
another Australian pioneer, prominenb as con-
tributing benefit to its adopted country, is War-
ner’s Safe Cure. Mrs. Bentley is now an ardent
believer in and friend to this medicine, and she
tells you why:—“For years I suffered with a
serious complaint brought about by exposure in
the early days of the gold-fields. I arrived in
Geelong in 1850, and when married in 1852 my
husband took me to Ballarat. Afterwards I ac-
companied him to nearly all the ‘rushes’ in the
colony; just roughing it with the others. For
many years past I had suffered severely, but could
get no relief until my son-in-law advised me to
try Warner’s Safe Cure. Though now an old
woman I feel greatly improved in health through
using it, and warmly advise it to ladies." *
By far the Best Victorian Coal
. . ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU . .
Address: THE COAL CREEK PROPRIETARY CO.,
Telephone 1439. Flinders Building's, 312 Flinders-st., Melbourne.
Aboriginalities.
A certain N.S. Wales “prudent Federa-
tionist,” an attorney noted alike for the solemnity
of his visage and the prodigious number of maps,
&c., with which he illustrates his oratory, while
stumping the country in the anti-Bill interest,
arrived at a little one-horse Southern town. The
whole local population, awe-stricken in the
presence of the ponderous lawyer with the bundle
of papers, followed him silently to the hall
where he proceeded to let loose his eloquence.
Starting at 10 a.m., he was still dolefully damning
the accursed Bill at 1 p.m., while the simple
country people slept or gazed blankly at him, each
one afraid to leave while so great a man was
wagging his jaw. At last a terrified person in a
front row arose, and silently vanished through
THE OPINION OF AUGUSTUS .
“Your country — haw—’ll look a lot better when the
leaves are out, dontcherknow! ”
the door; and a little later a woman put
her head in and screamed that there was “a
man down the well! ” In two minutes the hall
was empty except for the speaker who still talked
on. When the man was hauled out of the well he
asked if “the bloke was torkin’yet,” and when
told that he was, sprinted off to the scrub fol-
lowed by the rest of the audience, and not one
returned until the aforesaid orator had sorrow-
fully rolled up his maps and departed. Next day,
a meeting was held at which it was unanimously
decided that all hands should support the Federal
Bill.
♦ * * *
Man isn’t the only animal that has to
battle for tucker in the back country. Jim had a
horse that always kept condition, if let alone. If
teamsters were feeding their horses anywhere
handy, or a stable and manger were unguarded,
Bob, with teeth and heels, soon got his nose in.
On one station Bob persistently jumped into the
stud-rams’ paddock, until the boss ordered him to
be hobbled ; but he was there again next morning.
They watched him next night and found out how
he did it. The wire fence was old and had become
unstrained. Bob, as soon as it was dark, got his
neck on the top wire, and bore it and the lower
ones down till he could get his shoulder on to it.
Then, throwing all his weight into the job, he
got his rump on and rolled over—literally into
clover, compared with the paddock he had been in.
• * * *
Wrinkler : “The ordinary red gum from
any eucalypt, taken in bits the size of a pea,
pounded-up and swallowed with water, is death
to diarrhoea and dysentery. The little pink-
flowered dysentery-plant is just as good, but must
be plucked when the flower is on. A hand-full in
a pint of boiling water makes four doses. In the
same way, pennyroyal as a diuretic has long been
used by bushmen. Again, your correspondent re
brown bread gives the straight tip. The pollard
best suited for it is the rough-grained used for
rabbit-poisoning—and it also makes a palatable
porridge (not thickening like oatmeal, however)
for Scotchmen. Moreover, the station poisoner
does not lock it up like flour, and he is easier got
at than the cook.”
* * * *
M.Q. ; “ Have had long experience of
dingoes in the Wimmera, Vic., and, unlike
* C.C.,’ have several times succeeded in poisoning
the real article. In my experience they never
feed off a sheep the night they kill it, but return
some nights after; and, if strychnine be inserted
into the sheep with a long instrument, they will
eat it. Also known them to drink poisoned
water in dry seasons. Once knew a dingo to
enter into a friendship with an old bull on a selec-
tion. He followed the bull every day for a week,
and one morning he would not allow a girl to
drive the bull out of a paddock, so I shot him.”
* 9 * *
Dear Bulletin.— Rode to Cunnamulla
from Eulo way last St. Pat’s Day—flies fiendish,
heat hellish. Got off to open the 12-mile gate,
and noticed a big, bilious-looking bubble on the
tip of the horse’s nose. Had a look round him,
and found the flies had eaten his off-eye clean out
of his head, and it had slid down on a stream of
tears to the point of his nose and was just about to
drop.— Dadgaboo. [Cakel]
* * * *
Jaydee . ‘A rich, ‘near’ squatter was
recently standing outside the station-store, when
a miserable-looking traveller staggered up, with
the usual request for something to eat. ‘ Haven’t
had a morsel for two days, sir ! ’ ‘ Don’t care if
you hadn’t had a bite for a month—you’ll get
nothing from me ! ’ Down on his knees went the
swaggy on the instant. ‘O, Lord, kill this man 1
Make nis wife take to drink, an’ give ’is kids the
diptheery ! Burn ’is ’ouse down to the ground,
an’ send a flamin’ drought to kill all his ’ The
squatter darted into the store, threw a 201 b. bag
of flour at the obsecrator, and beat a hasty retreat
to the house. ”
* * * •
Dear Bulletin. —Why not give a rest to
the bloated capitalist and sweater who prays in
patent-leather boots, and turn your wrath upon
the loathsome agricultural humbug ? This is the
time o’ year when able-bodied new-chums, looking
for work up-country, get an engagement from a
wealthy farmer on a sliding scale—first six weeks
at 2s. per week wages; then a rise to ss. ; and
afterwards —in some unstated future—the hand-
some remuneration of 10s. per (week. On these
terms a greenhorn is worked like a nigger, or like
six niggers, for six weeks. The crop being now
“ in,” the farmer sets his latest recruits to per-
form impossible feats of strength in various
departments of bucolic labor, quarrels with them
if they protest, hurls clods at them if they don’t —
in short, gets rid of them under any circum-
stances. A choice specimen of the wealthy,
sweating farmer has an absolutely Australian
reputation. It is quite a common thing for him
to threaten one of his two-bob-a-week servants
with a hayknife or pitchfork on a Sunday morn-
ing, after which he goes to the local chapel and
prays like a good ’un. Sometimes he has been
handsomely wallopped by a “hand” stronger
than his accursed self, but, in a general way, he
practises his barbarous tricks with impunity. To
“ pull ” him up before the local court jay-pays is
mere vanity and vexation of spirit. The brute is
the fatman of the district, and all attempts to
“get justice on ’im ” have failed miserably.—
Follow-the- Plough.
» « • *
Cocky offers swagman a job, and, after
carefully inspecting the cocky’s dogs, swaggy
accepts. “What d’ye go pokin’ roun’me dorgs
for ?” asks cocky. “Wanted to see what sort of
a boss yer were ! Larst place I wuz at the blessed
dorgs wuz so blanky weak they ’ad to lean up
agen the fence to bark ! ”
* * * *
F. : Remember our superior vegetable-
Chow ? He broke us up badly the other day. I
was questioning him (sympathetically) about a
lately-deceased countryman. He was communica-
tive. “ A welly goo’ man, Hong Kow; he wellygoo’
flen’ to me.” I was just becoming mournfully
maudlin over the decease of a real Celestial philan-
THE IRONY OF DROUGHT.
COCKET ( surveying his stock): “ Bust 'em! There won't be any room for the feed to grow when the rain
DOES come! ”
thropist, when mother (woman’s curiosity) unfor-
tunately queried : “ What he die of, John ? ”
“Oh, I dunno,” replied John, innocently;
“ bellyak, I tink 1 ” We laughed, and John left,
deeply grieved that we oould make fun of tho
death of his “flen.” But how could I explain to
him that this word is not in common use in
Toorak society ?
• • • •
A M.L. Bulletin correspondent attributes
the recent Maori trouble entirely to the dog-tax.
“ The number of the native tykes,” lie says, “ is
ever increasing, and their united scratch'ability
would make a gold-seeker’s fortune in Klondyke.
Visited a pah once in the Arohenua district. In
our party was a young and well-favored lady who
took a lively interest in the dear dogs, of which
there was a dreadful horde basking in the sun ;
and when she drew out a biscuit the mongrels re-
oiprocated so energetically and unanimously that,
in a few seconds, they had left her almost in the
‘ altogether. ’ (That’s how I know she was well-
favored). She had to go home in a borrowed
Maori mat.”
* * * •
A Maoriland objector (at the assessment
court): “ I have one cow for our own use, one old
horse besides myself, and one pig and about 14
apple-trees, all my own produoe. The Govt, have
deprived many hundreds of people of a bare sub-
sistence by damaging the colony with the millions
of money of immensely wealthy people in Britain
to the serious injury of widows and orphans.”
* * * *
Ponte : “ Recently saw an old toper drink
a glass of brandy, whisky, rum, gin and beer in
quiok succession. Recalled the old days when
the sons of neighboring squatters used to take
possession of the town. On one occasion the fun
had been fast for two or three days, and every-
thing in the way of larks that ingenuity could
devise had been played. About a dozen of the
boys were in the pub. parlor, and all the liquor
had been sampled, when one of them had a happy
thought and ordered drinks all round —no two
drinks to be alike. When they were brought in
he emptied the lot into a jug and refilled the
glasses with the mixture, which was voted
glorious. Up there any drink concocted of more
than two ingredients is a ‘kimo.’ ” [Really, human
ingenuity is a stereotyped affair. Hugsmans, the
Drench realistio-mystio novelist, makes the blase
hero of 1 ‘ En Route a modern of the moderns,
decadent of the decadents —invent with pride a
kind of drink-organ. He pressed one key, and
absinthe flowed into a goblet standing on top of
the organ ; another—and out came old cognac;
another—vermouth ; and so on. When the deca-
dent felt inspired he would play a symphony on
his organ, and a score of liqueurs mingled in one
ecstatic draught. But the common bush person
with his jug gets there just the same.— Ed. B.]
* * * *
K.K. : “In considering the town wards
gravitation of the country-worker, the gregarious
instinct of mankind is too much overlooked.
Poverty in the country is imprisonment, with
solitary.confinement; in the city, it is imprison-
ment with tho alleviation of company, sympathy,
and exchange of ideas. Nature is all very well,
but in Austral backblocks she is often too austere
to be a pleasing mate, hence the desire to get into
town, and exchange ideas about the best place for
a threepenny feed or the best horse to put a bob
on.”
* • « *
Emu : “Some Westralian blacks have a
tradition that the bottom star in the Southern
Gross forms an emu’s head, the body and legs
being made by smaller stars (easily traced any
moonlight night). The two pointers are blacks
trying to spear said emu ; but as they are not suc-
cessful, emus continue to walk round. My nigger
informants emphatically believed that had the
emu been speared, the bird’s earthly existence
would have ended.”
* * * *
Wallaroo : “ The ‘ struggling cocky ’
isn’t in the same street with the average ‘ big ’
farmer for meanness. Know several of the latter
who prefer to struggle along with a couple of half-
wits rather than pay reasonable wages to good
men. The ‘ balmy ’ one is satisfied with poor
food, poor clothes, poor bacon—and not too much
of ’em. In busy seasons swaggies are taken on at
ss. or 6s. per week and keep, but generally quit at
end of the first week. Up at 4, and work till Bor
9; cornhusking till 12. Tucker, bad salt-junk
and badly-baked bread, with an occasional dish of
vegetables and boiled rice. ”
A PLEASANT DREAM.
Wer. : “Be Barramundi At Eurombar
station, two miles off the Dawson River, is a big
lagoon teeming with these fish, the largest of the
kind known. Though very shy they swim so near
the surface when undisturbed that their backs are
often out of water. In calm weather they bite
fairly well, but the angler must keep still and out
of sight. I was told that a 3ft fish was caught in
this lagoon, and was shown the scales, which
measured over an inch in diameter.”
* * * *
Tho latest N.Q. invention is a divided
billy-can. You can carry the pup in one part and
tea or soup in the other, the heat of the pup keep-
ing the victuals warm, thus saving time and
matches.
The sort of thing which
makes the selector love the
squatter so. The selector has a
creek for one frontage; on the
other side of it is the squatter.
A boundary fence in the bed of
the creek would be useless; it
would certainly be washed away
in the first flood. Consequently,
permission is got by the selector
to put up a “ give and take”
fence—now on one side of the
winding creek, now on the other.
On the selector claiming half-
value, the squatter pleads that,
as the fence does not “mark a
common boundary line,” the ac-
tion does not lie, and on that lie
succeeds.
♦ * *
Some of the joys of sheep-
farming. Writer drove a mob
of ewes, heavy in lamb, from
drafting-yards to a paddock two
miles distant. En route several
dropped, paralysed in their hind-
quarters through crushing. Next
day found half of them dead,
the others with their eyes pecked
out. Lifted up one that had
both eyes out and a hole pecked
in its back, and it walked 100
yds. before it lay down again.
Another had its side torn away
by a dingo. Have seen crows
clinging to the necks of moving
sheep and pecking at their eyes,
and have often noticed them
following the dingo on the war-
path. They’re up to his game,
and know well enough they’ll
come in for the pickings.
* * -c
E.S.S. : “Droving down
the Maranoa during the heat-
wave of ’95, we saw many scores
of blacks in the broiling sun
with no covering on their heads
or bodies. Anyone whose skull
is properly developed may im-
munise himself to such state by
beginning with hair long enough
to cover his collar, and “shear-
ing ” gradually. Anything’s easy
when you’re used to it—the
trouble is getting used to it.
Apropos , I know two N.S. Wales fencers who
couldn’t work an hour with their shirts on.
Have seen them on the hottest summer days
naked to the belt, and slogging away with mauls
or axes. Their skin was never burnt or blistered,
but each of their chests was covered with a thiok
growth of hair.”


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman 's also a
buver of all other Australian gems.*
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/fi,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
Do you ever have a headache 1 Would
you not have a cure—simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets —
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
SoftCaQilaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 6/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and I'nshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. I‘IKIC HHO I'll I '.lts,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
W.A.H. : If 79,999 Cornstalks vote for the Bill and one
against it, it is lost. And you say that isn tan outrage
on majority rule, because 79,999 are not a majority of the
voters of N.S.W. Well, is the one fellow who is allowed
to decide the question a majority or any nearer a
majority ? J.A.K. : One par. will do. Green and
Bright too commonplace J.H.L. : The man who puts
179 words in his first sentence is Lost Push pudding :
Old gibe £l2: Thanks J.O’B. (Terang) : A very
aged Scotch parson - joke localised and fixed on new
man C.B. : At the latest (Chinese) count there were
8500 Chinese in Victoria .... B.E. : “ Divided ” for illustra-
tion Possum :To hand E.H. (Haw.) : Unavailable.
Bulla : Bulletin doesn’t reproduce sketches in color.
J Murray: Vigorous drawing, but unusable sub-
jects J.J.W. : The germ of a .good thing, but too
utterly improbable-looking as it stands St. Fiacre :
On the contrary, Gladstone said the Confederates would
win in the American Civil War. “The South has
created a nation.” But Disraeli prophesied, in the teeth
of hi 3 own party, that the North must conquer Dora
W. (M.L.): L. accepted 8.W.: The Bulletin presumes
that Hodges is the plural of Hodge Mal-lowa : Old yarn.
.. H.L.M. : Probably the letter wasn’t inserted because it
wasn’t, worth inserting .... Netta W. : One “ Dying Mus-
terer” mercifully choked A.J.G. : Are you a butcher?
Obe a butcher ere it is too late 1 7x 7 : All too loose
and vague T.R.Q.: No, thanks P.T.F. : Consider-
ing Mrs. M. J.J. O’M : “Katie” in type Anon
(Melb.) : Stay anon N.G. : Doubtful S.C.F. : Many
thanks Ei and O.E. : One, perhaps Billy: Silly.
A.A. : No worth}' anathema to hand
Frank S.S. : Your microscopio copy greatly discounts
your chance F.R.W. (H.) : Can’t believe that any man
Miss FLORENCE A. MACK.
Photo., Falk Studios.
who wrote such a flst as yours ever turned out anything
worth reading. It would take 20 minutes to read those 8
sides of MS., and this weary scribe’s trained instinct
warns him not to waste the time 6YH. : Thanks
II M‘L. : A “pretty like” drawing with such a legend
would be a first-class libel . P.G.8.: Clipped from a
Melb. paper—published but a week or two ago Barkis:
“ Argonaut ’’sent for illustration Ancient: A soldier
simply obeys orders, and relies on his general to see that
things are right; the Light Brigade charged with the
idea that no blunder was being perpetrated, and that sup-
ports would cover the movement, so when they made the
charge they did their best as units, trusting that their
commander had calculated the aggregate result. It takes
a lot of pluck to run away, and more to refuse to obey
orders C. Mommsen : Judges are held to be, in some
mysterious way, incapable of bias, or spleen, or pre-
possession, or liver, or any of the other influences that
acidulate the temper or warp the judgment of ordinary
unbewigged humanity Jerry : The goldfields store-
keeper is the most reliable of men : you are always quite
safe in disbelieving him Wager : Both right. “ Manila ”
is the Spanish word, from which is Anglicised “Manilla,’’
as “Havanna’’ from “ Habana.” Zemma : Sorry
neither suitable 7x 7 : Too casual and discursive
Uranium: “ If. suitable, or otherwise.” Extremely
“otherwise 1” A. J. Gordon : Subject good, but more
strength required in handling A.U.V. : Forcibly
feeble, or feebly forcible—not sure which Salt: Not
on our tail: Myra F. : Begins in the middle and leaves
off at the beginning. Which is a parable Fatima:
But, alas! your story is very lean George W. (Vic.) :
You say nothing with great skill M.M.M. : Some of
the right ring. You will do better with practice D.E.:
Please send name of it Merloolas : Thanks
Camiro : No spice in drover-yarn ; too much in “Con-
fession.” A. M‘C. : “Refractory” gag mouldy with
antiquity Yaouk : One of the cases in which a popu-
lar misquotation is properly adopted. And you haven’t
got it right yourself; turn-up Lee and see G.G. :
Harmless little squeak .... Memory : Too vague and in-
coherent Rata : “ Curly curls ” and “ wayward ways ”
evoke our cursey swears. Pig-slaughter disrespectfully
declined .. J.B.S. : Thanks. No harm done. “Re-
miniscence” hardly bite enough Long-Un : Not far
from the mark A. R. Nott: Fairly well told, but
implication over-painful Rangi : Susceptible of lot
more humor O.P. : The mummers’contention simply
amounts to saying to the critic— “ If you won’t slush me,
you’ve no right to say anything about me.” Which is
brazen impudence as well as ghastly rot Fergus W. :
Wild, weird blare about nothing in particular
Butter Scotch : Some of them will do, much boiled down.
T.P.M. (Ilikurangi) : If the reminiscences are concise
and interesting and not hackneyed, they will always be
welcome .. G.T.C. : Paper isn't big enough to hold half
the Federal literature we get. That’s why you’re left
out I.F. : Wrong—fighting is just the one thing the
Spaniard can do. He can’t finance, or lead, or organise
a campaign ; he is constantly out-generalled and out-
manoeuvred or caught napping—but he fights an uphill
fin-tit like all the demons of the bottomless pit, and is
wiped-out for want of science and horse-sense J.
Jing ' Can’t spare space. Idea too long drawn-out
W Cunningham : The States have the power to reduce
or increase the size of their Parliaments. In Thk Bullb-
tin’s opinion, a reduction is practically certain in N.b.W.
and Victoria . Ivan A. R. : Hardly up to mark......
Aliev Bard : Probably a literary masterpiece, but the
paper was thin and greasy, and the ink thick and greasy,
and the wet ink on page 2 had soaked into page 1, and
only the sacred ass Al-Borak knows what its about ...
Mystery: Warning hereby addressed to all Australia:
Nev<?r eat Westralian sausages 1 Also, neve a eat any
other sausages, or any sausages aU all. U.A.G. :
“ Swalesia ” won’t do, t hough N.S. W. wants a fresh name
badlv No abbreviation of the present craggy designa-
te is any use. The only thing seems to be to buy a
name. Almeida wouldn’t sound badly, and perhaps
Spain, being very hard up, would sell it cheaply and find
a new name for its province. Wyoming is admirable, but
the U.S would probably want too much money for it.
Perhaps Jack Want could buy a name cheaply in Japan-
say Formosa .... Gum : Isn’t it time that the honest, but
very self-advertising Lormer was given a rest?. P. :
The idea of likening Miss Terriss to Jenny Lee! M. :
The lady is a second-rate vocalist with a time-worn voice.
B.D. : Circumstances alter cases. The new landlord
of the Old White Hart Hotel (Melb.) was lately the
manager of the adjacent Grand Hotel, and a red-hot ad-
vocate of a beer-and-spirit license for that unprofitable
temperance pub. But to-day the same ex-manager is,
naturally enough, warmly opposed to the granting of any
more licenses in the White Hart neighborhood. .C.8.W.:
Why, Gladstone was Under-Sec. for the Colonies when
the first effort was made (more than CO years ago) to
found S.A .... Sendo : The “ Father of Vote by Ballot in
Australia” is, Tiik Bulletin presumes, S.A. Sheriff
Boothhy Cotoro : This paper places great unreliance
on your yarn about the men employed on that
station to pull-up the indigo-plants (which were send-
ing the sheep dotty) becoming balmy themselves
J. Grey : Poems on “ England ” torn in several pieces
J.J.M. : Story of your selection has no particular be-
ginning or end, and all the incidents are the same size.
Geo. C. (Marrickville) : Federal poem well-meant,
but commonplace Sincerity: Joke about “a Reid
shaken by the wind” has had its day Alone: Verses
hardly up Reklaw : Thanks ... C.A.U. (Surat): Well,
isn’t the ghost of Hamlet’s parent a “traveller?” He
travelled to the other world and back again. Presum-
ably, dead men are the only ones who travel to the other
world. And Hamlet, with liis travelled dead father almost
before his eyes, says that “ no traveller returns.”
Bushtrax : The land where Chinamen and gohannas
starve ! What a place 1 J.G.D. : Poetry needs to be
cleared and stumped Piping-crow-: Well —what is the
matter with Bomhala ? U.S. (Cobar): Considering
“ Loyal.” Will possibly use .... H.R. : Yes, but how do
the Post-Office accounts balance with those of the Trea-
sury, if your story is true? Rue Sage: Regretfully
thrown overboard to the whales H.C.J. (Melbourne):
So you regard the Yic. Ministry as dying, and only
wonder whether Gillies or Deakin, or Shiels or O’Loghlen
will be next Premier. Well, you won’t boom any one of
the four as Premier in this rag until you show better
reason E.A.B. :We wouldn’t print your poem if our
step-mother’s life depended on it.
Had George Reid topped the Federal poll
instead of Toby Barton, the chances are George
Reid would have voted and spoken in favor of
Federation. Aut Caesar ant nullus —which means
that if Reid isn’t to be Boss he doesn’t want any
Commonwealth. Reid, having been licked by
Barton at the poll, and again for the leadership
of the Convention, is in the ordinary course of
human nature bound to cast discredit on the Bill
which was so largely Barton’s work.
From the report of a Federation meeting
at East Melbourne : “ Mr. Purves concluded with
a brilliant peroration, which roused the audience
to such enthusiasm that, led by the towering
form of Mr. James M‘Kean, they rose to their
feet and gave three hearty cheers for Federation.
The malcontents at the back of the hall replied
with ‘Cheers for Higgins.’” Federation is a
more exciting cry than ’lggins, anyhow.—
JUSTICE ON THE DARLING. —“ THE OTHER PARTY."
O’HARA J.P.: “Ye are charged with drunkenness. Were ye drunk?"
CASRY: “ Well, O'Hara, considering ye had two to me wan—how do YE plade ?”
O’HARA (in whisper): “Put five bob in the poor-box, Tim, and the other party ’ll put 10s.
and we’ll adjourn the coort.”
N.S.W. ex-Premier DIBBS.—From a painting by Peren Spence.
At Bathurst, Premier Reid warned the
people of N.S. W. that Federation probably meant
a reversal of the grand Foreign-trade policy
“ which took -01,500,000 of customs off the bulk
of the people.” The N.S.W. Customs were
£2,060,000 when Reid took office in ’!)4, and in
’97 they were -£1,250,000, so he only took off
£BlO,OOO. But Reid’s utter inability to tell the
whole unvarnished truth is apparently incurable.
‘‘powerful?’’ and Pilcher be-
cause the proposed Federal Senate is “ absolutely
in the power of the Government ” and “subser-
vient to the Government,’ and lias no real
authority at all. Sydney Telegraph announces
that it is in favor of no Federation which doesn t
federate the railways and the debts; and
George Reid voted steadily against feder-
ating the railways and debts ; and L. F.
Heydon says he lias a soheme of Federation under
which each province is to not only keep its debts
and its railways under provincial management,
but also to run its separate customs and postal
and excise services. And this utterly incongruous
orowd, which has no bond of union except its
hatred of the present scheme, promises that if the
people will only lose this opportunity it will all
join together with the beautiful unanimity of the
Fenian and the Orangeman, or the Spaniard and
the Yankee, or John Norton and Caulfield, and
pro** Are something much better.
Artist Longstaff—
as isn’t generally known
—designed the striking
whisky - advt. poster
lately published in Mel-
bourne. Three scarlet-
coated hunting john-
nies sitting round a
table, about to be served
with their liquor by an
aesthetic barmaid in a
mauvey-drabgown. The
central figure appears
to lean back into space,
and altogether the pic-
ture is so strong that
the artist would have
put his name to it if he,
and not the lithograph-
er, had carried it right
through to a conclu-
sion. Longstaff, by the
way, thinks of exhibit-
ing a roomful of his
pictures shortly, when
his “Bush Fire” sub-
ject is completed. This
is already an assured
sensation, if Melbourne
can possibly be moved
by any work of art
nowadays. The “ Bush
Fire” effect, as Long-
staff studied it in
Gippsland a while ago,
is a great, glowing real-
ity on his big canvas.
A smell of smoke and
burning wood comes
from the back-ground,
and to stand in front
of the picture is to feel
warm. It heats the
studio. Also it reminds
one of a certain Argus,
or Age, paragraph sent
along by a Gippsland
correspondent at the
time when this particu-
lar bush fire was doing
its worst. The par.,
after enlarging upon
the terrible destruction
to property in the dis-
trict, stated that Mr.
John Longstaff had
come down from Mel-
bourne to view the
conflagration, and was
“ greatly pleased with
what he had seen.”
One of the standing anti-Billious pafa-
graphs which appear every day decked, with loud
capitals in Sydney Telegraph calls upon the
electors to cast the Federation Bill down into the
deep, damp green sea of oblivion lest its accept-
ance should end in the destruction of Foreign-
trade. It says:—
That freedom from Customs dues has been a boon to
our farmers, pastoralists, miners, to all classes, is certain.
To Sydney it has brought increased trade, and made her
more and' more the intercolonial centre. Compare Syd-
ney with Melbourne since 1893 ; the difference has been
extraordinary.
But the Telegraph wisely stops there and doesn’t
compare them. Here are some figures: Total
trade (import and export) of N.S.W. in 1893,
.£41,028,258; in 1897, £45,347,341; increase,
l 319,083. Victoria, total trade in 1893,
£26.592,365; in 1897, £32,194,152; increase,
£5,601,787. The results are extraordinary, right
enough, but not at all the kind of extraordinary
which the Telegraph implies.
The great bulk of the anti-Billite logic in
N.S.W. is devoted to showing what dreadful
things might happen if the other four provinces
formed a league against “our” province, which
“would then be entirely at their mercy.” The
other provinces have got. the same disease in a
milder form, sundry Victorian anti-Billites in
particular being much troubled about what might
happen if N.S.W. conspired with S.A., Tas-
mania and Westralia against “us.” Yet, for
some 50 years Sydney and Melbourne have been
wholly at the ‘mercy of the country districts,
which might have conspired together at any time
to make them pay all the taxes, and to compel the
expenditure of all the loan money in the country.
And nobody has even realised that the awful
danger existed. Why doesn’t some one get this
horror attended to ? The only way to remove the
danger, either in the Federal or the State Parlia-
ment, or the municipal council, or elsewhere, is to
give every place more representation than all the
other places put together. If this isn’t done every
place is tottering on the verge of a precipice all
the time.
THE MALCONTENT.
O, I don’t care a bloomin’ pin
For Purves’s purryration :
You don’t catch me a-joinin’ in
No song of Federation.
The Guv'ment dances round the Bill,
Yet I distrust their jig-gin’s—
They may express the People’s Will,
But 1 shall cheer for ’Iggins.
Fin sure he loves the workin’-class—
He says so, most emfatie,
And swears that if the Bill can pass
We shan’t be demmycratic.
Toffs toast the “ Cause ” in dry shampine,
I’ve read about their swiggins ;
But their sort ain’t in line with mine,
So I shall cheer for ’Iggins.
He preaches Freedom, ’ot and strong—
O, he’s a clean pertater :
He’s ’Ancock’s pal, and can’t go wrong ;
But Trenwith is a traiter—
Why, if the Party meets him now
They gives him orful wiggin’s,
And when he spouts we drown his row
With ’earty cheers for ’Iggins.
The “ Cause ” that’s got a lot of friends
Arouses my suspishun ;
All blokes wot work for “ noble ends”
Support the Opposishun.
I'iie young men and the old ’uns too,
Wot grafted on the diggin’s
Conspire to teach me wot to do—
That’s why I cheer for ’Iggins.
My blessed bosom shan’t be stirred
By “ gags ” about “ Our Nation,”
And if they launch, on June the 3rd,
The ‘‘Good ship, Federation,”
And all the joyful jossers go
A-swarmin’ up the riggin’s—
Well, I shall merely slink below
To whisper cheers for ’Iggins.


| The residents of Brighton, Brighton Beach
| and Sandringham localities were treated on
l Monday night last to a splendid evening’s
I display of the search light from H.M.S. Cer-
berus, which was anchored about a mile from
the Brighton Beach pier- Although no in-
timation was given hundreds
of peoplo were attracted in various ways to
the pier and clifEs, and both interested and
instructed by the manipulation of the light
from the vessel
4^
/* '• e y^ L
A s
HOSPITAL
I Nonet
FULL
INSIDE
i'iie people who* fof religion?" or uimfrf
oppose the introduction of the.
totalisator should remember that it is
power to .abate a grave nuisance by
{abolishing.the bookmaker; and when they'
of the sick poor dying neglected in;
vthe streets because the State has no ready
•means of increasing the charitable • vote>*
jshould not lose sight of the'fact-Jthal}
, vrere it-no of or. their opposition
sation of the totalisator would enable thp
Government to succor many a deserving
and make many a death agony lesj
&erx;ible. ,a }
sc oner tv
ZT«: e vi «°-"o r r: n : .«■ «2sr—-.
prt ? .-r • JL* " in *>e for alte* " aj ' Policy /
' “ B bte of affair lnt , erned - The /
II « ,slnto 'orabJ e . _ ' .
« , Wb^e
Jj(ey t"jo (ooK
l!
• ' 1- >*
oa ' v M
li'Ke
-p\SS tlfe Tdootr/iip Tote
1 . Veil ,si9c£or,e
or fo'Jyei' o^uS
fo be co?olijbe4-
le^it' be irr\.
■n C o? s,^h,
J W* *X*it
“»*%?LX'°l"z
-%p
\
p°li c j r . olcL >
]Ve Tja.i i^7 der o r J e;sr £>
Jn t/, e
w °men • ,OCe «e f ,/ a,
k?r* l *'t£k°hH* rg y^n l Z e th r° aro
*, ed *« pravl had a * ** h ° though a
,^ ll effi a„°* '"* Ve heen 7o ab,U to
ffficacy , s uffering 8 to /'‘reed by
80 dart their
-Cy
iVe beer> "tol 4. T>eS^ < ' l^f
-jo' -vryor)Vj 3^
l-5 "to
s*> I >/e .
V&c- Priry
Council has restrained the Victorian court
trout dealing with the £5OO lodged
as security for the costs of the appeal. Sir
John Madden, therefore, us representative
in Victoria of the Queen in Couxvjil,
will be obliged to serve an in junction trpon
Sir John Madden arrayed in the fectfrlet
‘and ermirfe of the Bench, and possibly to
call in the assistance of Sir John Madden
in General’* uniform, with cocked hat and
plumes, to enforce his mandate.
<3s
1 will i?ot" ]^ i v iy
LIELBOURNIANA.


THE TWO GEORGES-WHICH IS TO DIE?
The county cannot stand them both. Either the Federal George or the anti-Federal George must go. This is what must happen after the Federal election.


There is in London a person named Fel-
bermann who runs a greasy weekly rag called
Life. From a recent number of Life, The Bul-
letin clips this awful paragraph :
His Majesty the Emperor-King- of Austria-Hungary,
has been graciously pleased to confer upon Mr. Louis
Felberrnann, the editor and proprietor of this journal,
the Knight Cross of the Order Francis-Josef, in recogni-
tion of the services rendered to Hungary. Soon after the
Imperial decree appeared in the Official Hungarian
Gazette, His Majesty granted an audience to Mr. Louisi
Felberrnann at the Hofburg Vienna, and expressed the
great pleasure that it afforded him to be able to reward
the services rendered by MY. Louis Felberrnann. His
Majesty conversed for a considerable time with Mr. Louis
Felberrnann, and enquired about the position of the
Austro-Hungarian colony in England. Numerous tele-
grams and letters of congratulation reached Mr. Louis
Felberrnann from all parts of England and Hungary,
amongst which should be specially mentioned those of
His Excellency Count Deytn, the Austro-Hungarian
Ambassador to the Court of St. James’s, and several
Cabinet Ministers in Hungary. Mr. Louis Felberrnann
feels proud of the honor of having received these friendly
congratulations, and takes this opportunity to express
his most grateful thanks to these illustrious personages,
and to all his friends who so kindly expressed their good
wishes on this occasion.
Those interested in the wool industry will
be pleased to note that the earlier prognostica-
tions of the success of the Co-Operative Wool and
Produce Co. Ltd. have been fully verified. The
very excellent total of over 13,000 bales of wool
sold shows to what a large extent the co. has
secured the confidence of pastoralists. As the
utmost care and efficiency is placed at the service
of clients, the co.’s rise in public favor should be a
rapid and continued one.*
Queensland Murray, the new Minister
“by request,” feels sure that when Federation
comes “Mr. Byrnes will be President of the
Federal Parliament.” A good henchman is
Murray.
THE WAR CRY
is “Ogden’s Guinea Gold.” Whoever knows a
really fine cigarette when he smokes it will take
the ory up.*
NEW SYSTEM of HEALING.
The POLYPATHIC INSTITUTES
AND
THEIR REMARKABLE WORK.
WITH ABSOLUTE CERTAINTY OF LOCATING DISEASE, THEY CURE BEYOND REASONABLE
DOUBT IN ALL CASES.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
29 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
84 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ELEVEN YEARS’ WORK
OF THE
Combined Institutions under the Polypathic System.
WHAT OUR SYSTEM HAS ACHIEVED IN ELEVEN YEARS.
The following is a brief synopsis of cases which have been successfully treated by us during the past ELEVEN
YEARS, commencing December 1, 1887, and ending December 1, 1897. This does'not include applicants for treat-
ment who were pronounced by us INCURABLE, or whose cases were taken onlv as patients requested with a view
to their partial relief, but is an accurate RECORD transcribed from our books of CURES ACTUALLY PERFORMED,
guaranteed absolutely and implicitly correct in every particular :
THE DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASE
WITHOUT LOOKING AT THE TONGUE, FEELING THE PULSE, OR ANY
PREVIOUS KNOWLEDGE OF THE CASE.
Here bqgins the very first starting-point of ’vantage with the Polypathic school of practice, for its chief ex-
ponents are men who, from a natural and overpowering sympathy with all forms of disease and suffering, are able to
determine by quickened sense surely, and with determination, the exact cause of all that makes life a burden to
thousands all over the land. The highways of medical practice are strewn with the wrecks of wrong diagnoses, with
the going out of innumerable lives, because of improper location of disease, far more than from the use of remedies
of themselves hurtful. Here Polypathy plants its foot firmly down, and declares that not alone the instinctive, keen
sense of its consulting chief should be taken as a finality, but that what he determines is the real trouble, with all
the causes that led him to the clear conclusion, shall be placed before the full faculty of the Institute, and his
judgment meet their approval.
The grand and. distinguishing first step, then, in this new system is the accurate and absolute determining of
that which is and is not at war with the natural current of your life, and, when that is done, to find the means of
quick and sure removal.
The environment of the several schools has been from the very earliest years down to a recent period the one
insurmountable bar to the strong and sure battle with an enemy that should never have been considered unconquer-
able, because in the light of the wisdom of these later days nearly all forms of disease, if cared for in proper time,
will yield to the scientific and natural treatment of the most advanced scholars, who use with a strong hand all the
agencies that are now happily within our reach.
The Polypaths go into the vast fields of medical properties, and find in each that which in certain conditions
never fails, and they accept and adopt in accordance with this clear principle, and apply with that confidence that
long experience has taught them to be well-nigh infallible. Bound down by no special school of simple theory,
having no special system to maintain, they enter the realm of Polypathy and apply to your special case that which
science and intuitive knowledge have taught with unerring skiil to be specially designed for you. They enter the
field of surgery and rob it of much of its terrors by proclaiming that many cases heretofore piaced under the knife
of the operator now yield to the later discoveries, and are eradicated from the system without shock or danger,
reducing the necessity of using the knife by more than one-half from what was absolutely essential in even recent
years by the old system.
Polypathy claims the freedom of accepting the good and rejecting the bad in all systems ; it has formulated
special treatment for itself in all chronic cases; it prepares its own medicines, and applies them in the light of
nineteenth century progress.
The Polypathic Medical Institute,
SY3DNTEY & MELBOUTUXTE.
WH l : ?n®T-^TmI E mS APITAL IS INVESTED, MORE PHYSICIANS MORE
PATIENTS TREATED, AND MORE CURES MADE, THAN BY ANY OTHER
SYSTEM IN THE WORLD.
29 York-st., Wynyard-square, Sydney, N.S.W.,
and 84 Collins-street, Melbourne.
You are earnestly invited to come, see, and examine for yourself their institution, advantages, appliances and
sucoess in curing the chronic ailments of suffering humanity.
Their patients are numbered from all parts of the world, and so remarkable has been their sucoess that one
pauses in wonder at the superior qualifications of a man who can, FROM A STRICTLY SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE
MA N, TELL DISEASE AT A GLANCE, WITHOUT ASKING ANY QUESTIONS,
LOOKING AT THE TONGUE, OR FEELING THE PULSE. V
WRITE. WRITE.
IF YOU CANNOT COME TO INSTITUTE FOR CONSULTATION, WRITE FOR
LIST OF QUESTIONS.
ENCLOSING STAMPS FOR REPLY AND FIVE SHILLINGS.
Hundreds Successfully Treated Every Year by Mail.
WE HAVE THE MOST PERFECT SYSTEM FOR TREATMENT BY MAH,
EVER USED IN THE COLONIES.
HTJ3STDFIEDS CXJRE3D AKTOTU ALLY.
The Management of the Polypathic Medical Institute have leased the entire Buildings, 29 York Street, Wynyard
Square, Sydney, and 84 Collins Street, Melbourne. These Buildings have been most thoroughly remodelled, and are
now fully equipped, and furnished with Reception Rooms, Consultation Rooms, and Laboratories, all complete. All
of the Polypathic Institutes are presided over, in the Medical Department, by fully qualified Medical Men, whose
credentials are second to none in the Medical World, and they are fully registered by the Medical Boards of the
colonies in which they practice in full compliance with the Medical Laws.
The Polypathic Institutes have the largest Private Laboratories of any Private Hospital or Institute in the World,
and they are also presided over by expert chemists, fully registered by the Pharmaceutical Boards of the colony in
which they reside.
Polypathic ffledical Institute,
29 YORK STREET (Wynqard Square), SYDNEY.
HOURS OF CONSULTATION—IO a.m. to 4 p.m. Daily. EVENING CONSULTATION—Tuesday,
Thursday , and Saturday , 7.80 to 9 p.m.
Hotels.
a r fc
m
1111
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modem conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. jSI.. QTJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “ PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. J3IF” All tastes and pockets suited.
Write for Card of Tariffs.
jjjOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS
WIMPOLTC’S* GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hole.
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF t»i
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
opposite 0.0.0.
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
H E STOYE,
Manager.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Toronto Hotel,
Lalce
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
i ve prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Warung; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
The fear that the Labor-party will lose ground
in the State Parliament is at the root of a good
deal of the noisiest opposition to the Common-
wealth Bill in N.S. W. But there is no cer-
tainty that it will do anything of the sort. On
the contrary, no party ought, in one respect, to
gain more. The most forcible objection of the
thorough-going Democrat to the Labor-party is
that it is avowedly prepared to play ducks-
and-drakea with the fiscal policy if its pro-
gramme of social reform is thereby advanced,
and as that disturbing element can’t be good
for the country it is accordingly distrusted and
weakened. Further, no matter what it may
profess, it cannot “ sink the fiscal issue ” ; it is
all the time aiding one policy or the other, and
mat ters are not improved even if it is true that
the party does not care which it aids. But, seeing
that three-fourths of its supporters have pre-
ferences one way or the other, the fact that it
sinks Protection for a long time and sustains
Freetrade is pretty certain to arouse suspicion
among those with the Protectionist preferences,
who not unnaturally think that it isn’t the
fiscal issue that the party sinks but only one
particular end of it. And if it sank Freetrade
for a long time there would, no doubt, be the
same suspicion and weakening among those
with Freetrade preferences. So long, then, as
the State Parliament has to settle tariff business
the Labor-party, being willing to go with either
crowd, cannot be more than a third party ; and
for the other reasons it can’t be more than a
constitutionally weak third party either. To
that extent any scheme to remove the fiscal
question out of State politics would be right
into the hands of this party.
♦
The ways of Justice are, indeed, a curious
study. In Queensland, the other day, the
secretary of a local building society, convicted
of having embezzled <£l3oo, received from the
officiating Rhadamanthus a sentence of three
years penal servitude. Immediately after-
wards a man, found guilty of having pur-
loined a watch, went up for four years. True,
the latter had previous convictions to his score,
but it iB extremely doubtful if all his steals put
together came to one-quarter the amount,
or his list of steals was one-quarter as long
as that of an individual who had been de-
liberately embezzling for years. Also, there is
not the slightest comparison as to consequences
to be made between the turpitude of an indi-
vidual whose defalcations bring about (as in
this case) the insolvency of a society, and the
ruin of dozens of small investors—and the
criminality of a thief who only snatches a purse
now and again, or collars a time-piece on occa-
sion. How is that, in Australia, embezzlement
should be regarded as so much less heinous a sin
than petty larceny? . . . But Bundaberg
sentences were always rather ludicrous. Some
time ago, the keeper of a swell brothel in that
odorous sugar-town received a sentence of two
years—and was immediately liberated under
the First Offenders’ Act !
Stipendiary Paytkn, of Newcastle (N.S. W.),
in sending one YVkstcott to gaol for non-com-
pliance with a court-order for the support of
his wife in a lunatic-asylum, puts in operation
a theoretically-useful, but, as administered, an
egregiously indiscriminating law. Westcott’s
plea of being out of work and having two young
children to maintain, availed nothing. He was
bundled off to a cell till the order, amounting
to £3 155., should be liquidated. It is a fact
that a man who can, and won’t, should be made
to support his wife, sane or insane ; and, if sent
to gaol, he should be made work there, and so
contribute to her support. But there are other
relations which the law should cover, as well
as those of husband and wife, and other insti-
tutions as well as insane-asylums. It is a
standing scandal that well-to do sons and
daughters may leave their worn-out fathers in
benevolent-homes in N.S.W. to be wholly pro-
vided for by the general taxpayer; brothers
may so leave brothers ; sisters, sisters. The
wife of a deceased N.S.W. Supreme Court
Judge energetically labored to stem the grow-
ing tide of such abuses a few years ago, but
failed to raise the necessary public interest.
The lady proposed to gazette the names of the
well-to-do relatives of the State-fed and lodged,
but not even this side revenge upon blood skin-
flints was allowed. Westcott and his wife are
the mere fringe of a family relationship, the
whole of which should be under one definite
and equitably-administered law.


im
tin
A
-V
A
Mfr,
£
ss
i
A!
£
&M(n
GeWORLD
IN THE
UP-TO-DATE RECIPE.
To be in the Best of Spirits, take the Best of Spirits, and the Best of Spirits is
PATTI SOX'S FAMOUS
MORNING DEW WHISKY
(SCOTLAND’S BEST).


EriilJltKl
is
7vS
GrO TO TTET.T-
-IUOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6«l.
Illustrated Trice List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
<4 ELIZA IIETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
CbipS of Wi&dorp . .
Eat Granuma and defy the physician.
Early to bed and early to rise,
And drink Billy Tea if you wish to be wise.
Granuma in the morning
For mother’s darling.
Billy Tea at night
Is mother’s delight.
A PROVERB FOR CYCLISTS.
Granuma Porridge for a hard road.
One cup of Billy Tea in hand
Is worth ten (of any other) in the bush.
The proof of Granuma is in the eating.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
Sole Agents and Proprietors.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
J3F” Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Waltkr Bbadlky & Co., 324 George-st.
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BUGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Smoke
OH*
Chief
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ Dick ” O’Connor, on the cost of Federa-
tion : “Federation, gentlemen, will cost you 3s.
6d. per head, or Is. more than it costs to register
your dog.”
Tarrangower Times (Vic.) is responsible
for the suggestion that a number of patriotic citi-
zens should step up and guarantee .£lOOO, for dis-
tribution amongst the charities of the constitu-
ency that comes nearest polling its total votes on
the Federal polling-day. Bribery and corruption !
Among all the politicians who denounce
the Federal Constitution on the ground that the
remedy for deadlocks between the two Houses is
insufficient, there isn’t one, so far as this paper
knows, who ever endeavoured to provide his own
province with any remedy for deadlocks, inefficient
or otherwise.
L. F. Heydon, about the bitterest and
most one-eyed anti-Federalist of the N.S.W.
crowd, starts most of his anti-Billious orations by
stating that he is perfectly unbiased. For that
matter, it is probable that the Spanish Inquisition
was convinced that it was quite unbiased as re-
gards the burnt Protestant.
In the last three years, from the Riverina
alone, 384,000 bales of N.S.W. wool have gone to
Melbourne, and an immense quantity more has
gone from Western N.S.W. The allegation that
under Federation the Riverina trade will go to
Melbourne has just one large hole in it—the
Riverina trade has gone there already.
S.A. politicians wonder what the demo-
cratic crowd would do if anything went wrong
with Kingston, the only lawyer on the Liberal
side in the Assembly. Glynn, once with the
Liberals, is now an Oppositionist, and Gordon is
in the Council. S.A. Legislature only harbors six
lawyers in all, and four of them are Tories.
? Gov. Phillip wrote a memo, when leaving
Australia ordering that no part of Sydney should
ever be sold. He recommended that it should be
reserved as the property of the Government for
ever. Had Phillip’s direction been followed,
Sydney’s claim to be the Federal capital might now
more readily be accepted by the other provinces.
N.S.W. Government Statistician Coghlan
1 1 eaves this at the public :
Adopting the results arrived at by the F/nance Com-
mittee, it may be taken as definitely determined that the
average duty required to obtain the revenue needed by
I lie Federation will be 27 PER CENT. ADVALOREM, in
a Idition to the existing excise revenues. IDO NOT
KNOW OF ANY COUNTRY IN THE WORLD IN
WHICH THE CUSTOMS REVENUE AMOUNTS TO 27
I’ER CENT. ON ' r HE WHOLE OF THE GOODS IM-
PORTED.
The Bulletin is pleased to offer some informa-
tion. Tasmania is the country that is in the con-
dition which Coghlan never heard about-if
Coghlan’s own statistics for 1896 are reliable.
Every day of late
Sydney D.T. has an-
nounced in large let-
ters that “Mr. Reid,
at the Town Hall,
Sydney, put this
straight to the peo-
ple : the capital would
be certain to be in Vic-
toria.” This large, con-
fident assertion strikes
the trusting elector re-
gularly in the eye, and
if he is struck with it
often enough he will
probably believe it. If
Reid had said such a
thing it wouldn’t have
mattered much. But,
as a mere ordinary
fact, what he did say
was, that if he were
Turner which he
isn’t, thank Heaven !
—he would offer to
sell to the Common-
wealth as a Federal
capital that part of
Melbourne where Par-
liament House and the
Treasury Build i n gs
are. And the real
statement is just as
much like the impu-
dent invention as an
ox is like an Ibsen
drama.
The present fore-
cast in S.A. is that) che
Convention Bill will have a 2 to 1 majority,
despite the opposition of Advertiser, Single-
taxers and Labor-party.
Sydney Telegraph : “ Under the Bill,
Newcastle can never hope to add a ton of coal to
her exports to Victoria.” Well, Victoria is already
Newcastle’s biggest customer. If N.S.W. isn’t
to federate unless Victoria, which already buys
twice as much Cornstalk coal as any other cus-
tomer, will promise to buy still more coal, it is a
pretty large order. Yet, supposing Victoria
asked, as a condition of the Federal union, that
N.S.W. should buy some of her coal, the atmos-
phere of the Daily Telegraph would be blue
with blasphemy.
The capture of the Mataura (M.L.) seat
by the Seddon Govt.’s supporter, M'Nab, who
scored a majority of 387, more than neutralised
Duthie’s victory at Wellington. Wellington was
always Tory, and the hard-faced Duthie is probably
the most personally popular rich man in the city,
and, when he won on these two counts, there was a
loud chorus that Digger Dick’s day was over.
But at Wellington the Tories merely retained a
seat they had owned all along. At Mataura the
Liberals captured one from the enemy, so the
honors are with Seddon.
In his Goulburn speech' Premier Reid
denounced the Federation Bill because of the
three-fifths majority needed to decide any question
at a joint sitting of the two Federal Houses, the
power of the senate to reject money bills, and the
equal representation of the provinces in the Senate.
Reid voted for all these things at the Convention.
Which of the two Reids is the public to believe ?
N.S.W. Land Minister Carruthers states
that the West Bogan scrub lands, which were
made habitable by the expenditure of money bor-
rowed at 3 per cent., have been let at rentals
which will produce 8 per cent, on the outlay. But
nothing is said about applying the alleged 5 per
cent, profit towards paying off the debt. That, of
course, goes down to Posterity in the good old
way.
Certain N.S.W. anti-Billites now state
m ysteri ously that large sums of Yio. money are bein g
sent to N.S.W. to promote the acceptance of the
Federal Bill. They say darkly that they know
the persons who are sending this coin, but won’t
mention names till the time is ripe. The time
will possibly be ripe on the morning of polling-
day, when it is too late for the alleged conspirators
to explode the tale.
The Yanks are almost as particular about
their army as the average Australian province is
about its police. Even at the present time, with
recruiting-offices open in every city, no applicants
are accepted who are not single, under 30 and
over 21, not less than sft. 6in. high, and able to
produce testimonials to character. Consequently
only about 10 per cent, of the applicants are
accepted. What an effective device is war for
skimming the cream of a community’s manhood !
Rogers, the poet, was once in com pany
when a newly-fledged duke was introduced and
listened impatiently to the admiring comments
upon the young man’s personal appearance till at
last the “ dear duke ” condescended to smile.
“Ha!” said Rogers, “thank God he has bad
teeth ! ” Which recalls Higgins’ contention that
although the Federation Bill is good in the great
majority of points, it ought to be rejected because
of a few small shortcomings. He snarls and thanks
God venomously that “it has bad teeth.” Rogers
was old and crabbed and dyspeptic. Has Higgins
any such apology ?
Premier Turner admitted last week (what
a good many Victorians have known for a long
time) that it really doesn’t matter much if the
Federal Constitution prevents Victoria carrying
N.S.W. wool at specially low rates, because it is
more than questionable if the business pays. For
the mere glory of doing a big trade at Melbourne
the Vic. railways now carry N.S.W. wool, in some
cases, at one-third the regular rates. Turner
reckons that the glory is all his province gets out
of it, and that Melbourne may be better off when
it only gets the trade which goes its way without
special inducement.
The gorgeous logic of Lyne, M.L.A. :
As time went on, the present unequal conditions of the
States would become intensified. In 40 years he believed
this colony would have eight millions of people, and Tas-
mania 450,000. So the position would be this : That Tas-
mania with 450,000 people would dominate eight millions.
This colony could not afford to put itself into such an un-
alterable situation. (Applause.)
N.B.—N.S.W. is to have 31 members to Tas-
mania’s 11. Will the long member from the
Hume explain how 11 people dominate 31 ? And
why is Tasmania to increase only three-fold in
40 years while N.S.W. increases six-fold, seeing
that Tasmania is actually increasin'? by a much
bigger percentage annually than N.S.W. ?
A MINING ITEM .
“ Crosscutting with Government aid."
L. F. Heydon, stumping the N.S.W.
northern districts with his unreliable tale of woe,
tells the people constantly that N.S.W. has
.£2,000,000 a year land revenue, against Victoria’s
£400,000 and S.A.’s £200,000, and therefore
N.S.W. shouldn’t federate. But as each province
keeps its own land revenue, and the Federal
Government has absolutely nothing to do with it,
the question of which one has the biggest land
revenue is just as irrelevant as the question which
has the biggest feet, or the largest rock-cod, or the
Toriest attorney. He also advances as an Anti-
Bill reason that Sydney is growing faster than
Melbourne, which is just as relevant as it would
be if Turner pointed out that Melbourne has more
boot-factories, and colder winds, and a bigger
corporation ash-tip.
Slattery’s sudden retirement from Fitzroy
(Sydney) eleotion leaves the comedy and rotten-
cabbage element in the contest to centre round
Caulfield and John Norton. As a preliminary
omen, Caulfield has, after much agony and
perspiration, got John fined £l5O, for contempt of
court. Slattery is saving himself up for the elec-
tion in King Division, where Reid will now scoff
at him as “ the gentleman who ran away from
Woolloomooloo.” Norton, the only brainy man
nominated, will no doubt be elected, unless war-
rior Chapman gets all the suffrages of the grateful
admirers of his bacon.
ON THE BENCHES IN
THE PARE .
The chief efforts of the
S.A. session—which opens
23rd June will be concentrated on a Pas-
n an d a Civil Service Reform Bill
Inore than half of the policy foreshadowed
by,Kingston when Parliament met in June, ’96,
will have to stand over for the third year in suc-
cession.
What a commanding influence old Jack
Robertson must have had upon his intimates!
When you take the prominent men of the present
JN.b. W. anti-Bill crowd, you will find that most of
them at one time or another have fallen under the
sway of the old warrior who thought it was like
the darned cheek of the other Australias to set up
governments of their own.
In a moment of unusual vigor, Sydney
Telegraph recently described the Federalists as
blinded Billites.” Which is strongly sug’gestive
of Lawson’s “ Captain of the Push ” :
A dozen ghouls came sloping round the corners of the
blocks.
And each one spat and halted, and the one that came
behind
Spitting fiercely on the pavement called on God to strike
him blind.
Holy Joe Cook, N.S.W. Postmaster-
General, has told the Local Option League that
“ a Parliament will never be formed in N.S.W.
which will permit Sunday-trading.” And yet
there is such a Parliament now, and Sunday-
trading is rampant, and Sunday Brunker has
ceased to crusade against the Sabbath-desecrating
banana, and Joe Cook makes his sinful crust as a
member of a Ministry which is too worldly and
too worldly-wise to enforce the Sunday observance
law.
In his brief reign as Special Commissioner
of Papua, Colonel Scratch ley impressed upon the
British Government the paramount necessity of
retaining in Imperial hands the financial control
of the island. “If,” he wrote, “the expense of
managing New Guinea be borne by the colonies,
I foresee that a deadlock must eventually arise
between the Imperial officer and the Australian
Governments.” The present land-grab business
is likely to prove Scratchley a true prophet, but
if it doesn’t the deadlock is nevertheless sure to
come owing to the financial control being as it is.
Jervois and others, seeing the same danger, urged
that the British Protectorate should be at once
converted into a Crown colony.
Commenting upon the bad blood stirred up
in N.S. Wales by the Constitution Bill, and the
difficulty of hereafter getting together a Cabinet
of men who would so forgive and forget as to pull
well conjointly in the public interest, an ex-Minis-
ter observed : “ It’s not friendship for one another
that makes a good Cabinet. I was member of a
Cabinet every member of which blackguarded the
other behind his back and snarled at him to his
face, and we did as good public work as any Cabi-
net on record. I could make a first-rate Cabinet
at present out of the bitterest of the Convention
enemies. They’d curse one another, no doubt,
going in and out of Cabinet-meeting, but that is
rather better than the reverse for the public.”
The People, published by the Australia®
Socialist League, iB against the Federal Bill
because it provides for an indissoluble union
under the Crown.” The People actually says
that this destroys all possibility of a Republic."
But if these provinces don’t accept the Bill, the
only difference is that they will be indissolubly
disumted under the Crown. The connection with
the blessed old Crown is just as indissoluble, and
the Republic just as impossible (on paper) one wav
as the other.
Edmund Barton’s activity in the cause of
Australia is astonishing when one considers his
established reputation for “that tired feeling.”
The protracted M'Sharry arbitration case, with
its month-long addresses by counsel, is a severe
enough trial of endurance, but Barton adds to
this a Federation speech almost every night, and
the dictation of reams of newspaper and other
correspondence on his pet theme. He is also
known to have helped the movement right loyally
from a monetary point of view.
At last general election the Yic. Tory
party was exceedingly anxious to oust Longmore,
and the plural
voters went forth
to Box Hill, Oak-
leigh and the
other suburban
portions of his
constituency to
plump for the
nonentity, Keys.
By so doing, how-
ever, they were
prevented
from going to
Heidelberg in
the interests
of Robert
Harper, and
the result was
the defeat of
that respect-
able grocer by
a short head.
There are a
large number
o f directors,
bank officials,
trustees, and
building soci-
ety men who
have votes in
every electo-
rate around Melbourne, and they can turn an
election in several of the suburbs. Harper was
generally regarded as safe, and it was known that
a determined effort would just about “ do it ” for
Keys, anyhow.
Premier Reid's glaring cram that N.S.
Wales, under the Federation scheme, because it
may have a revenue from customs alone of £2 per
head per annum, will therefore be the most
heavily customs-taxed country in the world, is
flying, round. Sydney Telegraph keeps this sin-
ful misrepresentation standing in big type, and
L. F. Heydon spreads it as he goes. If these
people don’t know that all the seven provinces
averaged a heavier customs taxation than that till
’92, and that most of them raise more than £2 a
head now without any trouble, then their ignor-
ance is aboriginal in its intensity. But probably
they do know it.
E. M. Clark, M.L.A. (N.S.W.)
The other colonies had separated from this colony some
time ago, and had tried to fashion their own careers.
But now, like the prodigal son, they were trying to come
back. . . . The Federal capital would most certainly be
in Melbourne. That was all practically settled, and he
was informed on credible authority that a large amount
of British capital had been invested in Melbourne on that
understanding.
Isn’t there one anti-Billious person among the
crowd who is manly enough to tell the plain, un-
varnished truth—which is, that every invitation to
federate since 1890 has come from N.S.W., and it
is the prodigal mother who has been shrieking to
her sons to come back ? And, seeing that the
capital is to be entirely taken from the province
which now owns it, and that Victoria certainly
can’t ruin herself by ceding her one big city to the
Federation, will the fearsome Clark say which
lunatic asylum his “ authority ” is in ?
Conybeer and M‘Gregor, M’s.L.A., are
furiously stumping S.A. in the anti-Billious inte-
rest, because —(1) The present Federal scheme will
“ drag S.A. down to the level of N.S.W. and Vic-
toria ”; (2) S.A. is asked to hand over its postal
surplus to help the bankrupt Postal Departments
of these two States ; (3) S.A. has been deprived of
the control of its own river, the Lower Murray ;
(4) the Barrier trade isn’t “secured ” to S.A. ; (5)
S. A., Tasmania, and Westralia can be voted down
by N.S.W. and Victoria (the N.S.W. anti-Billious
are against the Bill because they say it is the other
way about); (6) because the whole thing is a dark
conspiracy of the other provinces to rob S.A. in
every possible way. The anti-Billious is much the
same everywhere, and he has always the same
fixed idea—-that there is no knowing what horrible
thing the other provinces may not do to his pro-
vince unless his province is protected by having
more voting power than all the others combined.
“THE TIRED N.S.W. VOTER.”
My friend, have you heard of the town of Sydnee,
On the banks of the river Slow,
Where blooms the Waitawhile flower fair ;
Where the Sometimeorother scents the air
And the soft Goeasys grow ?
It lies in the valley of Whatstheuse
In the province of Letterslide ;
Thattiredfeeling is native there,
It’s the home of the listless Idon’tcare,
Where the Putitoffs abide.
From Newhaven (Amer.) Register (with Billions
variations. )


X
w
%/,
%'//;); IllhuJW^
COpid’s Choice
so Fii>€ Sbocs
Should be relied on, as he knows he makes
as many virtues by a pretty foot, clad in a
dainty shoe, as by any other attractive
feature. Even Romeo praises Juliet’s foot :
“ So light a foot ne’er hurts the trodden
flower.” Our new stock of Winter, Light,
Strong, Comfortable Shoes combines
Style, Beauty, and Durability, . .
. . . with Reasonable Prices.
John Hunter and Son, Ltd.
CITY BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY;
AND 75 BRANCHES IN CITY, SUBURBS, AND THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
REATj§ERivjAn Hpr low GROUND
n" R«o*
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO. LONDON, r
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n?brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n>brocatioo-
Po Yo(i Waijt to Btiy
. . . ai) ASSISTANT?
'We will sell you a nietal assistant, who will stand in a prominent part of your
shop and hold up a sign in his hands, showing everyone what a customer has done
—whether he has paid cash, bought goods on credit, paid something on account,
received money, or had a bill changed. An assistant who will prevent anyone
from making mistakes, and give you a record of the entire day s business.
This assistant costs but a small sum a day for the
first year, after that you own him. He draws no
salary, and is always on duty.
There are over 180,000 of these Metal Assistants
in use in retail shops all over the world. Give us an
opportunity to explain his good points to you.
Here he is
You will hear more about him by sending your
name and address to
.. THE ..
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO.,
Head Office for Australasia: 393 George Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Telephone No. 2976.
P.O. Box, 1035.
rTi'-i
;c ( uC!Ui:.pur.C|.a :
JL..
i- -
.
SM
SHR
You can Buy
at PALING’S
Catalogues post free,
111, #. Palingi 80,
litd.,
Sydney, Brisbane,
Newcastle.
PIANOS
ORGANS
MUSie
VIOLINS
AeeORDEONS
AUTOHARPS
SORNETS
BANJOS
FLUTES
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
m©uth Organs
POLYPHONS
STRINGS |
AND V
FITTINGS]
For
• every In-
strument
Cheaper and better than
any other house in
Australasia.
$
Orem
Federation
(IN THE AIR).
On the 3rd June all franchised Australians will be called
upon to cast their vote for or against the Bill empowering
the FEDERATION of the AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
We have already federated air, rubber, fabric and steel
into one complete and perfect whole, and the result has been
that
Dunlo,p Tyres
are now ridden and acknowledged to be the best by millions
of cyclists, who find them simple to handle, perfect for
road riding, and the speediest on the track.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co* [td.,
and at Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
486 Kent Street, Sydney.
Johnnie Cornstalk!
You are idle, Johnnie Cornstalk, and you don’t do what
you ought,
And you think too much of cricket and of divers kinds
of sport, *
And to serious things like politics you give too little
thought,
But you’re going to show a different day is dawning 1
There’s no call to “ waken,” Johnnie, no occasion to
“ arise,”
You’re the kind of chap that’s always good at anything
he tries,
And you’re just a-goin’ to look around and open both
your eyes,
And be fairly on the job o’ Friday morning !
You’re a lazy kind o’ covey , Johnnie Cornstalk,
But you’re capable of something like a thrill,
And you’ll show the beggars whether
You can pull yourself together,
When you go for Toby Barton and the Bill!
As you will l
You’re agoin’ to bet your blankets on the Bill!
You are careless, Johnnie Cornstalk ; very careless, too,
my lad,
And in anything but sporting you can easily be had,
But you’re not too blessed stupid, not too feather-brained
begad,
And the knaves who think you are will get a warning !
You are going to take your brothers o’er the border by
the hand,
You’ll make something of Australia but a horse-and-
ericket land,
And for those who still may doubt it, you will make ’em
understand,
When you start out on the warpath Friday morning!
You’re an aggravating fellow, Johnnie Cornstalk,
And in politics too fond of standing still,
But they’ll find you not so snidy
When on Federation Friday
You are straight for Toby Barton and the, Bill!
As vou WILL,
You will bet yer blessed, bluchers on the Bdl !
W. T. GOODGE in ORANGE LEADER.
When The Bulletin went to press on
Tuesday night many of the N.S. W. country re-
'turning-officers had not even received instructions
as to where the local polling-places were to be
situated,; and a large proportion of the baekblocks
population wasn’t in a position to vote, for the
sufficient reason that it really didn't know
where'the vote would be taken. Which is one of
the many ways in which a God-fearing Ministry
can help to stifle the popular voice. The loss of
votes tmthe anti-Billious is nothing, for they have
no hope of getting a majority, but every vote lost
on the. Federal side reduces the chance of reaching
the 80,000 minimum.
“ The Dragging War” is the heading the
Age now sticks up. David Syme evidently re-
cau(.;on of the be llj g erents ; the Age
readers are waiting for good copy.
“If I were a citizen of Victoria, S. Aus-
tra ]j a or Tasmania, I would stump those pro-
vinces trom end to end in favor of the Bill,’ said
p . Reid t Goulburn. If he spoke the truth
the Bill would enable
these provinces to rob N.S.W., and that he would
be the eloquent boss-robber of the gang. But if
Re id was a Tasmanian politician he would proba-
bly be rousing his province with the yell that
wben it had only five members of the Federal Lower
House to N.S.WVs 25, and the three small pro-
vinces all together had only 17 to N.S.W.’s 25,
t hey wou l d be wholly at the mercy of the big
grasping province, and Federation meant suicide.
. . , , ~ t> n
More curious items about the great Hull
grab of 250,000 acres of Papua at 2s. an acre, with
illimitable other concessions thrown in, keep com-
ing to light. A despatch of Governor M'Gregor,
which has just turned up, says distinctly that
Duncan Gillies, of Victoria, is one of the pro-
moters ; but the good old boomer, Duncan, denies
this. And it is announced in London that the
great scheme was prepared after long consultation
at Government House, Brisbane, which certainly
looks—well, peculiar. It is also stated that,
though the job has only just come to light, the
syndicate has already got started and has grabbed
over 30,000 acres. In one way and another the
great Papuan swindle promises to be the most
smellful steal of this generation. The latest re-
garding it is that Chamberlain, on the protest
f q Q ovt has suggested some alterations in the
*-• (the swindle-agreement.
At present the most sensational cry of the
Sydney paper which lies so magnificently in the
interests of disunion is that Federation will m-
volve an extra cost of about 2s 2d per head per
annum to every Victorian, and about LI 2s. od.
per head per annum to every N.S. Waler. The
man in each province will pay the same taxation,
and the same proportion of the Federal expendi-
turej and be governed by the same laws, so how
a fj tbe disorganised universe this result is to
come about only the great boss liar who fries
eternally down below is likely ever to find out.
And as N.S. W. will have 31 votes to Victoria’s 28,
t i, e rea son why the big province should let the
Slna ]j province play such a swindle on her is past
comprehension. Most of the stories of the dread-
ful things that are to happen to N.S.W. in the
Federal Legislature evidently rest on the assump-
t;on that the 31 N.S.W. representatives will all be
struck with permanent idiocy.


TUESDAY, 21st JUNE.
BY AUCTION.
Tenham Cattle Station-
TO be SOLD pursuant to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Queensland, made in an
action, Hammond v. Hammond and Others, num-
bered 55 of 1897, with the approbation of the
Honorable Mr. Justice Cooper, by Messrs. B. D.
MOREHEAD & CO., of Brisbane, Auctioneers,
in conjunction with Messrs. HILL, CLARK &
CO., of Sydney (the persons appointed by the said
Judge), at Mary-street, Brisbane, in the Colony of
Queensland, on the 21st Day of JUNE, 1898, at
Eleven O'Clock in the forenoon, in one lot,
TENHAM STATION
(Outside Tick-Infested Area),
Situated in Gregory South district of Queensland, con-
sisting of 276 square miles of countrj’ (more or less), of
which 190 square miles are Leasehold, having 17 years to
run from the Ist July, 1897, and 86 square miles of country
held under Grazing Right, under “Crown Lands Act of
1884.” Together with
6500 CATTLE (more or less), Fifty (50) HORSES (more
or less), STATION PLANT, STORES and IM-
PROVEMENTS thereon or belonging thereto.
The Country is situated on Cooper’s Creek and Kyabra
Creek, about 40 miles south of Windorah and about 230
miles west of Charleville railway station. It is very rich
fattening country for cattle, consisting of lightly timbered,
open, mulga country, with occasional black-soil plains,
abundance of salt-bush, blue-bush, cotton-bush, and other
edible shrubs. TENHAM is splendidly watered by the
main channel of the Cooper and its many branches, be-
sides springs. The Cattle are quiet, and have been well
■worked. In the herd there are about 1000 head of Bul-
locks and Cows fit to start for market. The Improvements
are sufficient for the efficient working of the station.
Particulars and Conditions of Sale may be had gratis at
the office of Messrs. Macdonald-Paterson and Hawthorn,
Edward-street, Brisbane, Solicitors for the Plaintiff;
Messrs. J. F. Fitzgerald and Power, Queen-street, Brisbane,
Solicitors for the Defendants ; or at the offices of the said
B. D. Morehead & Co., Brisbane; Messrs. Hill, Clark &
Co., Sydney ; Messrs. Ryan, Hammond & Mates, Mel-
bourne ; and Messrs. Barker Bros., Adelaide, and at the
place of sale.
Dated this twenty-fifty day of April, 1898.
(L.S.) W. A. DOUGLAS,
Deputy Registrar.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
mill. UN ie piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnbroking Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, K.B., Chairman; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq., J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B.Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors:-Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; Henry
Grant, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
u
HE.AD O FFfc^
Intersection Hunter,Buck ANO
Castlereagh
• SYDiygY •
fa Established - 1879.
Office in AustrM-'* •
Annual /ncomjeahd Invested
Funds Exceed 000 frerlin*.
McGee's
SHEFFIELD AND
SOLINGEN razors.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for light beards, 3 6, 4 0.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for heavy beards, 5 -, 6/-, 7,6.
Solingen Razors, for light and heavy beards, 5-, 6 8 6
GENUINE BENGALL RAZORS, 3/6.
THISTLE RAZORS, 3 sizes, i, $, 10/-, 12 6.
All Razors Set and Ready for Use.
Best Canvas and Leather Swing Strops, 2/6, 8,6, 6/-, 7,6.
Razors Set and Returned by Post, 1/- each.
All Post Free on receipt of postal note from Andrew
MoGee, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, Agency
Company, Limited,
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED TT .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company’s business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1897 .. £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 600,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
PAiD-ur .. .. .. £2,974,801 10s.
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thornier,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G., M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gvies Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne,
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd,
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Slmreholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 106 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co* Ltd, of Lot*' l 7i,
I Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Liabilty.
I Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
w. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hass all ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites &c
For tariff, apply to
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street ;
or to
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
E. A. WEINBERG, E. M„ .General Manager!
CECDIU.AR
unoEßiuEnß
WINTER COMFORT.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses
Bodices, etc, in Natural Wool, Silk anc
W 001, or Cotton.
Gentlemen’s Department:
ShiS tS ’ Jr? ts ’ Py L j amas . Night Shirts, Dai
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc."
C I E^ LULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisl,
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
David graham 4 t go.,
(between George and York streets).
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, June 4, 2 p.m.
-Gabo, Wednesday, June, 8, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, June 11, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Wednesday, June 8,12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, June 11, 2 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Wednesday, June 8, 12 Noon.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, June 4, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tuesday, June 7, 6 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, June 11, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUOINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
.Leura, Saturday, June 4, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Monday, June 6, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, June 11, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST (lltlil'M FAICES TO ALL FORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SE It VICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
MOANA
Leave
Tons. Sydney
at 4 p.m
Leave
Arrive at
Auckland,
San
at 2 p.m.
Francisco,
3158 June 6 June llljune 29
3158 July 4 July 9jjuly 27
4000 August 1 August 6lAugust 24
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
—VIA—
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TVESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
Gibbs, bright & co., managing agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & GO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
J 4fi>
Business Announcements.
PE.
A. GEO. RING,
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. per 1000.
33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
£ a *? le Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 095.
Code— Moueing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. HU IT Ml CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE " invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
WALLEN & WOOPS
( FRANK WALLEN, \
\ Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stoc/s and Shave JSvokevs,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
til QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street. London E.C.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by po9t, gratis , to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINB STREET MELBOURNE.
v. Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Bullarra, Saturday, June 4,
connecting-with S.S. Adelaide at
- Melbourne.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Saturday, June 11.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Bullarra, Saturday, June
4, connecting: with S.S.
Adelaide at Melbourne.
S.S. Wollowra (from Sydney)
Saturday, June 11.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Tuesday,
June 14.
Best & Cheapest lloute to Goldfields.
Gr. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
F. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
Steamer.
Britannia
Oceana ...
Pen’nsular
Victoria .
Commander.
6525 T. S. Angus
6603 E. Stewart
Sydney,
Noon
June 4
June 18
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
5287 W. A. Wheler July 2 ,
6527 E. Crewe .Jjuly 16'July 19'July 21
June
June
July
Ade-
laide,
2 p.m.
June 9
June 23
July 7
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, i i. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - moi.ey can be paid here on
terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, Parker & (Jo’s [ine
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HOBART,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombav, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
HTlluiraith, D|‘Eacharn & Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
FORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co’s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U- S. INI. Coy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekiy.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Co
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
Ho. 139.—9 ct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 209.
Gold, Amethyst
Heart, set Pearls.
£1 ss.
No. 130.—15-ct. Gold, Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and handsome design. £l2 10s.
No. 217.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
Diamond and
Sapphire, £1 ss.
No. 145.—9-ct. Gold, Amethyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 15s.
No. 102.—9-ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Ruby, 15s 6d.
No. 117.—Elegant 15-ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £1 7s 6d.
No. 113.—9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Diamond centre, 17s 6d.
No. 101.—9-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Pearls, 10s 6d.
No. 107. 9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Ruby, 17s 6d.
No. 335. — Solid Silver Child’s
Cup, 3in. high, £2 10s.
No. 308.—Solid Silver Pin
Tray, 3in. long, 8s 6d.
wm
No. 130. —9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
No. 234.
15-ct. set Opal,
£1 7a 60.
al
No. 201.—Set Gold Links,
fl-ct. Gold, £1 5s ; 15-ct. Gold, £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 134.—15-ct. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, JE7 10s.
No. 235.
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Diamond,
£1 12s 6d.
i\’o. 289.—Cut-Crystal Toilet
Salts Bottle, Silver Top,
2 Jin. high, 11s 6<l.
No. 332.—Electro-Silver on
Nickel Child’s Cup, 3 ia.
high, 16s 6cL
No. 150.—15-ct. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies
£4 7s. 6d.
No 311.—Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dish,
6iiri. by Sin., JEI 7s 6d.
No. 263.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, 8s Od.
sag
No. 260.—Solid Silver Case, elegantly engraved. sJin. Ion;
to hold Four Cigars, £3 3s ; ditto to hold three, £2 ss.
No. 347. —Elegant Electro-
Silver Gong. llin. high,
£1 10a.
No. 337.—Six Solid Silver Tea Spoons,
in morocco case, £l los.
i
No. 197.—Set Gold Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 bs; 15-ct., £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d.
9-ct. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 196.—Set Gold Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18s 6d ; 16-ct., £l lss ; Sil\ er, 4s 6d.
No. 215.
9-ct. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
No. 200.—Set Links.
0-ct. Gold, £1 Is; 15-ct., Gold, £ll7s 6d; Silver, 5s 6d.
No. 284. — Cut Class Puff Box,
with Solid Silver Top, 3in. high, 21s.
Pi
No. 330.—Solid Silver Butter Knife, Jam Spoon,
and Sugar Sifter, in morocco case, £1 ss.
No. 286.—Elegant Photo Frame,
Solid Silver, cabinet size, 16s 6d.
No. 370.
New and Elegant Design Electro-Silver Entree Dish,
llin. long, £2 2s. (Dish and cover maka pair.)
No. 297.
Sol d Silver Thimble,
steel lined, 3s 6cL
No. 133. —15-ct. Gold Brooch, Opal centre, set Pearls
and Diamonds, JC4 17s Cd.
No. 155.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 18 fine Diamonds,
2 whole Pearls, 3 Sapphires, ±8 10s.
No. 118.—15-ct. Gold Brood),
set Sapphires and Rubies, £ll2s 6d.
No. 157.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 fine Diamonds,
2 whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £7.
No.
Silver Button Hooks aiul Shoe Lift,
10s 6d.
No. 262.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is t -15-ct., 15s.
No. 295.
Electro-Silver Serviette I.ings.
2 in ease, 8s 6d ; 4 in case, 16s 6d;
6 in case, £1 5s
No. 336.
Twelve Electro-Silver Tea Spoons and Sugar
Tongs, in case, £1 7s 6d.
No. 261.—Medal. Silver, 3s 6d.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., £ll7s 6d
goods, any
isjmvrji rp, < illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the
ny^of^vv hidh wilfbe*forward«f (car riag™paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Free.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


The bye - election of journalist Ryott-
Maughan for the Burnett (Q.) is another Labor
nail in the Boodlewraith coffin. What exactly
would happen to Thomas Joseph Byrnes and his
crowd if he dared to face the people, instead of
taking and giving office by laying-on of hands, is
a matter for enthusiastic conjecture.
George Dibbs, in his anti-Billious speech
on Monday night, could grow no larger lion to
plant in the path of Federation than that it was
“ a leap in the dark.” Which sounds well. But
then, the man who doesn’t leap in the dark gets
run over by the night express, or knocked down
by the wandering cow. More men have been
killed in the dark through not leaping quickly
enough than from any other cause.
“Austral ” writes :
Dear Bulletin. —Why doesn’t Deakin or somebody Vic.
way get up and demolish Tiilett in his Anti-Federation
flapdoodle, anyway? The writer heard him at the Sunday
meeting recently, and Til'e'i- talked inconclusive twaddle
for haif-an-hour, and n ostly abused the !man who has
worked steadily for thet onimonwealth for years. Tiilett
hasn’t lived long enough m ibis country to know all the
evils of disunion. He asks us to throw away this chance,
but hasn’t been through all the weary struggles that were
necessary before we got it. He’s not a citizen of any
province, and hasn’t got a vote, and if we had to fight he
couldn’t be compelled to take up arms in defence
of our country. All the Anti Federalists in Victoria
worthy of any abuse are importations from Hingland, but
Ben has more brass, or less sense, than the rest. He gets
his ideas from the Melbourne Trades Hall crowd, and its
opinions are guided mostly by its bitter hatred of Tren-
with, and it hates Trenwith because he has risen above
the ruck. Good Democrat as he is, the Trartes Hall
clique would sell its soul and the Commonwealth too to
pull him down. We, who belong to this continent, want
to get our hands all over it now, before any more syndi-
cates swamp it with niggers or any foreign power comes
knocking at our gates, and when we've done that Ben
can come along and help Hancock and Maloney and
Barker to run the concern. But if this chance is lost,
Ben won’t have to struggle to make another one, and if
in the interval Britain were to foreclose its mortgage on
the Northern Territory and lease it to one of Somers
Vine’s nigger and Chinese syndicates (a danger that is
always with us) it would be our disaster—not Ben’s.
Last Tuesday the Sydney Telegraph re-
ported that there were 277,000 names on the N.S.
Wales general roll and 31,000 on the additional
roll, but of the latter about 15,000 are only trans-
fers from one roll to another, therefore there are
about 293,000 names in all —including the dead
and absent. The moral of which is that no elec-
tor can afford to stay away from the poll with the
idea that there are plenty without him. On 18th
November, 1897, when the roll was smaller than
it is now, Attorney-General Want told the N.S.
Wales Legislative Council, as a reason for raising
the minimum to 80,000, that there were “ nearly
350,000 ” electors on the lists (Hansard, page
4801). The argument, of course, was that with
350,000 voters, the original 50,000 minimum was
absurdly small. Plainly, the anti-Billious were
just as unreliable in all their statements then as
they have been ever since.
In the Sydney libel-case of Green v.
Evening News, Justice Stephen ruled that a
newspaper’s reports of preliminary judicial pro-
ceedings were not privileged, and the jury found
themselves obliged to find for plaintiff, vvith a
farthing damages. There was no question of
malice, and the report was a mere statement of
what took place in a court open to the public.
The Judge regretted that the law here was not
the same as in England, where a fair and accurate
report of all judicial proceedings is legal. In
these circumstances the jury probably did the
best it could by giving plaintiff a nominal
verdict, which, The Bulletin presumes, will not
carry costs. If it had taken the more inviting
course of d ning the obsolete law and finding
for defendant, the lawyers would at once have
moved for (and got) a new trial, and the last state
of the News might have been worse than the
first. The case is another illustration of the
shocking inadequacy and stupidity of N.S.W.
libel-law, which is as far behind that of England
as it ought to be in front of it.
A CLEVER GIRL
will always speak with enthusiasm of “D.C.L.”
Whisky after her “ boy” has tried it once. Most
whiskies, she finds, tend to make him dull and
morose. Anipof “D.C.L.”causeshiintosparkle.*
Vic. Judge Hodges had a pretty case of
sharp-practice to deal with the other day. Plain-
tiff sued for =£275, advanced to his friend, the
defendant, in 1891, on a verbal contract that the
cash should be repaid, with 6 per cent, interest,
when he could take the money out of his business
—the loan being granted as part of a first deposit
on an outside land transaction. Defendant be-
came fully possessed of the land in question.
Also, his business flourished meanwhile, but he
still stuck to the £275 loan. He paid neither
principal nor interest to his trusting pal, and,
when sued for the debt, he pleaded that the
Statute of Limitations had put it beyond recovery.
Judge Hodges brought what Gilbert’s Lord
Chancellor called “ the subtlety of the legal
mind ”to bear in favor of common justice. “ The
Court had to determine the question whether or
not the cause of action arose within six years of
the bringing of the action. Plaintiff said the
agreement was in effect that the money was to be
paid when defendant could take the money out of
his business. Defendant said that from the date
of the loan to the present time he was always able
to take the money out of his business, in a certain
sense, but, as the court understood him, while he
was in a position to do so at the time of the loan,
in a certain sense it would have been incon-
venient.” And as the intention of the plaintiff,
said Judge Hodges, was not to damage defen-
dant’s business, the cause of action didn’t arise
until 1896, when defendant gave a certain mort-
gage on the land aforesaid. Seeing that 1896
was not six years ago, plaintiff got a judgment for
<£275 principal with costs. Plaintiff’s generous
consideration for the sharp man’s business interests
served to pull him triumphantly through v he
Statute of Limitations.
A LIGHT SUBJECT IS ALWAYS ENTERTAINING.
This fact is also a matter of great consideration-viz.,
that the residents of Victoria and N.S.W. can save their
time, money, and tempers by sending or calling at our
respective warehouses for up-to-date Hardware. Amongst
this season novelties will be found the Royal Bath Heater,
burns wood only, and produces scalding hot water in a
few moments. Price 655. complete. Pamphlets posted.
Also, the great Galopin Lights, for kerosene, which gives
the user the same facilities as gas. Bargains in all
departments, at McLEAN BROS, and RIGG, Ltd., Mel-
bourne and Sydney.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Factory - Australian Branch - Rider.
That’s the History of " RED BIRD ” Distribution.
NO MIDDLEMEN, Hence MANUFACTURER and RIDER are IN TOUCH.
THAT’S WHY
... RED BIRDS ...
ARE ALWAYS A YEAR AHEAD.
THE 600LD BICYCLE CO., LIMITEP.
Australasian Branch —64 King Street, Sydney.
Cycling School—Wavcrlcy Road, Wollahra. Agents Everywhere.
HUMBER CYCLES l AMERICA).
“ These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at the Beeston Works ;
che workmanship and materials are of the highest quality ”
Reduced.
LADY’S
G-EINTT’S
catS
26
25
The Australian Cycle & Motor Co. Ltd., 45 York-street, SYDNEY ; and at 381 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Perfect weather could not draw more than 5000
people to Tattersall's Club Races at Rand wick last
Saturday. Cyprus won the Hurdle race from the favorite
Orysohte, and Strathroy and Sailor Boy, the two best-
backed in the Flying Handicap, finished in the order
named. Backers then began to go down, and the books
to make up some of their recent run of bad luck. Lilly-
dale at 10 to 1 won Tatt's Stakes; Flodden, at 12 to 1,
beat Glendennon by a head for the Winter Stakes ; and
backers received the most unkind cut of ail when Gaulme,
absolutely unthought of, won the Welter Handicap.
On the hill outside Randwick Course a China-
man makes a book each race-day and does good biz. A
/, betting goes on there and the punter bets
with the Chow “ for luck.” John sings out the odds,
tlee to one Stlathloy,” etc., and is generally a point
longer than the “clistian bookie.”
* * * *
All day long, and nearly all night too, the big
betting-shops in Pitt-st., Sydney, do a thriving trade un-
molested. A Chinaman lately opened a similar shop in
an obscure corner of Redfern. A police-emissary invested
« ’ j n 0n k' B e an( l "’on 9d., and the heathen was
fined £5O and costs by a Sydney magistrate on a recent
Tuesday. On this scale N.S.W. could easily pay its awful
federal expenses by a big raid on the city gambling
• • • •
Rosehill Racing Club holds its winter meeting
on Saturday, June 25, the event of the day being Rosehill
Cup of 200 sovs. with a £5O trophy. Tatte'rsal! has a large
consultation on this race, and seeing that the most im-
portant feature of a race nowadays is that Tatt. should
have a consultation on it, so that the drawer can lav the
owner of the quadruped something to nothing, this is
worth mentioning.
* * * *
The season’s opening run of Sydney Hunt Club
was held last week, and so deplorable an exhibition of
colonial ” horsemanship was never before seen. The
ladies all rode excellently, but the men, mostly military
johnnies, followed a few miles behind and generally fell off
at every fence. Of course there were exceptions which
it would be invidious to name, but they were few and far
between. Those military swells should in future walk to
the hunts and climb carefully through each fence. Or,
perhaps, the ladies will coach them a little.
* a a a
Melbourne backers who went to Flemington and
ou ®®dc on Queen’s Birthday came back from the
V.R.C. meeting full of joy and whiskv, in most cases.
Five events fell to decided first favorites, two of them,
froin the Miller stable, starting at 4to 1 and 9to 4. Ikey
Mo's only consolation was in the poorness of the attend-
ee, as things turned out. The wind was tempered to
the shorn fleecer by the rain that trickled down his neck
and kept a number of his usual customers in town. The
ram did even more than this for Ikey. It sometimes
drove punters to the grand stand for shelter at the very
moment when they were making up their minds to back
the next winner.
* • * .
The Millers have another likely Grand National
horse in the five-year-old Nilus. In'the two-mile steeple
at Flemington, last week, Nilus carried 12st. successfully
through the mud after giving the top of the stone wall a
clout that- nearly brought him to grief. He hadn’t much
to beat at the finish, but in the meantime he had pegged
along comfortably whilst five of the others were falling
down. B
* * * •
Poor old Mikado 11., a 13st. champion ’chaser
of years ago, takes his chance nowadays as a despised
outsider with 9st. on his weary back. Sad to see the
venerable Mik. ambling along to the post with an “ Ah ! I
remember the time ” expression in his sunken eve
• • * •
P.M.-G. Duffy, who lately insinuated in the
Ouse that Vic. investors got very little money from
Tatt.’s sweeps, will probably be surprised to hear that the
Ist and 3rd prizes in the Birthday Cup sweep both came
to Melbourne—£s4oo in all.
* * • •
The Bobadil deal is off for the present, and his
Derby backers breathe again. Mr Wilson’s price
frightened the Britishers off.
• * * •
Fields on first day of Canterbmy (M.L.) trots :
9, 11,15, 7, 16, 21, 14.
Sydney trotter St. Louis cracked a hoof prior
to his first M.L. engagement, and hackers would not look
at him in the Mile Dash, 14 starters. Winner’s div.,
£26 6s. Dr. Slate, who went over to see his pair trot’
had no luck on the first day, at any rate. His pony,
Narragansett, shaped badly at the wrong end in the pony
trot, won by the Sydney-bred Aileen, who returned
backers just enough to buy drinks with.
Sunshine, stable-mate of Fritz, possessor of un-
deniable speed, broke up and distanced a field of eight in
the Maiden, albeit Sunbeam’s daughter trotted un-
steadily at the outset. She was such a hot- cert, that the
tote return was only £1 Bs. Mr. Buckland had a lucky
turn with Sunshine later on. The largeness of the field
in the Electric Trot, and smallness of the tote, necessi-
tated the “ bracketing” of Sunshine and Awahuri. The
latter materialised, paying £6 45., and, being bracketed
with him, Sunshine’s backers scooped that div. though
she didn’t get a place.
• * • *
Australian champion trotter Fritz squeezed all
starch out of Maoriland’s smartest at Canterbury, May 19
(writes a Bulletin correspondent). Mr. Buckland’s gelding
won on scr. in two-miles Addington Plate. Opponents -
Wildwood, ssec,; Hattie S., Bsec.; Monte Carlo and Ken-
tucky, 9sec.; Rita and Mambrina Abdallah, lOsec. Fritz’s
first mile, 2min. 18£sec. ; three then drew out, and the
champion, slowing to half-pace, won by 300yds. in 4inin.
60 l-ssec.
• • * •
Obit. : William Douglas, Maoriland’s best-
known and staunchest turf-supporter, aged 63. A ster-
ling sport; large breeder, and “straight” owner. He
held pronounced ideas on racing and breeding, and made
hone and substance of superior importance even to
pedigree when buying stud stock. Result—innumerable
strongly-con4itutioned racers who went on winning
long after higher-class, higher-priced, spider-legged flut-
terers succumbed to the exigencies of training. The “all
black ” was successful in a sackful of races during the last
25 years. Douglas preferred a steeple to a cup, and won
M.L. Grand National three times. He was a colonist of
48 years’ standing, and carried on sheep and cattle raising,
largely, since the sixties.
• * * •
“ Newhaven’s rush in the City and Suburban
fairly corpsed the onlookers,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent. “ Amongst the last three to get
away a quarter of a mile from home, Rickaby could not
have dreamt his mount had ‘ a possible,’ and, as there is
no ‘all horses to be ridden out’ regulation here, did not
seem to be making an effort. Suddenly the Australian
spread his legs, and, in giant strides, overlapped every-
thing, too late to catch Bay Ronald, for the judge’s eye
was fifty to a hundred yards too adjacent. The horse’s
form was raw-nakedly exposed, however, and his handlers
for their clumsiness deserve all the weight the handi-
cappers are sure to give them now. It was the chance of
a splendid coup hopelessly bungled, and it is doubtful
whether Cooper will ever look upon its like again—with
this crack, anyhow.”
Concerning which a local commentator :
The second defeat of Newhaven by Bay Ronald (for
the Epsom Cup) indicates—as was here suggested at
the time—that B.R. won the City and Sub. Handicap
with a lot in hand, and Newhaven, when he rushed into
second place on that occasion, was passing two or three,
or more, horses which had already been slightly eased.
Newhaven’s two defeats by the same animal in lj and 1 j
mile races don’t count much against his chance of win-
ning over longer courses at Ascot. He is entered for the
8-miles Alexandra Plate. But this seoond failure seems
to knock the stuffing out of a lot of English newspaper
pars, lately to hand. The horsey writers were quite cer-
tain that Newhaven should have won the City and Sub.
If this wonderful rush had started a little earlier, the re-
sult would have been different, &c., &e. The Epsom
Cup race last week was J mile longer than the other, but
Bay Ronald wag again oue too many for the Australian
champion.
• * * *
Joe Thompson, in a letter to Australia, says
he saved Newhaven in the City and Suburban for
his book, and stood to win £20,000. Joe’s version
is that the field jumped away without Newhaven,
who was 100yds. to the bad before a quarter mile was
covered. Turning into the straight the Australian seemed
out of she hunt, but he made a marvellous run, passing
everything but Bay Ronald. “ Had it been another
100yd*.," Thompson said, “ Newhaven must have won.”
But it looks as if the race was truly run.
• • • *
Newhaven is pretty certain to appear in one or
two of the long-distance w.f.a. races at Ascot, a fortnight
hence. Presuming* the Australian horse showed them a
trial that looked good enough to beat the popular English
"cracks’ at Ascot, where a big commission could be
worked without “cruelling” the market-price, he would
doubtless have ago for the Gold Cup. He figures among
the entries. 6
* » • *
What is to be will be. On April 14th, 4200
guineas were paid for the English Derby colt Dunlop,
and he failed to run into a place. A Mr. Larnach bought
a mare called Pilgrimage for 160 guineas, unaware that
she was in foal. She foaled, and the offspring, Jeddah,
started at IUO to 1 and won this year’s Derby. ’
* * • *
Australian horses are going down like ninepins
at ’Ome. Galway started second favorite for a Steeple-
chase at Manchester and pulled up beaten ; Maluma
started favourite in a race at Newmarket and finished
sixth ; whilst Newhaven’stwo beatings must have cleared
out the followers of the Australians in England. Next
time they ought to give Newhaven a chance of winning
races after his Australian fashion—from end to end at a
solid pace of his own making.
* * * •
A suggestion from ’Frisco, that the best man
available in Australia be imported into the States to show
the locals how to start horses with the barrier, is a season-
able one. Here is a chance of a good trip and dollars
for Moorefield “ Jack ” Hagerty.
* • * *
At a recent up-country bazaar a young blood
with more money than brains bought a rocking-horse,
took it home and played an old trick-raffled the horse
for £2O in aid of the good cause. But, as luck would have
it, the winner didn’t care a rap for the cause and raised
Cain when he found the animal was dead timber. That
young sport had to shell out another £2O to square
matters, and now goes about damning the Good Cause.
* ♦ * *
A certain Northern racing committee having
been “ducked” through the rider of the second horse
pulling the committee’s certainty, could not form a
quorum to wipe out their fancy. The necessary 4th man
(a local J.P.) was found “ tight as Adam,” but it was
absolutely necessary to have him, and he was hauled out,
and promptly voiced the committee's wishes by not only
wiping out the seoond, but added—“ the rider has been
guilty of the biggest bit of larrifeinism I’ve ever met with
in my experience as a magistrate. He is sintenced to
seven days' without the option of a fine.”
* * * *
A rampageous bookmaker writes from Maori-
land to inform The Bulletin that all its tote arguments
are “ rotten as a pear," and he doesn’t care a bad word
for its asterisk bully-ragging. Pleasant to get glad
tidings from distant friends.
» » • *
Experiments in speying, as the operation is
called in connection with cows, are being tried with several
fillies in America, and if successful will no doubt come in
vogue this side. A word will have to be coined to
describe the unsexed mare in the racing world, and the
question will arise as to whether the speyed mare will be
allowed a gelding’s concession in weight.
* * * .
There was nothing brilliant in Sydney football
last Saturday. Brisbane PastGrainmarSehoolsplaved Wal-
laroos on Sydney Cricket Ground, and although the sides
were evenly matched, as evidenced by the score—B points
each—the play was poor. University and Paddington then
met and played a one-sided match, University running
over its opponents by 19 to nil.- On the Agricultural
Ground, Pirates and Sydneys played the best game of the
day.. At half-time the score stood Sydney 6, Pirates nil,
but in the second half Pirates ran over the new club,
winning by 14 to 6. Casualties—a broken head and a
couple of laid-outs.
* * * *
When Rugby football was first introduced to
Charters Towers many of the players, no matter how
ignorant of the game, were ready to argue a point with
the umpire, wherefor one referee always carried the rules
in his pocket, and the play would frequently stop while
an excited group listened to the law on the point at issue.
Backing out of a scrimmage one day, an irate player,
carpenter by trade, who had been badly hacked, rushed
the referee. “ Here,” he bellowed, “ let’s have a look at
them blanky specifications 1 ”
» * * »
When Mt. Morgan football-team visited Charters
Towers, the “ unco guid,” headed by a few clergymen,
wired the Chief-Secretary that a charge was to be made
for entrance to a public reserve on Sunday, and, as a
result, the superintendent of police was instructed to
interfere. John Marsland, president of the local
union, then advertised “admission by ticket only," ob-
tainable beforehand, and, on the appointed afternoon,
when the police superintendent made his objections,
Marsland said, “I have invited a number of my friends,
sir, to witness a football-game on my own ground. This
reserve was pegged out by me as a mining area, and ap-
plication for the lease lodged with the warden on Satur-
day morning.” Under the Act, the reserve was thus as
much Marsland’s property as a goldfields homestead area,
for the 30 days which would have to elapse before objec-
tions could be entertained.
* * • *
A London weekly, The Man of the World,
shrieks “The manner in which the English batsmen
pottered about the block-hole caused roars of laughter to
the free-hitting Australians. If we are to regain our
supremacy in cricket, a bolder style of play must he
adopted. Playing for averages has spoilt English
cricket.” This sort of stuff must be very consoling to
poor old Stoddart. His team didn't suffer much by com-
parison with the Australians as regards hitting'. The
trouble was that the bowling didn’t allow them to potter
a sufficiently grand total in four out of five test-matches.
They played on good wickets for the averages which they
had achieved in England on wickets not so good—and,
as a rule, didn’t approach them.
* * * •
Westralian cricket item : “ Mount Benson met
the Lady Mary team on the ground of the former, but
their innings proved an ignominious failure, the whole
eleven being disposed of for U runs. When the Lady Mary
■went to the wickets the first hit made was a fiver, so the
match was won. The innings closed for 4fi runs.”
* ♦ * *
Albert Edward, the latest “Royal cyclist,’
took third money (and probably won some' “ place ” bets)
for the Derby with Dunlop, by Ayrshire. The Australian
Ayrshire, singularly enough, is by Dunlop, who got his
name long before pneumatic bicycle tyres were thought
of.
• * * •
P.Q. : At a recent Melb. Amateur Cyclists’
banquet, a Mr. Jones, in a fine, outspoken speech
of four lines, said that the present advance in the pro-
gress of amateurism was due to their striving to keep the
sport pure and above suspicion, like Ciesar’s eggs. The
sport! Save the mark. They meet the ladies every Satur-
day afternoon, and exhibit themselves with buglers and
captains and bells along the suburban streets, to journey
(that’s the expression) to a hotel a little way out, where
they get duly photographed. Then they feed sumptu-
ously. Afterwards the Father of Cycling, and kindred
popular characters, whose careers are sketched each week
in the cycling papers, pass the butter to one another, and
the opportunity is seized of handing over the attendance-
medals and making presentations to popular Billies—
mostly subscribed for by the ladies. “Harmony then
prevails,” and the heroes ride home in the moonlight,
vowing that they have never enjoyed a more pleasant
outing, &c., &c.
* • » *
Lacrosse is still determined to assert itself in
Melb. New clubs, and vigorous attempts at enthusiasm
every Saturday, and regular practice during the week.
The game is understood to be a sort of silken bond be-
tween Canada and this country. Hands lacrosse the sea!
3rd June, 1898.—In Hope.
From the cane-brakes of the northlands to the wheat-
fields of the south,
From the pillared gates of Sydney to the home of flood
and drouth,
Out west to the Never Never where the red sun sinks
to rest,
They march in tens of thousands strong to greet the
people’s guest.
They come to crown our lady, the fa : rest of the fair
Young daughters of the radiant earth, with laurels in
her hair,
They come in tens of thousands strong to bid a nation
wake
Prepared to live and fight and die, if need be, for her
sake.
With hands across the rivers and with hearts that beat in
tune,
We’ll brothers be with south and west upon the third of
June;
No border lines shall stand between, no microscopic
soul
Shall hiss its words of paltry hate where Murray’s waters
roll.
We’ll crown her with a laurel wreath, with ferns will
strew her way,
We’ll travel leagues of weary miles and loyal homage pay,
And north and south and east and west, where’er her
temples be,
We’ll sign her charter full and fair from Darwin to the
sea.
And millions in the future days shall bless the men who
gave
To fair Australia greeting kind and homage true ar;c!
brave,
The men who set her feet upon the pathway bright of
fame,
And throned her ’mid the nations with a heritage and
name.
MIRANI.


Don’t be Left BehincL^^
On a “ GOOD ENOUGH.”
Massey-flarris B icycles
Are Cheaper in the end.
MASSEY-NARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Branch: 163-169 William-st., Melbourne,
rrinch DEPOTS: 29i Bourlie Street, Melbourne; 385 George Street. Sydney;
Queen street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
Established
1847.
Mold |t|atch for Qadies free.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE:
T*E N*W^W*M*N.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Ladies’ Solid Gold Watches. Jewelled
Movements, and are Reliable Timekeepers. List Price,
£5 10s. Send your answer at once, with a stamped ad-
dressed envelope, to know if you have won the PRIZE.
If so, and you purchase one of our Real Gold Ladies’
Chains to wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will be
sent securely packed, free by registered Post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DU. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPyNE.
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BBOMOHITIS,
DIABEHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung. Is. 3d.
RACING CLUB.
WIHTER'MEETINfi.
SATURDAY, 25th JUNE, 1898.
THE ROSEHILL CUP of 200 Sovs., with £5O Trophy
added. ENTRANCE 1 Sov. Distance, 6 Furlong.
Entries Close MONDAY NEXT, 6th June.
P. O’MARA, Secretary.
189 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing' in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST.; MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
'jjkifiif
wUHjjjniiiii
t/f.'Jff'w’iiiHii
rni
{{iiiiiiilMf
! iii.i -i ,i
iliiffii:
fit *1
&i.,;
i!ir«
pinijiijiH
gltniiriiiiii
&!!I:iiihiiiii
; i.
"II Ml
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns.
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
i and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
" select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21 Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
39/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 13/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
1 Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 '6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots.
6A 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 16 '-, trimmings included.
Dipped Wool trumpets its own fame
Realised top price, 12|d., for N.S.W. wools at
Sydney; and top price, 15£d., London, ’98 —both greasy.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THU tKEM'KST," situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
«* mi is’ KiiiK-strcct Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ■ * * GEO. W. ELLIS.
“Imperial” Bicycles
TTHE GO-LIGIITLY KIND).
W E
Madfi by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES &. FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
,J. F. McDermott,
Terms on General Agent for Australasia,
Application. 48 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
Here To-clay!
and To-morrow !
; are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
■ ■ We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date. .
BENNETT &. BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 , Pi^;, st Y v? Y E X’
ggy Agent for “Naumann” and ‘ Clyde Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
“ BUILT LIKE A WATCH.”
Sterling Cycles!
After Two Years’ Experience STERLING riders
proclaim that the STERLING is the BEST wheel
built—no broken Forks, &c., &c. Why risk your
life on crocks ? Westwood, or Wood, rims.
Hew Haven Cycles!
Country Buyers, where no agents are appointed,
supplied at WHOLESALE PRICES ; money
returned if not approved of.
Cycle Repairs a specialty.
JOHN D. PATTISON,
Sterling Cycle Depot, 7? I llsabsth Street, Sydney.
“DOWRIDGE’S’
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
| BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
; Molf Jjmerican HighflrtCgcle
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent a
I Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
I and speed. US' Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various Pirst-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
ft
MACKLIN
HENLEY
GBJMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable,
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
•WON’T BUY A GUN unless you first look at the
0 name, or (should you happen to : fir p T S JNS
will regret it. GENUINE GREENER GUNS
,-s.n he obtained from all principal dealers in Australia.
From 10 to 80 Guineas. Address all enquiries to W. W.
GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney; or to Vic. Rep.,
0 W. BUCKLAND, 16 Curral-road, Elsternwick, Melh.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price,
1/-; posted, 1/3.
’ ?’ > *
m
4
inti;
: y
■P-*
m
'"'fl'kiii/'
j/yt
I- - . ji r
• wullh
i*v:
/ .
m*i¥
s f>.
n .
>
«<
§Ut
AN ABSOLUTE FACT.
A-
PLAY
; in Three Acts.
PERIOD— 2Ist APRIL, 1898.
Act I— The boss of Mohonga Station put down his paper with an anxious look on his face. He was
thinking of his wool on its way to ’Frisco and of the Spanish cruisers on the Pacific There was
only one course to be followed, and that was to get a wire off to his agent immediately Whom
shall I send with the wire! Of course, there is Bob and the brown mare , but, though o s
here the brown mare was turned out into the horse-paddock this morning and she is always bad
to catch at any time. Then there is Jim, with his brand-new ‘SWIFT’ bicycle that he is always
talkin" about/ Perhaps it would be safest after all to send them both, and then it will be settled,
once for all, which is the more reliable —the horse or the bicycle.’
Act 11. Jim gets away at once, and Bob proceeds to try ard catch ihe mare, while the boss shouts
instructions in forcible language.
Act lll.—Jim has returned with the reply to the telegram before Bob is through the slip-rail. However,
as the brown mare is caught, the following wire was despatched the same day to the Austral
Cycle Agency, Ltd., 391 George-street, Sydney
»in riKNhtM jr
POST OFFICE TRLEORAPHS, NEW SOUTH WALES.
To THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY, Ltd.,
39 1 George Street, Sydney.
From The Manager,
“ Mohonga,” Bourke, N. S. W.
" SWIFTS”
FOR SPEED,


In the...
Rain Storm
the man got very wet. The wetting
gave him a cold. The cold, neglected,
developed to a cough. The cough
sent him to a bed of sickness. A dose
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, taken at
the start, would have nipped the cold
in the bud and saved the sickness,
suffering, and expense. The house
hold remedy for colds, coughs, and all
lung troubles, is
Ayer’s
Cherry
' Pectoral.
PREPARED BY
3Dr. «X. O. Ayer & Co.,
LOWELL, MASS., U. S. A.
Gold Medals at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Beware of cheap imitations. The
name Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral— is promi-
nent on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each bottle.
OECOND-HAND
AND
TWTEW FURNITU IE
"*■" (Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Geonre-st, (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
VtHEI
BEAF
tW~ “Common Sense Ear
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
I Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent,
229 Collins-steeet, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
Witural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, f/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, i/6 per oz.
we are the cneapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N.wigz'll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
able Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps (or full Prioe List.
Prompt attenbion'given to Country Ordsn
The following remarks, from Melbourne
Liberator, seem almost to suggest that Jos.
Symesis trying to be unfriendly—or possibly it is
only his way of disguising his emotion :
It is very clear that the Sydney Bulletin has got into
the hands of the Jesuits ; and the sooner people come to
understand that the better for then). Instead of the old
joyous, jolly, rude, laughter-provoking journal it once
was [Ah, were we ever joyous ?], it is now cunning,
morose, abusive, pessimistic and diabolical. Over the
Federal Bill it has completely lost its head, and pours out
incoherent nonsense and lying abuse against all who do
not support its fad or worse. It is clear that the owners
of The Bulletin have much to gain—or to hope for —in
the success of the Bill ; and they compel their pen-slaves
to scatter the most outrageous falsehoods and misrepre-
sentations abroad. Still, there is comfort for good and
honest people in all this —the Jesuit organ could never
support anything good, nor abstain from cracking up the
most absolutely worst. The fury of The Bulletin shows
that its Jesuit owners expect the'Bill to be defeated.
And, only a week ago, the Sydney Holy Homan
organ called this paper a poisonous pink infidel,
and a crocodile, and something in the Iscariot
line, and said that any Christian would prefer to
see a snake on the table. Will some good Hebrew
now kindly arise and throw things ?
The ex-convict-transport Lady Franklin,
built by convict labor at Port Arthur, Tas., in
1814, is now being broken up at Hobart. She was
employed carrying passengers and stores toNorfolk
Island from Hobart continuously till ’54. In Dec.
’53, on the 17th day out from Hobart, her convict
complement rose in revolt and took possession of
the ship. Locking the guard and crew below they
made free with the stores and otherwise enjoyed
themselves for several days. Then they took to
the boats. They left one boy free, and him they
posted at the mast-head with the key of the
prison and instructions not to release the confined
ones till a certain time had elapsed. The boy
obeyed his orders to the letter and pursuit was
thus rendered futile. The vessel at once headed back
for port arriving 25th Jan., ’54. Capt. Willett,
the master, received severe injuries during the
fracas, having his shoulder broken. Some of
the escapees were afterwards recaptured on
an island where they had taken refuge.
It was said that a woman on board aided the
mutineers by hocussing the guard, but the general
opinion was that the soldiers sided with the con-
victs, and made but a half-hearted opposition to
the rising. In 1855, Mr. Downing, a merchant of
Hobart, bought the ship for ,£2050, and fitted her
for whaling, re-naming her the Emily Downing.
She was added to Alick M'Gregor’s whaling fleet
in ’64, and long sailed under his “ gridiron ” flag,
making many profitable voyages till the whaling
industry languished. In ’B5 Tas. Govt, bought
her and turned her into a powder-hulk, which
position she filled till a few months ago. Her first
christening was in honor of Lady Franklin, wife
of the then Governor, and a figure allegedly repre-
senting this lady has ever since adorned her bows.
Business nnouneements.
v BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE CELEBRATED
“LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
LUSTROUS BLUE
AND
JET BLACK,
AND
EVERY CONCEIV-
ABLE SHADE FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
“LOUIS" Velve-
teen is essentially a
Ladies’ material, and
surpasses all Fabrics
for the adornment of
women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME
l FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
NOTE WELL. —Each yard of genuine “ LOUIS
elveteen bears the name, and is stamped with
’arantee of wear.
i retort all Substitutes.
Have You Lost
Your Grip ?
Life without vigor, life without
energy, is impossible. To retain
your grip on life, take
Wolfe’s Schnapps,
a cheering Cordial and Tonic.
Buy bottles intact—look for the
name.
-A_sls: for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY
ENOS‘FRUIT SALT’
& Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
m
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
■with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYAEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease- “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pysemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.” — A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEYERIBH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARYELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION • See capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at / FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
(LIMITED),
DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), near SY2DWEY.
SMELTERS
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
■
P3S222llfc' SSK-kSET:
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWABRA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of ail classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS JEWELLER*
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
r SWEEP.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION*
information regarding Ratos
, etc., apply to The Manager, Smelting Company
of Australia, Ltd., Mutual Life Buildings, Martin-place, Sydney.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD F 8«
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
lms by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Herr Rassmussen, Celebrated Herbalist.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE
Ulfaline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS FOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often w e see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE CURE
is found in taking the
Alfaline Herbal
Remedies.
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging to
Business,
1 'll.
\\ I
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
Ul , . * - ' ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th ■ Alfaline Liver and
Kidney FiLs. uhiu.i arc sold at the small price
of ONE StiILLINO m i hox ; posted, Is. 6d.
health &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which keeps
them i ndoors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of '
their life. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine. they espy
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
j V.)
%
=??*§»■!
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S Medical Pag?
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER PELT BETTER in their lives.
i
/tm
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALFALINE
Blood Fills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
\\
:\
‘HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfa ine
Fat -Reducing - Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE; packets, Gs.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cared,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twitch-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
mx
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything 1
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every little
disappointment or tiifle,
their complexion suffer-
I
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
a
- i
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the. many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY .A BIG- DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MITSSEN’S ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
\
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassmus sen’s Alfaline Vitality JPills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
&
%
1
How to Obtain Free Book.
ts- When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to HERR RASBMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, aftd his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent Fit BE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen's
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies oan only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
m
V»i
/
¥
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. : Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, Os. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packer. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile l'owder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and haimless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion,
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney;
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne— lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane— l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade ;
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street;
N.Z.—9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W. A. :
Perth— Hay Street ;
Cool gar die— Bailey Street :
Kalgoorlie— Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
I3&~ ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN.'c'o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
SydLney-
Or simply address your Letters thus for privacy sake—
“ PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office,
SYDNEY.”
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
money, Without j ad .


SHORTHnnO.
Pitman’s Reporting
Style thoroughly
taught by post.
21 lessons (whole
system), 215., by three instalments. F. W.
JONSON, 20 years’ Certificated Teacher (of
Riverview S. J. College, Ashfield and Petersham
Government Technical Schools). Sydney Short-
hand and Typewriting School, 21 Elizabeth-street.
Government Notices.
JEDER A~L CONSTITUTION."
SUBMISSION TO THE ELECTORS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
POLLING PLACES.
It is hereby notified for general information that the
names of the polling-places for the Colony of New South
Wales, at which votes may be recorded on the 3rd June,
were published in a Supplement to the Government
Gazette of the 19th instant, No. 433.
CRITCHETT WALKER,
Principal Under-Secretary and Returning
-Officer for (he Colony.
Chief Secretary’s Office, May 26,1898. In 3.
Prospectus
r PHE GREAT VICTORIA COLLIERY COMPANY
A NO LIABILITY.
WESTERNPORT BAY, VICTORIA.
PROSPECTUS of ISSUE of RESERVED SHARES
(■Sanctioned at Extraordinary Meeting, 11th May, 1898).
CAPITAL : £60,000 in 60,000 SHARES of £1 EACH.
Of which 52,300 have already been subscribed, and 7700
are now offered for public subscription, payable 2s. 6d.
on application and 2s. 6d. on allotment, the balance in
calls as required, not exceeding Is. per share per month.
The whole proceeds (less the necessary' brokerage and
expenses) to be placed t.o the credit of the company as
working capital.
DIRECTORS:
E. E'ROBERT. Esq., Chairman, Hawthorn.
ARCHD. AITKEN, Esq., Armadale.
JAS. BRUCE, Esq. (late Traffic Manager Victorian Rail-
ways), Elsternwick.
Dr. R. HODGSON COLE, LL.B., Selborne-chambers,
Melbourne.
W. L. FLINT, Esq., Solicitor, Melbourne.
W. B. GRAY, Esq., J.P. (Chairman South German G.M.
Co.), Maldon.
W. P. PASCOE, Esq., Prahran.
BROKERS:
A. A. AITKEN, Prell’s- buildings, 70 Queen - street,
Melbourne.
MENZIES and MOULE, 406 Collins-street,
Melbourne.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Prell’s-buildings, 70 Queen-street, Melbourne.
LEGAL MANAGER :
VVM. ROBERTSON, F.F.1.A., Licensed Auditor, &c.
The Great Victoria Colliery Company No Liability,
which will be the means of creating a coaling port within
the colony’s own borders, has after a large expenditure
developed and brought to a producing stage a very valu-
a le coal mine, easy of access to shipping, and now pro-
poses issuing the balance of Reserved Shares in hand for
the purpose of providing a Wages Fund to cover all
expenses and costs of working up to the time the coal is
placed on the market and the Mine itself revenue pro-
ducing—being the object for which such shares were
originally' reserved.
To epitomise.—After conscientious work, extending
over three years, and the expenditure of ±BB3O 16s. lOd.
to 30th April, 1898, the Co. has proved and made avail-
able for actual Coal winning a very large area of high-
class black coal, estimated by reliable experts to contain
in one seam alone upwards Of 11,000,000 tens of Market-
able Coal, and has almost completed the construction of
a line of Railway from the pit’s mouth to the port of ship-
ment— 7J miles long—in itself a work of considerable
magnitude—to enable it to market its coal.
The purchase of all the necessary railway iron from the
Railway department has been arranged, of which delivery
is now being taken, a substantial sum having been paid
on account, and a powerful locomotive and 38 Railway
Waggons in first-class order have been secured and paid
for. The mine workings are efficiently opened up, fully
equipped and capable of an immediate output of 100 tons
best black coal per day, which can be largely increased in
the near future without new works, its quality being
attested by consumers of unquestionable standing in the
commercial community.
The work yet to be done to enable the company to
make itself felt as an important factor in the Coal Supply
of the Australian colonies (and in the present troubled
times a matter of grave concern to British statesmen as
an element in our Naval Supremacy, vide the Argus
Leader, 25th April, 1898), is comparatively trifling in re-
spect to that already carried out —it being estimated that
a little over £lOOO will suffice, and nearly this amount is
already accruing to the Company on shares recently sub-
scribed by present shareholders, so that the fresh capital
now sought will be actually invested in improving and
extending the operations of an extremely valuable and
progressive property, free from the drag of old liabilities
or losses.
In conclusion, therefore, the directors have every con-
fidence in placing this Prospectus before the public and
in recommending the venture as an investment, possess-
ing all the elements of success.
Applications for shares may be made to the Manager or
the Company’s Brokers, from whom full prospectus may
be obtained."
WM. ROBERTSON, F.F.I.A.
Manager.
Prell’s-buildings, 70 Queens-street,
Melbourne, 14t,h May, 1898.
Inserted for public information only, first
issue of shares having been fully subscribed.
THE
Rortb Queensland ghillagoe
Exploration Company
NO LIABILITY.
Capital: £12,800, in 2300 Shares of £3 each.
This Company has acquired about 500 acres of valuable
mineral lands in the Chillagoe district, comprised in five
or six leases, ranging from 40 to 200 acres.
The Company’s representative having been on the field
since February has had the opportunity of selecting only
good claims, after a thorough prospecting, and, conse-
quently, the Company has every reason to believe the
leases taken up will prove productive from the first.
Assays of samples taken from a large lode from Copper
Hill, area about 200 acres, 12 miles westerly from Mont-
albion— range, from 20 to 45 per cent, copper, from 2 to
14 07. silver, with 2dwts. of gold. The Company also
owns 175 acres at Mt. Garnet, 40 of which are adjoining
Mr. Moffat’s well-known claim, besides other leases con-
taining large formations in adjacent localities.
All information pertaining to the Company may be
obtained from the Brokers, Messrs. Menzies and Moule,
406 Collins-street, Melbourne ; or from Messrs. Rollason,
Brandon and Co., Secretaries, 39 Queen-st., Melbourne.
OASGARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAYAR’S GUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
f~\TTIMVTjTSB Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
rfeauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and Is
'without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.
ATKINSON’S
Newest Perfume
AOLINE
“Most Refreshing.” (Kegd)
NICE ALWAYS, BUT
DELICIOUSLY REVIVING IN
HOT OR CROWDED ROOMS.
A true natural perfume
made from flowers.
Not a Chemical Preparation.
“AOLINE” PERFUME.
“ Most Refreshing.”
“AOLINE” TOILET SOAP
For the complexion.
“AOLINE” TOILET POWDER
Imparts a delightful bloom to
the complexion.
“AOLINE” sachets.
Delightful for Handkerchiefs,
Gloves, &c.
“AOLINE” TOILET CREAM.
Softening and beautifying for
the complexion.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
d. & E. ATKINSON, Ltd., 24, Old Bond St., London.
INVENTORS OF THE CELEBRATED
“WHITE ROSE” PERFUME.
u A Charming Scent.” — H.R.H. The Duchess of York.
USE
Spooler's
IIiROYALNAVY DRESSING
FOR
I BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
pi: OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
irilnmmiiimiiMmitiininMiil
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
TJ nrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
F.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
PHONOGRAPH TOP.
Latest American Novelty!
The most FASCINATING NOVELTY ever produced.
You can play ANY TUNE.
Sent on Receipt of 2/- to any Colony Post Free.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.,
IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
J eeftim's
rife
o
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/I|, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Arethesame
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
This well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
" c
f.
COUGH
STOp s
c ol
££oonful
dose.
1
Gives Immediate Reliefand Rest.
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
See that HAYMAN’S is supplied.
Latest Novelties in Rings.
duality, Finish, and Durability Guaranteed.
18c. Half-Hoop.
5 fine Diamonds, £7 10s.
Smaller stones, £4, £6, £6.
2 fine Diamonds, with
3 Sapphires, Eubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 lovely Opals, 455, 60s, 60s.
18 C 7
18c. Single Stone.
1 fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller stone,
£3 10s. £6 £7 10s.
18c. Marquise.
Set with 14 Diamonds
and 1 Ruby or
Sapphire, Emerald, or
Turquoise centre,
£4 4s.
18c. Engagement.
3 fine Diamonds, £5.
2 fine Diamonds,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal, or Pearl,
£3 15s.
Poat
15c. Little Gem.
Ruby, Opal, or Sapphire,
21s.
Diamond, 85s.
18c. Band Bing.
1 fine Diamond, 40s, 60s,
100 s.
Ruby or Sapphire,
30s, 455, 60s.
Opal or Pearl, 255, 40s, 60s.
18c. La Parisienne.
2 fine Diamonds, £6.
1 fine Diamond,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal, or Pearl, £4.
Free.
18c. Single Stone.
1 fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller stone,
£3 10s, £5, £7 10s.
Any Name or Motto.
9c., 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
15c:, 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
Raised Gold Letters 5s
extra.
18c. Gipsy.
S fine Diamonds, £2 ss,
£3, £4.
1 fine Diamond, with
2 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals,
or Pearls,
£llss, £2 ss, £3.
Curb Chain Ring.
9c., 15s, 20s.
15c., 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 27s 6d, 355.
Plain Band Ring.
9c., 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s fid.
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
Our Popular Pendant Rings.
18c. Buckle.
1 fine Diamond, £2.
1 fine Sapphire,
a
Expanding:, 7s 6d,
8s 6d.
AMETHYST,
TOPAZ,
MOONSTONE,
GARNET,
OPAL,
OR
LUCKY BELL
PENDANTS.
Any Initial, 9s, 10s.
t?
Solid Band, 12s 6d.
OUR WEDDING RINGS & KEEPERS
ARE ADMITTED
TO BE THE BEST VALUE IN AUSTRALIA.
ALL RINGS ARE STAMPED WITH THE ENGLISH HALL MARK.
9-carat Gold Wedding Rings and Keepers ... ... 5s 6d, 7s Gd, 10s Gd, 12s 6d each.
15-carat „ „ ... ... 12s 6d, 17s Gd, 22s Gd, 27s Gd
18-carat ~ „ ... ... 15s, 20s, 255, 32s 6d
SEND SIZE OF FINGER BY A PIECE OF WIRE OR A HOLE IN CARDBOARD
PLEASE SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SLIPS OF LATEST NOVELTIES.
NOTE—Qur ONEY Australian Address— QQ KING STREET, SYDNEY.
A Silver Watcb
GIVEN AWAY.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
V*T* F*R F*D*R*T*o*-
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver
Chains to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making’ this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
EXTRACT FROM LETTER RECEIVED.
I have just received the Watch and Chain, per
terms of the Advertisement, in perfect order, and the
quality of which gives me more than''satisfaction.—
Yours, etc., Mrs. W. M‘CARTHY, South Broken Hill.
Address—THE MANAGER,
The English Watch & Jewellery
Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney.
Amusements.
TTEH MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L- Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday), 26th MAY, at 7.45, and Every
Evening until Further Notice,
THE SI6N OF THE CROSS.
MARCUS SUPERBUS .. Mr. JULIUS KMIGHT.
MERCIA Miss ADA FERRAR.
Plan, Nicholson’s. {tsf~ PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Messrs. J. & C. MacMahon.
SECOND WEEK! and no abatement of the nightly
enthusiastic admiration excited by the intensely interest-
ing and unique and novel drama,
Tb€ OrpbaQ Heiress.
In Active Preparation and will shortly be produced,
YET ANOTHER GREAT DRAMATIC NOVELTY.
Always the Unique Lyceum Tariff—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d.
Royal standard theatre, Sydney
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereagh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
S4th \
WEEK J
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
84th
WEEK
FUN ON THE BRISTOL.
Wed., N. Sydney; Thurs., Waverley; Friday,'Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN-—ADMISSION..
rjl HEA T H E KOYA L," SYDNEY.
SATURDAY EVENING, June 4, and until further notice,
BLAND HOLT’S
Third : Great : Spectacular : Enterprise,
STRAIGHT FROM THE HEART!
Written by Messrs. Sutton Vane and Arthur Siiirlet.
A Romantic and Picturesque Franco-Algerian
Melodrama.
Prices—3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day tickets at Gunther’s Hotel Cigar Store, King-street.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. Harry Rickards.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES OF
| Mr. CHAS. [
And his BRILLIANT LONDON COMPANY in Sydney.
POSITIVELY CLOSING FRIDAY, 3rd JUNE.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCE OF
“THE IDLER.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, and Is.
rpiVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
AXiss PRGGFY PRYDB
JOHN COLEMAN.
Mr. George HC. Wood,
FOREMAN and FANNAN.
Miss MARIAN AINSWORTH.
MICHAEL NOLAN. \ THE TILLERS.
AGNES HAZEL, FRANK LEON, WALLACE KING,
and THE QUAKERESSES.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
POLUSKI BROS.
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
J. W. WINTON.
Miss ALICE SIMMONS.
Mr. AUSTIN RUDD.
WILL WHITBURN.
The Kellino Family.
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
■jpOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
4th •Tune and 11th June.
SATURDAY
SATURDAY
SHILLING-
POPS.”
POPS.”
NEWBURY- SPADA COY.
GIGANTIC POPULAR PROGRAMMES.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
ANOTHER GREAT TRIUMPH FOR
MR. GEO. TITHERADGE.
Another Magnificent Success for the Managers.
The Thrilling Adelphi Drama,
Sbafl We Forgive Her?
POPULAR PRICES 1 ... Box Plan at Allan’s.
■DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
2nd WEEK of the HILARIOUS FARCICAL COMEDY,
PR. BILL.
Continued Tremendous Enthusiasm over the Charming
Performance of the Fascinating Australian Actress,
MISS MYRA KEMBLE.
The Theatre Tumultuous with Laughter Nightly.
POPULAR PRICES 1 ... Box Plan at Glen’s.
A LEXANDRA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
99
Mr. WILFRED HAYES' CO.
Tbe Ladder of Life.
WORKMAN'S PRICES—Is 6d, Is, 6d, and 3d.
tzr CHANGE OF BILL WEEKLY.
"PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
Farewell Appearance of the Eminent English Actor,
Mr. WILSON BARRETT
(Prior to his departure for England).
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), Last Night of the Season,
OTHEEXjXjO.
SATURDAY NEXT, 4th June, The Little Minister.
And Return of Miss PATTIE BROWNE.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Alias's and Henries’.


lELUN'S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
suoplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of’all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the Wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER) We give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it Will per-
manently cure yotl. If it
does not We will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. — Before pur-
chasing we prefer that ymi
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), <rivin£ illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY Which will convince the most
Sceptical.
Address :—
GERMAN ELECTRIC! APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Publications, etc.
-Bailetfiirl,
With 22 Eacy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
Confes-
sions
>f a
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
to be had Ohly of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, Bs.— ■■
SECRET
' Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
-Continental Supply Agency,
H Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
t@T Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & 00.,
312 Flinders Street, Melboubne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
HD
1
Of-H'Si
uu\-rvA>
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 12 Cuba, 9d.; 50 Spain (fine), 25.;
9 Porto Rico, 6d.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d.;
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. 6d.; 8 New Cale-
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, 6d.;
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets :30 differ-
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d. ; 150, ss. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P. O. 0., P. N., or stamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. AOKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
. . BOOKS .. . BOOKS .. . BOOKS . .
N'kw Up-to-Datr Publications.
The Soiled Dove ; Miss Skittles, or the Girl with Six
Husbands; Sappho, or Life and Love in Paris. These
books are very choice and selling’ rapidly, each (post free)
Is. 6d. The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes, Is.
post free. Maria Monk, Don Juan, Ovid’s Art of Love,
Is. 9d. post free. R. W. SKINNER,
New and Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney. Telephone 3043.
Should you require any Books New' or Second-hand
kindly advise.
nxriEsw music.
“ Rose l of the Morn” Waltz, by Henry Laski, composer
of My Polly Waltz ; “ Tops and Bottoms,” a right merry
Barn Dance, by Theo. Bonheur; “La Gracieuse ”
Mazurka, by Emile Larkozy , “ Tootsie Wootsie ” Polka,
by Benjamin Parks. Beautifully illustrated. PRICE (id.
EACH, of all musicsellers, or the publishers, ll'.
PAXTON" it CO., 1!) Oxford Street, London, and
203 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Catalogues (post free)
of over 1000 songs, dance music, &c., at 3d. each.
TTENRY PARMER'S Opcratio Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. ‘‘Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Luerezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “ Paust,” “Un Hallo in Masohera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “l,es Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
forBinall orchestra, 2 j . 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Strbkt, MELBOURNE.
“To the Englishman liberty is his wife.
To the Frenchman it is his chosen bride. He
glows for her and flames. He throws himself at
her feet with extravagant endearments, fights for
her through life and death, and commits a thou-
sand follies for her. To the German, liberty is
his old grandmother.”— Heine.
Merrie England ! From the Midlani)
Counties Express, 12/3/’9B : ,
At a meeting of the Retford Board of Guardians, the
plerk stated that there were no tenders for the supply of
coffins, as the price had been so low that only one person
would make them, and he was now in receipt of relief.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
Vic. Full Court has received a painful
smack in the eye from the Privy Council in the
everlasting matter of the Alliance Contracting
co. (London) v. Russell, who represents a French
syndicate in Melb. Said Alliance co. claims to
have bought a Westralian mining property from
said syndicate through its erstwhile agent, one
Cayron. Two years ago, when plaintiff 00.
applied for an order to compel specific perform-
ance of the disputed sale contracts, Judge Hodges
gave a qualified verdict for the defendant syndi-
cate. The case was then carried to the Full
Court (Chief Justice Madden and Justices Wil-
liams and Holroyd) on appeal. The appeal was
dismissed, but their Honors gave judgment for
plaintiffs for ,£l2OO, which had been paid on
account of the contracts and retained by defend-
ant. The desire of the Full Court to
put a stop to further proceedings was
somewhat marked. Plaintiff co., not satisfied
to take back the ,£l2OO and retire from the fray,
got leave to appeal to the Privy Council, giving
security in £5OO for the prosecution of the appeal.
Six months later, defendant applied to a Judge
in chambers for a decision that aforesaid appeal
had been abandoned. This question was referred
to the Full Court (Chief-Jus, Madden, Justice
Hodges, and Justice Holroyd), and the learned
triumvirate ruled in defendant’s favor— i.e. , they
took upon themselves to say that the appeal to the
British Court had been abandoned (although
plaintiff said it hadn’t), and practically took pos-
session of the .£5OO lodged as guarantee of plain-
tiff’s good faith, A gain the desire to stop further
proceedings Was distinctly apparent, and Melb.
AgE, commenting on the Full Court’s ruling, sug-
gested that it was absurdly unsound, Plaintiff
therl appealed direct to the Privy Council for
leave tb appeal, and the P.C. last week granted
the leaVe which the Vic. Full Cduft had pre-
viously cancelled. Also, the P.C. has restrained
Vic. Full Court from distributing the ,£5OO
security. Victorian justice is on its trial just now.
“ I’ll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. 6<l.
Sole Agents:
X
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-652 George-st„ Sydney
SAW MILLING - ■
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind. Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Di'illing Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMIMG7 Sydney.
The Greatest Testimonial
Ever Given.
DR. STEVENSON MACADAM, Consulting
Chemist to the British Govt., writes as
follows: ,
*' Analytical Laboratory,
“ Surgeon’s Hall,
“Edinburgh, 10th February, 1898.
“I have made a careful chemical analysis
of a sample of “ Tonic ” sent me by the
Minerva Company, Manufacturing Chemists
and Food Specialists, and find such to be a
judicious combination of Iron, Phosphorus
and Alkaloidal Compounds, which will be
found highly serviceable as a tonic remedy
for the strengthening of the system, especially
in the case of invalids.
“Stevenson Macadam, Ph.D., etc.,
“ Lecturer on Chemistry and
“ Consulting Analytical Chemist.”
MINERVA TONIC is on Sale by all Chemists
throughout these colonies.
THE FINEST TONIC*
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
mo3t effective in restoring
the vital ty of the blood, |
an-' enab i g the consti-i
tntion o resist climatic 1
in I ei-.ces.
liivjlusb.e in all cases o'J\
antemia. Influenza and |
general d» biiit, •.
Highly recommended for !
v.-e k and dibhitated chil J
dr. n. f
LANCi-T ■* A beautiful and interesting preparation l
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. “ It has alii
the good effects of iron without producing consti- \v
pation Or disturbing the digestion, and it does not t
blacken the teeth.
Sold by Chemists all the world oveb. |l
*
a
PAKKoT
Brand
(oUfiWJ (oipj £e
>EWA£E or
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
Ladies should always Knit with
Bee
HIVE
UNITTIHG
Wools
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino,! Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “ Beehive ” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
theworld for quality,'colours, softness and durability.
ur
SEeT*ThTs TRADE
. ISON EMERY^SKEtN.
Trade Mark Registered .
Established 1785.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Also “ Beehive ’’
Hosiery&Under-
wear manufac-
tured frojn the
‘Beehive’Woois.
J.*J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
Colmane’s
Eucalypte
Extract"
For —•—
Winter Couchs
Colds &
Chest Complaints
USED BY
Earl Jersey
LoroGarrincton
ETC
PURITY!
What’s in a name ? Every-
thing we reply. For the
last ten years Colemane
and Pure Euealypte
have gone hand-in-hand,
and deservedly so. Instead
of trading on a name, and
supplying adulterated,
cheapened Euealypte fas
many have done), they
have stuck to the genuine
article and that precious
"“"PURITY!
Madame Albanl uses
Colemane’s Euea-
lypte Lozenges, and
recommends them highly
for the throat and voice.
Is. boxes everywhere.
PROVED BY fOO YEARS USE.
DRROBERTS’;
*gmm
yo/i
Y/O/V DISEASEf
AND WouA/as
or EVERY
DESCR/PT/OfY'
d?roberts
AlTEffl, V i
Pills
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
A/VDALL D/SOPDERSOF THE
STOMACH & L/VER .
or ALL CHEM/STS //// X EACH
BEACH & BARWICO7T L°- BRI DPQ R,T.
MELBOURNE.
POST FREE yl<>-*
Watches-Clocks-Jevi/ellery-Birthday*
WeddipJc i CHRisTErJirlc Presents
H NEV/MArJ-1755177-FII7ARFTIj gT.
OPPOSITE C-.PD
MELBOURNE.
A CART-LOAD OF COLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life." So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address—
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to ali
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
o Mr. \t ILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar M one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
tnay be as well to let them know that there is such
ah article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the prod action of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
• . when one application will relieve yoh.’
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves*
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Jorephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief fromj
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There is
nothing known to man eaual to JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half tne quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and liiver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Baron Berzilhis’— : -
. —-Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Bead what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. :—The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in cases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D. —BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows:
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of- ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-streeb.
How’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steanes Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-■
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss t)f appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
. ROW’S STEANET WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only -a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION. —When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
Sydney.


mm
A cup of Van Houten’s Cocoa contains more digestible
nourishment than the finest beef tea.*
A DISH FOR FRINGES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
£ FRU,T is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion ot the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. Cohen &
Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
IR-O^-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
Traction.,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Lo co'moti yes,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &c.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manages.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article—
A. Soycr’S BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Ziotv Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiOgtoi) N. SoGl fit Co., m’sp.s.,
158, 160, axid 268 Pitt-street, Sydney;
Ohurch.-street, Parramatta.
AND AT
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
YORKSHIRE R
mm
THE HOST DEUCIorS SAUCE IX THE WORM).
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEOENTEO IN T>SE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLO ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUSSTITUTiOttS.
Sold in Hottles, 6d., iand 2- each.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, &, CO, LEEDS, Ef\iG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIIJ.OfK & CO., KENT and I.IVERPOOI. STREETS, SVOISKV.
9
‘GUINEA -
GOLD’
CIGARETT
<vi§C.
WiUMs t
|.,jm MARK |
M Corset
Wii-woWAiST Corset
M A.Ft K
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS WILL BE WORN
PERFECT IN SHAPE.
LEN 6THENS THE WA I ST.
BE A UTI FI ES TH E FIG UR E.
W'wtoWA'ST Corset
mark
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
ASK FOR
W'fctpWA'ST Corset
of ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
wholesale orders taken by
F.w. LEE, Camden Buildings,
216, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
12-1
TiOOK OF NATURE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN.M.D.
A wore: for husbands and wives.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated With more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain m everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description; sent post free to any address.
Private Book for Youns Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kook, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is Od.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s ; post 2s (id. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s fid.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Js, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Bcsant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is fid post.
Decameron op Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing; all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post free Is.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man llis Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for homo and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is !)d.
Tiie Secret of Beauty Revealed —Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art op Love, Is Od post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL Sll li.l ECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE book lists post free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
THE SXTPKIELD CASE.
rpO NEWSAGENTS AND OTHERS.—A 64 pp. Pamphlet, giving full evidence in this notori
JL ous Case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of Alleged Outrage. Just Published.


THE MOSX BEKBESHING, COOLIKG) fi JtiLfciAJUXHJE'UIi S£VIBAGS,
[Trade Mark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LON BON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle —D. Cohen & Co.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & II- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Parts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article and canrecom-
mendit to housekeepers generally as a useful the preparation of a good Uisjard. Giveita tual.
Proorictors ■ GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS, EINCI.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and MVERPQOL STREBTS. SYDNFY
SEND YOUR ORDER TO-DAY.
We will more than please you.
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small proiit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 los., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 tos. Descriptions Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, fo irches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual o keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful roldcn-'.cr.cd r< eds, 13 slops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Refeience, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co.,
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Cooling.
Sparkling.
Fresla,
VELTEN LAGER.
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
THE gbamophone
is the most recently - invented
“Talking 1 Machine,” and far
excels any other kind of instrument yet invented. Who-
ever buys a gramophone buys a box at the opera, rents
a pew in a city church, secures permanent admission to
the best music halls in the country, can order out the
most dashing military band our army has at a moment’s
notice, can make the great piano-players of the day his
obedient servants, and can do a great many other things
which would have put somebody in danger of being
roasted-for witchcraft had they been attempted by our
forefathers.
PRICESJ
Gramophones with Six Records and
clock-work motion £lO 10 o
hand apparatus 7 10 n
per dozen 2 8 o
Do. do.
Extra Records
A. P. 227 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
Complete Sanitation.
LIFTS.
Electric Light.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
. over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the
midst of the Fashionable Quarter.
MODERATE TARIFF,
Gloucester^R o ad, London, S.w:
The Anglomurkan National
Anthem.
(’Apropos de V entente cor diale.}
[For The Bulletin.]
God save thee, O my country,
The greatest upon airth—■
Victorious and glorious
And happy, and so forth !
God save our noble Jonathan,
God bless our gracious Bull!
(Excuse these muddled epithets—
My swelling breast is full!)
Chorus:
Hurrah for Bullanjonathan /
Three cheers for Johnansam /
The A nglomurkannation
Is bound to lick creation ;
Geewhillikins I Tarnation /
Goldarn ! and likewise Damn t
We fear no Dons and devils,
Or treachery of Spain ;
Our noble Maine they scuttled—
We’ll sweep the Spanish Main >
Beware th’ EagliOn’s talons,
The Lioneagle’s paw !
Shout “ God Save Yankee Doodle
And “Dewey et mon droit!”
Chorus : Hurrah, dec.
Who says we are but traders ?
Why, that is all my eye !
We don’t sell wooden nutmegs,
We make the Spanish fly !
For islands rent and riven
The ghost of Philip pines;
We’ll blow our mild Havana
’Mid smoke of forts and mines !
Chorus : Hurrah, dec.
They said we ran for shelter —
Confound their knavish tricks *
We merely kept on programme .
“We start to shoot at six ; ”
At nine we stop for breakfast
(Qui mal pense, honi soit!)
And then we give them gruel
With Dewey et mon Droit!
Chorus : Hurrah, dec.
Ye Royal Red Republicans,
Twist not the Lion’s tail!
Fling out the Union-Jonathan,
Whose Stars shall never fail.
St. George for merry Yankland !
Break fetters from the slaves,
Free sons of Columbanglia—
Brityankia rules the waves !
Chorus : Hurrah, dec.
M.L.
J. LIDDELL KELLY.
Users of “anti-fats” will probably be
badly scared by the medical pronouncement that
the Empress of Germany’s recent break-down in
health was due to her persistent use of one of these
nostrums.
“Basher’s Hurricane.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Astonishment is a word which faintly expresses
the feeling of the ship’s company when we learnt
that Capt. Basher had married. And when we
saw the lady the puzzle grew harder than ever.
She had been a Mrs. M'Cluskie —and looked it.
Tall, bony, red, and freckled, with eyes the color
of galvanised iron, and teeth which would not
have disgraced a small elephant—she was the
finest sample of the unadulterated female porridge-
eater that I ever clapped eyes on. She was to sail
with us, too. We trembled.
It turned out that the captain had married her
for the sake of the late M‘01uskie’s money, and
during the first half of that voyage he earned
every penny of it. The ex-widow ruled the ship
from the first moment she put her prunella-shod
foot aboard us. Basher, the rollicking dare-devil,
was tamed to the demeanor of a mouse. His wife
was as pious as she was prudish, and she was as
prudish as a prayer-meeting full of old maids.
Basher shivered in his complaisance. He cuffed
an ordinary seaman for unwittingly applying its
proper name to a certain portion of the topsail brace-
block. The coppered part of the vessel was always
alluded to as “ the underneath part ” in the lady’s
presence, and the belly of a sail was spoken of
apologetically, with bated breath. On Mrs. B.’s
washing-days, it was sacrilege to look over the
counter, for the more essentially feminine of her
garments were hung to dry from a sort of “ parshee-
boom,” rigged from the stern ports, and secure
from the irreverent gaze of the rude sailor-man.
Basher lived two lives. With Mrs. B. below, he
was his own profane self; with Mrs. B. on deck, it
was “ Mr. Brown, kindly step for’ed, and ascertain
if the fore-to’-gallant-mast is sufficiently stayed,”
or “ Bos’n, please inform the hands that to-mor-
row, being the Sabbath, Divine service will be
held in the saloon, as usual ” —ye gods ! The
strain on Basher must have been awful.
We were somewhere about the 50th parallel of
latitude, having had to go farther to the south-
ward than is usual to look for wind, when Capt.
Basher rose in revolt. “ This is too d d fine a
passage, Mr. Brown,” he explained confidentially
as he arranged his plan of campaign; “an’ I
guess, if we don’t assist the blanky course of
Nature, I’ll never live to see port. So —to-mor-
row night! ”
To-morrow night came, starlit and beautiful.
The weather being decidedly cold, Mrs. Basher
had retired early to her bunk. There was a big
swell; and the vessel was brought beam-on to it.
The dead-lights, previously loosened by the car-'
penter, were removed from the deck above the.
cabin in which the lady slumbered, and a length
of hose was led to reach from the “ Downton ”
pump, at which four vigorous seamen waited
eagerly for the order to “shake her up.” A couple
of hands were also stationed on the half-round,
with draw-buckets.
The ship was rolling terribly, scooping it up
over both rails, and threatening to sling the
“sticks” out of her. Captain Basher arrived on
deck in a hurry, having locked his lady-love in her
berth.
“ Now, then, my lads, let her have it! ” he said,
and we did. That pump was never worked as it
worked that night, and the water poured in at the
deck whilst the men with the draw-buckets kept
up a terrific broadside of cold salt-water through
the open ports. The rest of the watch were em-
ployed with handspikes in thundering on the deck
above Mrs. B.’s head. Basher at intervals bel-
lowed orders of a heroic nature, whilst an
apprentice and I kept the little brass signal-gun
going till she got too hot to use.
Every few minutes our gallant captain would
rush below to the door of the cabin. “ Be brave,
Jessie, my love, and remain where you are ! We
may yet weather this awful storm,” he would roar
through the keyhole ; or, “ Do not abandon hope,
my dear beloved wife ! the hurricane is now on
our weather bow; but trust in God and your
William, and remember everything depends on
your keeping cool.” (Poor Mrs. B. was in all con-
science cool enough.) Then, deaf to her screams
to be liberated, Basher would rush on deck again
to exhort us to further exertion.
We kept it up for two hours, when the captain
gave orders to “ ease up handsomely,” and on
things being made shipshape, the vessel was
brought to her course again. Basher, having
donned his oilskin and a life-belt, was pumped on
to clinch the realism, and went below to his
affrighted spouse, who was by this time more dead
than alive.
* * * *
We made the Cape ten days afterwards, and
Mrs. B. did not continue the voyage with us, pre-
ferring to take steam to Plymouth. That was
ten years ago, and the lady has never forgotten
the horrors of that awful night. Captain Basher
is living on her money somewhere Deptford way,
secure from hurricanes and similar perils, for his
wife will not hear of him going to sea again, with
or without he r . 12
Maoriland.
F. MARRYAT NORRIS.
South Australia has had its first publicly-
reported leper. A Chinaman, of course— and a
hawker for the past 18 months.
Age advt. (May 7th) : —
i years’ experience, wants position, good
writer, accept 10s. G.O.L., Age.
The Bulletin has lately noticed quite a number
of similar advts., and confidently recommends the
following as a sample for the future guidance of
this class of employe : —
lyrAN, young, strong, willing, wishes emp. any sort.
1’-*- Competent shorthand, typewrite, good gar-
dener, groom, able milk, smart washer-up, assist
cook, instruct children and mind babies. No holi-
days needed, and would put in Sundays repairing
house, sheds, etc., and doing odd jobs. Handy with
tools. Salary Is. 6d. per week and found. Can shave
and hair-cut.
“Lincoln Springfield, the ‘boy’ news-
editor of the Daily Mail, at close on <£1000 p.a.,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
j“has published a novel, ‘ A Galaxy Girl,’ which
' exposes a shocking fault in the English legal
system. Springfield is an experienced journalist,
has been ‘on’every big crime in the metropolis
for the past 15 years, and knows London like a
book. He attracts surprised attention to the fact
that counsel appointed by Government to defend
an accused on a capital charge recei ves no remune-
ration if an acquittal results, whereas, if the ac-
cused suffers, the barrister gets his effects, and can
dispose of any clothes there may be at a fancy
price to Madame Tussaud’s. For which reason
the impecunious barrister might possibly be
tempted not to do his utmost, even if he didn’t
actually say ‘ Let the fellow go hang ! ’ ”
A Black Dress.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ He counted the weeks he had lain there —ten of
them, and seemingly no nearer the end than at
the beginning. He wondered idly how much
longer he would live. They must be getting im-
patient—it took so long—so long to die. And yet
the time was not altogether tedious, the pain was
not so great now. He wondered if she would
regret much. What a young widow ! —after only
18 months’ married life !
Alice would have been sorry. Why had she
left him so soon with but a frail babe as a remem-
brance. Something dropped in the next room and
disturbed him ; they had been busy there the last
few days.
The door opened, and a little girl with Alice’s
eyes and mouth came in.
“ Do you want anything, father ? ”
“No ; are you going to stay with me ? ”
“ Mother wants me ; I am helping her.’
“ What is she doing ? ”
“ Making a dress —a black one,” she says ; “ and
I’m to have one too, soon.”
“ Are you ? Run |iway, then."
So she was impatient—poor Jenny ; and he had
kept her waiting two whole months —almost a
third.
Presently Jenny came in. He found himself
thinking how well she would look in black, and
he almost wished he could be there to see k her.
She would need more color, though ; but that
would come —afterwards !
One —two —three days went by. On the fourth,
he called her to him. “You can wear your black
dress to-morrow, Jenny,” he said.
And she did.
ALBIN DE MIRIAN.
An Adelaide paper swears to the truth of
this story, and, if it isn’t true, it certainly ought
to be. A stout German lady and her daughter
came in from the country and put up at a hotel.
They were leaving by an early train in the morn*
ing, and had to rise before daybreak in conse-
quence. Mother was large and masterful, and the
fraulein was a subdued girl, evidently in an excel*
lent state of discipline. In the grey dusk of the
morning, the German mother, cold and embittered
by early rising, strode into her daughter’s room and
demanded why she wasn’t up, and, to her amaze*
ment, her carefully-trained miss replied curtly
that the interfering old woman had better get out.
She was ordered to rise immediately and repent
of her sins while dressing, and a sleepy voice from
the bed replied with an unheard-of expression,
“Rats!” Then the infuriated German lady
resolved that her daughter was possessed by
an evil spirit, and, whisking the clothes off the
bed, she got hold of the sinner, and laid into the
soft part of her with a shoe until the shouting and
objurgating victim was a bright blush color
from concussion. When it was too late
she discovered that she had been attacking
the barmaid and that her own daughter was
up and dressed in the adjacent room. The ques-
tion of compensation was settled privately, when
the German mother recovered from her hysterics.
.3007 Mewspapers
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S (Ltd,) PENS.
The Waverley Pen, for Easy Writing.
The Flying Scotchman Pen, instead of a Quill.
The Flying J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold everywhere. Waverley Works, Edinburgh


Gentlemen Our One Pound Winter Suits
■are a puzzle to those who are judges of GOOD VALUE.
These are suitable suits for any occasion, the price
snakes them cheap enough for everyday wear, the
style and value appeal for their better use on special
occasions. Send us a pound note, Postal Note for one
pound, or P.O.O., and we will forward one of these
suits carriage free to any post-office in New South
Wales. Address your letters—HORDERN BROTHERS,
Federal Clothiers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-
street, Sydney. (Mention your height when order-
ing.*)
DO NOT DELAY!
“ Great Oaks from Little
Acorns Grow.”
And Dangerous Chronic Complaints have their Origin in
Minor Ailments. Take
Bile Beans for Biliousness
A MAORI VETERAN’S NARRATIVE.
SEVERELY HANDICAPPED BY BILIOUSNESS AND LIVER AFFECTION.
DOCTORS AND MEDICINES TRIED IN VAIN.
AFTER YEARS OF SUFFERING, HE FINDS A CURE IN BILE BEANS.
A PRESSMAN, in his usual news-gathering rounds, recently came o Pr r>«« n • • re-
took an active part in the Maori War, ’64-’GB. Knrwan carried his lifJfn Kir wan, who
and had many hair-breadth escapes from his dusky foes Mr Kirwan ivlm • ,ands » as tp(! saying goes,
was born in ’47, and has seen a good bit of the World durini&mS? nat,ve I ° f Melbourne,
cellent health till within the last few years, Xn common cnmnl?l ntu v r £ He en W ed ex-
troubles, attacked him. We shall let him speak for himself “ I vva s a sufferer^ biliousness and liver
for year. But my main trouble aro.e fZ, the etateof „,y &&&%£*&
appetite, once good, almost entirely failed me 'ln f a i t+' ,
great dislike to food of any sort. This for '! L,!!f ’ I l r°° k a
carrier—was a severe affliction, for my bodily strength ,!'T ca H a
way from loss of sustenance, and"l found i?S
do a full day’s work. Of course I tried remS f m^osslble ta
but found little, if any relief ’
to increase rather than diminish my malady" 3 a}, * J°j ,k appeaivd
of these nostrums I felt a burning sensation in S' * a dose
uncomfortable feeling generally sn T r i t ■ ioat, and an
would, to discontinue^ “ m 5
which, in reality, was an aggravation i^ a L m uedy, but
number of apparently genuine and disintere^F f'^ a
garding the curative properties of Bile Beam fflr Bibm nia S *®f
resolved to try them and sn w , Biliousness, 1
no sooner hj I & tsf
symptoms of my long-standino- , n . 1 1n ? th n tbe distrehsing
Formerly, I was a victim to infomnia • mfe" . t( j, d,sappear -
trying than day. « Nature’s balmy restorer ’ fwA ght was more
to me. However thanks tn t-hl + i ’ ~e e was a stranger
Beans, I am £j o f '.fiES&tff* "i *5
or, rather, meals—and perform a full hL I 1 nieal
plainly, I feel as strong and actives ever work \ To , speak
As a natural consequence, Kirwan is full of # day £' ’
restoration of his health. Whilst he sneaks t: ‘ t , ude for , tne
the mefficacy of all other so-called cuSo I, ™ l ' l regard.ng
experience, he is very pronounced in his praise of Bile BelnsTand
w
7
“Cl; ? ?
complaint, dizziness, fulness after meals' Tot' Y ha P pe n be afflicted with biliousness, liver
complaints thev can nnt Sf 1 ' costiveness, headache, debility, influenza, colds or like
i mints, tney can put their finger on a sure and certain remedy in Bile Beans.
INFLUENZA AND COLDS.
rarifierthe^blood'^qufcken^^lfhe^ircul^-urf B^^^ oll aS S ?£ den transitions from heat to cold. Heat
checked, the consequences must be bS wT® 8 ' e P erspir . at '? n > but when these are suddenly
or what commonly goes by the name nfVatJhi rnost l^ omi s, on f ° nn of disease is obstructed perspiration,
in time are easily subdued hnt if ~iin« a / d ‘ Roughs, colds, sore throat, etc., if attended to
more dangerous Nne LnlhT fft nm their own .? ours ?> generally prove the forerunner of
and the ' JNine-tenths of the consumptives date their afflction from a neglected cold
and lungs is Bile Beaus. s e 11;aclous medicines for the prevention of diseases of the throat
|ILE
E/yls
FOf\
ILIOUSNESS
BILE BEANS
Are an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous
Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Female Weakness
Pale-faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples, Blotches’
Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dyspepsia, Influ-
enza, Colds, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and Side Ful-
ness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn’, and
that Tired Feeling.
Bile Beans are obtainable from all Chemists and Store-
keepers generally ; Australian Depf.t of the Bile Bean Manu-
facturing Co., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney ; Victorian agents,
Kocke, Tompsitt, and Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne* S A*
agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., King William-street’ Ade-
laide; W. A. agents, F. 11. Faulding and Co., Perth ; Queens*-
land agents, S. Hoffnung and Co., Brisbane. Bile Beans are’
not an ordinary medicine. They are manufactured in one of
the best fitted and equipped laboratories in the world at
, ... Detroit, Michigan, U.S. A., and they have been used through-
c» r „ndu.ff & dx she iSMrUis; sti %
annually that they can be .old at the lei price,.
Remember, each box bears the signature of the proprietors, The Bilo Bean Manufacturing Co.
The Ports of the Open Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down here where the ships loom large in
The gloom when the sea-storms veer,
Down here on the south-west margin
Of the western hemisphere,
Where the might of a world-wide ocean
Round a foreign land rolls free—
Storm bound from the world’s commotion,
Lie the Ports of the Open Sea.
Ly the bluff where the grey sand reaches
To the kerb of the spray-swept street,
By the sweep of the black sand beaches
From the main-road travellers’ feet,
By the heights like a work Titanic,
Begun ere the gods’ work ceased,
By a bluff-lined coast volcanic
Lie the ports of the wild south-east.
By the steeps of the snoft-capped ranges,
By the scarped and terraced hills—
Far away from the swift life-changes,
From the wear of the strife that kills—
Where the land in the Spring seems younger
Than a land of the earth might be—
Oh ! the hearts of the rivers hunger
For the Ports of the Open Sea.
But the captains watch and hearken
For a sign of the South Sea wrath—
Let the face of the south-east darken,
And they turn to the ocean path.
Ay, the sea-boats dare not linger,
Whatever the cargo be ;
When the south-east lifts a finger
They make for the open sea.
South by the bleak Bluff faring,
North where the Three Kings’ wait,
South-east through the tempest, daring
Their flight through the storm-tossed strait;
But away from the grey-fog, leeward,—
From the graves of the “Fatal T.,”—
Where the black-ribbed reefs run seaward
By the Ports of the Open Sea.
1 or the south-east lands are dread lands
To the sea-dogs in the shrouds,
Where the low clouds loom like headlands,
And the black bluffs blur like clouds.
When the breakers rage to windward
And the lights are masked a-lee,
And the sunken rocks run inward
To a Port of the Open Sea.
Yonder a white-winged roamer
Struck where the rollers roar—
Where the great green froth-flaked comber
T alls crash on a black-ribbed shore.
Ah ! the coaster’s captain brave is
Who sails when the white bars moan—
Over yonder a lonely grave is
Marked with the word “ Unknown.”
But oh ! for the South-East weather—•
The sweep of the three-days’ gale—
When, far through the flax and heather,
The spindrift drives like hail.
Glory to man’s creations
That drive where the gale grows gruff,
When the homes of the sea-coast stations
Flash white from the dark’ning bluff.
When the swell of the south-east rouses
The wrath of the Maori sprite,
And the brown folk flee their houses
And crouch in the flax by night,
And wait as they long have waited
In fear as the brown folk be
The wave of destruction fated
For the Ports of the Open Sea.
Grey cloud to the mountain bases,
Wild boughs that rush and sweep;
On the rounded hills the tussocks
Like flocks of flying sheep ;
A lonely storm-bird soaring
O’er tussock fern and tree ;
And the boulder beaches roaring
The Hymn of the Open Sea.
M.L., Sept., ’97.
HENRY LAWSON.
Lovely Woman is Peculiar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE LADIES’ COMPARTMENT.
“Yes,” said the stationmaster, meditatively;
it s peculiar, ain’t it ? Here you see the ladies’
compartment—northern mails, western mails,
southern mails—go empty every day; and the
blessed women crowding into the rest of the train
like sheep into trucks in the middle of the season.
Why ? I don’t know. Here’s a compartment
specially set apart for them ; no man allowed in—
and only this evening I saw two come up: ‘l’ll
get in here,’ says one. ‘ Oh, no,’ says the other,
‘ that’s ladies l 1 ‘So it is,’ says the first one; ‘I
didn’t notice.’ And then she went and crowded
into a mixed compartment with five gents-
blessed if she didn’t—and going all the way to
Bourke. The ladies’ compartment went off empty
—it does seven times in ten. You’d think they’d
like a carriage to themselves, wouldn’t you -goina-
alone on a long journey ? But they don’t.
Second-class don’t seem to object so much •
nrst-class pretty nearly always object, so far as I
see. Berhaps it’s the babies—women with babies
do travel in the ladies’' sometimes ; and the toffs
hate babies like poison. But as often as not
you 11 see the woman and the babies in a ‘ mixed ’
tumbling over the gents, and an empty compart-
ment next door. At Easter, when the trains
were packed, two gents came along late one night,
.there was a lavatory compartment with six men
in, a lady, and a little boy—and the ‘ first ladies’ ’
empty, as usual, I went and asked the lady
civilly if shed move out-told her she’d have
more room, and so on. ‘Oh, no,’ she says ‘I
prefer to remain here ! ’ and the two gents had to
take seats in different carriages. They wanted to
go into the empty ‘ladies,’ but we’re not allowed
to do that, bo it goes empty, as I say.
“ one time a lady could stay in a ‘smoker ■ ’
and often she did; but now we can put 'em out if
the seat is wanted. There was a change in the
regulations after that lady made the disturbance
a couple of years ago. She was going somewhere
1 forget exactly where—a long night ride, any-
way ; and she came and fixed herself in the
smoker bright and early. Up comes eight com-
mercials travelling together-and, of course, on
a mght-tnp they wanted to be free and easy,
n <f do everything under a woman’s
the y tipped me to go and ask her to
, I , went up = 1 his is a smoker, madam ? ’
J? lfc sa y s > quite cool. ‘ Shall I shift your
‘Oh gS !v nfc °i an °ther compartment, madam?’
u , you j I m V uite comfortable here.’
askedhJfS J pres ® ntl y went up again and
™7r)f * hlft - a favor - Nofc she ! That
made the commercials mad. Seven of ’em got in
h W,ill the - ° th r er u ° ne , had t 0 g 0 somewhere
se. Well, sir, I heard afterwards that those
seven gave that lady particular beans. They made
all the noise they could ; and they kept the com-
partment so full of smoke that you couldn’t see
endin' K Ut B u 6 Stuc , k there righfc to the bitter
hn? d S^ e got . home her husband wrote a
t° u h v Comm issioners. So did the com-
“gulatfon 1 - S 6Ve ' 4 n y wa y> tfa ey altered the
and Ibt t’ d U T V i lf a woman sin the smoker,
a d rm seat . s wanted, out she comes !
I here, sir! Train’s just going ! You see—
every compartment full, bar the empty ‘ladies.’
And, to my knowledge, there’s a good dozen
P.°r n travelli " g by themselves onXs ?ra?n
BumTt, Stheys lSPPl “ Wa ‘ Ch “ S the
BOGGABRI.
A DENTIST’S STORY.
“Speaks highly of you ? ”
“Who?”
Mrs. Antony. You took her tooth out Mon-
day week.”
“Oh, Mrs. Antony, from way-back? |Yes, I
took two. Was it you who sent her? She said
something at the time about being recommended,
but I didn t quite hear. She got on verv well ”
“Gas?” /
“ Oh, no ; at my prices I oan’t afford to whack
with a medico.”
Mrs. Antony was terribly apprehensive. Her
husband, a very old friend of mine, says the prick
°f a needle makes her yell. You say you didn’t
USG g&S .
“ No. And she stood it like a brick. Fact is,
I possess a specific—an infallible pain-assuager
where women are concerned . . . It’s this wav I
look in mouth. ‘ Bad tooth. Open a little, please,
A very bad tooth—open a little more, please. Ah,
yes. I take up tool, look carefully at it, bring it
near her mouth : ‘ no, 1 I say ; ‘too large.’ Then
as if speaking to myself, I add: ‘ And yet this
easily went into Lady Jersey’s mouth. 1 After a
pause : Your mouth is very small, madam, 1 I
remark. Let me see—l’ve fully a hundred of
these instruments; but to get 'a small enough
one . Oh, yes, Lady Carington’s is the one. I
took a tooth from her years ago, and haven’t used
the instrument since, 1 My patient sits as quiet as.
a lamb all this time. I pick up a baby tool that,
you could get into the mouth of a bird and
flourish it about. Then I slip the large double-
toother into her mouth, and away comes the two-
inch molar.”
(i ,V la^'s your infallible pain-assuager ?”
1 or women—yes. Especially for women with
big- mouths and horse teeth. It’s better’n gas.
and saves dividing with a medico.”
CORSAIR.
A MATTER OF SEX.
“A girl never willingly marries her doctor,”
said Mrs. John Manley to me over a cup of after-
noon tea. We had been discussing social pheno-
mena. Mrs. John Manley is a sort of society
Pythoness, and the depth of her knowledge is
Atlantic-like. The remark seemed to indicate a
finger-post at the cross-roads of sexual philosophy,
and I waited patiently for developments.
. The sexes are diametrically opposed on that
point, continued Madame. “ A man frequently
marries his narse. Indeed, the fact that she has
been his nurse mostly predisposes him to marry
Ch* the other hand, to a girl of any sensi-
bility, the idea is usually repugnant.”
i 0 ou so ar as to say, now,” I put in,
that a woman doesn’t willingly marry the man
she has nursed ? ”
Mrs. John Manley sipped her tea before reply-
ing. “My sex is not without its share of incon-
sistency,” she finally remarked, without a smile.
‘‘ Put you adhere to your original proposition ? ”
With a few exceptions. They prove the rule.
My sister’s case is only one of several I have met
with in a large experience of—undeveloped en-
gagements. Minnie was in love with a very nice
young man, a young doctor who had just obtained
his diploma. I am convinced that she was very
fond of him ; I have no doubt of that whatever.
They had been engaged about a year when
Minnie, who bikes, fractured her knee-cap.
Richard ”
“ The nice young man ? ”
4 Exactly; pleaded hard to be allowed to attend
“ er - .If was thought that she would prefer to be
in his charge than in that of a stranger, and he
was called in. He proved a devoted physician, of
course, and, I am sure, paid more attention to
Minnie than he did to any of his other patients.
Perhaps they weren’t, numerous ; at any rate, I
believe he came to our house at least three times a
day. Minnie progressed rapidly, and, in time,
recovered completely. But, after that episode,
her feelings towards Richard changed unmis-
takably. In fact, she speedily became averse to
his very presence. She confessed to me one day
that since he had attended her as a doctor the
idea of marrying him had become repugnant to
her. And, as a matter of fact, the engagement
was broken off a month later.”
Mrs. John Manley concluded triumphantly, and
I drank weak tea in profound silence.
Can you suggest any explanation ? ” I pre-
sently inquired, tentatively.
“A woman, my dear sir,” observed Mrs. John
Manley, “objects to being anticipated.”
BERNARD ESPINASSE.


IMPURE BLOOD
Is the Cause of very many of the Ids to which Flesh is Heir.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies, vitalizes and enriches the Blood, as testified
to by Mr. W. J. Pickering, Storekeeper, Breeza, New South Wales,
who sends his portrait and tells the following interesting story;
I
Ik
il
f
S
m
m
\
'll
m
/
//
///
“In the year 1890 my ankle broke out, and I went to a doctor who told
me I was suffering from blood poisoning. He prescribed for me but did me
no good, and I tried several other physicians without benefit. I went into
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney, and after a month’s treatment there came
out worse than ever, feeling greatly discouraged. I suffered terribly for
four years, until my wife, hearing of your Sarsaparilla, got me a bottle.
She persuaded me to give it a thorough trial. Soon I noticed that the sore
on my ankle began to heal, then the pain diminished, and after a course of
six bottles I became as well as ever I was in my life, and I remain in the
best of health.
Everybody for miles around here knows what tribulation I went through.
I now recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to all who suffer with impure blood,
and I am glad to say that it has done good to all who have tried it.”
Be sure that you get the original
s Sarsaparilla
and be not deceived by the numerous imitations of this wonderful medicine.
Prepared by Dr. J. O. Ayer & Go., Lowell, Mass., TJ. S. A.
FOR
23 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
'Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
flvrtHidflt
vjQmgToni
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
Was outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.’
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull
Sold in bottled, at Is. ljrf., 2s. 9(i, 4s. «d.,
and Us., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial House*.
(OrTKItIBT.
CIV
SOLD BY THE LAYERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
To Colonists and all pom
it may Concern - -
AN EXTRACT.
“ The first night I had slept a little from sheer exhaustion. The
next was terrible. I vomited incessantly; I was chilled to the bone, and
could not warm myself. I suffered horrible pain in the head, and through-
out my whole body. Next day, of course, I was a wreck. They told me I
had been delirious half the night. I remember nothing of the day; but
next night I got a couple of hours’ sleep, and was rather better in conse-
quence. But vomiting went on steadily, and the fourth night I was again
delirious. The next day I was as bad as ever; but, thanks to a good
dose of Beecliam’s Fills, i had an excellent
night, and I truly believe that they saved my life. I knew well where I
picked up this fever—in the marshes of Mwenzo, and near Kituta—and the
killing thing was being unable to stop to cure it; the ten days on the lake
especially—often without food for twenty-four hours—nearly finished me.
I felt certain at the time that I was done for; and I very nearly was.”— See
“ Three Years in Savage Africa ,” by Lionel Decle—Methuen & Go., London.
Mr. Lionel Decle covered a distance of over 7000 miles at one
stretch, between Capetown on the South and Mombassa on the East coast of
Africa. It is worth noting that this “unique journey ” would probably
have been cut short; and, to quote the introduction by Mr. H. M. Stanley,
M.P., “ its vivid record ” would never have been penned had not Mr.
Lionel Decle provided himself with a supply of
BCECNAM’S PILLS.
Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
jar* A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY'S RILLS AND OINTMENT.
. There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not Jeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. (W“' Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are.
spurious.
~ WHEN YOU BUY ”
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BEOS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sy lney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Visitors to=
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £l per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
Tb?S£iffieldCase.
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING FULL
EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OF SCENE of
alleged Outrage. Price Sixpence.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George-st., Sydney.
Don’t Delay.
Stop Cougli !
. . . TAKE . . .
irish mass
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, loipid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu-
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Box.


“OLEAC'
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S., Botanist to
H.R.H. the Brince of Wales
CZEMA
Permanent Cure, Self Applied,
3oz. Jars 2/6 By post 3/-
OLEfIC”
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
INCOMPARABLE
SMEIiLING SALTS,”
As supplied to the Queen. Regd.
The Perfume is specially distilled for these Salts. Invaluable
in Hot Assemblies. Always Refreshing. Of great value
in the Sick Room. The best Companion at Church, Chapel,
Ball, Theatre, or any Heated Assembly.
Sold in Plain or Cut Bottles, price 9d., 1/-, 1/6 & 2/-
“BABY’S SOAP” (The ORIGINAL).
A Superior Mild Soap, prepared for the INFANTS FIRST
SKIN. Delicately Perfumed. Recommended for Children
and Adults with TENDER SKIN. In use so years. Price 6d.
The above sold by all Chemists and Stores. Sole Manufacturers:
OSBORNE, BAUER & CHEESEMAN,
Perfumers to the Queen,
Ll 9, Golden Square, Regent St., London, W. J
58
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w_ o- zEiaDiaxiDa-im & go.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STRE ET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Worfcl)ii)gtoD Eogio* Conjpaoy
(Australasian Branch.) S3IIKK!I.3£3SC>]Q. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
SHADS MARtU
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies s
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
_ ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alioe-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
Hew Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHIM GTOH Pumps for all Services
in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
What is Health?
J’h en in otisin, Sciatica,
iyunilifif/o, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FARKFR, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
'these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free,
Six penny stamps.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies) ; the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done Tnore); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPj
OP SYDNEY with
’AL PLACES
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY
ARCAB E-
these Depots
DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
for AFTERNOON TEA, (Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of
for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET.
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. 9
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rocldbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
&
f
$
&
n?
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westingliouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
THE - -
YIBRATOR
ALE SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
OSCILLATOR pfiTfw qtttptt
/TNG M ACTTTTVEK. VJlliilJA kJ 111 Ull
Batho s Baking
Powder.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
& Co., Gunmafeers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, beat twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with partridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s fid each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced JB3 17s (id each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge maehinesandcleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7losea. complete.
Cartridges oan be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at (U (id per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Orders must be made payable to Weadon, Thomas <fe Co.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, 11.5. A. SETS, BARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent Spokes (all Nickle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (lid. gross),
Dunlop Valves (10/- doz.), Brakes (complete, 0 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 0), Inside Tubes 3 G, Brooke's
Saddles 6 0, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90 Send for trade Illustrated Price
List. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to date, £7, £B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. R GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st.
435 Bourke-st.,
lbourne.
BLAKE’S
Steam Pumps
•fcla.e Beat.
We have them in Stock:
SINGLE and DUPLEX,
up to
50,000 Gallons Imp. per Hour.
SEND FOR CIRCULARS & CATALOGUES.
Piping*, Valves, Boilers, Hose,
and every other description of PUMP SUPPLIES
in Stock.
