

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
IRROYS CHAMPAGNE.
S FRY’S MALTED COCOA
GtrABAWTEED COCOA EXTRACT OF aMLAJ^T.
R. G-, WATKINS & CO ,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, *
_ . . —FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE
I
WHISKY
SOLE AGENTS 249 CEQRGEST SYDNE
Modern Timber-cutting Machinery.
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR OF LOGS.
XTp-to-3Date Fl ° ar Milling Mach.inery, Blzigines & Boilers,! Steel Windmilla.
——— Mills Erected and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
24 Clarence Street,
STmTKT-.
««*
'"■fc
jgOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
it L ' j GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Kailwav Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
85 Pitt Street,
SOI.E AGENTS FOR
BROAD BE NT'S
DIRECT
AM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
i inch] lies hrve been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
. lutmeals the I roduction of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
.mats and full particulars.
THORNE’S
HISEY.
333E r PATENT
HAND ICE-MAKER
FOR
HOUSEHOLD
USE.
MAKES ICE IN TEN (10
MINUTES !
EVERY WIFE HER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
Price - 50=3
BRANDT BROS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
\ 236 Pitt-st., Sydney;
and 422 ELIZABETH STREET MELBOURNE.
!i.
Lake
Macquarie .
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists*
Boating, Bathing-, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer connnu-
mention from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams-will re-
eeive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
adieu’s Orient fiotel
CU&t, cM, &aZ/&AX> ten
•v
co
5*36*
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Government;.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICf 5c son, ltd.,
H'7 York Stat-eet;,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland ; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
ft
Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
Joslraa Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
Highest Awards wherever Exhibited.
VAKDYTK
CIGARS
'U*tnttwJGRANT
SMOK£
©IF 8
Is
I^ikteri:te:MßiimwsYi)NtY:
The Bulletin
Vol 19.—N0. 979. j
[Saturday, November 19, 1898.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


si?
gY APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. VICTORIA.
Byrne’s Construction Inspection, 14s, post 15s ; Thomp
son’s Gases, ss, post 5s 6d ; Kemp’s Gold Coast, 14s, pos
15s ; Remeo’s Coffee, etc., in Mexico, 14s, post 15 ; Lee
Paul Coorah, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Glasgow
Phases of an Inferior Planet, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s an
4s ; Sargeant’s Margaret Wynne, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3
and 4s ; Turner’s (Ethel) Camp at Wandinong, 2s 6d an
3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Bopthby’s (Guy) Across the Work
for a Wife, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Grier’
Crowned Queen, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; France'
Duenna of a Genius, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s
Meredith’s Beauchamp’s Career, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3
and 4s ; Campbell’s Beyond the Border, 6s, post 6s 6d.
JUST PUBLISHED.
THE BUTCHER’S GUIDE AND FARMER’S COM
PANION. By William Dunstan, 2s 6d ; post 3s.
BELOW AND ON TOP. By Edward Dyson, author o
“ Rhymes from the Mines,” etc. Cr., wrapper, 2s 6d
cloth, 3s 6d. Post 3s and 4s.
THE AUSTRALIAN FRUIT GARDEN : A Practical
Manual, by J. S. Heron. Is ; post free, Is 2d.
NEARLY READY.
WARRIGAL SERIES—No. 4. THE ONE BLACK
SHADOW. By Bessie Cole and F. W. D. Moore
Is 6d; post free Is 9d.
THE JENOLAN CAVES. Illustrated with 24 Plates anc
Map. By Samuel Cook. 6s ; post free 6s 8.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
-1
JUST PUBLISHED.
fair Girls and Gray ljoms
mitb Other Oerses,
By WILL H. OGILYIE.
Reprinted from the Australasian ; the Sydney Mail ;
the Border Watch, S.A.; the Western Champion,
Parkes, N.S.W. ; the Independent, Parkes,
N.S.W. ; and The Bulletin. With
several hitherto unpublished
pieces.
Handsomely bound m cloth, gilt-top, with 8 vignette
illustrations by G. W. Lambert. Post free
4s. 6d. from Bulletin office.
XBCB A.RGOHTA.UT.
PUBLISHED AT SAN FRANCISCO, CAT,., U.S.A.
The Argonaut publishes bright weekly letters from
New York, Paris, and London, from skilled correspondents
“ The Bulletin ” says
who are in touch with the intense life of those great cities.
It publishes frequent letters from other points in the
old world, and from the older world of Asia come occa-
sional letters from India, China, and Japan. Its short
the “Argonaut” is
stories are famous throughout the world. It is hard to
describe their peculiar tinge, but an idea may be gathered
from this, our standing injunction to our contributors :
“ Whatever you are, never be commonplace.” The re-
the most readable
suit is that the Argonaut short stories have an individu
ality of their own. The Argonaut endeavors to present a
weekly review of the literary movement. Brief notes on
American newspaper.
books, rather than lengthy reviews, together with notes
upon authors and journalists, will keep the reader well
up with the literary gossip of the day.
For sale at The Bulletin Office after the arrival of the
American mail; price, Bd. ; posted, 9d. ; mailed regularly
to any Australasian address.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
• Geot’ge-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
DUSTY
SULTRY !
DRINK
i
SMOKE INSTEAD
AND KEEP COOL
Smoke (,
of course ?
THE RED PAGE.
WHEN THE GRASS SHALL COVER ME.
When the grass shall cover me,
Head to foot where I am lying,—
When not any wind that blows,
Summer-blooms nor winter-snows,
Shall awake me to your sighing :
Close above me as you pass,
You will say, “How kind she was,*
You will say, “How true she was,”
When the grass grows over me.
When the grass shall cover me,
Holden close to earth’s warm bosom, —
While I laugh, or weep, or sing,
Nevermore, for anything,
You will find in blade and blossom,
Sweet small voices, odorous,
Tender pleaders in my cause,
That shall speak me as I was—
When the grass grows over me.
When the grass shall cover me!
Ah, beloved, in my sorrow
Very patient I can wait,
Knowing that, or soon or late,
There will dawn a clearer morrow:
When your heart will moan': “Alas !
Now I know how true she was;
Now I know how dear she was ”
When the grass grows over me !
Ina Coolbrith.
About Browning.
Arthur A. D. Bayldon writes—
A man with any pretensions to critical faculty
cannot but feel his heart leap at the name of
Browning. The work of the man—its magnificent
reach and subtle interplay among the mysterious
cog-wheels of mind machinery, its moral force and
vivid gleams of poetry—will ultimately be recog-
nised as the most extraordinary literary output of
this century. And the amount of work done ;
why, it’s prodigious ! Singer, poet, craftsman,
and more besides. His mind travelled with such
lightning-like rapidity that his words stumbled
and he became obscure. And yet—and let this be
the final answer to the parrot-cries of his Lillipu-
tian critics : you can tear out whole poems and
obscure passages from Browning without affecting
his position one iota. Whatever his shortcomings
he has no weakness; no thin querulous whinings
of pessimism ; no pandering to the Philistine ; no
dilettante word-efflorescences for vitiated literary
palates. And what abrupt decision ; what stabs ;
what bursts of rapture :
In at Heaven and out again
Lightning / Where it broke the roof
Blood-like, a few drops of rain.
O lyric love, half angel and half bird,
And all a wonder and a wild desire.
Rapture dying along its verge (on a lunar rainbow).
Lore would have admired some of his pictures :
think of ‘ ‘ Childe Ronald ” ; Dickens would have
envied them: remember “Christmas Eve and
Easter Day ” : Wordsworth would have recognised
him as a master of landscape :
The trees bend o’er it (a pool)
As wise men watch a sleeping girl;
Byron would have loved his force :
Then broke
The thunder like a sea overhead ;
and Heine started at his own vitriol-biting phrases;
Bohemia’s mouth-piece:
We have not sighed deep, laughed free,
Starved, feasted, despaired—been happy.
And finally, as a specimen of royal color, tone,
and splendor of poetic touch all hi& own, take:
How the tresses curled
Into a sumptuous swell of gold and wound
About her like a glory ; even the ground
Was bright as with spilt sunbeams.
Washed by the morning water-gold
Florence lay out on the mountain side.
-* • * *
Hundreds of passage.s stream through the memory.
What a gallery of pictures: tragedy and comedy
elbow us everywhere. The difficulty is to know
where to begin, what to touch upon, how to deaL.
with him. Take some of his poems at random:—
“ The Last Duchess,” with that stinging
Oh, sir, she smiled, no doubt
Whene'er I passed her ; hap who passed without
Much the same smile. This grew; I gave com-
mands,
Then all smiles stopped together.
“The Glove,” with its unique lion-etching; “In
a Gondola, ” with its muffled drum-beat of tragedy;
“A Grammarian’s Funeral,” set to the steady
tramp-rhythm of the climbers’ feet; the patriotic
glow of “Thoughts from the Sea”; the solemn
hush of “After”; the tournament clash of
“ Count Gismond ”; the elaborate friendliness of
“The Laboratory,” with its word-venom; the
infantine mind-mouthing of the primitive “Cali-
ban ” ; the purple saturation of “ Popularity ” ; the
triumphant peal of heroism in “ Herve Riel ”; the
clatter of hoofs in “The Ride to Aix ”; the scath-
ing sarcasm of “Holy Cross Day”; the blood
splashes and bustle of “The Druses”; the pen-
sive autumnal sadness of ‘ ‘ Andrea Del Sarto ”; the
wild shiver of that line, “Who knows but the
world may end to-night ?” in “The Last Ride To-
gether ”; the artistic perfection of “ The Boy and
the Angel ”; the melancholy vision of dead faces
in “A Toccata of Galuppi”; the lyric strength
and sweetness, the very atmosphere and doings of
an ancient people, in “Saul.”
• * * «
Browning is the only man within tilting distance
of Shakespeare. One is objective, the other sub-
jective, in his methods. Browning is the only
English poet that really knows Italy. What a
marvellous rendering of her mountain scenery is
“The Englishman in Italy.” And this colossal
genius was supple, too. See how he could bend
to the wants of the little ones with his “ Pied
Piper.” A great lover, and yet no weakness—no
hankering after the unclean ; an Englishman even
in his heart-trouble : “ The Lost Mistress.” With
one stroke he cleaves the soul of the Bishop of St.
Praxed, and oh ! how true is its revelation of the
Middle Ages. “Rabbi Ben Ezra” is the chant
for the scholar ; the Philistine may have with wel-
come “The Psalm of Life” with its flabby feeble-
ness and topsy-turvy metaphor. This man was a
musician—witness “Abt Vogler”; a thinker—
read “A Death in the Desert ” ; a rollicker full of
grotesqueness; and, to boot, a large-hearted opti-
mist proclaiming the real lesson of life—
If you loved only what were worth your love,
Love were clear gain and wholly well for you :
Make the low nature better by your throes.
Give earth yourself , go up for gain above. ”
* * * *
What were his shortcomings, then ?
He lacked repose and classic severity, the sculp-
tor’s touch of coolness. The myriad wheels of his
intellect were never at rest. He was ever in pur-
suit of a motive. And this very activity oft
drives one from him. The mind craves for
shadowy seclusions when exhausted with life’s tur-
moil. Silence and deep peace—the hush of moun-
tain peaks holding communion with the unknown :
u sei ,' ene dominion of an uplifted statue: the rest
that dwells among the starsthese are not in
Browning. ‘ ‘ Artemis Prologizes ”is emphatically
a failure. He is also deficient in that weird some-
thing, that unearthly bubbling up from the occult
springs of being, that strange glamour that seems
to come from beyond, far, far beyond the western
clouds of sunset, that thrills us through majestic
passages of music and lifts us we know not
whither. The soul crying out to soul across the
barriers of matter that Heine heard in the
Lorelei , ; the indefinable craving for we know
not what that we feel in Keats’—
The same that oft-times hath
Charm’d magic casements, opening on the foam
Of perilous seas, in faery lands forlorn.
* * * *
Browning’s sentimental faculties were subordi-
nate to his intellectual. That streak of Eastern
blood in his veins influenced his coloring—“ The
moon is carried off in purple fire,” and made him
subtle. The Italian language would have suited
him better than the English. Our language is not
for subtle thinkers. In “The Last Confession”
his genius is all nerve, and springs about as though
on pm-wire. What telling breaks and sudden
pauses as he hurries to its close. It is this intense
absorption in piecemealing and refitting the man’s
mind that makes him forget his readers. Words
fly off like chaff from his grinding down to the
centre. In his intense searchlight moods he re-
minds you of Dante. His sharp, smiting picture-
lines are like Dante’s. And he was an admirer of
Dante, too. His physiological touches set the
mmd a-quiver. Consider the last tag in the
Arab Physician ” ; the whole soul of the man is
suddenly thrown to the front, and you see into it
as you can into a woman’s in her postscript. Con-
W the child of the desert’s earnestness and
half-belief m the wonderful with the self-satisfied
philosophy of Cleon, in whose letter Rome’s im-
pending rum is felt.
* * • .
Browning was more than a poet, or a weaver of
phrases, or a sound-sorcerer: he could be all when
he wished, and you oft hear the mellow chiming
of his golden bell: but his home was the soul of
man, feeling each thought-tremor and darting to
its motive.
..* * • *
A critical reader of Browning is struck by his
vocabulary. His fondness for hard craggy words
such as “baulk” crops up everywhere. To one
accustomed to rich full-blooded words or the
mellifluous suavity of several poets this word-
crackmg is unpleasant. (I was thinking of our
own Brunton Stephens when I used the term
mellifluous suavity, ” as I fancy it might agreeably
be applied to the juicy sweetness of his verse )
But these craggy words have a pelting force from
his sinewy mmd. They rattle round you, how-
ever, kicking up a dust of obscurity when he gets
too subtle for the language. But even his worst
passages are sometimes seamed with fire He is
never obscure to himself, and could not understand
this charge against him.
* * • *
One of the most admirable things about Brown-
ing is his sanity, his well-balanced intellect. Lom-
broso is rebuked by the life of this genius. Com-
pared with him most people are prigs or mono-
maniacs. Even Wordsworth’s intellect, steady
as it was, was superlatively egotistical. Matthew
Arnold, the beloved of scholars, with his fastidious-
ness and frock coat and cocksure air of superiority
m company, was merely an overblown school-
master beside Browning. As for Swinburne—he
is insufferable—a fidgety-fingered overstrung
hysteric. Browing had the air of a man of breed-
mg unassuming, genial, not running a conversa-
tion into a literary rut, but touching all things
lightly in simple unaffected English. The wonder
is how he found time for his work, for he was
always in society. And how ready he was to
praise the work of others ! He read every new
volume of Tennyson’s with expressions of admira
tion. Several of his poems exhibit his keen appre-
ciation of Keats and Shelley. For Byron he had
good-humored contempt. Shelley especially
attracted him. That idealist’s life made a profound
impression on him, and no doubt he would have
sponged those spots from his robes of spiritual
whiteness had he been able. The blank verse of
“Pauline” frequently reminds one of Shelley.
What clear, fresh breezes blow through it; what
delight in “Nature”; and that passage about
Spring, how jubilantly lyrical ! Whilst receiving
little influence from others, Browning influenced
his contemporaries. Even Rossetti sometimes
affects his abrupt springy style. There appears to
be a color of bronze about some of Browning’s
poems, or of dull, heavy gold. Every poet has a
Qplor or none at all.
* * * *
Browning, in spite of literary coteries and the
homage paid him by the intellectual giants of his
day, is probably little read. The public doesn’t
read poetry ; in fact, doesn’t understand it;
and certainly the average man never thinks. To
get three meals a day, sleep, procreate his kind,
and have something to spend, is the apex of his
desire. All this literary-circle work is mere sham :
the bow-wowing of "aP Mr. Simpkins to sharp-
featured spinsters about Browning, though it may
create a momentary interest in the poet, must not
be taken seriously. Browning is the poet for
pryers into motives—readers of George Meredith
should be fond of him, if they can stomach verse.
Browping’s influence on Meredith is very marked,
both in his style and mental agility.
* * * *
And so, hardly touching the hem of his gar-
ment, I leave this colossus to his lovers, closing
my garrulity with his own impressive words :
It’s wiser being good than bad ;
It’s safer being meek than fierce ;
It’s fitter being sane than mad.
My oivn hope is, a sun will pierce
The thickest cloud earth ever stretched j
That at the last, returns the first,
Though a wide compass round be fetched :
That what began best can’t be ivorst,
Nor what God once blessed prove accurst.
+
John Sandes (“ Oriel ”) writes for Melb. Argus
topical verses often readable and interesting; and
he has collected two dozen samples in a booklet
full of illustrations and All the advt. and
J. A. Andrews gives his opinion : There seems
to be a connection between the vital decav of the French
race and French poetry. This latter is largely erotic. So,
also, is very much English poetry. But the eroticism of
the English writers is generally objective, appropriately
to a healthy animality. They sing 1 of the charms of some
admired fair one ; the French writers dabble in descrip-
tions of the various subjective emotions which these
charms evoke, and in vague imaginings of the subjective
pleasure of being in love and courting—in the abstract.
This is very noticeable in the works of recent writers, but
One finds the same peculiarity on going as far back as
<Jautier, or even B6ranger. The last-named, perhaps the
least erotic of all French lyricists, devotes his chief, if not
his only sex-poem to pourtraying the sensations aroused
in a young girl’s mind by hearing her pussy-cat meowing
for a tom. Only a worn-out rake and the weakling brood
subjectively upon sex-pleasures ; the vigorous normal man
is occupied with the external object of his affections to
the exclusion of introspective consciousness. The nation,
or class, whose love-poetry is characteristically subjective,
may be safely regarded as in a state of physical de-
generacy.
“GKS.”: Does not Carlyle’s incidental defini-
tion of poetry go close to the mark ? “ Eloquence grown
rhythmic, musical—what we call poetry.” —(French
Revn., Booh 111., Chapter ITI.)
“It is that art, surely, which appeals to the
deepest and commonest feelings of humanity—not exclud-
ing sport, which art generalises under the forms of cour-
age, manliness, heroism : and at the same time idealises
the feelings, views them sub specie aeternitatis, and ex-
presses them in language high, refined, accurate, and
musical- in short, turns them into poetry ; it is that art,
surely, that lives. And the more deeply the poet shares
those feelings, and the more poetically he gives them ob-
jective or articulate form, the more permanently popular
will he be.”— Arnold Haultain, in “Literature
CARBINE’S GOOD-BYE.
Place your palm upon my shoulder, stroke my smooth
and glossy mane,
Let me lay my honest muzzle in my owner’s well-loved
hand ;
I shall never feel my dear old master’s proud caress
again,
Beyond the cruel ocean in a strange and distant land.
And all the illustration and advt. detract little
from the music and pathos of lines (in memory of
Sadie Macdonald) like
THE LAST SONG.
When the scene is lighted brightly, and we watch the
players nightly,
The peasant, and the prince, and the page,
Lo, there comes an apparition, ’tis a little fair-haired
vision
In the middle of the crowded stage.
And across the footlights stealing, to the listening heart
appealing,
Floats the echo of the song that we knew :
“ 1 "'ant you, my honey, yes I want you, want you, want
you,
I want you, ma honey, yes I do.”
Then she passes. Yonder, lonely, she has one true com-
rade only,
Who comes to her with whisperings of hope,
Speeding fast across the ocean with unfaltering devotion,
’Tis the wind from her own Pacific Slope.
And it presses towards her pillow, printing footsteps on
the billow,
Lightly—like one who comes to woo,
And it muniurs low above her, and it answers like a lover,
“ I want you, ma honey, yes I do.”
Ah, the worktime and the playtime ! Ah, the hot and
garish daytime !
She rests undisturbed through it all;
When the sultry hours are creeping, in her darkened room
she’s sleeping,
And she heeds not the loudest call.
But when the lights are glistening, and the silent stars
are listening,
From their places in the steadfast blue,
If we come, our flowers bringing, we may hear her softly
singing,
“ I want you, ma honey, yes I do.”
And when the years have vanished, and more stately songs
are banished,
This simple strain that time cannot kill
Will recall the figure slender, and the accents clear and
tender,
And the tresses that are golden still.
You will listen, little lady, and perhaps you’ll hear us,
Sadie,
Singing—across the years to you,
The song you taught so sweetly, ere you passed from us
completely,
“ I want you, ma honej r , yes I do.”
Between these extremes the Muse of “Oriel”
hovers, her countenance sicklied o’er with the pale
cast of irrelevant illustration and advt.


i
mm
MM
,v
w
mi
ESSfWH*
tmm
.■ V l '
!ra®@
4 :
«
-
pecialists,
-WARN-
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN".
m.
m
m
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SEEIOUB MATTEB.-A man who lias lost his will-power, by continually
committing himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for nearly all the walks of
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, the experience of 20,000 men
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly endorsed the treatment of
m v
11
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the mete verbiage of ;
I „r • i •
but it is
* single man,
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Hescuad at Last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing - to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
HEAD THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the remarkable treatment
which lias made both fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
WALLACE.
In the Laboratory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch
Are you all run down?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back
Have you pains in head?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms : —•
Do your eyes twitch?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky?
Can you walk without hailing 1
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility.
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic stren 41, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society?
Are you losing flesh?
Do you sleep poorly ?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor ?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has the brightness left your eyes
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
jlll Trams stop at the Door.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age,thankstothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City-
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
K> TfpE.WHrrL^
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Eree on application.
ReSctigd at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 10 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer —in fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
jPrice, lOs.;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l,
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elisabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYONTEY.
Please mention this Paper when writing.] CORRESPON DiSNCK, P.O. Box 1359.
&
&
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed bis studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
em iraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
IToung* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffe r
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
. ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &e., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
-:kin diseases. may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sib
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of |
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-Dailv,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing- how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy I£NTIJtJEL,Y
FItEE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TEIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring' VIGOR and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Fee, ,s6J—which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer—in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TRADE
MARK.
This successful and highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Kicord,
Pmstan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No.l
in a remai ka»ly short lime, otlen a tew days only,
removes all discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections, the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
for iuipurit\ ut the blood,"sentvy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains ami swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
the whole system through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every p isonous n atter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nervous exhaustion, waste of vitality,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess, residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It, possesses suiprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION
Chemists and Merchants throughout the World.
Price in England 2/9 & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
ah >ve Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“ Tiieuamon "as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for Therapion— FELTON, GKIMWADE & Co., and EOCKE, TOMPSITT & Co.
r ATROPHY in Menl
t^ r un ke n parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit, .Marital Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address—
v^' , h JNTON-WILLIS, a
V Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melbourne. Jt
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Pa-inless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
Wm. LANGSTON, M.8.C.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
OH, MY BACK!
“IT FAINS IF I BEND OVER.”
“IT FAINS IN THE MORNING.”
“IT FAINS AT NIGHT.”
“I AM TIRED ALL THE TIME.”
A WEAK BACK is a very aggravating complaint. It
makes life miserable, and thousands would be cured
if they know how. Plasters give only temporary relief, if
any at all. Drugs are often worse than useless.
DR. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT
is tub proper remedy for all such distressing complaints,
it warms the back and kidneys with a gentle glow, gives
the muscles an elastic feeling, and cures permanently.
You will never need another plaster if you will try it.
it W Our “ Book No. 2” gives price-list and full'partieu-
lars. Call or send 2d. in stamps. It will be sent in plain,
ealed envelope by return post. Rupture.— lf Ruptured,
-end also for “ Pamphlet No. 1.” Address : MAGNETIC
XASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or
W. H SOUL & CO., 15S Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
NERVOUS
In its very Worst Form,
Despondency, DEBILITY,
from any cause whatever,
Absolutely and
Permanently
CURED by
EXHAUSTION
Mumford’s Vegetable Medicated Nervine Tonic Pill?.
Truly a Marvellous Medicine. No poisonous drugs ; no
vexatious disappointments ; simply a Genuine Cure. £1
per COURSE; Pamphlets Free. F. W. MUMFORD,
Herbal Specialist, 51 Bourke Street, E. Melbourne.
Established 20 years.
WALES OF. THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
-L Price Warung. Is. 3d.


TATTERSALL’S
• • t Honster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SPECIAL. —AII the Year Round.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
When Full, will be Drawn on the Advertised Date of Each
Principal Race.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _—: . —1 shares in the above.
Name
£.
Address
NEWCASTLE TATTERSALLS C. Dec. 2
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
SUMMER C.
December 26
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
s s
GEELONG C. January 18, 1899.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
SANDHURST T.C. November 30
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address.
ROSEHILL S
December 10
50,000 Sub scriber s at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address
JS : s
CARRINGTON S. December 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address
ANNIVERSARY H. January 28.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
£ : :
NOTE.—The SPECIAL, when full, will be drawn on the advertised day of the next Principal Race
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Tbe Glass
of FaSbioo
• riORPERN’S
PORTFOLIO OF . J ■
SPRING- & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY. —’
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &c.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Guns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Garden Implements, &o
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure,
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a had attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my lei. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Aon of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, tlie undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; lai'ge, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
USE
Spooler's
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS 8t SHOES
; OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
jpIBECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVAL
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Slack Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing 1 Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of !Lime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GBIMWADE & CO.,
Alelt» o urne.
DEAF
ftEAB
lE®" “Common Sense Ear
Drums ” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aur/al
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Ciialmers, Agent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
With the close of the year 1898, the Australian Mutual Provident Society will eoniulete PTPTV VWATt<t nf ii<,
existence. Members are invited to.make this a RECORD YEAR by taking out additional polideTLm7elv7s and by
inducing their friends who are not already assured to become members. ALL POLICTwV T«4«iTTWTi
the end of the year will share in the division of profits to be made as at 31st Deceiiiber next. Amount of
divided amongst the members during the 49 years ending 1897 was £7,726,170. The Cash Pomliuiitm
the Policyholders for the single year 1897 was £445,235. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR 3 d 'stnbuted amon g st!
Accumulated Funds, £14,479,578. Annual Income, £2 094 706
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN Esn n P ™,tv
Chairman ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq • JOSFPH - ABBOTT
Esq. ; It. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, P.LA.,F.F.A FS S ’
Head Office :87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ’ 7 ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
' 'los., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30A?
40/-, 70/- per Set.
B2W Send for Price List. 1£&
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
&
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 155. :
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Vehicles
The Best ahd Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST.CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
ENOS‘FRUIT SALT'
& Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
0-
&
All Functional Derangements of tlie Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYvEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its Yalue as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.” —A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION , —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the/FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
The ONLY practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE
COMPLAINTS, arising from SANDY BLIGHT, SUN GLARE, INFLAMMA-
TION, Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, &c.
Mr. JUSTICE MURRAY and Mrs. Murray both certify to the Curative
Properties of Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion. Upon their recommendation
several obstinate cases of eye-complaints have been cured with the Lotion after
the failure of doctors’ treatment and the frequent use of other so-called remedies.
They give Mr. Rose full permission to use their name.
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE PROPEIETOE :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
:
Telephone, 26 KOOARAH—connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Itesort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Booms, Beading
Booms, Billiard Boom, and Bath Booms.
Banquets, Annual Be-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Hall tvill accommodate 500 persons. Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only one minute’s walk from hotel. Pishing and Boatino- •
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation. TERMS MODERATE.
Plum
Tin
Plum
ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
JR trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake,
p . j Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
trice \ cjj n g] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory, handle*? in beautiful case, 30s.
. Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
LOOK A.T OXJR PRICJBS !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Blackboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Hail
and Lamps.
Not Our Only Address: N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co.,Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send, for Our Illustrated. Catalogue.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lullaby.
—“ You come too late." — Y.J.D.
The sun will smile when the storm has fled '■
What care the leaves on the mould- —
Sleep, oh sleep !
And Love will come when the heart is dead;
How thrills his touch in the. old —
Sleep, oh sleep !
And fame will glare at the blinded mole :
What boots the light in his den —
Sleep, oh sleep !
And Heaven dawns on a perished soul:
My God l what matters it then ?
Sleep, oh sleep!
Q.
VON KOTZE.
Requiescat.
The sunlight beats without the curtained wall;
Within is silence, brooding like a pall.
He is so still—that is the worst of all.
Without, the world is glad and nothing grieves,
The sparrows twitter on the quiet eaves,
The breezes chatter to the rustling leaves.
He sleeps unbroken, though the bright day calls ;
He never heeds the strangers in his halls;
I take his hand in mine—it falls, it falls.
The garden, like a live thing, pants and glows,
Then nestles with the noontide to repose.
A drooping lily stoops to kiss a rose.
His parted lips are smiling meaningful,
The staring eyes gleam—ah ! —so cold and dull,
Beneath the pallid skin I see a skull.
The shadows lengthen into afternoon,
The garden sighs that day declines so soon,
The song-birds in the tree-tops sit and croon.
A lover once I had —a lover such
As dreamers love ; he loved me overmuch,
To-day he sleeps indifferent to my touch.
I stand and gaze, and wonder what it means,
As one wdio, on a threshold, pausing, leans
A little while before he parts the screens.
Without, the stars stream softly into sight,
Within, the tapers shed a ghostly light.
He sleeps on, does he know ’tis night, ’tis night ?
How many nights he soothed my doubts and fears —
How many times he kissed away my tears !
To-night 1 weep, and wonder if he hears.
Just now a star fell from the middle zone,
It flashed across the sky alone—alone.
’Tis gone with him into the vast unknown.
Ah, when shall God the mysteries disclose
That over Life and Death He wraps and throws ?
Those wan lips smile at me—he knows, he knows.
I stoop and listen—did I hear'hiin call?
The Silence answers me, my salt tears fall.
He is so still —that is the worst of all.
N.S.W.
AMBROSE PRATT.
A Western Garden.
Though dusty gray the skies all day,
At night none could be starrier,
And like a sweetheart’s face is this
Green garden on the Barrier.
The sun is king, and round the ring
Of vision all the verdure seems
Licked lifeless by his dragon tongue.
And shrivelled by his murder beams.
Around, about, the dust-storms rout,
Red legions hot and thunderful,
But turn your eyes and deem you dream,
It is so green and wonderful.
For in this close grows red the rose
And violets the tenderest,
And on the soothy velvet lawn
A shadow and a splendor rest.
The plains are spread with hillocks red,
Salt-bush and mirage mockeries ;
But here the drover halts to see
Pink peas in snow-white rockeries.
He stands awhile with sweetening smile
(Ah, long the track and pleasureless),
To him the violet and rose
Are beauty rare and measureless.
Perhaps (who knows ?) the droopy rose
Recalls an old love-verse again ;
And now, as in the long ago,
His cheek lies light on hers again.
Ah, well-a-day! His footsteps stray
Far hence from us who tarry here ;
May we, too, find, when desert-sick,
A garden on Life’s Barrier.
Poolamacca, N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
In the Dawn I Have Harked!
In the dawn I have listened to Earth as she sprang
from her couch of repose,
I have listened to founts of the Deep as they
shouted to clouds that enclose,
I have laughed with the jubilant Sun as he opened
his curtains of rose.
In the dusk I have nestled me down in the deep
of the bourgeoning trees,
And around me and over and under went lapping
the breath of the breeze,
And a million of murmurs of Faery floated from
fabulous leas.
In the night I have sung to the stars, and the stars
have been gracious to greet,
Have wafted me wings to my soul and have lent
me a light to my feet,
Have blended their infinite voices in melody mys-
tic and sweet.
I have stood in the halls and have harked to the
tale that is told by the Wise,
How Nature is all inarticulate, weaving her web
in disguise —
I have laughed at the lips of the sage and have
cried “ Ye are makers of lies ! ”
“ To the heart that can thrill she’s
the breast that is cold she is numb ;
To the soul that she loves and that loveth she
calls with a crystalline ‘ Come ! ’
To the eyes of the clod she is clay—to the ear of
the deaf she is dumb.”
Queensland,
P. LDYTIG.


BAKING
Washington H.Soul* ft, Pitt St, Sydney.
AND SOLD BY ALL GROCERS & STOREKEEPERS♦
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
HATES :
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
WHAT FOLKS SAY ABOUT
[copy.] “Nandewar,”
Messrs. E. RICH & CO. LTD.
. Dear Sips>—Will you please send me another roll
" ease as soon as possible, as I am waitin
±1 9s. in payment of same. I aiii very well pleased wit
used.—Yours faithfully,. .
(Signed)
Boggabri,
November 25, 1897.
of P & B Ruberoid Roofing
g for it. lam enclosing
h the P & B Roofing I have
A. W. WIGHTMAN.
—FOR SALE BY
Brooks,. Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. W. Saxdfjrd & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Rose & Jack, Agents, Custom-house Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q.
Burns & Twiqg, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & M‘Pherson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
Agents : E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL & CAEE,
SYDNEY.
Specially suited to Families ; Private
Suites of Rooms; Private Drawing find
Sitting Rooms; and all modern appoint-
ments ; attendants throughout day and
night.
;tr Three Minutes to leading Theatres
and CKP.O.
Electric Light. Telegraph Office.
Telephone 728.
TARIFF:
8s per Day upwards.
w. J. ADAMS, Manager.
Painless Dentistry.
THE ....
Institute
T)r. f>. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Wit. S. D. ASH Eli, Dentists.
iiST” Modern Dentistry in all its Branches
Bey itirnately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions 'of- roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
CALVERT'S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT &, COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
in -
ILl£
SBMPfiM
BiLifnTE
EOIKBSSC
Trade
Distillers Company lT jl
EDINBURGH.
linin'
'■ 1 '"’v •■* ""v
E«»
s!
a^Sas:
Take a little Whisky
“for the stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
, o drink the very best
you can get. “D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
yjlass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
9
Insist on
IP yOU SUFFER FROM
Indigestion,
Grout,
Rheumatism,
Kdney Troubles,
MINERAL
WATER.
Nature’s
Bottled
Simple and Wonderful Cure.
Direct from the Maori Springs.
runIHI is the Table Water of the Age .
1 ESIIMONIALS from Medical Men and Others by the score may be had from
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., O’Connell-st., Sydney,
AGENTS for N.S.W. and QUEENSLAND.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO XaZESIEVST COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &e.
Kent Brewery, I7DNEY.
/
*7”7
/ 3
*
.
fi
*
-
-♦•*•».-*— :' •
*„^ZZZL~--
77'"’>
* V—S'' jf


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 979.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1898.
Prick 6d.
THE YES-NO OR POLITICAL WHAT-IS-IT.
MAN WITH GUN: “ It's only a waste of ammunition. Its hide’s too tough!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians. 9 ’
Printed and Published by William Maoleo'd, of
Botany-street, .Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales. ,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum. ... .1. ... 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... (Job
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required
•which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., andall Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea a. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, talc, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political Social,- or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JtlacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
SouTn Africa. — 11. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in, Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside' N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a sjiecial Thynne-
paper edition o/'The Bulletin is now sent-to Queensland .
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1898.
The Rush for “Hoffis."
The sudden throwing-up of Premier Reid’s
Freetrade principles, and the list of new
duties which he recently sprung upon the
staggered Parliament of New South Wales,
has incited the Opposition leader to move the
old, familiar vote of censure. Cornstalk
politics consist very largely of votes of cen-
sure— George Reid, when leader of the
Opposition, moved thirteen or fourteen of
them in three years—and, according to all
good Cornstalk precedent, Edmund Barton
is doing the right thing. But it is a strange
thing, and a very weary and ridiculous one,
and it helps to make up a very curious situa-
tion all round. Mainly, it is a howling
parody on the system of Party Government,
which is a weird conundrum at the best of
times, while in days of political confusion it
becomes a nightmare. On the present occa-
sion Premier Reid is a strong supporter of
absolute Freetrade w'ho is proposing protec-
tive duties because he is solemnly pledged
not to raise the fiscal issue ; and also because
he wants extra revenue—which he has got
already and he got back at last election
to the place where he is able to propose new
duties by warning the -people that Barton
and Lyne would propose new duties if they
get there instead of lnm. And Barton and
Lyne, the Protectionists, call on the Foreign-
trade party to vote against Reid because lie
is imposing protective duties without believ-
ing in them, and to vote instead for the
party which believes in imposing more pro-
tective duties. And meanwhile R kid, who
is paid by the province for being a Foreign-
trade Premier, is drawing his salary under
false pretences.
♦ * * *
It is an understood lie in the system of
representative government that the Par-
liament rules. The present instance is one of
many hundreds which go to show that it
does nothing of the sort. Supposing there
is, as the Calico Jimmy press alleges, a
Foreign-trade majority in the New South
Wales Assembly, that majority obviously
doesn’t want Barton or Lyne as Premier.
Neither does it want Reid, since he has
turned revenue-tariffist and begun to apos-
tatise. So its natural course, as the majority,
would be to fire out its stout apostate, and
appoint in his stead a pure and spotless
Calico Jimmy person from its own side.
And it can’t do that ; it is as absolutely help-
less in the matter as if Parliamentary
Government didn’t exist. It can fire out
Reid certainly, and Reid, while he was
falling, and before his head struck
bottom, would be constitutionally bound to
advise the Governor to send for Barton to
form a Ministry. When Barton formed his
Ministry the Foreign trade majority could
refuse to support him, and might contrive
to leave him in a serious difficulty. Then
he would obtain a dissolution, and going to
the country with the prestige of victory and
newly-acquired office he would probably
rout the Shoddy party and come back with
a good working majority. The workings of
the Party system leave the Assembly to
choose between Reid and Barton. If it
doesn’t like Retd because he is now r a
partial dishonest Protectionist, then it can
take Barton because he is a whole honest
one.
* * * *
If there was any logic in the political sys-
tem the House would either reject Reid’s
proposals and keep him on, or else it would
reject Reid himself. The Protectionists and
the absolute Freetraders and the Land
Nationalisers and Single-taxers would all be
against him for totally different reasons.
Then the House would proceed to elect a
new Premier, each section putting up its
own candidate, and a good many candidates
putting themselves up. By dropping out
the most hopeless candidates and holding
fresh ballots, the applicants for the billet
would be reduced at last to two—the nominee
of the Opposition, probably its present
leader, and the one whom the present Minis-
terial party had put up as a reliable Foreign-
trader, vice G. Reid, fallen into evil courses.
Under such a system, the Ministerial party
could eject its leader, if he went back on the
principles upon which he was appointed,
without ejecting itself at the same time ; as
matters stand, it can’t. Reid, the pure
Freetrader, can levy almost any duties he
pleases, and his party will follow him as a
matter of practical necessity, partly because
it might lose its seat and its salary in the
confusion if it didn’t, and partly because the
alternative is admitting a party which also
believes in putting on duties. It is a sad and
grovelsome position for any party to be in,
but Premier Reid has got it there, and is
sitting on it.
V * * •
For its own part, this paper regards the
New South Wales vote of censure with very
little interest. It was bad and miserable
policy to stop the progress of the Federal
resolutions by any party row at the present
time. Even if Premier Reid put 40 per
cent, duties on everything, and broke up the
last shred of the compact that the fiscal issue
should not be raised till Federation was com-
plete, still it should be remembered that
every party shindy helps to postpone
the making of the Commonwealth, and all
Australia is waiting till New South Wales
gets out of the way. Also, if Barton gets
in he can’t introduce a protective tariff —his
promise to sink the fiscal question pending
Federation stands in the way. But if Reid,
to whom promises don’t matter, is willing to
give New South Wales partial Protection
and take the obloquy of the break of faith,
why shouldn’t Barton take the Protection
and let Reid have the obloquy ? Just now,
when the fiscal issue is supposed to be sunk
in the Federal interest, is the worst possible
time for raising the old, bitter spectre from
its grave. If Federation is really close at
hand, then it isn’t worth while to grab at
office for the little time that remains
before the inevitable re-arrangement comes
to pass. If it doesn’t come—if it is
again wrecked by the treachery of the
Reid-Want combination, then the Barton
party could reach out for office on a big
national question upon the ground that
New South Wales needed a sincerely
Federal Ministry above all things. To
get office on the fiscal issue just now might
simply split Barton’s Federal party into
fragments. It is reasonably solid on the
Federal question ; on the question of im-
ported shoddy v. national industries it is
divided into two camps. The fiscal subject
is just the one subject such a party shouldn’t
interfere with until it (the party) is no longer
wanted for Federal purposes. The wiser
course would have been to take no official
notice of Reid’s apostacy at present ; to let
every man in the party vote as he thought best
on the new financial proposals when they
came before the House, and to leave Reid
sitting on the neck of his own party undis-
turbed. If it burst with the pressure, then
the Barton party could enjoy the explosion
and stand by.
• * * * * *
Supposing the vote of censure is carried,
and Barton -gets into office with the fiscal
ghost aroused and in full working-order—
what then ? Barton, as leader of the Op-
position, is eloquent enough. Barton, as
Chief Justice of Australia or as xAttorney-
General to the Federal Government, would
probably be about the best man obtainable.
Barton, as the one indomitable enthusiast
of the Federal movement—the man above all
others who prevented it dropping into oblivion
—was magnificent. Barton as Premier a year
or two ago, to prevent the shameful treachery
which wrecked the last attempt at union,
would have been invaluable. But now the
fiasco is ancient history. The new Federal
proposals have been carried, so far as the
Assembly is concerned, and though they are
a miserably inadequate and undesirable set
of propositions Barton has so far acquiesced
in them that he could hardly withdraw them
and substitute a complete new set. There is
no reason to suppose that the Federal
apostle is a financier who ivould be of much
use in straightening out the bankrupt
finances of New South Wales. He isn’t a
patient man of infinite detail like the Vic-
torian Turner, who would be of great value
in putting right the crooked ways of the
administration. Barton taking office now
as the head of a Protectionist party which
is pledged to leave the tariff alone, getting
in on the fiscal issue which is supposed to be
sunk, tackling details for which he is pro-
bably almost as unfitted as Reid himself,
and taking over Reid’s half-finished and
more than half-hearted Federal scheme,
which would do him no credit, yet which has
been accepted by such strong majorities that
it could hardly be rescinded or materially
amended by the present Parliament, would
be a man in a false position. In fact
he would be a man in several false
positions at once. If Barton could
get office on the ground that Reid is a luke-
warm and bogus Federalist, a trickster with
provincial sympathies in his inmost soul ; a
man who keeps the avowed anti-Federalist,
Want, in his Cabinet as a guarantee of bad
faith ; then, in the interests of Australia, he
should reach for office with both hands and all
his feet. Reid deserves extinction on all
these counts. But to get office on any side-
issue just now is very dubious policy.
Carruthers' Land Bank.
The N.S.W. Government is inclined to follow the
example of Maoriland, Victoria, Westralia and
S.A. by starting a State Land Bank, and Minister
Carruthers has brought forward the harmless
necessary Bill for the purpose. This valuable
idea was one of the reforms promised, or half-
promised, when the Reid Government took office
in ’94, so the news has been broken to the country
gradually, and all sudden and violent shock has
been carefully avoided. The new institution is to
be clumsily described as the “Advances to Settlers
Board ; ” there is a curious tendency in Austra-
lasia to avoid all mention of a State Bank, and to
draw a thick veil of apology and circumlocution
over an institution which requires no apology
whatever. No province, barring South Australia,
seems inclined to acknowledge straight out that it
owns a State Land Bank, and there is a general
inclination to conceal the establishment under a
bushel. The Reid Government starts its bank-
ing scheme with one great advantage. It has the
experience of four other provinces to guide it; the
business has got past its experimental stage in
Australasia, and it is only necessary to adopt the
good features of the four State Land Banks
already in existence, and reject the bad ones. And
yet Carruthers’ Bill is a very half-hearted affair,
and seems calculated to do as little good as pos-
sible. It is practically a copy of the Westralian
Agricultural Bank—the smallest and most re-
stricted thing in its line up to date.
* * * * .
The measure provides for the borrowing of not
more than £3,000,000, by instalments not exceed-
ing £1,500,000 per annum, at a rate not to exceed
3 per cent. This restriction, of course, matters
very little; the Act can be expanded later on as
occasion requires. The money thus raised is to be
lent out at rates not exceeding 5 per cent., so the
State has a reliable margin of 2 per cent, if
necessary. One-tenth of the interest, equal to 10s.
per cent, per annum or thereabouts on all
the money lent, is to go to an assurance fund to
cover possible losses—a most valuable provision,
which most of the other provinces seem to have
overlooked. And the N.S.W. scheme, like all the
others, provides for the repayment of loans by
regular instalments. The amount advanced on
each security is therefore steadily reduced, and if
a slump in property brings down the value of the
security to any serious extent, and grievously re-
duces the original margin, there is always a pro-
bability that, -by the time the slump arrives, the
loan has been so far diminished that the State
Bank is still amply secured. The chance of loss
by depreciation of property is not half or a quarter
so great where the loan is repayable by regular
instalments as where it falls due in one sum at a
far-off date. Also, the Carruthers scheme pro-
vides that the money received in repayments may
be. lent out again, whereas one at least of the
existing State Banks is worked on the purely
idiotic proviso that the State borrows money on
bonds to lend to farmers, and all money received
back from the agriculturist must be used in repay-
ing these bonds, while the State Bank sells new
bonds to raise more money to lend to other farmers.
The good points in Minister Carruthers’ scheme
end about here, and the bad ones begin.
* * ♦ *
It is provided, in the first place, that the State
institution shall lend no money at all on town and
suburban lands. Why it shouldn’t lend money on
town and suburban lands passes comprehension.
The first object of the measure is certainly to en-
courage agriculture, and the agriculturist needs
assistance much more than the city owner, seeing
that it is the habit of private lenders to charge
him from 7 to 12 per shent, while the city
man can easily get money at six. But the
State can get money enough to do both classes
of business, and so long as it supplies cheap
loans to the farmer there is no reason why it
shouldn’t get whatever profits there are in the
other business also. The State wants all the
profits it oan get, so that it can lend them
out again, and still further enlarge its
business. If the city owner borrows money from
some foreign money-lending institution at 6 per
cent, where the State could lend it to him
at 5, and even then have a profit of, say,
\ per cent., it means that the I 4 per cent, dif-
ference is so much wealth going out of the country,
and whether the money that goes needlessly out
of the country belonged to the man in Sydney, or
the man at Bourke, or Milparinka, the loss is a
loss to the country at large just.' the same. The
first object of a State Land Bank should be to help
the agricultural and pastoral industries with cheap
money. Its other objects should be to help all
other industries with cheap money ; to extinguish
the private usurer—the foi’eign one especially ; to
help the city artisan to own the dwelling he occu-
pies ; and to do the biggest business it can, pro-
vided that business is sound and remunerative.
The obvious reason for these ambitions is that it
wants to make large profits for the State, and pay
off, out of these profits, the borrowed money it
started with, whereby the country may ultimately
own its State Land Bank as an unencumbered
asset of immense value.
* * * #
Then it is further provided that no loan shall
exceed £2OOO, which knocks another large slab off
the usefulness of the prospective bank. Hie first
object being to aid the small settler, who most needs
assistance, it would be quite fair and legitimate to
reverse the usual order of things by making loans
under <£2ooo at less interest than loans above that
amount. But it is quite possible to get money
enough for both classes of business, and it is
eminently advisable to make money for the State
out of the big land-holder, and also to get a hen
on his property, so that when it is foreclosed for
non-payment the State will get the land and cut
it up into small holdings. There is no individual
whom the State should yearn to foreclose upon
more than the big land-holder, and no more legiti-
mate person for the State to make profits out of.
Provided his security is good enough, and he is
charged an extra 10s. or 15s. per cent, on the
ground that he is a social evil, and further pro-
viding that, if funds happen to be short, the small
borrower always gets precedence, the big land-
holder should have money lent to him liberally, in
the sure and certain hope that some of him, at all
events, won’t be able to pay it back, which will
lead to foreclosure, and the casting out of the
social evil on its ear.
* * * *
Finally, the Carruthers scheme provides that
“every advance shall be for the purpose of
enabling the mortgagor to effect or pay for per-
manent improvements on the security, ” and if this
clause is strictly interpreted, it knocks about 50
per cent, more off the usefulness of the scheme.
By confining the advances principally to new
settlers who are starting to make improvements,
it may be possible to create a. sensational adver-
tising boom in settlement. But the men who want
assistance most are the old mortgaged crowd—the
individuals who are tottering under liabilities in-
curred at 10 per cent, or so, and who want cheap
money, not to make improvements, but to pay off
the private usurer. If all these are to be left in
the ditch, comparatively little good will result. It
is quite as essential to keep the old agriculturist on
the land as to put the new one there, though
it may not look so loud and remarkable
in the State Statistics. In fact, it is often more
essential to look after the old specimen, for his
downfall means that the best lands in the pro-
vince—the accessible lands that were first picked
in the rush of settlement —are going into the
hands of the banks and the foreign loan and mort-
gage companies. And why the State Bank should
refuse to assist him, and to make good profits out
of the business, passes all comprehension. If the
old settler is to be thrown overboard and advances
practically confined to the new one whose improve-
ments are still to make, it means less business,
much less profit for the State, and much less
saving of interest burdens to the country at large.
Also, it means that the interest charged must be
greater, because a small business can’t be run so
economically as a big one. It further signifies
that instead of the lands of the old settler, if
he does go down under his difficulties, revert-
ing to the State, the banks and other private
mortgage companies will get them in the same bad
old way as heretofore. Carruthers’ State Land
Bank scheme is a distinct move in the right, direc-
tion, but if there was less anxiety to avoid, dis-
turbing the vested interests of the present private
mortgagee it would be a much larger move.
* W * *
The Bulletin respectfully submits the follow-
ing as the basis of a State Land Bank: —
(1) That the two existing Savings Banks be united
under State management.
(2) The State Bank thus formed to be the sole bank of
issue in N.S.W. That province uses about £1,200,000
worth of notes, but assuming the issue dropped to
£1,000,000 and that £200,000 in gold (quite sufficient with
a Government guarantee behind the issue) was held
against it, this would give £BOO,OOO for the Land Bank to
start operations with. If it paid the Treasury the same
note-tax as the private banks do, the £BOO,OOO would cost
less than 3 per cent. The State notes to he legal tender
except at the head office of the State Bank. The notes
to be kept in circulation, as in Canada, by compelling
every bank to hold a proportion (in Canada it is 40 per
cent.) of its local cash-reserves in State, notes.
(3) The State Land Bank to lend up to, say, 50 or 60
per cent, of the value on country, suburban, or town pro-
perty indiscriminately. No limitation as to amount of
loan, but an extra 10s. per cent, to be charged on loans
above £2OOO, and an extra 15s. per cent, on loans above
£lO,OOO. Ten per cent, of the interest and all this ad-
ditional interest and any other profits to go to the reserve
fund. In case of a scarcit3 r of money small country loans
always to have preference. Interest on small loans to be
kept down, if possible, to 4J per cent.
(4) The State Land Bank to have unlimited powers of
raising money locally for loan purposes at 3 or, if neces-
sary, 3J per cent. Accounts to be audited and securities
valued annually by State officials. The Government to
have power, in times of panic, to make State Bank notes
legal tender for (say) three months without waiting for
the assent of Parliament.
Also The Bulletin suggests that the institution
be called the State Bank of N.S.W. —not the
Advances to Settlers Board, or any other apology
or.circumlocution whatsoever.
Barton’s Buckley’s Show.
Editor Bulletin. —N.S.W.. Premier Reid has
swallowed his Freetrade principles, reversed his
Freetrade policy, and imposed a semi-Protec-
tionist revenue tariff. And Opposition-leader
Federal-leader Barton has moved to censure the
Government on the ground that it is pledged to
keep the Federal movement in the front, and until
Federation is settled —MAiUN’s-way or otherwise—
not to cause delay or attack unanimity by tariff-
tinkering. And Barton has Buckley’s show of
passing nis censure-vote.
* * * *
Reid is a politician, but not a statesman;
Barton is a statesman, but not a politician.
Reid looks first to himself ; Barton looks first to
his country. Reid has the things he calls his
principles, and if you don’t like them they can be
altered ; Barton has the ideals that are his prin-
ciples, and they can’t be altered unless you alter
primary facts of history and geography, honesty
and integrity. Before the country, when there is
question of a great national cause unmangled by the
small-constituency vote, Barton wins easily; before
the small-constituency, when there is question of
nobbling publicans, or of wheedling civil-servants,
or of bribing policemen, Reid scores nearly every
time. And, unluckily, N.S.W. Assembly reflects
the small-eonsti tuency, not the country. Nearly
every member is “on the make.” If he isn’t
actively “on the make” he is passively “on the
keep ” ; if he doesn’t want billets he wants to hold
his billet. How many men in N.S.W. Parliament
would —or could afford to —sacrifice a year’s salary
to get Federation to-morrow ? Not half-a-dozen.
How many Labor members would ? Name
one. In that crowd of self-seekers Barton
is as much out of place as an Apollo in a coal-


hole Half of his Parliamentary brethren can’t
un lerstand his ideas. The other half jeer at
tl, ..n If there are a few who understand and
respect, they follow only when Barton’s ideas are
in line with their personal interests. VV hat do
the constituents of the North-coast members—the
prominent constituents, the men who make or mar
elections —care about I ederation ? Sentimentally,
a lot or a little ; practically nothing. They want
sugar-duties; and Reid is maintaining the sugar-
duties. Plainly, if a North-coast member votes
against Reid, “and in favor of a man who insists
on putting Federation first—that I ederation
which may wipe out sugar-duties, and which, if
Queensland comes in, may wipe out the N.S.W.
cane-sugar industry altogether lie risks losing his
billet. And the North-coast member realises that
Federation may be a very grand, high-sounding
thing, but all the same he’ll feel mighty hollow if
he loses his billet —his three hundred a year and
perks, and his chance of fat committee-pickings.
So Barton will go down, in spite of his fine
cause and his eloquence. What he has. to
do is to convince every mercenary man-jack
in Parliament that Federation will pay him —pay
the man-jack; that he will make six hundred a
year under Federation, and his seat will be surer
than ever. Well, Barton can’t.
*** • . .
Barton thinks politics are a matter of princi-
ples ; Reid knows they’re a question of pockets.
Why, even when Barton was out of a seat, and
wanted one badly, he wouldn’t promise anything
in return to the man who might resign in his
favor—not even a seat in the Council. Reid
would have promised everything. What chance
has Barton against Reid, in the atmosphere of
N.S.W. Assembly? Not a possible.
* * * *
Not a possible—unless he drops Federation-in-
earnest, and adopts the Reid method of using
Federation as a stalking-horse. For Federation
means death to three-fourths of the petty interests
that govern N.S.W. Assembly ; and well the petty
interests know it. There was some sense in Free-
trade v. Protection. That was a controversy which
held pickings for both sides. Barton the Pro-
tectionist might easily beat Reid the Freetrader.
But Barton the Federationist has not the least
show of beating Reid the Freetrading Protec-
tionist, holding out bribes to “ both your houses.”
What is there in this Federation ? Barton can
only say that it is noble, glorious, and so
on. Empty phrases; air; —and your Assem-
bly-man wants cash. Or he can say it
is necessary to Australia’s safety. H’m ! is there
any immediate risk to the carcase of Tom J ones,
M.P. for Bungaboola? Or he can say it is finan-
cially profitable? “To whom? to me?” asks
J ones. Oh, no; to the other fellow; to the
nation ; to the general assembly of three-million-
odd Joneses. And Jones turns sadly away;
“the nation” is too vague—he can’t afford to
sacrifice, or risk sacrificing, the value of the billet
in his hand for the bird in the nation’s bush.
And that is the dead wall against which your pure
Federationist drops beaten every time.
* * * *
After the last N.S.W. general election there
was a Parliamentary feeling that, after all, it
might pay to support Federation a little bit,
really , as well as spout for it. That feeling is
dying—dead. The echo of the popular voice has
been lost in the distance; and N.S.W. Assembly
is back again on the old basis, “ What am
I going to get out of it ? ” Reid answers
clearly, “This—and this —and this ; the rehabili-
tation of your character; the Exhibition com-
mission ership; the next vacancy on the Works
Committee.” That is straight and above-board :
there is some sense, some pleasure, in voting for
Reid. But Barton —-“ I can’t say that you
personally are going to get anything out of it; but
it’s the right thing to do ; it’ll profit the country
and posterity.” Pooh! Barton’s a fool. So
Barton goes down.
* * ♦ *
Any present hope of improvement ? None.
B.B.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Q. N. Bank.
The Queensland National Bank cases came to
an end so suddenly that the directors were all
discharged without a blot on their joint and
several characters almost before the trial had
well started. There were also certain charges
against the auditors, but they were dropped,
and the proceedings ended. Considering that
the Dickson Government totters very much on
its throne, it is better for that politieally-smell-
ful aggregation that the Q.N.B. crowd have
been tried and acquitted in a calm and friendly
manner now, thus ending the matter, than
that a hostile Government should try them
in a very un-calm and unfriendly manner
—later on. Poor old M'llwraith, the loud
and overbearing, who was going to get to
Queensland and overwhelm his enemies even if
he had to be carried on board ship, never
turned up to throw any light on the
proceedings. Palmer is dead, and ex-
Manager Drury is at least officially dead,
and it was generally assumed that what-
ever was very wrong was done by Drury,
the deader of the pair. The case was a
woefully unsatisfactory one all through. There
seems to be no doubt whatever that
when the balance-sheet declared that tlie
paid-up capital was .£BOO,OOO it grossly de-
ceived the shareholders and the public;
they naturally thought it meant that
160,000 shares had been sold at £5 each and
the money actually received, whereas a lot of
the shares were held by the bank itself, and the
money they represented had never been got in
at all. Also, they were absolutely misled
about the reserve fund ; they naturally thought
it was all actual cash, whereas part of it
was made up by the bank taking up its
own shares at a premium and crediting the
premium to reserve. In other words, a good
slice of the bank’s alleged capital and reserve
was, apparently, only the bank’s own 1.0. U.,
given by it to itself. Also, a lot of the alleged
profits were made by charging interest that was
never received on debts that were lost; and
part of the apparent public confidence in the
bank, as evidenced by the demand for its
shares and the price they kept up to, was
caused (unknown to the public, which went in
and invested its money on the strength of that
apparent confidence) by the bank buying up its
own shares. The security of the £lBOO,OOO
uncalled capital was partly bogus, seeing that
a portion of it was simply the money that the
bank was liable to pay to itself, if it called on
itself to do so. But the idiotic banking law of
Queensland, and of other provinces besides,
is built for the express benefit of shady direc-
tors or directors whose incapacity verges on im-
becility. It says nothing against the prac-
tice of reckoning the unrecoverable interest on
dead accounts as profit, or against many oilier
things, and it fixes no definite responsibility
anywhere. The community is too tired in its
in most bones to insist on anew ban king law, which
will make the Q.N.B. variety of practices illegal,
and hold the directors and manager responsible
for them on the sufficient ground that, if they
didn’t know, they ought to. So the only charge
that can be made against the average awful
board is that it “conspired” to do things
“ with intent to deceive or defraud the share-
holders.” Therefore the board is practically
free from all responsibility. It never, or hardly
ever, does conspire to do anything wrong ; it
simply drifts, or the things happen, or it does
them or allows them to be done, without
formally conspiring. And it never in-
tends to defraud the shareholders ; it only
intends to postpone the row as long as possible,
with a placid hope that some incredible
boom will put things right in the interval. Of
course, the shareholders are deceived more or
less, and some of them are very glad to be de-
ceived. The deceived person who sold out bis
Q.N.B. shares in ’9l at £lO, for instance, would
have gob nothing for them if lie and the rest
had been undeceived, and be is very glad be
wasn’t. But the board doesn’t conspire to do
it; even if every director on the board suspects
that the bank is tottering, he never mentions
the painful subject to any other director, and
there is no formal agreement to smother the
subject. Subjects like that tacitly smother
themselves. And the auditors don’t conspire,
either; they only say quite truly that every-
thing is right “according to the books”—how
wrong the books may lie is another matter
about which nothing is said. Until the duties
of directors, managers, and auditors are rigidly
defined by law, it is very little good trying
any of them for anything.
The Adjournment Swindle.
For several weeks past Vic. Leg. Council has
played a funny little game of adjournment
with the One Man One Vote Bill. The 48 fat
landlords didn’t boldly admit on this occasion
that they would rather die of apoplexy than
consent to the abolition of plural voting. As
soon as the Bill came along from the Assembly
they voted for a fortnight’s adjournment to
enable Sargood to “modify” it. Sargood’s
modification scheme was to be based on the
ratepayers’ roll, and one or two further adjourn-
ments were worked ere that sapient softgoods-
man found the statistics he wanted, which
statistics can be seen any day in a dozen pub-
lications. At last he bad the statistics, and
when he got them the Council made a pretence
of considering whether Proputty interests could
be safeguarded by an arrangement for giving
one extra vote to all ratepayers. Sargood bad
not troubled to put bis proposal in a
practical form, as though he really meant
business in the matter. Probably he saw
at a glance that the proposal was ridiculous.
He brought it forward in a solemn tone of voice,
and his brethren tattled drearily on the subject
for a few hours, after which they fell back on
some more adjournment. When the “ debate”
was resumed, Sargood calmly threw aside
his bogus suggestion of two votes for rate-
payers, and asked the muddled old saviours of
the country to adjourn again, in order that
Henry Wrixon might prepare his little scheme
for wasting time. The 48 Rich Landlords
adjourned again—with enthusiasm. Wrixon
is on the “proportional-representation” lay,
which has nothing to do with ratepayers or
proputty. After a long, weary delay he came
forward wilh his scheme, which includes an
idea for converting all the metropolitan dis-
tricts into one huge constituency with twenty
or thirty members, and leaving the rest
of the country in one or two member
electorates as heretofore. The Council heard
Wrixon’s exposition of his new idea, which is
only a very old idea revived. It is so old,
indeed, and so well-known that the ad-
journment while Wrixon thought it out was
utterly absurd ; all the details of it were
worked out years and years ago. Then when
Wrixon brought up bis ancient idea, the
Council said it was so new and startling that
it was necessary to adjourn for a long time to
think over it, and the Council adjourned some
more. It is still adjourned at time of writing.
When it has finished being adjourned, it will
probably either reject Wrixon’s idea, or that
idea will be withdrawn, or more likely there
will be another adjournment. The adjourn-
ment swindle is easier than absolute rejection,
and is quite as good a device for leaving things
as they were.
The Teaching's of Panton, F.M.
Mr. Panton, professional “ beak” of Melb. City
Court, lately brought the proverbial hornet’s
nest about his ears by denouncing Cole’s Book
Arcade as a curse to the human race. The
great evil of the famous Melbourne institution,
from a Pantonic point of view, is in the mana-
gerial assumption that men and women can be
invited to handle books without being incited
to steal them. Cole’s Arcade is the Liberty
Hall of Literature, where beggar or chooser
may get rest for the body, food for the mind,
and music for the soul free of charge. It com-
bines the happiest characteristics of the shop
and the public library, and the attraction of
chamber music is thrown in. All sorts and
conditions of local- residents, strangers and
pilgrims, speak of the place with gratitude. A
humanising place, conducted as much for the
pleasure as for the profit of the proprietor
and his busy wife, is Cole’s Book Arcade.
But Mr. Panton calls it a manufactory
of thieves, or something to that effect. He
alleges that the opportunity to “ shake ” a
book from a shelf or stall causes books to be
shaken, and he never entertains the thought
that Cole’s Arcade also serves to inure needy
folk to temptation and turn mean ones from
meanness by its influence. There is honesty in
the atmosphere of this free, easy, and accessible
book-store. Cole’s stock, considering its size,
and the number of people who roam about the
premises, is possibly the least thefted stock of its
kind in the whole wide world. Certainly, there
is no justification for Mr. Panton’s statement
that the Arcade “ makes thieves,” and he,
being a man of intelligence, could offer lmt one
excuse for having uttered it. Here followeth
the only visible excuse. The custom of every
Melbourne official, since the land-boom went
bung, and “respectable” swindling was un-
masked in many places, lias been to speak of
robbery as the natural outcome of temptation.
“ Everybody feli,” in a cant Collins-street way
of speaking, therefore it was not to be thought
that anyone should have preserved his upright-
ness. Men were dishonest (cried politicians,
parsons, lawyers, and even Judges), because
“ the fever” took hold of them, and the banks
offered them the opportunity to speculate above
their means. The poor fellows were more to
be pitied than blamed, &c. Now, what Mr.
Panton says of Cole’s Book Arcade is merely
an echo of what everybody said about the
Boom. Melbourne is the paradise of the im-
mortal doctrinaire.
—————4.
Bad Drugs and Bad Druggists.
“ L.R.C.P.” on the impure-drug question :
While agreeing with “ Crotonis Oleum ” as to necessity
for drug-inspection, let me deal with his opinion that
“ medical men should not he allowed to compound their
own prescriptions, because there is no check on blunder-
ing, which is something more than possible with men
who have had, at most, only six mouths’ training in
pharmacy.” A qualified medico will have passed
examinations in practical and theoretical chemistry,
materia medico, —including medical botany; strength,
compatibility, dose, action, uses, and preparation of
drugs; and will have gone through a three to six months’
course of dispensing. With such training anyone not a
fool could dispense accurately, and the directions given
by the pharmacopoeia are so plain and unambiguous
that even an indifferently-educated man can acquire the
essentials of the art. The attainment, of facility and
quickness, of course, needs practice ; but of this the dis-
pensing doctor gets plenty. Also, “O.O.” would have
the doctor, when there is no pharmacist, procure ready-
made-up medicines from a chemist and simply label them.
Utterly opposed to the scientific method of using drugs.
No real doctor believes in stock mixtures. The principle
is bad and unscientific, and as no two cases of even
the same complaint are alike a corresponding varia-
tion is required in the medicine exhibited. The man who
gives a stock mixture is but a step above the quack with
his “ cure-all.” “C. 0.” again would restrict the pro-
fessional part of dispensing to “ Doctors” or “ Masters”
of Pharmacy, who should have undergone a post-graduate
course of two years and have been at least four years in
practice. Bui men who need six years to acquire
the simple art of pharmacy should take to carrying a hod.
The present state of things is certainly not satisfactory,
since the embryo chemist actually commences to make up
prescriptions before passing any examination in pharmacy
and materia medical We have here no guarantee that
the youth knows any pharmacy, and no safeguard against
his blundering, for tire chemist who employs him cannot
minutely supervise every pill or potion he “ makes up.”
From personal knowledge I say that such persons have
simply to blunder into a knowledge of pharmacy. Also,
as a doctor’s reputation depends largely on the result of
his medicines, it follows that his best interest lies in
using the best drugs, but though chemists, as a body,
are as honest and trustworthy as any other class, there
are some who habitually keep inferior drugs ; and who
being short of one ingredient in a prescription will sub-
stitute another; who will themselves prescribe whenever
a chance offers ; who, ignorant of auscultation, will use a
stethoscope—and so one will give an aperient for intesti-
nal obstruction, or plaister up a scalp wound incognisant
of a depressed fracture accompanying it. To partly
protect, himself against charlatanism of this kind, and
to ensure that the right drugs of the right quality go into
his medicines, the medical man has a perfect right to
dispense, and my personal experience has shown me that
it is seldom or never the doctor who makes a preseriptional
blunder.
Staying Out in the Wet.
The four dozen weary personages who form
Victoria’s Leg. Council are apparently going to
again throw out the Exported Products Bill as
a socialistic innovation and a horrid interfer-
ence with the liberty of the subject. Queens-
land, where the Government is also bitterly
Tory, hut which knows occasionally when to
come in out of the wet, has adopted this same
idea, and so, in various forms and degrees, have
Sweden, France, Belgium, Denmark, and Ger-
many. It has been found by sad experience
that the British market is very sensitive.
When a few low, mean democratic cockies send
inferior produce, it is simply published that
Victorian produce is off-color this season, and
prices go down. Then the large, bloated capi-
talist, who generally exports good stuff, be-
cause lie can afford to buy the best appliances,
is a sufferer. Of course, the whole province suf-
fers, but the large, rich exporter suffers most,
because lie has the largest part of the trade. To
obviate this, and get up such a reputation for
Vic. exports that they will command top price
in the British market, and thus bring the
largest possible amount of loot to the Vic. Fat
Man, it is proposed that all produce should be
examined before exportation, and only the best
kind be allowed to go out. The result would
be that the worst kind would presently cease
to be manufactured, because the principal out-
let would be closed up. But Vic. Council can’t
understand, by reason of the cotton in its ear,
that this isn’taSocialistic innovation, but a plain
business idea that is already in good working-
order in many civilised countries. And it is so
shocked at the idea of interfering with the
Liberty of the Subject that the small, ignorant
cockie —who, by reason of his poverty and
ignorance, is really the worst offender—will
probably be allowed to go on damaging the big
exporter’s market for a while longer. And the
big exporter being such a great and notable
ass, it serves him right.
+
A Curious Committee.
This paper again has the pleasure of hearing
from Mr. Ashton, M.L.A. :
Dear Bulletin.— You die hard when you are after the
scalp of your mortal enemy. [Note : Bulletin’s defini-
tion of “ mortal enemy ” : “A man who is not a Protec-
tionist.”)
1. You ask: “ If writing one’s name on the top of a
document is sisrning it, then why was the petition in
question voted informal on account of bein': unsigned ?”
Answer : The petition was held to be informal because
the law requires that a petition shall be “ subscribed.”
For further illumination of this point see difference in
dictionary definitions between “ sign ’’.and “subscribe.”
2. That certain statements made in the Assembly were
“ not contradicted by Ashton ” is due to the fact that
“ Ashton ” declined (1) to discuss a case which was sub-
judice, or (2) to disclose the private proceedings of a
judicial committee. He did characterise Mr.. Crick’s
major statement as “ absolutely false,” and subsequently
—at the next committee meeting—got the chairman's
ruling to that effect.
If Mr. Crick ever turns Freetrader I shall submit to
The Bulletin a statement of my case against him. To
ask it to find against him under existing circumstances
would, I fear, be resented as an impertinent suggestion
to change the policy of the paper.—Yours, &c., Jas.
Ashton..
There are two or three points in the above
letter, all of them wrong :—(1) The Bulletin
doesn’t “die hard”; it lives easily and
doesn’t die at all. (2) Ashton, M.L.A.,
must have an old, cheap, deceptive dic-
tionary. According to Webster’s Interna-
tional, edition 1894, page 1339 (near bot-
tom of left-hand column), to “sign” is “to
subscribe in one own’s handwriting.” When a
man signs a thing he subscribes it, and the
man who says that a document was signed, but
wasn’t subscribed, is a whatsisname. But to
write your name on the top of a document, or
on the front of the envelope you enclose for
“ Tatte.rsall ” to send your sweep-ticket in, or
on vour visiting-card, isn’t signing it, or sub-
scribing it either. If it was, then you
couldn’t address a letter to another man without
committing forgery. (3) The Bulletin didn’t
go after Ashton’s scalp. It didn’t even men-
tion him in the little article that all the row is
about. It was he who came after the scalp of
his “ mortal enemy,” which seems to be this
paper. [Note.—Ashton’s definition of “ mortal
enemy ”: One who doesn’t always vote with
Geo. Reid.] (4) If Ashton declined to state
his case in the House because the matter was
sub judice , why is he doing it now? The
matter is still sub judice. And if he couldn’t
disclose the private proceedings of a judicial
committee then, why is he disclosing them
now ? (5) If Crick, the Protectionist, turns
Freetrader, Ashton says he will submit his
case against Crick to this paper. All right;
tliis paper will be glad to see the case in ques-
tion. But if Ashton, the Freetrader, votes
for the Reid Government’s new protective
duties, to whom will he submit that case?
Archer, for the Strathmerton murder, is to be
hanged at Melbourne on the 21st inst. The
crime imputed to him was a cruel and cowardly
one, and gain was its motive ; which was all
the more reason why accused, his life being
really and not only formally at stake, should
have had an absolutely careful and dispassionate
trial. Thus the Australasian :
Though the Benalla jury solvprl the problem so neatly,
the question was not one for them at all. The prisoner,
in the circumstances, was entitled to have his defence,
poor as it was, considered by the jury when their minds
were fresh and not at the end of a long and already over-
protracted sitting. How many men in a thousand selected
in the haphazard manner jurors are have the mental
capacity to listen all day on the strain to speeches and
evidence, every word of which may be important, and
then to resume work after a short adjournment for tea?
These jurors were expected, at a few minutes to nine, to
listen with close attention to the criticism which counsel
for the defence was going to offer on the statements
made' by a host of witnesses. “ You can do it in
seven werds,” said the .Judge. Did so astounding a
remark ever before this come from such a quarter?
The mildest thing to say about it is that it is itself
proof that the Court had already been sitting too long.
It was not a remark that Mr. Justice Hood would be
likely to make early in the day, when his faculties are in
a state of elastic freshness. This desire to sit late at Cir-
cuit Courts would be inexplicable did we not know that
there is a great deal of human nature in Judges. They
do not sit late from love of work. For when in town they
sometimes cannot be got to begin till nearly a quarter to
11, and they may sometimes be seen escapin': from the
Law Courts between 3 and 4. It came out before the Law
Commission that one Judge had a fashion of vanishing
from the Practice Court with the alertness of the stage
character who is on occasion required to disappear
through a wall. And, as has been pointed out, there are
actually no means of illuminating the metropolitan Law
Courts by night, though the Judges advised as to every
requisite. Assize business is treated, now and then, like
the climbing of stairs—work to be got over quickly,
because it is out of the routine.
♦
Ex-Naval Officer :
“Onlooker” (8., 5 11/’9B) hasn’t got lashed up in his
’ammick all the knowledge on deck, and forgets that
derision is not confutation. My contention —that rein-
forcements of trained men and officers would he hard to
find by Britain after she had fought two winning sea-
fights—“O.” illogically meets by asserting that any
other Power would be in the same fix. And in any case
the statement is incorrect. Britain’s case is pecu-
liar since, with a navy nearly twice as large as
the French one, she has nearly 100 lieutenants and
sub-lieutenants fewer than France! And if “ O.”
knows what he's talking about, he must he aware
that the B. navy has been shamefully short of
sublieutenants ever since one of Gladstone’s Govt’s
initiated the “commutation ’’ retiring scheme, and that
“ subs.” are now luxuries beyond the reach of an ordinary
commander. Also, as regards the Terrible and Powerful,
“O.” is a little too previous, for the successes since
claimed had not come off at date of my former par.
Neither could the Welsh coal strike have affected the
Powerful’s case, when she doddered out to China,
for the simple reason that she started with bunkers
filled with Welsh coal. Perhaps, while “ O.” is on
the contract, he will kindly explain the Wanderer
and Boscawen smash; the Perseus and the Pactolus
breakdowns; the barely-averted Jupiter collision ; and
the ramming of a cruiser by a coal-tramp; all occurring
in'September last. And, to coil up, “O.’s” remarks
about Admiralty wisdom don’t in any way touch my
assertion that in some old ironclads, the ancient muzzle-
loaders of which are being replaced by modern guns, the
obsolete engines are retained; while in other cases in
which the useless guns are retained the Admiralty, in its
superhuman wisdom, has provided brand-new compound
engines.
♦
“ Chewzer ” on country meat-inspection :
The Central Board of Health prescribed 12 hours’ no-
tice before killing in licensed yard, but the various local
slaughter-houses are, as a rule, situated far apart, one
man having to attend to them all; and as the several
butchers give the requisite notice simultaneously, and all
kill at about 5 or 6 p.m., what is the use of such a fool-
arrangement as this? The remedy is simple enough.
Let each town have a common abattoir, at which all
slaughtering must be done under the supervision of a
man who knows a cancer from a crow 1
Also, re milk :
Whilst the dairyman is being kept strictly to the law,
the big, fat publican (as an additional source of income)
keeps, in some cases, nearly as many cows as the former ;
but, as Bung is not a direct vendor of milk, he may be as
diseased in his cattle and as dirty in his dairy as he
pleases, to the obvious danger of his boarders, to say
nothing of his own family.
♦
“ Shaker,” on the indispensableness of China-
men :
Some facts for J. A. Philp, (8.8/10/’9B). (1) The diggers
on Mt. Macdonald, near Georgetown, Q., are buying
splendid cabbages for 6d. each, irrown and hawked by
white men ; yet Georgetown is credited by Mr. Wraggk
with the Australian record for dryness of atmosphere.
(2) The statement that “ The Palmer would carry a
white population to-day—but for these slant-eyed
gleaners ” does not rest on the ipse dixit of Von KoT7.E,|but
is endorsed by (practically) every living digger who
worked on that field in the early da\ r s. (3) On the Gil-
bert and its tributaries, partly on account of reduced
living and partly by reason of increased stress in the
struggle for existence, ground is now being worked'by
whites which was abandoned by Chinamen, in the
seventies, as too poor. Also, if Chinese were en-
tirely removed now from “ abandoned ” gold-fields, all
those fields, at least in Queensland, would probably carry
a white population within a few years from the causes
above-mentioned.
Freetrader Parkes’ tariff contained 45
articles on which Customs duty was collected;
Freetrader Reid’s tariff —his newest one—contain?
21 articles subject to this duty.


The 12 suitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
, Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £49,349,231
Increase in Assets during 1897 ... ... ... ... 4,187,992
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 10,508,995
Increase in Surplus during 1897 ... ... ... ... 1,513,749
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 198,159,549
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897 ... ... 7,513,284
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.:
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’AROY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IP YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND, &C.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
A man was fined £5 in a Vic. township
recently for kissing a lady acquaintance. For
punching a woman and breaking two of her teeth
another man was fined lo.s. in a neighboring town
the other day. Moral for Man : Take the cheapest.
TO PLAINTIFF.
You sue the man who kissed you, and
Then take the cash with aspect meek ;
What of the scriptural command
That bids you turn the other cheek ?
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE needles,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ Bob.”
Her Majesty’s “The Lady of Lyons."
Lyceum “ A King of Crime.”
Criterion “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Tivoli Rickards "Co.
Palace I) inte, the Conjuror.
Alhambra Wilson and St. John’s Variety Co.
Town Hall Shilling Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ La Poup6e.”
Bliou “ The Liars.”
Theatre Royal “ Sporting Life."
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
The “ King of Crime,” a piece which isn’t
resurrected as often as it deserves, is on deck
for a week or two at Sydney Lyceum. The
Shirley-Landeclt drama is many miles above the
usual melo-dramatic level in various respects. It
is melo-drama pure and simple, with berlud and
crime, and midnight cadaver in it; but it is
artistic melo-drama, with a good story to tell and
a soul to tell it with. The boss criminal of Paris,
who has a happy home and an affectionate blind
wife in an adjacent village, and makes it a rule
not to murder anybody m that vicinity lest he
should disturb the home, is a fine character when
he isn’t played the way Charles Holloway
played him a year or two ago; he is also
a great lesson on the subject of laying to one’s
book. In his own circle, the boss murderer is
supposed to be something in the time-payment
bible-trade, and until he weakly gives way to the
robbery and butchery of an aged capitalist in his
own town, all goes well with him. After that, he
drifts downhill, and a profitable, old-established
business goes to pieces. He has hardly finished
murdering the old man next door and is getting
away with the £BJ) j when his blind wife comes in
and the assassin has to dodge her artfully round
the corpse by candle-light. The “King’s” best
friend, who happens to be eloping with the capi-
talist’s niece in the next room, is fixed on as the
murderer ; the blind woman, who has got things
mixed up while wandering round the dead body,
swears to him, and the usual French gendarme with
the red pants runs him in. Then the capitalist’s
son, who floated the company for the murder of his
Erogenitor in consideration of half the takings,
egins to reflect that if he had let the old man die
naturally he would have had all the takings, and
turns nasty, and requires to be partially strangled
in a cellar to keep him quiet. The “ King,” dis-
guised as the ’tec. who is hunting after himself,
has to interrogate his blind wife as to his own
whereabouts, and to knock his happy home finally
into ruins. The end is a pair of brown hands that
come out from the folds of a curtain and strangle
the capitalist’s son from behind (he can’t turn
round to see who has got him, but he swells up
visibly on a sofa and dies), and the dead body of
the “King” rolling down a flight of stairs and
bouncing off the last step.
* * * *
The “ King of Crime” is an evidence that
even the blood and butchery drama can be a work
of high art provided the man who composed the
remains knows his work. It is full of strong situa-
tions, and Diver, as the boss criminal, plays them
for all they are worth, except in one or two places
where there are signs of insufficient rehearsal.
The blind woman of Miss Burdett is quiet
and convincing, and Misses Alice May
and Marie D’Alton, Cosgrove, Fred Patey,
Harcourt and a few more do excellent
work. Miss May, known until lately as a
pretty and rather crude little actress of intermit-
tent appearances, shows a very remarkable im-
provement of late. The masked ball, into which
the dead body of the “King” bounces when it
rolls down the steps, is a bright piece of irrele-
vance and high-kicking held in the painted halls
of Sin, and the show should be good for an extra
week on the strength of it. But it would be better
—much better—if the King would lie still at the
foot of the stair when he is dead, instead of
struggling to his feet to cry out about his beloved
wife, and then dying over again. The great trou-
ble in melodrama is that the dead people won’t
keep d * id when they are dead.
** * *
The “ Red Robe ” will glare on the aching
eyes of Sydney till Friday night, and then the
emblazoned tog departs from Her Majesty’s stage,
and the “Laly of Lyons ” will supervene for six
nights only. The change has certain advantages
now that the nights are getting hot and gritty,
and the skeeter is abroad, and the locust sings its
strident comic song in the sun-baked tree. For
Claude lies pleasantly about a cool palace beside a
cool lake under the shade of a cold, white Alp,
and that lie is a refreshing cram on a Sydney sum-
mer night. And, on the other hand, Richelieu’s
tom ato skirt strikes one on the head like a portable
bush-fir ■ t rimmed with passementerie, and there
is no relief in it. The “Red Robe” departs with-
out throwing much additional light on the charac-
ter of the spurred and booted warrior-priest who
carried Louis XIII.’s king lorn on his back. The
drama doesn’t make him dark or forbidding or
secretive or especially strong, or anything else
that he is commonly understood to have been.
Probably he didn’t really look any of these things ;
the alert, cheerful, friendly gentleman in the red
frock that Gaston Mervale presents may be the
genuine article as it was iu the small, unwhole-
some flesh and the grim spirit a few centuries ago ;
only it takes some time to assimilate the idea.
Come to think of it, very few great men ever
looked as they ought to have done.
*# * *
A second careful overhaul of the “ Duchess
of Coolgardie, ” which is still une irthing big nug-
gets at Sydney Cri., under Dam pi t's m anagement,
makes this influential organ feel rather more
benevolent than it did at its first attempt. The
“ Duchess ” is a drama which grows on one, in its
own rough, picturesque baok-blox fashion. It
doesn’t say who the hero is, or what drove him to
drink too much bad rum in the West. It picks up
huge nuggets a good deal too recklessly —but then
in a gold-mining drama the leading character has
to pick up nuggets somewhat recklessly. Johnson
Weir and his gang have a rather free and easy
fashion of attempting wholesale butchery; even in
the days when the digger hung his hat promis-
cuously on the outcrop of pure gold W. A. was a
country where persons without political influence
couldn’t make arrangements for murdering other
persons on a large scale, in the presence of wit-
nesses, with impunity. But these things are mere
trifles, anyhow. The “Duchess” is adorned with
fine scenery ; the street in Coolgardie may or may
not be historically accurate, but it is a remarkably
fine piece of architecture, anyhow. And the
red-dusty aspect of the country, the sun-glare,
and the haze, and the tired vegetation which
looks like chucking it up, and the hungry trees,
and the general aspect of God-forgottenness are
all there. If the Dry Countree doesn’t look like
that it certainly ought to. There is about as
much plot as can be put into a drama which leads
a precarious life in tents and bark-public-houses
and on camel-back. The illegitimate infant is a
trifle out of place in a land where there is ob-
viously no milk or other proper sustenance for
it, but it seems to struggle through on tinned-dog
soup well enough, and the tame aboriginal takes
care of it and soothes it to sleep with corrobboree.
And the drama is much improved by the omission
of all details as to how the girl came to have that
infant; it just transpires in conversation that she
was betrayed before the story opened, in parts un-
known and under circumstances not worth men-
tioning, by a captain of no account with an eye-
glass. The arrangements made in Act V. for
scragging that captain (who is presumably hung in
his eyeglass) are very comforting.
* X -* *
At Sydney Palace the business is as large
and the mystery of Dante’s show as murky as it
was a month ago. Possibly there is a colder smile
on the skull of the burnt woman, and a more bitter
wink in its empty eye ; but these are mere specu-
lations. The man who is publicly sealed up in a
bag and locked and corded in a box, which is then
put in another box and fastened with ropes and
chains, changes places with the man who was
outside in a second or two less time than
he did the first night; it took eight seconds
at first, and he can now get out and put
the other man in his place in about six.
The public has pretty well given up trying to find
out liow most of Dante’s tricks are done; what
the feminine part of it would like to know is
whether that nice young man’s beautiful hair curls
naturally, or whether he puts it in papers at
night, or whether it is done with the tongs. If
Dante will call and explain this point, the writer
will be only too miserable to see him, and if he
knows when the visit may be expected will make
it a point to be out. Experience has taught him
that the curly artist whose hair has been aspersed
is often difficult to reason with.
* * * *
“ Bob,” a comedy drama new to Sydney,
is to be the second production of Miss Maggie
Moore’s season at Sydney Royal. The “Prodigal
Father” has done profitable business in its two
weeks’ season, and so far Miss Moore appears to
have struck a much better grassed patch of luck
than she did in her last visit to Sydney. For a
favorite of her calibre the bareness of that last
patch was something unusual.
< * * * *
The usual long list of names, mostly those
of nice girls called Flossie and Cora and Celia,
decorates the Sydney Tivoli advt., but there is no
overwhelming star at Rickards’ show just at pre-
sent. The Alhambra appears to anchor itself
principally on Ring wood, the banjo soloist. The
Bulletin has a vague idea that a small show has
dropped out of the list of amusements somewhere
this week, or last week, or recently. It can’t exactly
locate the missing entertainment, but it has the
ghostly impression of something being lost that
one feels when he walks along the principal street
in a dream, just before he discovers, in his dream,
that he has forgotten to put his clothes on. But
the impression is too hazy to be worth investiga-
tion.
* * * *
Melb. Royal was packed again on Satur-
day night, and the sale of Walter Baker’s goods
and chattels at the “ dear old home ” will be con-
tinued for another week or two. The scene of
that, festive auction is a really splendid thing.
Every man, woman, quadruped, and vehicle con-
cerned in it gives valuable assistance. Of all the
dear old homes that Baker has gambled away
during, his long connection with the Bland Holt
co. this is the most picturesque property, and
when Ladylove wins it all back for him in a canter
the audience would like to see him make a trium-
phant return at the head of his faithful army of
retainers and other live stock.
* * * •
Talking of Ladylove, one regrets to notice
that “ Sporting Life ” is absurdly incorrect in turf
details,’ like many other racing dramas. The
“ weighing-out ” enclosure is an impossible ar-
rangement, and the victorious filly carries 9st. 51b.;
also, after the race, the horses line-up at the spot
where Walter has just been rescued from a gipsy
caravan, and all the traditions of the Epsom
course are ruthlessly outraged. Nevertheless, for
the sake of Woodstock Hall under the hammer,
not to mention lfi other scenes and the efforts of
the co., Bland Holt’s entertainment deserves all
the success it is getting.
* * * *
Likewise, the prosperity of “ The Liars,”
at the Bijou, has been fairly earned. The talk in
H. A. .lories's play is bright and crisp, the charac-
ters well contrasted, the mechanism of the story
ingenious. . It is a most worldly play, to be sure.
Brough, as the preacher of wise saws and modern
Jtakes hold' of the situation at the finish,
and puts matters in the way that Mother Grundy
would have them go, and the audience is
expected to rejoice over the disappointment,
of the one earnest sinner in the show. Every-
body is happy and comfortable except the victim
of a first-class passion. The woman who has
played upon the seriousness of the man from
Africa until he wishes he was dead is content to-
march off to supper with her husband on the
understanding that her affections will be re-pur-
chased with further jewellery and things. The
prosperous sassiety liars pursue their careers of
uselessness, as usual, and philosopher Brough is
about to marry a peaceful widow, but the en-
thusiast whose soul dared to soar above the Pro-
prieties is left to kick himself for his courage.
Matinees have been introduced at the Bijou, and
seem likely to grow in gilt-edged popularity.
“The Liars” will take its second matinee on
Thursday.
** * *
“La Poupde ” is doing a steady business
at the Princess ! s, and the date for ‘ 1 The Geisha ”
is not yet announced. The most admirable feature
of “La Poupee,” next to the choruses, dresses
and stage-fittings, is our old friend Lauri, who
seems to have suddenly recovered his long lost
buoyancy. Charles Kenningham, too, is a general
favorite (although his make-up and manner, in
the first scene, suggest female, impersonation),
and Miss Vane seems to be accepted as a success-
ful performer of the name-part. The doll, how-
ever, is even less convincing than ever, for she has
discarded one or two of her squeaks ; or perhaps
the squeak needed oiling, the other night, and was
unable to pop out when called for. Melbourne
parents are invited to bring their little ones to the
doll-show on Wednesday afternoons.
* * * «
Talking of matinees, the widow and family
of John Hennings are to take a benefit at the
Firm’s theatre next Thursday (24th), when all the
available theatrical forces will combine to make
the programme worthy of the occasion. Twenty
paintings, in oil and water colors, by the deceased
artist are to be added to the other attractions,
each ticket-purchaser getting a coupon chance in
the lottery.
** * *
Nothing calculated to eclipse Peggy Pryde
and the boneless gentleman has been happening at
the Opera House these last few weeks, but Peggy
is just now .at her liveliest, anyhow. Also one of
the recent arrivals, Fred Poplar, seems capable of
genuine funniness when his song gives him a show.
His only bright effort, thus far, is achieved with
the aid of a tailor’s dummy, which he takes to his
bosom after many whiskies and loves more dearly
than a brother.
At Poverty Point.
The suicide of Scot Inglis is partly- at least a commen-
tary on the dreary accursedness of the hash-emporium.
His wife was away ; he had just lost his billet; and then
he considered things for two days in his boarding-house—
and died. Any other man who sits down in a hash-
mosque when his spirits are at their lowest ebb and his
nerves are out of tune to think over his misfortunes
might do the same.
There have been three “ Kings of Crime ” in Sydney-.
Albert Marsh was the best of them ; Diver is a respectable
- second, and Charles Holloway-was the worst. The place
where everybody begins to know whether the King will
be a success or not is at the end of the first scene. Simon
Grandelu is joining the band on the understanding that
it will plunder his aged father and give him half the
proceeds, and he wants to know what will happen to
him if he should send in his resignation. Then a hand
comes down on his shoulder from behind and a voice say-s
“ Death.” Albert Marsh said it loudly and convincingly
with the limelight on him. Holloway nearly blew- down
the scenery with a shrill, petulant monosyllable. Diver
says it in a whisper, which is only natural, for when a
criminal is posing as a highly respectable citizen, and the
local policeman is drinking- in the public-house just oppo-
site, he doesn’t w-ant to yell out compromising remarks
like that at the top of his voice.
“E.J.8.”: Isn’t your London correspondent wrong in
stating that Marie Elster is married to a brother of the
Larnach who w-on the Derby? “ Jeddah ” Larnach, I’m
told, is a brother of late W. J. Larnach(Elster’s husband’s
father) and son of old Don Larnach, the Maoriland
squatter.
“The Liars,” the H. A. Jones comedy, w-hich the
Broughs are now- playing, is really the same author’s
“Case of Rebellious Susan ” over again. Compare the
two plots. “Liars”: A young man is in love with
married flirt; wise man of the w-orld (soldier) disentangles
matters; young man goes off to Africa ; woman goes
back to her husband ; man of the w-orld marries an in-
teresting widow. “ Susan ”: A young man is in love w-ith
another fellow’s wife : wise man of the world (barrister)
disentangles matters ; young man goes off to Maoriland ;
woman returns to husband ; man of the world marries an
interesting widow. The plots of the two plays are as much
alike as two houses in the same suburban terrace. Every-
thing happens in precisely the same way in each. “ The
Liars,” though, introduces more character than we get in
“ Susan.”
Our old friend Sophie Harris, she of the divinely long
legs, is just now appearing at the London ’allsas “the
Australian operatic and burlesque actress.”
The w-orld went near to losing its Bland Holt last week.
Bland, with Mrs. H., w-as biking along Flinders street,
Melb., when he contrived to get into difficulties betw-een
tw-o trams. Dodged one, but suffered much buffetting
from the other, although he promptly abandoned his
bike to its fate at the critical moment. The machine
escaped unhurt.
R. S. Smyth e reckons that, w-ith the Meister Glee
Singers, he will have a chance to crowd the various Town
Halls, as the Swiss Yodellers crowded them years ago.
“ Melb.” : Head-master Leeper, of Trinity College, has
to pay £2OO out of his ow-n pocket, for tlie loss of Mar-
shall-Hall’s “ Alcestis.” Rather hard to expect the man
who pays the piper to be effusive over the music in his
report.
“ N.’’: Anent actor H. R. Jew-ett turning religious.
Nearly all actors are of a religious turn. Few sceptics.
Actresses are more sceptical. Jew-ett, the most unlikely
of men, former husband of a popular actress, Miss Maggie
Knight, follows the example of Montague Stanley-,The
Edinburgh tragedian, and Sheridan Knowles, dramatist.
“Haresfoot”: Mrs. Hennings, w-idow of John Hen-
nings, will be remembered as a graceful dancer on the
Melb. stage 30 years ago.
“ Shifter” : Actors don’t suicide through poverty, but
are murdered by it. Sam VVooife died through exposure
at nights, sleeping in Sydney Domain. Humoured ne "as
a Balaclava survivor. Belike.
“ Haresfoot ” : “The Liars” is precisely the kind of
thing that Williamson and Musgrove will have nothing
to do with. Their gauge of Australian taste is that
dialogue goes for little ; the pinch of experience has tola
them that this nation is of the Ducrow kind, wanting to
“ cut the dialect and git to the hosses.” In other words,
it is simply the recipe of Demosthenes —“ Action, action,
action.”
Wily Harry Rickards intends to sing around Maoriland
with Biondi and a select co., for the benefit of his health
and pocket. Not that he is off-color, but because he
might be in need of the trip—if he didn't take it. So
with one eye on the pool and the other on his constitu-
tion, ’Any stars for safety.
The flexible Ajax, now showing at Melb. Opera House,
is, as a matter of fact, identical with one of the Eclair
Bros. He married an Australian girl.
The “ cyclists’ theatre-night” is indeed a humorous
gag. A few weeks ago a cyclists’ night was advertised to
happen in all its glory at Melb. Royal, and after much
preliminary “boosting” with ads. and paragraphs only a
dozen of the L.V.W. (half complimentary tickets) and
one member of the V.A.C.U. attended. Total amount,
14s. !
All the scenery, accessories and smart dresses used in
the Melbourne Royal productions “ Round the World in
80 Days ” and “Sons of the Sea,” now belong to the
Theatre Royal proprietary, which had a lien on the lot for
one week’s rent—£7o. The failure of a season is some-
times better than a success—for the landlord.
The theatre usher seldom attempts to remove a rowdy
sailor. He knows better. In the gallery of a Sydney
theatre t’other eveninga party of tars were interrupting
and making themselves generally objectionable, when a
man who wanted to hear the play .yelled out “Order!
order !” “’Ere, wot yer interruptin’ thedrammer for?”
cried an attendant, evidently sent up to keep order and
feeling called on to do something, and, grabbing the
unfortunate person, he bundled him out with violence,
amid the cheers of the jolly- British sailors.
When Doughboy, a non-professional speculator, opened
his music-hall great was his glory. The first week was
“good hiz,” so, after treasury on the Monday, he invited
the conductor (Johnson) and the pianist (Foozlebersr)
around to have a drink. The publican attended to their
wants, which Doughboy mentioned thus: “I’ll have a
small bottle of fiz, and so will Johnson.” Then a pause,
and Foozleberg allowed his imagination to run away
with him (this he confessed afterwards), but Doughboy
brought him back to earth with the words —“And
Foozleberg! Oh, give kirn a long beer !” Fact.
There is little joy these times for the Australian scenic
artist. Some of the most familiar names were attached
to tenders for a job in a big country town a few weeks
back. A set of nine scenes was required for a stage of
fair dimensions, and the work was worth £7O at a cut-
throat estimate. Yet competent brushers asked as little
as £35 for a job occupying six weeks, and out of that
would have to find materials and pay a mechanical assis-
tant at least £2 10s. a week.
“T.D.”: Safe for a mere lightweight to write of the
extraordinary development of tissue among the men of
Bland Holt’s co. now that they have left Sydney? Baker,
the seceded Cosgrove, Charley Brown, Montgomery, and
nearly- everybody except Bland himself, are of constantly
increasing proportions—which seems to prove that “laugh
and grow fat” is a trumpery adage, and that the best
fattening process is indulgence in a round of villainies,
or endurance of the world’s persecutions for twenty y-ears
a night.
Mrs. Tommy- Hudson (Miss May Habgood, Antoinette
Sterling’s pianiste), has died suddenly in Adelaide, sad
to say, during her husband’s absence in India.
Dear Bulletin'. —Those who thirst to see their names in
a newspaper, so long as they- do not appear in the police
news, have a fine field open among the “ energetic and
influential committees” who mismanage benefit enter-
tainments—bodies which seldom have even a rudimentary
knowledge of the business they- undertake. Not long ago
a young Australian lady vocalist of much promise had a
farewell concert tendered to her—that is how the ener-
getics put it—prior to her departure for Europe. As date
of concert approached her maestro, anxious for his pupil’s
success, enquired about progress and found that, beyond
holding a few useless meetings, the energetics had done
nothing, whereupon he took the whole thing in charge
himself. After the concert, nevertheless, the papers said
that “the large attendance testified alike to the popularity
of the singer and the energetic endeavors of the commit-
tee to whom the tusk of organisation had been entrusted.”
The “ energetic endeavors ” had for a net result about as
much coin as the young lady had taken at a concert,
assisted only by a few local amateurs, in a country
town of 2000 inhabitants.—J.A.C.
The' late Helen Faucit is said to have been a great
actress (as Pauline, in “ Lady of Lyons,” and more tragic
heroines), according to the taste of the times when she
flourished. They were the times of high falutin and
awful stage unnaturalism. This writer has a recollection
of Helen Faucit as a Shakespearean recitress. Her stiff
gestures and slow, inhuman spouting of the lines were
ridiculously- old-fashioned even as compared with, say,
the style of Miss Heath (Wilson Barrett’s wife), who was
not more than five years younger. Acting of the “ great”
kind which appears to have been identified with Charles
Kemble, Sarah Siddons, and Helen Faucit, was absolutely
destitute of all sense of humor.
“ S.S.” : Very entertaining is this claim set up by the
poor player to be his own and only efficient critic and
the accusations of ignorance of histrionic hugger-mugger
that are hurled at the journalistic reviewer of mummers
and their mummery. After all, who cares a tinsmith’s
swear about an actor’s methods? All that concerns the
critic and the people is his effects. He attempts to re-
produce Wilfred Denver, “ Father Christmas,” or Ham-
let, and is judged by results as they appeal to intelligent
minds ; hang his methods! Let actors bicker over them if
they will—it is their business. If actors acted only to
actors and for actors the matter of merit might be
left entirely to the perfesh to worry out. The pretence
of a my-sterious faculty in the trained pro. is 90 p>r cent,
tommyrot. The most perfect piece of comedy I have ever
seen was performed by a little nine-year-old comedienne
play-ing school-teacher to a class of half-a-dozen baby
mummers in a suburban back-yard.


E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
* * * *
The calling for tenders for limestone would
certainly indicate that the Lake George Mines are to be
re-opened and smelting resumed.
*• * • *
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Hock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.*
* * # *
The Westralian Executive has leased the Govt,
colliery at the Collie. H M. Deakin, erstwhile of Sydney,
who has been in two or three big specs, in the province,
secures it for 20 odd years.
» * * *
One of the brighter spots in the Westralian
Govt.’s administration of the goldfields has been the pro-
vision of public batteries ; though as to them there has
been, generally speaking, much delay and a good deal of
pettifogging. Norseman battery is the only one yet at
actual work, though by the time this is in print the plant
bought at Belong should be rattling away. Others at
Yalgoo and Mulline should talk this month ; and still
others at Tuekanarra and Lennonville (Murchison) and
Mt. Ida and Mt. Leonora (Menzies) in Dec. Yerilla will
also have a battery, but it will not be ready until
January.
• • • •
Gilfillan and McCreery, mining engineers,
metallurgists arid assayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
• • • •
Westralia puts up another record in gold-pro-
duction, that for Oct. amounting to 116,8240 z. This is
so far above any previous month, especially last month,
as to create a feeling that it will be found much greater
than the next. Nearly one-half (55,1480 z.) came from the
mines at Hannan’s, though the outputs from several other
camps are substantial. Murchison, 14,3160 z. Where did
it all come, from ? Has the camp become too poor to keep
one small newspaper-hummer on the spot ? He would
not eat—or drink—much. Coolgardie, 10,780 oz.; N.E.
Coolgardie, 10,1390 z. ; N. Coolgardie, 72740 z. ; E. Mur-
chison, 36960 z. ; Dundas, 32550 z.; Peak Hill, 31550 z. ;
Broad Arrow, 27910 z.; Mt. Margaret, 29290 z. ; Yilgarn,
17170 z. ; Pilbarra, 1388 oz. And yet no sign of a return-
ing boom. Not a few Westralians came over to Melb. to
see the Cup, and also to see if it were possible to float
mines in the east, and have returned knowing that there
was not the remotest show. All the Australias have had
enough. Developed mines are not for sale, and as soon as
one approaches a reasonable stage of development it is
snapped up by Bull’s representatives. Boomsters have
given up the game. Some have gone back into the stopes,
where they find beating hard holes a little more irksome
than before; others cannot dig, and to beg are not
ashamed. A few have gone to gaol, where many
should be. One, who made a pot of money, is night-
watchman on one of the mines he sold, and, there being
so little to watch, has an easy billet —though the screw is
not fattening. Newspapers generally have given up shriek-
ing for a boom, and have mostly gone into liquidation
themselves. Writer saw a list last week showing the fate
of the W.A. goldfields-press, and a horrible one it was.
Magnificent mining-plants are scattered over the fields—
silent monuments of Bull’s folly and the rascality of the
boom. Here and there are pubs., in which hundreds of
pounds have been taken weekly for drink, now absolutely
deserted. And all this in the province which is now Aus-
tralia’s chief gold-producer!
* • * *
The new battery of 40 stamps lately started ab
the Galleymont gold-mines is one of the finest gold mill-
plants at work in N.S.W., and is well worth inspection by
parties contemplating erection of similar machinery. The
ore is fed automatically through rockbreakers and feedert
without shovelling, and the whole is most substantially
built. The engines are a fine pair of horizontal compound
type, driving the battery with ropes. Mr. M. Eissler,
the managing engineer, speaks in the highest terms of
the construction and design of the plant, which was built
by the Austral Otis Engineering Company, of South
Melbourne.*
* • « •
Another great Kalgoorlie mine has fallen into
line as a regular producer and div. payer—the Golden
Horseshoe. First clean-up from 20 heavy stamps over
70000 z., and if a complete clean-up of the cyanide solu-
tions and slimes had been made the return would have
been about 10,000 oz. Mine looking well enough to antici-
pate last month’s return for a long time. W. G. Brook-
man has declared in London that had the surveyors
marked out the Boulder as he intended the G.H. ground
would have been in it. The G.H. was pegged by a young
N.S.W. man—Henderson, whose family is well known in
the Forbes district.
• • * *
All hope of shareholders ever obtaining restitu-
tion of the enormous profits made by Col. North in the
flotation of the Plunderderry Mine has gone. As part
vendor, North got in cash £78,740 16s. 4d. ; and it was
evidently his intention to refund the lot, but his executors
declined to be bound by his distinct (verbal) public
promise. The matter went into Court, where Justice
Romer felt a strong disposition to give effect to the
settlement that was contemplated, but though he had
spared no pains to find means of doing so, was unable.
The circumstances, he said, showed a promised gift not
completed at the death of the man who promised, and
which could not be enforced against his executors. He
showed his sympathy with the shareholders by not giving
costs. Then their solicitors wrote to the executors, in-
cluding Mrs. North, and Capt. Harry North, asking if they
had any proposal to make. Mrs. North regretted she
could do nothing owing to the expenditure on
the estate being in excess of receipts. Capt. North
was not prepared to make any proposal. Both acted
strictly within the law—so did the latter’s dad in
floating the Plunderderry!—but dad; when he realised
that the “ golden hole ” had vanished, and what a hopeless
run the shareholders would have for their money, did the
right thing. Had he lived he would, as Justice Romer
was assured, have carried out his promise. But Mrs.
North, his wife,'and Capt. North, his son, decline to be
judged by any other than the strict letter of the law.
SUNLISHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/387.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
93/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining- Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Nv. Markwald.
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney6B Cmwie-st., Adel. ; Queen-st., Brisb.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
“Tl)€ R€ALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
IXarrisou & Attwood., Sole Proprietors.
To Fruit Growers, Orchardists, and
Amateur Gardeners.
The DISCOVERY of the NINETEENTH CENTURY is
geresford’s
CAUSTIC
SPRAYiir:;
SOLUTION.
Guaranteed to Destroy and Eradicate all Parasites, Aphis,
and Scale in Fruit Trees and Roses.
The Inventors of BERESFORD’S CAUSTIC SPRAYING
SOLUTION have, after years of practical experiments,
produced this most effective solution for Spraying Fruit
and Other Trees, by which Professional and Amateur
Gardeners may save themselves thousands of pounds by
having clean Orchards and Gardens at a small outlay.
Descriptive Pamphlets free from 13. ATKIN, Eulalia
Nursery, 399 and 401 George Street, Queen Victoria
Markets, and Ermington, Agent for New South Wales.
Sole Agent for Australasia, E. A. DAWBARN and CO.,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Westralian Government proposes to spend
during the financial year ending 30th June, 1898,
£1,379,876 of loan money. The principal items are :
Railways and tramways .. .. £539,145
Harbors .. .. .. .. 259,609
Coolgardie water supply .. .. 250,000
Water supply and sewage .. .. 29,000
Development of goldfields.. .. 119,246
Roads and bridges .. .. .. 8000
Immigration .. .. .. .. 2000
Agriculture .. .. .. .. 5000
Salaries .. 67,815
Expenses of raising loans .. .. 100,000
“ Expenses of raising loans ” is a very beautiful item.
Westralia wants 1T,279,000 for works, and its credit is
about good enough to get the amount net at 3b or at
most 3 Vi, per cent. But it insists on borrowing at 3 per
cent, for the beastly dignity of ranking with M.L., Vic-
toria and N.S.W., so its loan has to be sold at a discount,
and it will probably require to give £1,379,000 of stock for
11,279,000 in cash.' Therefore, it leaves posterity to lose
£lOO,OOO on the transaction, and the present generation
saves a little or next to nothing in interest. £1,379,000 at 3
percent, means 641,370 per annum interest; £1,279,000 at
3j per cent, means £41,567 interest; so if the discount
could be saved by raising the interest J per cent, it would
only cost £2OO a year to save. £lOO,OOO. If the loan was
floated net at 3| per cent, the interest would be £44,765,
in which case it would cost £3lOO a year interest to save
that £lOO,OOO principal, and even at that rate a 3i per
cent, loan at par would be cheaper in the end than a 3
per cent, one sold at a big loss. If a province’s credit
is only good enough for 3J per cent., and it insists
on floating 3 per cent, loans at a heavy dis-
count, it simply means that it is paying the other \ per
cent, interest with borrowed money. It might just as
reasonably make the interest 2 per cent, and sell each
£lOO debenture at £6O ; or 1 per cent, and sell the £lOO
debenture at £40.; or pay no interest at all, but sell each
£lOO debenture at £2O and let the buyer make his profit
when the loan fell due for repayment. The principle of
shunting the load on to posterity is the same either way.
* * « *
Consideration of the N.S.W. Estimates, issued
last week, make Premier Reid’s falling away (under the
pretence that revenue is wanted so badly that even the
cherished principle of Freetrade must go overboard to get
it) absolutely inexplicable. Last year’s revenue was
£9,489,718, and expenditure £9,507,202 ; deficit £17,484.
Next year’s expenditure is estimated at £9,681,421, or
£174,219 more than last year, and as last year was £17,484
short, that means that £191,703 more revenue is needed
to keep the accounts straight. Well, four months of the
12 are gone, and already Premier Reid has received
£163,028 more revenue than he had received by the end
of 0ct.,’97. In other words, with only one-third of the
year gone, he has already collected seven-eighths of the
extra money wanted. There is no attempt this year to
pay more of the public works expenditure out of
revenue than was paid last year. There is no
attempt to do with less loan money than las year—in fact,
the Reid Govt, is “blewing” more loan money this year
than it ever did before. The amount payable in reduction
of old debts is decreased by £42,000. The harvest promises
to be distinctly better than last. The count ry (we have
Premier Reid’s word for it) is prospering under the Free-
trade regime. But the one overwhelming fact is that the
extra revenue which Premier Reid wants is already
coming in so fast that on present appearances he will
have mo.re than twice as much as he says he requires
without extra taxation. Is the present move intended to
show that Reid isn’t a bigoted Freetrader after all, so that
if the Federal Government wants a Protectionist Premier
the choice won’t lie absolutely between Turner and Kings-
ton and he may have a fair chance of the billet ? Or does
he contemplate more expendilure than appears in his
estimates ? Or does he want to produce a big real surplus
with a view to silencing his critics? Or is a reduction of
the land-tax looming in the far distance? The only thing
which seems certain is that the Reid Government doesn’t
contemplate giving up the habit of charging unproductive
works to loans. Such a burst of honesty as that is beyond
any N.S.W. Government nowadays.
• * * +
N.S.W. public debt, on SOth September, 1898,
stood at £63,041,025.
* * * *
Vic. Leg. Council a little while ago almost
unanimously threw out the Bill abolishing the attach-
ment of wages under £2 a week. The other day it
changed its mind, reinstated the Bill, and read it a second
time in a friendly and almost cordial spirit. The Interests
of Property, as usual, were the cause of the change. In
the interval a number of people represented to the 48
Rich Landlords that very often a small creditor attached
a man’s wages, and larger creditors with Property had to
wait. Sometimes the man lost his billet through the
small creditor’s action, and then Highly Respectable Per-
sons with Property got nothing at all. Moreover, he
sometimes put up a friend, as a bogus creditor, to attach
his wages, and thereby Solid People with a Stake in the
Country were done out of their money. Also, the attach-
ment of wages could be abolished by the attached person
going insolvent, which he generally did, and in that case
highly respectable creditors seldom got anything at all.
In fact, it dawned on the 48 Rich Landlords that the
attachment of wages was sometimes actually injurious to
Property, and the news affected them almost to tears.
* * * *
The Mayor of Sydney proposes to borrow an-
other £100,900, to pay off the bank overdraft—in other
words, to help out the revenue by charging the accumu-
lated deficits to loans. A move much more to the point
would be to increase the rates and make the revenue
cover expenditure and a little over, and pay off the
shortage that way. One simple reason why most muni-
cipalities in N.S.W. are dead-broke is that the rates are
not high enough to cover expenditure, and the rest is
deficit. Sydney, for instance, levies Is. 4d. in the £.
London tackles its difficulties manfully by paying ss. Id.
in the £, and the average all over England and Wales is
3s. lOd. in the £. It is the old story how this is, in pro-
portion to population, the richest country in the world
and too dashed poor to pay its way.
* • • *
“ T.W.G.” : If you want a reasonably safe in-
vestment. with moderate interest just now and better in-
terest later on, no call-liability, and a fair chance of get-
ting your capital largely increased in course of time, the
preference shares of the Commercial Bank of Australia
might suit you. Anyhow, if it were the writer’s gamble
he would as soon go into that as anything else just now.
* * • *
The strongest point made in defence of the
recently tried and acquitted Q.N. Bank directors was
that, even while their bank was going with a mighty
slump to its doom, they didn’t sell their own shares —
that one of them even bought more shares. Of course, if
any one of them had sold his shares, he would have lost
his qualification as a director. He would, therefore, have
lost £3OO a year. If he sold after matters became
really bad, he would have laid up great trouble for the
future ; the man who cleared out at such a time could
hardly have persuaded the public that he didn’t know
the bank was cronk and the balance-sheets unreliable,
and that might have meant ruin and even gaol.
He would probably have got only a small amount for his
shares ; Q.N.B. shares were as high as £ll or £l2 even in
’9l, but it was only because there were comparatively few
in the market; if anyone had tried to dispose of thou-
sands of them he might soon have run the price down to
£5 or less. If the board had made a unanimous attempt
to clear out, it might, while getting very little for its
stock, have caused a slump which would have wrecked
the shaking institution, and led to investigation and
heavy calls. It was even advisable to buy shares ; the
best hope for the Q.N. Bank lay in a new boom, which
might send up the value of the securities, and the best
hope that the bank might last till it came lay in keeping
up public confidence. The holding of the shares proved
nothing either for or against the Q.N.B. Board. An
honest foolish director who didn’t know—through his
neglect and want of business capacity—how things stood,
would have held on or sold, just as it suited him. A dis-
honest one who did know would have held on, partly be-
cause it was difficult to get out and partly because
getting out would have been strong evidence against him.
Supposing, however, as is quite possible, the
Q.N.B. directors stayed in because they honestly believed
in their bank, it merely shows that they knew little or
nothing about their own institution. Few directors do ;
and this is one point where the law wants reforming. A
director is paid to know about his bank and if he doesn’t
know he holds his billet and draws his salary by false pre-
tences. He tells the shareholders at the half-yearly meeting
that the bank is prospering, and they think that he knows
it is prospering—they pay him to know, and they can’t
imagine that the honorable gentleman would tell them
that a thing was true without knowing'it. While it is a
sufficient excuse for a director that he was a lazy, credu-
lous dunderhead who neglected his work, and while an
auditor can dodge the unpleasant duty of knowing that
the bank is rotten by simply certifying that the balance-
sheet agrees with the books (which is often just the same
as saying that the perjurer in the witness-box agrees with
the one in the dock) nobody is responsible except the
manager. And the law doesn’t make him commit him-
self by stating in the balance-sheet that nil the bad and
doubtful debts are provided for. It doesn’t make him
state that all the alleged paid-up capital has actually been
received from the public. It doesn’t compel him to stop
reckoning as profit the interest, on the unsecured or badly
secured overdraft against which nothing has been paid
for seven years—he can simply plead that he was
naturally a sanguine individual, and quite capable of
honestly' regarding an unsecured o.d. as good, though
nothing had,been received on account of it for 20 years.
And the law can’t prove he wasn’t such an individual. As
the banking law stands in most of the Australias nobody
in a bank is responsible for anything barring embezzle-
ment or forgery, and when people can grant overdrafts to
each other from the purest motives they don’t forge or
embezzle. The law of Queensland having decided that the
Q.N.B directors were so unspeakably incapable that they
didn’t know about the s ate of an institution that was
falling to pieces before their eyes, what does the public
propose to do with them ? Will any one of them, after
that public certificate of his practical imbecility, be
allowed to keep on directing public companies ? And will
anybody put a penny of his money into any company
which any one of them directs?
* * * *
What is the matter with the B.H. Junction?
Bulletin correspondents ask. There doesn’t seem to be
anything particularly wrong with it novv, except that it
is a mine which yields, and will (so far as can be seen) go
on yielding, sulphides of no higher than milling grade. A
couple of years ago the co. was on a big pocket of re-
markably rich sulphides, and the new-chum Adelaide
directors tore them out and paid dividends gaily. And
then, when the pocket had been pretty well emptied, the
overweight crushed in the workings—they had been too
busy rooting out ore to attend properly to the filling-
in of the depleted parts. Then a few hundred
shareholders who had put down this paper’s repeated
warnings to its liver, or something equally irre-
levant, fell out of a paradise of dividends into a
purgatory consisting of a stove-in mine of medium-
grade ore, without any reasonable plant for dealing with
the refractory stuff, and without any cash reserve to buy
the necessary plant with. Now the plant is running all
right, and the mine is opening up all right; debts are
being wiped off, and divs. will start early in the new year.
But they will not be on the champagne scale ; they may
run to bottled English, though the mine’s two neighbors,
the British and the North, can’t even make “colonial”
out of their graft.
» * * *
N.S.W. Govt, metallurgist Taylor, reporting on
the Broken Hill zinc problem (which is, after all, the
whole sulphide problem, so long as concentration is
adopted) is only able to say that a lot of things that might
answer elsewhere will not do on the Barrier, where fuel is
scarce and labor dear, and that the processes which are
most likely to succeed are those which aim at getting the
zinc in the “tailings” into a more compact body by
means of chemical changes. Which is the opinion several
times expressed here—sometimes in connection with the
Carmichael process, which Mr. Taylor evidently believes
is one of the two most likely to succeed. The other is
one which T. J. Greenwav, of Block 14, has in hand ; but
it has not yet been tried outside the laboratory. A third
possibly effective system is the magnetic concentration of
the zinc tailings ; this, it is understood, is to be tried by
the German co. which has secured sites for the erection of
machinery near the mines. Nothing is generally known
here as to what that can do, though.
• * « *
S.A. Railway Dept., which proposed to raise
the freight on sulphides from Broken Hill to the sea-
board by Is. 6d. per ton, has undertaken to hold off until
the beginning of 1900 at anyrate. By then processes of
extraction ought to be advanced a bit; for the present
the increase would make hundreds of thousands of tons of
stuff now handled at a fraction of profit quite unpayable.
Meanwhile, if the private railway from Cockburn to
Broken Hill would reduce its rates to the level of the S.A.
Govt, lines, much stuff now unpayable would begin to
yield a profit.
* * * •
In the first six months of this year Broken Hill
exported £395,092 worth of sulphide concentrates. In the
third quarter it sent out £256,800 worth ; and in October
over £lOO,OOO worth. But against that there has been an
entire cessation of bullion export.
* » * »
"Finding the air-oompressor altogether too small
for the work ahead, the Oobar-Chesney directors, after
seeing several big compressors at work on Bendigo, have
placed with Thompson and Co., of Castlemaine, an order
for one as big as that lately turned out by that firm for
the New Chum Railway and Mt. Lyell mines—capable of
running about 20 drills. Also, ordered from the same
people two boilers of the size and type supplied to the
New Moon mine, where one has taken the place of three
old Cornish boilers in driving, alone, one of the biggest
batteries in Bendigo. Erected, this part of the new plant
will cost about £4OOO.
* * * *
Cobar notes : Refreshing to note that most co’s
at Cobar now propose systematic mining. Hitherto,
little holes slapped right down through lode matter were
called “ shafts,” and pig-rooting after rich spots “ open-
ing-up.” Cobar Gold-Mines (“ Fort Bourke ”), Great Peak
Freehold, and Chesney are setting examples likely to be
followed. The first-named has not yet had the ghost of a
show to display its qualities. The old co. stuck up a 100-
head mill without making room in the mine for men to
work. Soon found that it could not keep even 40-head
going to advantage from the enormous lode ; but, not
to be beaten, the co. slammed through everything it
could lay hands on, and yet the result, ad considered, was
not so bad. It is the only mine from Treat Cobar to Peak
in which copper has not been found, and that is only
because it has not yet gone deep enough.
At the Great Peak, development-work is being
pushed well ahead. The mine shows copper at the lower
levels. The Conqueror (the Peak’s next-door neighbor) is
phenomenally rich in silver-gold ore. It also possesses a
big lode rich in gold alone. Last crushing from it was
130 tons for 2400 z. of good-quality gold. The Young Aus-
tralian is still cyaniding, and paying 3d. div. The tail-
ings-heap will soon be finished', and the supply of free-
milling ore is very low and will soon run out. What it is
going to do for divs. and money to develop the mine’s
rich copper lode is unstated.
♦ * * *
The Lucknow (five men’s ground), formerly
known as Bolte’s, at Wyalong, N.S.W., has in five months
yielded from its small, but strong and enduring vein, now
being worked at a depth of 340 ft., just under £14,000 in
gold. There appear to be years of profitable work ahead.
* • * *
Ed. Bulletin. — Re those <l Cobar notes.” True
that Randolph Adams and Barnett both took some over-
an-ounce samples from the bottom of the Occidental, but
the important fact that they came from a streak in the
main ore-body has been omitted. The mine was cheap at
the price, and probably the reason it was not bought was
because the crowd contemplating the deal saw no chance
of selling it at a much bigger price. Nine cases in ten, if
not 990 in 1000, it is not out of the mine that money is
made, but on the turn-over. At present it would better
pay the Cobar-Chesney to concentrate than to buy flux to
blast-furnace without concentration. The object of going
down another 200 ft. before opening out is to see if the ore
changes in character. This important question will be
settled in two months.—Peak.
* * * •
Another start made with the Homeward Bound,
Yalwal, N.S.W. ; this time with cyanide. Shut down for
nearly four years while the co. fought no end of law-suits
to retain its lease —all on account of its agent not paying
£5 rent at the right time. As if the business-like thing
to do was not to fine more or less heavily instead of for-
feiting. And that asinine law still exists, and as long as
mines are worked by companies like mistakes will arise.
* * * «
The plans for the zinc-works, which the Aus-
tralian Metal Co. proposes to erect at Broken Hill, are
being made in Germany, and are now weekly expected.
The Metal Co. is mostly German also, and collaborates
with Hamburg operators. Present high price of spelter—
£22 10s. a ton —spurs the co. on.
* * * *
Though the Tas. Copper Co. is making big pre-
parations for the erection of a special pyritic smelting
plant at Rosebery on the west-coast, there is an appalling
decline in the value of the locally-held shares of the co.
Several mines on the line have immense bodies of low-
grade ore in sight, but the refractory agents are in alarm-
ing evidence, zinc being particularly plentiful. During
the last six months Rosebery stocks have come down
heavily, and many shows have closed “ awaiting the ad-
vent of the Emu Bay railway,” the daily papers say, but
there seems to be another fly in the jam somewhere. Tas.
Copper shares are selling at 7s. 6d.—six months ago they
were 40s. If Rosebery sulphides can be treated profitably
it is a big field ; meanwhile, the public seems to have made
up its mind to wait and watch.
* * * *
North Mt. Lyell: “ A number of hands are em-
ployed in napping and bagging the rich ore, which will be
sent out at the rate of 70 tons a week until further
notice. It is intended to keep the bulk value of the ore
sent away up to 20 per cent. Copper-contents of the N.
Lyell ore carrying this per centage of copper run from 8
to 9oz. of silver and from 1 dwt. to lhlwt. gold per ton.”
Obviously it has never struck the Argus correspondent
that unless the management can make better arrange-
ments for treatment than any other copper-mine owners
in Australasia have yet been able to make, the mentioned
silver and gold contents are almost valueless in a 20 per
cent. ore. The total value would be about l's per ton of
copper, and the chances are they will find that the bulk, if
not the whole, will be eaten up in costs of extraction.
“ Napping and bagging ” and “ keeping the value up to
20 per cent.” indicate hand-picking, whereas if the
account published about the richness of the ore-bodies
in this mine were half true, it should be an easy
matter to send away 70 tons a week without it.
* * * *
Tasmania’s Tasmania mine: Latest crushing,
4335 tons for 35910 z. ; average, 16dwt. 13)gr. to the ton ;
value, £13,466 ss. Another Is. div. declared, and another
£lOOO carried to reserve. Total divs. paid by the G.O.M.
to date, £676,071 15s.
* * • •
Ed. Bulletin.—The special correspondent at
Gormanston of Zeehan and Dundas Herald has spread
himself over a half-col. to deny the truth of a “ Wild Cat”
par dealing with the importance of No. 4 Tunnel ore as a
factor in the maintainance of Mt. Lyell divs., and with
characteristic enthusiasm fails to apply himself to the
point at issue. The par in question sought to prove, on
the evidence of average value, that No. 4 Tunnel was
showing signs of rapid exhaustion, and demonstrated the
necessity of that part of the mine keeping up its end of
the stick. That theco. regards No. 4as an incident is in-
dicated by the policy of drawing sparingly on this part of
the mine and keeping the material distinct from that of
the “ open cut.” Writer attaches no special importance
to the fact that the co. now describes the rich ore as com-
ing from “ Underground ” instead of from “ No. 4 Tun-
nel”; it may, however, have some meaning. No. 4
Tunnel” or “ Underground” to have any special value to
the mine must keep up its high grade ; if it does not it
simply becomes part of the whole, and Lyell must work
out its salvation as a low-grade proposition. The “ S.C.”
indulges in one independent calculation to show that the
Sept, out-turn from No. 4 Tunnel was worth (assay value),
according to him, £4 7s. 6d. per ton. After Lake Dora
booming he is trying a method of inverse calculation and
we should feel joyous that he is within 12s. of a correct
solution in a calculation involving nearly £5. He makes
special point of the improved silver value of the Sept,
run. Certainly the metal did show a big increase on pre-
vious months, but the par treated with “ average ” and
not “particular” value, and as the “S.C.” has not
grasped the rudimentary fact in mining finance that one
yield does not make a mine, the following table of values
may interest him :
Aug. 1897, No. 4 Tunnel (Assay value) .. £9 14 6
28 weeks ending 9th Feb.,’9B .. .. 612 8
23 „ „ 24th Aug.,’93 .. .. 6 0 8
4 „ „ 21st Sept.,’93 .. .. 419 5
4 „ „ 19th 0ct.,’98 .. .. 4 19
A mine or particular part of a mine that is capable of de-
clining so persistently and awfully in so short a time may
be equal to any enormity. Writer would like some better
reason than the past performances of Mt. Lyell to justify
him in regarding it as a “ gilt-edged mining security.”
According to its general manager, practically no pay ore
has been developed below No. 4 Tunnel, and since the
said G.M. penned his memorable report on the reserves
extensive exploration at No. 5 Tunnel has only
resulted in the development of a small streak of
silver ore. So, on present developments, life of
mine is limited to 7 or 8 years with full
complement of smelters in operation. How seriously the
position of Mt. Lyell as a “ safe investment ” has been
affected is shown by following':—Average value for six
months ending 31st March was—copper, 4 - 25 per cent.;
silver, 3'69oz. ; gold, '177. Average recovered value open
cut and “ underground " for Oct., 1898 : Copper, 2'59 per
cent. ; silver, 4-29oz. ; gold, '132oz. One day when all the
furnaces are in blast, a cyclone may strike Mt. Lyell and
its average value may fall only half per cent, copper, half
oz. ei'oer, hi If dwt. gold —not much, seeing it has fallen
double this in the past six months. At same time, copper
man easily come back to the £47 10s. it was bringing 12
months ago, and silver may any time be worth 2s., seeing
it has been lower than this within pa 118 months. Share-
holders would then find themselves confronted with this
little sum
Credit. s. d. Debit. s. d.
2'09 Copper @ £50 .. 20 90 Working and Reali-
3'79oz. silver @ 2/ .. 7'58 sation 35'00
•107oz. gold @ £4 4s.. 8'98 Profit 2'46
37.46 37'46
Or, say, 2s. 6d. profit per ton. Horrible possibility 1 And
yet is it impossible ? The “ S.C.” will probably "say it is,
but can he be taken seriously on anything but “ Lake
Dora ” finance ? —Jay.


r,
ORIENT
CLOTH INC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOE
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
Opposite \
G P.O. )
SYDNEY.
a
Harrington’s Duplex, 255.
J-Plate Twin Lens Hand Camera.
Queensland Branch —
-64 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Melbourne Acrents—
Craven & Co., 179 Collins St.
I WANT
—I .a Hobby!
Of all the Pastimes we know, none afford
the interest or give the ]3leasure that is gained
by taking up
PHOTOGRAPHY.
The process of making PHOTOGRAPHS is
now simplicity itself, and the Cost is very
small. We can equip you with an outfit at any
price you like, from
ss. to £5O.
The Latest and Best of Everything.
Harrington & Co., Ltd.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC' MERCHANTS,
06 KING STIiEKT, Sydney.
New Illustrated Catahvjue of all Photograph Materials
MAILED FREE.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
"D.C.L"
Lock washday
At the trial of Q.N.B. ex-directors the
accused were considerately and gracefully referred
to, not as “prisoners,” but as “defendants.”
Moreover, the ex-directors were allowed to absent
themselves—“ with permission ’’—from court dur-
ing their trial, and one of them—on account of
ill-health—was permitted to drop in and view the
proceedings whenever he happened to be passing.
None of the accused entered the dock—where the
first-offending, or perhaps innocent, young woman
is sometimes exhibited for hours. The gentle-
manly defendants were also accommodated with
seats at the solicitor s table—just as in an ordinary
civil action ; and the case was removed from the
Criminal Court to the civil section—“ Criminal
Court ’’ not sounding nice. There can be no ob-
jection to this considerate and humane treatment
of the Q.N.B. ex-directors, but why should not
similar delicacy be shown with regard to all per-
sons undergoing trial ? It is surely time enough
to treat a man as a criminal when he is proved to
be one.
• * * *
At the termination of the trial of the
Q.N.B. ex-directors the absurdity of the whole
proceedings became manifest. The verdict of
“Not guilty’’ was hardly declared when most of
the jurymen stampeded in the direction of the
discharged magnates, and began to ostentatiously
pump-handle them. Add to this the Chief Jus-
tice’s smilingly-expressed pleasure at the decision,
and it will be plain that only a little music was
needed to complete the “effect.”
* * * *
One mystery at least has been partly
cleared up by the Q.N. Bank cases. About a
dozen years ago the safe at a, suburban branch was
incomprehensibly looted of its contents (some
=64!)00). Put into the safe (?) on Saturday, on
Monday morning money had vanished. Evidence
given last week showed that the- notes, some
<*l2oo, had been recovered. How, whence, or
wiere, deponent sayeth not.
THE BEAUTY OF TRUTH.
POLITE VISITOR : “ And where
is Father? Has he gone out
to cam bread-and-butter for
HIS little Harry ? ”
LITTLE HARRY: “ Oh, no! He's only gone out 'cos he says he can't stand 'oo at any price."
Apropos a certain individual (writes a Bulletin
correspondent) was thought to know something,
and as he had a very best girl, a detective was put
on their tracks it being surmised that if he talked
at all ,t would be to Angelina They used to meet
on a quiet road, and adjourn to a convenient log
h h- n f?ai to IF cla ?M’ of b'.islms Log was gradually
shifted by tec nghtagamst the bushes, theD. being
planted behind latter. For six weary months almost
all their conversation was overheard by the
sleuth hound, but he had nothing but his trouble
for his pains. They only talked of the weather,
&c. punctuating the items by hugs. If this
should meet that young man’s eye he will know
now why the log was always placed at an angle
to prevent tell-tale shadows. Also, who the
drunken swagman was that he fell over one night.
« * • m
The anniversary of the Dunbar wreck has
just passed, and every old Sydney inhabitant baa
been reminiscing. Related by one that some of
the people who flocked to the spot professed to
recognise certain of the corpses tossing about in
the surf, and one Hibernian person went so far as
to exclaim: “Oh, be jabers ! —if that isn’t Mrs.
Mulcafferty’s leg ! ” (mentioning the wife of a well-
known Sydneyite, who was among the passengers).
Whereupon, a low, deep, hollow voice from the
more or less awe-stricken crowd : “ And how do
you know it’s Mrs. Mulcafferty’s leg ? ”
* * * *
The Curfew Bell regulation is now law in
Hobart. The Bulletin considers it only right to
warn juvenile visitors to the Derwent that it will
be necessary to have a birth-certificate or parents
handy to avoid being run in as “ under sixteen 99
one of these summer evenings.
* * * *
In fining the master of the Sydney har-
bor ferry steamer Manly, <£3G in all, for carrying
123 passengers over his licensed number (550),
Mr. Delohery, P.M., did a most salutary thing.
\v hen the inevitable Sydney harbor Princess Alice
affair at last does occur, may it not be further in-
tensified by the illegal overcrowding of the vessel
or vessels concerned—for lots of Sydney harbor
steamers, even when laden with only their
ticket ” number of passengers, are nevertheless,
actually much over-loaded, the Marine board sys-
tem of calculating passenger-allowance being
radically wrong.
Manly won’t be a place for reasonable people to
live in, or even visit, until one has the alternative
of getting there overland. Thousands of people
absolutely shrink at the idea of travelling on occa-
sion in a steam-boat crammed with 1000 or 1300
passengers, strongly leavened with hilarious
fools, and packed together like sardines;
and it does not need a strong imagination
to conceive what hideous things would come
to pass if a boat so loaded got into collision, or
anything happened in a heavy beam sea to a
crowded steamer whose engines broke down off
Dobroyde bumbora, or Middle Head. As well go
ashore at the Gap 1
* • » *
As soon as a few sq. miles around Sydney
had been sprinkled, the pious rain-beseechers
promptly converted their “humiliation ” service
into a thanksgiving-service. At time of writing
great part of N.S. W. remains as dry as one of
Brunker s speeches, and the large hairy person
out-back is still petitioning for rain in his own
lurid and unprintable fashion.
* * * ip
N.S.W. Major-General French has sud-
denly decided that the Australian Horse should
most certainly be increased to 1000, and that right
early. Premier Reid is now “ ag’in ” it-savs he
can’t find the money, but he will probably chan-e
his tune before the censure-vote ns the eonnGv
member rages with an exceeding fie men ess and
Yes-No will want every vote on that division
* * J » envision.
Government House in Parramatta Park
this vear conmletes it-* K
For years it has alternated between a faetory and
a boarding-house. There was In earerf t
House on the site on which thi. , n earll er Gov t.
but it lasted only a f vt n Bta \\ (ls ?
down. Every stone of' the' present buying
spires a story. 1 ouucung m-
A SAVING CLAUSE.
THE SHEPHERD: “I’m afraid it’s apt to lead a
young girl astray.”
GIRL: “Oh, no! No girl ever came a ‘cropper’
yet who put the brake on in time.”
In Melbourne, the other day, Miss Amelia
King obtained £lOO damages for breach of
promise of marriage by Emanuel Ring.
The sooner it is realised that the N.S.W.
“ society ” idea of running a Queen Victoria Con-
sumptive Home is a fizzle, the sooner will some-
thing really humane be done for the sufferers con-
cerned. It is the duty of Govt, to take the care
of indigent consumptives out of the hands of
private philanthropy, especially when that philan-
thropy shows itself unequal to the responsibility.
There are over 3000 consumptives in N.S.W.,
every one of whom is to some, and many to a
great extent, a disseminator of disease as well as a
personal sufferer, and no portion of the State
revenue can be better spent than in housing and
medically caring for those unable to pay for their
own needs; always provided that the foreign con-
sumptive is kept out to begin with.
* * * *
The catching of the sharks “shepherd-
ing” the “ salmon’’-shoals off Bondi (Sydney)
beach pays curious di vs. One sea-lawyer's stomach
yielded two gold rings and a gold scarf-pin, and
another’s a silver watch, “ black and slime-
covered, but (join/j ! ” which panned out £2. The
lucky captor asserts that he had once a pair of
shoes which had been tanned in a shark’s innards.
There is a beautiful and unusual spectacle to be
seen at Bondi, just now, when the sun strikes low
from the west. Every now and then, as a big
roller towers to its highest just before breaking,
within its face are to be seen thousands of quiver-
ing, glittering objects—the “salmon ” which have
been forced inshore by the sharks, and which, by
the passage of the sun-rays through the watery-
medium, have their silver sheen turned to a splen-
did golden green. By the way, The Bulletin
has in type a charming sketch by Roderie Quinn
dealing with the shepherding of the salmon by the
sharks—the drovers of the sea.
* * * *
Is there aught after death ? Yes, Probate.
The baleful spread of education was de-
monstrated at Redfern, Sydney, the other day,
when a laborer excused himself for not working
on the plea that someone was having
an occult influence on him. Some
day we will see poor fellows wan-
dering up and down George-street,
unable to drink beer because they
have been hypnotised. About which
time a volcano will break out in
Surry Hills, and the sea-serpent
will come ashore and get tangled
up in the Oeean-st. cable-tram.
* * *
On a Southern goldfield, once,
“ the man under the bed ” actu-
ally did turn up. Loud screeches
were heard one Sunday night
from an elderly spinster, living
alone, and sure enough there was
a man under her bed. On being
yanked out, he proved to be an
eccentric local character whose
“soft” spot was prospecting
and the belief that ultimately
he was to stir up the country
with the discovery of a
fabulously rich reef. Un-
der the bed he had been
assiduously attacking
theskirti rig-board with
a broken chair-leg,
and pathetically
told his captors that
“It was all right
this time ; there was a hard bar
in ihe face, but the lode was
ju»t behind it.’ 1 The spinster
seemed to think that she should
have her prize by right of dis-
covery, but the unsympathetic
authorities removed him to the
lunatic asylum.
• * *
A Japanese states that the
Japanese intestinal canal is half as
long again as the European, and thus
accounts for the Jap's enormous rice
consumption. Which recalls a Victo-
rian-Hibernian medico’s humorous asser-
tion that his over ...upie binjie was the
result of “ another injustice to Ire-
land,” because, as he put it, the brutal and
bloated Saxon, by devouring the meat and thus
restricting his (the doc’s) forbears to a distending
vegetable diet, had produced in them and him an
intestinal elongation which removed him person-
ally from the regions of romance and deprived him
of a coveted interest in the eyes of the fair sex.
* * * *
The finding of an unsuspected inch-long
hob-nail in the skull of a deceased Victorian female
lunatic is more than paralleled by the case of an
inmate of N.S.W. Gladesville asylum, who was
found to have driven a French nail up to the
head in his cranium. Even more wonderful was
the case of a man who, after shooting himself
through the brain in Sydney Domain, walked over
and presented himself in the surgery of a Mac-
quarie-street medico. [He died within'three days.]
It will be remembered, also, that N.S. Wales P.M.
Norton lived over a year after being shot throii‘"h
the brain by a woman ; but stranger than all, per-
haps, was the ease of the Melb. youth who, after
shooting a ramrod clean through his head, was
able to walk to the hospital, and was eventually
turned out cured. . Yet another man dies of a
little spot of clotted blood in his brain, or a tap
from an umbrella !
* * * *
It would seem that Mr. David Mitchell,
who lately announced his intention of bequeathing
his unique library of 30,000 vols. to the N.S.W.
public, is stirring up Government to at once
provide suitable housing therefor. But, wouldn’t
it be rather unbusinesslike for Govt, to start
building a receptacle for what has not been
definitively handed over to it? And be this said
without the shadow of an imputation on Mr.
Mitchell, whose word in public estimation stands
equal to his bond.
* * ♦ *
A Melbourne wife, giving evidence in her
suit for divorce from her vanished Charley, stated
that in the latter days of their connubial life he
was “jolly to everybody else but her.” And
she ?
Two Rings Amelia had in view
When first her “ Yes ” was spoken—
The man Ring, seeming good and true,
And ring, the marriage token.
But both are gone ; Emanuel
Accounts for her dejection.
When called upon to ring the belle
He wrung her young affection.
Which Ring did ’Melia dearer hold—
The man, with ardent kisses,
Or e'en the promised hoop of gold
That makes a maid a missis ?
No matter, compensating Fate
Sweet solace soon arranges,
And ’Melia may find a mate
On whom to ring love’s changes.
Sing a ditty melancholy
Of a hubby gay and jolly
To all except the woman who attracted him of yore.
When, with jealous eyes and tearful,
She beholds him looking cheerful,
She fancies he’s forgotten that he’s not a bachelor.
He is ever bright and pleasant
If another girl be present,
Or a pal looks in to take him for an after-dinner walk;
But he hasn’t heart for joking
When he sits at home a-smoking,
Saying “ Yes ’’ or “ No ” or “ Fancy ! ” whilst the missus
does the talk.
So, her eyelids growing redder,
Mary fain would be a “ deader,”
Which were better far than living with the “partner of
her joys.’’
Still she feigns a wish to please him,
Though she’s cold enough to freeze him,
And can offer no distractions like the barmaids and the
“ boys.”
Ah ! the man is merely human,
And the wife is—just a woman,
And they took their chance together in the ordinary
course :
Having played at “ Ducky-deary”
Till their spirits both grew weary,
The only courtship left them is in seeking a divorce.


JZ
1
min!
i.
You
'• Forgotten
■ M,r ? ”
Struck by Lightning!
That’s how a man feels after
drinking snake-juice.
Able to strike the Lightning.
That’s how a man feels
after drinking
Sydney Lager Bier.
It is the most strengthening
drink known.
In N.S.W. Supreme Court, last week,
Acting-Justice R. E. O’Connor ruled that oysters
are “ wild animals ” so far as the law is concerned,
and may be “ captured ”as “ game.” The wild
and savage oyster!
Fruit in season. In summer she provides
her meat; in winter, finds her store complete.
This is the position the thrifty housewife finds
herself when she takes advantage of the bountiful
supply of fruit we are going to have this season.
M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, of Syduey and Mel-
bourne, have anticipated the season and are now
landing their stock of specially-manufactured
fruit-jars. Lightning, Mason, Chicago, Perfec-
tion, &c., &c., all guaranteed and air-tight. Jam-
jars all sizes and kinds.*
X
SoftCaO'/as Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per 14-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIICE lillO I'll EHS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PiLLS
definitely cure hydatids, skin eruptions,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Ei"in-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK Stripe
Matt a lasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half'-dose}i, free by post throuyhout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda, i
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed. ,
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-sr., Melbourne
11 Pitt-stftet, Sydney;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide; Queen -st,, Brisbane.
A steamer leaving Melbourne on Cup-day
advertised for a doctor, but had to postpone sail-
ing till after Steeplechase day, as no medico would
start till he had had his gamble.
“ Medicus ” : It is well-known amongst
doctors that the most honorable and straight-
forward patients are - Chinamen ! Unknown
amongst them all the little tricks of calling in a
professional rival to say whether the treatment is
ri<rht (to do the profession justice, he 11 seldom go),
of surreptitiously visiting quacks, thereby up-
setting results of proper treatment, and then
blamin'* the doctor ; of returning an abusive reply
to a civil request for settlement. But your aver-
age Australian is “ fly ” my oath !
* * * *
An old man hanged himself at Spudville,
Vic. the other day, and whilst he was still pulsat-
ing (’n the-rope several people gathered around and
discussed the situation in awed whispers, and let
him go hang. One of their number went for
police assistance and the benefit of clergy, and
tlin others watched to see that the suicide did notJ
escape. When the police arrived and cut the man
down he was just dead. At the inquest the on-
lookers explained that they did not cut the tope
because they understood that it was illegal to do
S: )—probably they were afraid of being sued for
the value of the rope by the would-be-suicide.
\ ou never know your luck.
* * « •
Where is the logic or fairness of com-
muting Bisson’s death-sentence to one of penal
* Tvitude for life? One can imagine he hears the
N.S.W. Cabinet arguing the point, with Sunday
Brunker moo-ing across the table at intervals.
“ Was he a murderer ? ” “ Dunno.” “ Was he
insane?” “Dunno.” “Shall we hang him?
“Dunno. Better not, perhaps.” “ Send him to
a lunatic asylum ? ” “ Dunno. Too much
trouble.” “ Beave him in gaol ? ’ Ye-e-e-es .
Moo-oo ! ” Yet, if Bisson wasn’t insane, no man
in Australia ever deserved banging more than he
did, and if the Reid Cabinet believed that lie
wasn’t insane, he is the last man in Australia it
would have reprieved. And if Bisson was insane
—think of the brutal horror of sentencing a man
to life-long punishment for a mental disease.
* * * *
Sydney fire-brigades again proved their
efficiency by their prompt suppression, recently,
at Anthony Hordern and Co.’s warehouses, of
what was potentially the biggest blaze the rityhas
ever seen. But some day, when two lig fires
happen to synchronise, Sydney will ha\e b tter
cause to know that her fire-warriors are too few
by at least 100 per cent.
* * * *
The venerable and unintentionally-comic
Dean Cowper advocates, in Sydney D.T., the
retention of the present Sunday-closing law, in
order to “give the publicans an opportunity of
worshipping God.” If Bung is indeed consumed
by an overwhelming desire for devotional exer-
cises, he has hitherto succeeded in concealing the
fact with great skill.
“Mac.”: Adversity makes us, &c. Met
a displaced compositor, the other day, who told
HALF-MAST HIGH.
JOHNNY: “Is anybody dead belonging to Mrs. De Smith?”
SHE: “Why do you ask—is it because she wore a black dress last
night? ”
JOHNNY: “ Yes, but it didn’t come above her waist.”
me he was now learning to be a barber, under the
tuition of a man who advertised that he would
teach the trade complete for a sov. Intending
pupils were first asked for their money, and then
led, early in the morning, to the Salvation Army’s
shelter, “ Our Lodgings,” and other refuges of the
indigent, who rolled out in full force to be shaved
for nothing. Apparently, the custom was of long
standing, for all the men seemed to regard it as a
regular thing, and took their seats, while the
novices came along in turn and hacked at their
stubble with amateur-sharpened razors. “ Trying
it on the dog,” with a vengeance. “Those fellows
had been through some scrapes in their time, I tell
yer,” said my informant, grimly; “and when I
took a hand you should just have seen the blood-
and-hair fly.”
Who says that women have no sense of
humor? A small M.L. township at present pos-
sesses an eccentric female who has just gained
freedom from marital bonds per medium,
of her husband’s nephew. Another
relative of her husband was like-
wise co-respondent, and she
has now clinched matters
by becoming engaged
to her late father-in-
law (80 and much
cash). Svve e t
little family af-
fair altogether.
She has eight
children already,
and now the
people are asking
each other conundrums about what relation
the future offspring will be to the present lot.
A joke’s a joke, but a woman who tries to inflict
on along-suffering community another version of
“ Sisters and brothers have I none,” &c., ought to
be run in.
* * * *
A Sydney D.T. correspondent throws a'
pleasing light upon the ingredients that mostly
compose the hog that supplies the lard that some-
times makes the festive margarine : —“ Swine that
never taste aught but the semi-putrid offal or half-
boiled carrion. Think of the dog’s-flesh character
and origin of the lard and the kindred nostrums
made up from this unsavory sustenance ; and
of the ‘ mountebank lying,’ in season and out, of
those who sell this carrion-fed bacon or pork as
dairy produce ! ”
* * * •
Grainger, M.P., referring to a phrase in
Kingston’s Law Reform Bill, asked in S.A. As-
sembly : What are “the ordinary duties of a
solicitor ? ” Replied Glynn “ Holding his own in
the attempt to hold what other people own.”
“ Maori ” : Ever noticed
prevalence of colds and coughs
among churqhgoers? Made a
study, once, of biographies of
saved kiddies in a Sunday-
school magazine, and, out of
12 boys who had died, ap-
parently of religion, 10 had
succumbed to consumption.
Does religion induce con-
sumption, or do tubercles
mean piety? (Galton, in his
“ Hereditary Genius,” seems
to take it as proven that very
pious persons have a tendency
to lung-weakness.) The unco-
guid are now credited with
weak sight, weak lungs, thrift,
suburban residences, and spec-
tacles. They’ll want the earth
next.
• • *
The late Ross Cox, in-
spector of Vic. State Schools,
once during a reading lesson,
enquired of a bright little girl
what she understood by “ the
sister’s holy hymn ” (in
“ Mary, Queen of Soots”) and
got the naive reply : “ Please,
sir, a monk, sir.” “No one
but a woman child could pos-
sibly have struck such an
idea,” the inspector used to
say in relating the incident.
* « *
“Hermes”: “ It moves!”
Sent the olive branch (six
summers) to State-school last week for the
first time, and when this morning I hesitated
over the tonic, said the infant, encouragingly :
“ Go on dad, get it down your neck ! ”
* * • *
T succee ding advts. from Melb. Age
j. muonic a
TjiARMER, young, wishes correspond respectable,
UldustllOUS fanners daughter, R.C., used pigs
and calves . Michael, P. 0., Buln Buln.
I ADY, ? 6, educated, musical, washes to form
platonic marriage. Platonic, G.P.O.
The practical and the genteel.
THE PRIDE OF THE
FLESH.
ROBERT : “ There yer are—look at
Bill, too proud to speak to us, just ’cos
'e’s goin' in for ‘a drank and disorderly,’
while you and me ’as done ‘without-visible-
means’!”
(Original, and fact). “ Says the lady
to me, ‘ Mind, I never buy nothing off a
Jew,’ but I kept my hand over my nose and
made a thplendid bargain.”
* * * *
In May last two burglaries in jewellers’-
shops happened at Perth, and particulars of the
stolen goods were sent East. In July theN.S.W.
police notified W.A. that two Frenchmen had
been arrested in Sydney, and a large quantity of
the missing goods recovered. The W. A. police
(to put it very mildly) had by this time decided
that they had made a mistake about the burglary.
The W.A. Govt., therefore, declined to send over
for the Frenchmen. N.S.W. Govt, replied, “If
you don’t, we shall send them over and land them
on the wharf at Fremantle, as we consider such
characters a menace to society while at large.”
Westralia prosecuted perforce, and the Gauls got
seven years apiece. And you ought now to see
the faces of some of the lofty police officials ! The
matter will probably be brought up in W.A. .Par-
liament.
*** * .
Downer, Q.C., in melancholy opposition
to Kingston’s Law Reform Bill, which shuts the
University out of the training of barristers and
solicitors, asserts that it will soon be unnecessary
for a Crow-eater to be able to read and write.
The eminent Q.C. named told S.A. Assembly,
during the discussion of Kingston’s clause to do
away with the necessity for youths matriculating
before getting their law-articles, that the only
question asked him by Judge Gwynne when he
applied for his articles was : “ Are you the young
fellow that went to school with my son Ted?”
Yet Downer thinks the University examination
should be retained.
« * * *
The other night, on the Mosman, N.Q.,
a hideous one-eyed plantation kanaka tried to
break into the bedroom of a Mrs. O’Donoghue,
whose husband (a miner) was absent. The plucky
woman fired three revolver shots at the intruder,
who was afterwards found, wounded in the breast,
some 40yds. away. The woman was charged,
before Mr, Donnelly, P.M. (Polynesian inspector),
with “ shooting with intent,” and, though the
wounded kanaka freely confessed his evil inten-
tions, she was remanded for a week—and kept
nearly 48 hours in the look-up before being allowed
bail, although she has four small children—one
under 12 months. The residents held an indigna-
tion meeting, at which funds were collected for
Mrs. O’Donoghue’s defence. The local paper
further reports that a warrant for the arrest of
the nigger was refused. If the local autho-
rities don’t show a lot more tact in dealing with
white women, especially miners’wives, under such
circumstances, there will probably be niggers
dangling at the end of string in the North. What
sort of fuss would there have been if the attempt
had been made upon, say, the wife of the central-
mill manager. Would she have been refused bail
had she been plucky enough to defend her honor
with a six-shooter ?
♦ * * *
A. W. 8.” : “ Re Rornahapa’s solution of the
“ toughest problem ” (B. 5/11/’9B). N.S.W. Govt,
did not legalise children’s-support-allowauce to
widows and deserted wives (3s. per week each is
maximum) until Jan., ’97, which renders it impos-
sible for R.’s friend to have increased her family
from two to five under the protection of the Govt,
grant. Also, although the charities department
being mortal, can be imposed upon, it would
blush to be fooled in the manner described. So
jealous are the neighbors of women who are forced
through no fault of their own to seek the State’s
bounty, that the smallest straying from the paths
of virtue is immediately extra-ofßcially made
known to the director. Also, if a child is born,
the woman under the Act is not technically
deserted.” But, all the same, it was a good story.
. Queensland town is pos-
d of one doctor who has a
■al weakness for whis k y.
When the residents want medi-
cal attendance they have Es-
culapius suddenly arrested
and run in for drunkenness.
He is then remanded by the
courteous and obliging- beak
for the terip of 48 hours;
sobered up in the gloom of
quod and taken in hand by
the police, who trot him
round to the bedsides of all
the sick in the neighbour-
hood. (This is the local
equivalent of seven days’
“ hard.”)
* * ‘ *
Within the last two
years some half - dozen Q.
Chinamen have suicided by
hanging themselves in the
lock-up. Last week a Towers
Chow varied the details
of the performance by
suspending himself with
his pigtail from the beam
of the local limbo. How
did h'e manage it ? Did
he climb up, tie on his
caudal appendage and then
jump, or did he contrive to swing it round' the
timber and then haul himself up—or what?
* * * *
A man up Maryborough (Q.) way was lately
fined .£4O for selling “ wine ” in a prohibited area.
The liquor was found in a galvanised-iron tank,
between ceiling and roof of dwelling, and was
tested by Gabriel (of Mt. Morgan fame). He put
less than half an ounce of the “ wine ” into GOoz.
water, and dropped in a frog, which survived just
20min. The decoction was being sold to kanakas
on surrounding plantations.
* * * *
The Jap. has reached Raspberryland. Re-
cent Hobart ad. :
JAPANESE young Man, cook and gen. servant,
wants situation.
* • * * *
That venerable bush inhabitant who never
saw a railway or a bike or a wood-blocked road or
a hansom cab, cropped up again last week. His
name was “ Scotch Bill,” and he had fossicked for
40 years on Scotch Bill’s Creek near Bright (Vic.).
In all that time he had never been even to Bright,
and Melbourne was nothing but a rumor to the old
man. A few days ago the police came and re-
moved Scotch Bill on a charge of old age, rheu-
matism and bad luck, and humped him
laboriously down the mountains on a lit-
ter. When he saw his first locomotive he
nearly had a fit, but when a lady rode past
on a bicycle Scotch Bill sat up with difficulty
and explained that his life had been wasted ; he
had been asleep and a mere vegetable all his days
on Scotch Bill’s Creek, whereas he might have
gone into Bright once a month and seen things,
and mixed with the dizzy whirl of society. Bill
was then removed to the benevolent asylum at
Beechworth, which seems a pity. His country
might surely get him into a Melbourne institu-
tion, so that he could spend his declining years
watching the cable-trams go by, and could totter
out now and then to see the shops and the big
policemen. Poor old Bill l had barely time to
know that he was alive before they buried him
again.
* * • *
Buller (M.L.) Miner, when asked by the
local corps of the Salvation Army for a subscrip-
tion, responded with this soul-cheering hymn :
SALVATION MINING HYMN.
(Respectfully Dedicated to the Salvation Army.)
Are you pegging out your claim in the New Jerusalem ?
Are you taking out your miner’s right'on high?
Are you going to get your portion in the wealth that
waits for them
Who shall seek the Eldorado of the sky ?
Will you join the rush to Zion ? There is room, they say,
for all,
And it goes ten thousand ounces to the ton,
In a pure and perfect country where no evil can befall,
With a climate bathed for ever in the sun.
Through its reefs of rarest crystal runs the gold in solid
veins,
And its gleaming sands are marvellous to see,
And the nuggets lie like boulders all along the shining
plains;'
Will you hump your swag to Gloryland with me?
For there no salted wild-cats wake the slumbers, of the
blest,
Not: duffer claims deface the happy shore ;
Where the jumpers cease from troubling, and the rouse-
abouts shall rest,
And the dead-beat draw his divs. for evermore.
Will you pad the hoof to Zion where the bright bonanzas
J lie,
With a rich and rare and never-ending yield ;
And a sure eternal title waits for all who will apply
To Immanuel, the Warden of the Field ?


Feet that ache
Don’t suffer every time
you walk.
Come to us. Callaghan Boots
wiH bring your feet comfort.
There is no need for anybody to suffer
from corns, ingrowing toe-nails or joints.
A pair of our easy summer boots, made
of soft, pliable leather, and fitted to the
feet by our experts, will do away with
these nasty troubles, and will make
walking a
real
pleasure.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-street, Sydney.
PRESCOTT’S & CO’S . .
Celebrated PAKEAMATTA
LIME JUICE
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonies.
Sole Ayents j
for Sydney: j
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL & CO.,
91 Pitt Street.
“Our Teeth.”
CatapboreSiS
in Connection with
DENTISTRY.
BY this PROCESS, TEETH can be Prepared
and Filled absolutely WITHOUT PAIN,
even if the nerve be exposed, thus
PREVENTING «»
EXTRACTION
of TEETH. All Particulars published in Book
Form, a copy of which will be posted, Free of
Cost, upon application to
CHARL6SI. HARRIS,
DBJNTTIST,
St. James’s Chambers, King St.
(Opposite the Queen’s Statue),
SYDNEY.
GLOBE TEAS have Ei » nal '
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Mr Dk. Mr ra - S) ' <lney ’ Nov “ b6rl5 ' 1898 -
t^. e “ Housewives’ Guild ” hap-
P®X r f, f l ‘? VlC f tona Monday afternoon,
under the direction of Lady Hampden, with the
object of getting forward a few stages the
burning question of compulsory cooking in state
scnoois. l here are now two camps of reformers
anxious to shed a juicy tenderness over the chop
and steak of the working man of the future. One
party, the I\ational Council of Women, recently
deputationised the Minister of Education, with
the object of taking steps to minimise our national
dyspepsia, and at Monday’s gathering another
scheme for turning third-standard girls into
juvenile Soyers was put forward by Miss M.
Manning. Result of . the meeting was that
another deputation will shortly file into the
Minister’s room ready to advocate its own
special brand of cook-stove and gridiron. One
speaker mourned that a sizeful obstacle to
girls taking lessons at the schools under existing
? , J rai \B'®™ en t s w as that mothers preferred their
Maud v lolets and Irene Phyllises learning French
and music to dabbling in dish-water and chopping
carrots in school-hours. Another sensible woman
rose to remark that the school-kitchens should
be furnished cl la “ the old bush home,” otherwise
the girls, after a course of culinary high-art with
a steamer and a fish-kettle, would break down
badly if asked to prepare dad’s dinner with no
better utensils than a rusty frying-pan and a
lid less saucepan. Also, it’s a useless to compli-
cate things with elaborate stoves and ranges,
when the humble “ colonial oven ” is what fills
i m °st ratepayers. One resolution of
the scheme ambitiously referred to the hoped-for
establishment of a chair of cookery at the Uni-
versity, but a wise amendment wiped out this
notion of putting mutton and mathematics on the
same level.
. 0n great cookery topic I should like to put
in my humble little say, that the first great princi-
ple of cooking is having anything to cook. Com-
pulsory enthusiasts would treat all school-girls
alike to a course of plain and fancy tucker-prepara-
tion, shutting their eyes to the fact that while
things are made smooth for the town girl by the
baker and the ham-shop and fish-shop, so that
she can pull through fairly if she can boil a potato
and make tea, the country child has to learn the
mysteries of bread and butter and cheese and jam-
making, while its back-blocks family is truly
grateful if it can ring the changes on tin-dog and
damper. However, it is a great subject entirely,
and the present agitators will win a thankful
country s blessing if they can succeed in shifting
the nightmare of indigestion an inch or two off the
nation s chest.
Government House is putting its shoulder to the
wheel energetically to push along the Consump-
tive Hospital movement. A gratified section of
local sassiety has received missives in Her Ex. ’s
own hand-of-write inviting them to a meeting on
I hursday m the Govt, House best parlor to con-
sider a scheme which Lady Hampden wishes to
make a big thing of. It is to be a monster fair on
wind-raising lines next August. So there will be
plenty time to work it up.
Sydney pleasure-seekers are fast returning home
from the joys of Flemington, looking rather jaded
from trying so many assorted samples of Mel-
bourne climate, but full of chat about the festivi-
ties of Cup-time. They do say that some guber-
natonal frisks were very giddy indeed, and much
talk is flying round concerning one particularly
gorgeous ball to which a visiting potentate de-
spatched her ladyship, but from which he ab-
sented himself, having other fish to fry else-
where, At the whirl a Potts Point matron “got
into the papers ” on account of her neck-and-
shoulder display. They cover up more in Mel-
bourne, it seems. But the most meaningful and
the selectest revels didn’t get into the papers—
they never do. Another Sydney matron set pre-
cedence at naught and distracted officially-minded
aides by prancing with her partner into supper
ahead of Govs, and their wives.
■ M^^twororn 1 ' 8 heart can gold despise? or man’s
either. One of Professor ‘ ‘ Dicky ” Threlfall’s reasons
for leavmg Australia is that he will .in all pro-
bability quadruple his yearly income in London,
whither he is going. The able “Dicky”—who
places electricity first and everything else nowhere
—intends to practise as an electrical expert, under
the auspices of a very “solid” firm. Moreover,
neither lie nor his accomplished wife is afraid of
finding things too slow in the “great metropolis.”
f-here is talk of a grand send-off to Mr. and Mrs.
Sydney’ W “° are thou £ ht a great deal of in
Mr. J. A. Pollock, who graduated at Sydney
University m science in 1889, is spoken of as a
certainty for the vacant Professorship of Physics.
Mr. Pollock is a slight, boyish-looking man of 35
or so, and is remembered as having held countless
numbers enthralled at the last meeting of the Aus-
tralian Association for _ the Advancement of
Science (A.A.A.S.) by his demonstration of the
system of wireless telegraphy. A few protests
are heard against mere lecturers becoming full-
blown Professors. It has been done in Sydney at
least twice before—in the cases of Prof. Anderson
and Prof. Butler, each of whom is held to be an
emphatic success in his own department.
Prof. Wood’s tour in Europe next year will not
be entirely devoted to historical research—the
romantic element will enter largely into the trip.
Before the end of the year, the Prof, mil be
married to Miss Madeline Whitfeld, an exceed-
ingly popular girl-graduate, who carried all before
her in the way of scholarships when at the Uni-
versity. Miss Whitfeld will be the third ex-
college student to marry this year, Miss Anderson
and Miss De Lissa having lately become Mrs.
Ashton and Mrs. Bensusan respectively.
There is a story current that a legal dignitary
who has just got sick-leave doesn’t expect to die.
He expects to recover quickly and get married to
a very charming woman just about half his own
age, who was at least once engaged to a dashing
member of a certain gubernatorial staff.
What constitutes a “ society sham ? ” A young
man advertised for a wife the other day. The
main points of the advt. were that he hated society
shams, that he was a student, and that his annual
income was £7OO. Not being able to find a wife
who was not a “sham” amongst his extensive
circle of acquaintances he advertised for a suitable
article—and found himself married to one within
a week. The irony of this true story is found in
the fact that the acquired wife was engaged to be
married to a worthy young man in business with an
income very much under £7OO a year. It is now
the jilted one’s turn to be cynical.
. One of our big benevolent societies lately got
into a curious hole. Its honorary solicitor and
best committee-man died, and the committee, in
recognition of his services, offered the position to
his eldest son, a highly reputable solicitor. The
secretary addressed the nomination to Mr. Alfred
, imagining that the eldest son was called
after his father. The committee was horribly
startled when an impressive young swell arrived.
And just now the committee is jumping on its secre-
tary, the senior partner jumping on the committee,
and the secretary jumping on his hat. For these
prim old gentlemen of 70 find it impossible to dis-
cuss matters connected with their female patients
before a bright young man in checks. Should this
meet the eye of the young gentleman aforesaid,
perhaps he will see a way of relieving the worry
of the estimable old blushers.
On the secession of “ Joseph of Canaan ”
Walters from Hyde Park Unitarian sermon-shop,
Rev. Zillman comes in as shepherd. He has had
a varied career, having worked round to his pre-
sent Unitarian belief via Anglican and other sects.
Mrs. Z. (No. 4 of the title) is a daughter of a
well-known Melb. identity, deceased Capt. Ful-
larton, late Port Melbourne harbor-master.
Her Majesty’s d.c. on Saturday evening pre-
sented a gay and festive appearance for an off-
season show night. Dotted about were many
familiar faces of confirmed playgoers. A black-
and-blue lady looked about the smartest in a big
theatre-party; that year-old color harmony is still
in force. A Sydney girl, just returned from a
trip ’Ome, also appeared in the two tints—two
long, sky-blue chiffon tails floated to the edge of
her skirt, and her hair was dabbed about with
azure bows. Also, her hair-knob was “right.” I
am told that, in Paris, Victor Hugo (the barber,
not the poet of that ilk) now refuses to dress hair
on the n i,pe of the neck. The correct way is for
the hairpins to stab it just into the hollow of the
head. On Saturday night most women had their
knobs either above or below Plimsoll-mark, there-
by putting on ten years to their age. In a box
ever-green Kilmorey was playing moth to a youth-
ful matron trimmed with skeeter-net frills in
bright green. Concerning the stage clothes, it is
a sad fact that while the imported players have
shaken down into their cavalier raiment, “love-
locks and all,” Australian members of the caste
continue to look less at home in ancient fashions
than a new-chum does on the back of a bucking
brumby. The women all wear the garb as to the
manner born, but the native men, with all their
tine physique, look as awkward in the togs as if
they had been dressed up by Dunning for a skat-
ing-rink carnival.
A new member of the Dampier co. is Miss Roxy
Barton, one of the Russell-Barton family, of Five
Dock., She is one of the many society girls whose
ambition it is to make a name and fame for them-
selves in the profesh. In “The Duchess of Cool-
gardie” she looks handsome and not too stage-
frightened, draws herself up, and inflects her voice
in the Maud Jeffreys manner.
A correspondent, under the cloak of “Chorus,”
writes me some interesting gossip about Julius
Knight and Ada Ferrar. It seems that the
Kmght-Ferrar feud” is a misnomer, as Mr.
Knight is on as good terms with Miss Ferrar as
with the rest of the company. The lady is parti-
cularly popular with her colleagues, is a refined
and peaceable being, and it doesn’t seem fair to
let her suffer from the stigma of a feud -with Julius,
the idol of the world—when in front of the foot-
lights.
, Miss. Maud Fitz-Stubbs gave a concert on Friday
night in the Y.M.C.A. hall, which attracted a
crowded and enthusiastic invited audience. More
men than are generally lured into a musical shivoo
tempered the womanishness of the crowd, and
most of the items were bright and shining suc-
cesses, which brought a regular procession of
flowers up the centre aisle. A baby violinist,
Keith Kennedy, aged about one, toddled on the
platform and wrestled like an infant Hercules
with a difficult piece, double-stopping and all,
though, he was hardly old enough to carry his
little fiddle unaided. But the chief focus of all
the opera-glasses was on Premier Reid, who, with
Mrs. R., sat throughout the programme like a
little man, and listened to a tuneful and rhyth-
mical waltz composed in his honor by Miss Fitz-
Stubbs. His verdict was printed on the bill-of-
fare “ The more I hear the ‘ Premier Waltz ’ the
better I like it.” The above is recorded as the
one thing, on earth that G.H.R. really has a
definite opinion about.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
The quality of the entertainment Gov. Brassey
provided for his guests, at the recent Cup festivi-
ties, was far superior to anything he did before he
went to England. There was no stint, and every-
thing was of the best. Of course, the uninvited
are hard to please in such matters, and the hard
remarks one hears usually come from those who
were not present. Apparently, His Ex. is going
to make a bid for popularity. He has not (up to
date) threatened any address on British trade, or
the navy, and he has been most genial and
gracious all round.
“Oneway of expressing joy, as well as anger,
is to smash things, and hang the expense. I have
heard that, in days of old, the British aristocracy
made a point of sitting down rapturously on its
belltopper when it scored a big win at the races.
A certain tall and conspicuous young married lady,
having pulled off £lOOO (it is said) over the Cup,
proceeded to vent her feelings on her long gold
chain, which she tore from her neck, broke into
little bits, and flung to the winds. The tem-
pestuous creature had been pining for a trip to
London, and this was, perhaps, her little way of
indicating that she was now off the chain “ on her
own,’’unless hubby would join the expedition to
foreign parts. Hubby, however, has definitely
decided to bear his better-half company, and the
broken valuable has been replaced.
“Bijou dress-circle looked ‘oh so bright!’ as
the hymn says, on Vice-Regal command night,
Tuesday (Nov. 8). Four Governors (each with his
order on its red ribbon tied up tight round his
neck like a ‘ good boy badge ’) brought along their
women-kind —a scant-enough allowance of skirt to
leaven that lump of suite. Only three girls to
nine or ten bachelors ! Petticoat-pet Hampden
openly shirked the over manned seance—and small
blame to him, considering that three out of eight
vice-regal ladies as his own lawful assets are
habitually available, minus the trouble of contest-
ing their society with 15 naval competitors. So
there sat the cute Viscount enthroned snugly in
Mrs. Baronet Clarke’s box, cheek-by-jowl with his
handsome hostess, another lady in vivid pink, and
a couple of beardless boys. 1 write ‘enthroned’
advisedly, because that night the mistress of
Rupertswood seemed to pose as Queen of the
occasion. A diamond tiara sat like a crown
on her dark head, and barring crimson or
orange, she couldn’t well have chosen a
more conspicuous color for her deeollete
satin gown tha/i its intense emerald-green or rich
royal blue (impossible to decide which, by arti-
ficial light). Anyway, the hue was not particu-
larly becoming to its brunette wearer. S’Rupert’s
liege lady habitually affects greens, blues, or blends
thereof, with signal success, but she grows over-
audacious in her color-experiments ; and whether
owing to a mistaken shade or the cold white glitter
of diamonds, ‘ Amy, Lady Clarke, ’ as she may or
may not be called some day, looked as if she might
have done worse than follow the example of Miss
Murphy, of Killaloe, ‘ who put the powther on, in
case the bhoys should say that she was schwartliy. ’
“Bijou vice-regal box is a cave of winds, and
Lady Brassey was muffled up so as to seclude all
toilette landmarks, except an upstanding aigrette
on jewelled stem and extra-fiery diamond necklet,
rendered less trying by black velvet neckband.
Her grey-haired Victorian Ex. boasts neither com-
plexion nor roundness nowadays, though at 20,
’tis said, a more winsome aristocrat never breathed.
Up to the present, however, her manners are rich
in ‘ that repose which stamps the caste of Vere de
Vere.’ She is so uniformly elegant of deportment
that buxom belles of the moment seem lolloping
and unschooled by comparison.
“ Unlike his sometime substitute, the vice-regal
Ancient Mariner doesn’t pin his admiration to
plump charms. Grace and style characterised his
matrimonial choice both times, and Mrs. Freeman-
Thomas, the only finished sample of his up-bring-
ing available for local reference, is undeniably
smart. Naturally, therefore, his brusqueness set
no store t’other night by Vara Renny, with that
sidling stage gait of hers, and head see-sawing
archly all the time from one bare shrugged
shoulder to t’other. The irritable patriarch
growled audibly till the offender had finished her
turn and wriggled off. Vara is not one of
‘The Liars,’ by the way. In fact, I fancy she
represents the one pure pearl of womanhood in
that setting of society Sapphiras. Probably her
stage hubby-elect, Baronet Brough, would catch
it hotter from his sugary gusher in the long run
than did the matrimonial victims of all those
other smart-tongued fibbers put together. To go
back to the Broughs’ glittersome audience : Mrs.
Geo. Chirnside, in her box, looked like a picture—
pale-blue gown, soft white empire-fichu folded
round her bare shoulders, and black plumes in her
fair hair. Miss Dorothy Brand wore the simplest
of unrelieved black frocks. Mrs. Packenham,
wife of one of the new Brassey attaches, is a slight,
fair, youngish matron, with a kind of clear-cut
nose to set off pince-nez by-and-bye. She had a
black lace zouave over her white silk bodice, while
Lady Lamington looked gentle and dowdy,
ensconced in cream silk pelisse with a sprinkling
of diamonds glimmering in a glow-wormish way. °
“ One of the Governors seemed rather serious re
the wretchedness of that stage Romeo strung on
by a married Juliet. Maybe he could have entered
still more thoroughly into the tragedy had Romeo
worn the hobbles. And when Mrs. Brough is
asked ‘ls there any flirting in Central Africa?’ a
senior vice-regal cynic tolled forth such a hollow,
ironical laugh. Insensate hearers stared, giggled,
and buzzed delightedly. ‘ He-he ! Lord Z ’s
laughing 1 ’ To many ears, however, that mirth-
less ha-ha seemed to say ‘ No flirtin’ anywhere, for
wretches in our position ! ’ Paddy-whack Haigh,
with scarlet revers to his aide-de-camp coat,
beamed like a red sunset, and very likely would
have made a bush-fire look pale if there’d been
enough petticoat to go round.
“Gov. Jerry Smith knows how to mix his suite-
salad all right. As an off-set to Erin-go-bragh
aforesaid, Private-Sec. Ord is a gentle creature
with a touching silvery streak showing above each
ear. Hon. Spencer Lyttleton, not so young as he
once was, sports a profusion of dishevelled whiskers
and top-thatch, a tiny bit in the manner of Speaker
Mason. The latter, by the way, it seems, spread
his plumes in great style, t’other day, and in his
capacity of Mighty Potentate led a party of Par-
liamentary naicest on board a war ship in the
bay, by invitation, he thought, bio ceremonial
pomp of welcome, no hosts, no fizz, no tea, no
nothink. The Admiral never turned up at the
Mayor’s dinner, either —order of toasts presum-
ably unsatisfactory.
“ The Lamingtons spent the tag-end of their
Melb. visit at Healesville, riding and driving across
country with Miss Alice Brand and Lord Richard
Nevill. Their Victorian Excellencies are so fond
of ‘Lord Richard.’ And, indeed, he seems quite
admirable enough ! One can hardly picture him
without a heap of Brassey wraps hanging over his
slender arm. And when the Old Man of the Sea,
in or out of season, complains to his surrounding
juniors of a draught, it’s always left to the good
boy of the batch to burrow for that venerable
rain-cape and help its owner into it. Captain
Frewen, the new aide, has his share of good
humor, too, judging by looks. Poor soul ! He
always seems to arrive in a lone, lorn vehicle long
after the rest of the party, and hovers distractedly
on their outskirts until the lordling aforesaid
points out a seat to be gained by climbing over two
female and four male guests.
“ American journals announce that the Duke of
Manchester, now or lately in Australia, is to
marry Miss May Goelet, of New York. The lady
will possess about four million dollars when she
marries, and as hard-up dukes always want to
marry cash, the story is credible. Moreover, the
future Mrs. Montagu is said to be a pretty girl—a
small detail for a dook as compared with the
dollars, but still worthy of mention. Manchester
has been popular in Melbourne as a genial youth.
Australian girls are warned off, for he is not likely
to let-goe of Miss Goelet and her four millions.
“ Premier Turner errs somewhat on the side of
economical ’umbleness. When Gov. Brassey was
returning to Melbourne, the Premier, wife
and daughter footed it along Bourke-street to
Spencer-street rail way-station, Miss Turner armed
with a huge bouquet, which was, presumably,
intended for Lady Brassey. The family party
would have been less conspicuous in a carriage.
The grovel that is worth doing at all is worth doing
in sassiety style.
“At the Salon, recently, a lady professor of
fencing showed her professional paces in conjunc-
tion with two small girl pupils. The trio wore
scant black velvet knickers, white blouses, zouaves
and red sashes. The juveniles with the long curls
looked rather like little princes in the Tower, but
their teacher would have been none the worse for
a basque to her blouse or tails to her coat or some-
thing. She began by extolling foil-drill as a
deportment-gracer and figure-developer, and it’s
all that, I should say, judging by a casual survey
of its exponent. But if you’re one of the ‘develop-
ing ’ sort there are spectacular objections to tight
velvet pants for cold-blooded afternoon disulav.
“At a conversazione at Prahran Town Hall
the other night, farewell was bidden to Mrs. Bear-
Crawford, who is off to England for a trip. Mrs.
8.C., both as Miss Bear and since, has found much
of the money and energy for the Vic. Women’s
franchise movement. The lady’s revenue comes
from the Chateau Tahbilk vineyard, although she
is something of a shining light in temperance
circles. She always dresses in grey, and figured
before Parliament recently, when a M.P. opposed
to the women’s vote accused her of writing anony-
mous letters to country papers, in which she
affected to write as an indignant constituent of
members who were opposed to the Bill. A. very
energetic lady is Mrs Bear-Crawford.
‘ ‘ A shining member of the racks of Melbourne
Johnniedom, who always flatters himself that he
is appropriately dressed on every occasion, is
still noticeable by the crestfallen air which
he brought back from England. Ere start-
ing to London by the ill-fated China, this
Adonis laid in a stock of suitable attire for the
voyage—packing 40 suits in all. The poor fellow
almost tore his hair when the vessel ran ashore at
Perim to find that after all Fate had got the best
of him—he had forgotten to pack a ‘ wreck-suit ’ i
“Dr. Amy Castilla, the Melbourne lady-
medico, whose illness was alluded to in The Bul-
letin a few weeks ago, is dead. Her case was
hopeless from the first. The death of the red-
haired little woman is a bit of hard luck, after her
tremendous battle for success. She worked at
teaching all day while studying for her degree.
“ Two songs and a waltz from Glen and Co.
(Melb.) are not startling efforts in local composi-
tion, although the waltz (‘The Cliveden,’ if you
please) may be expected to ‘ catch on. ’ This is by
Arthur Smith, who was responsible for the Hope-
toun Polka of yore, and it is scored with a
pleasing lilt. Oyston’s Band will play ‘ The
Cliveden ’at all the forthcoming whirls. ‘ The
Dear Old Home ’ ballad has a melody of rather
better quality than the words, whilst ‘ She is far
from the Land, ’ arranged to Tom Moore’s verse,
and dedicated to the People of Ireland, is stronger
in words than in music. If the distressful
counthry accepts the dedication it will be mainly
on account of dear old Tom.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SMOKE
three cattles
*s®
EX
CIGARETTES.
_ Hill
Z (Oil!
<UllllC£
OCOHIi.
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Paper.]
Tlae Fanaoixs French
Chocolate.
CHOCOtIT HEIIEt
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents :
IF. 31. Cameron <0 Co.,
24!) Georr/e-st., Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
An ancient in harness is Dr. Hansard, of
Ashfield (Sydney), aged about 90 years, who has
been a qualified medico for 63 years.
On Melb. Stock Exchange Lord Kilmorey
(he pronounces his name Kil-murray) is known as
Lord Kill-money, from the number of non-divi-
dend paying cos. with which he has had the bad
luck to be connected.
Julian Salomons, again getting ready for
a run abroad, is the oldest practitioner at N.b.W.
j; ar —oldest from date of call. G. B. Barton was
called a year earlier, and H. C. Dangar seven
years earlier, but neither of these practise.
Rev. Nobbs, of Norfolk Island, was for-
merly in the British navy. Afterwards in the
Chilian service under Cochrane—Lord Dundonald.
A son of the excellent old man, also a parson, and
a bit of a sport, is now at Narandera, N.S. W.
Yic. postal department lost a good client
when old Baron Von Mueller died. People used
to laugh at the Baron when he would tighten
his comforter and complain about being
hardly able to live on the “ miserable
piddance” which Govt, allowed him,
said pittance being .£l2OO a year when
he started growling. But, in reality,
the poor old man did find it hard to
keep things going. Every day he
would pen between 10 and 30 letters to
various botanists of the world, and
nearly every letter would accompany
per same post several pounds of root,
bark, leaves, or wood taken from some aber-
ration of the vegetable world. In this way
the greater part of the Baron’s =£l2oo was
absorbed, and when Govt, docked his
screw he could scarcely make ends meet.
Fancy ! There’s another L. L.
Smith And he’s a sporting man, too —secre-
tary of Hobart Hunt Club, When Mel-
bourne’s L.L. was in Tasmania last year,
and got into the hands of the law touching
his registration as a medical-practitioner, he
insisted on seeing the Tasmanian L.L. When
they came face to face, the man from “the
Governor’s residence ” was silent a moment,
and then burst out : “Don’t you think your
existence is a damned impertinence ! ”
The street “ attack ” on N.S. Wales legis-
lator Carroll, about which such a flourish was at
first made, turned out to be nothing more serious
than an after-dark jostle by a couple of beery
sailors. The fact that the men were Swedes was
in itself strong prima-facie evidence in disproof of
robbery.
“ Melb.” . One of our cleverest young
lady doctors is this week committed to the grave.
For the curative person to be one with the vital
forces distilled out is an anomaly, but frequent.
I have yet to meet a good, hearty, juicy lady
medico, similar to the most familiar type of suc-
cessful male doctor.
Justice Cooper, retires from the
Queensland Bench on sick leave, after 15
years service, vaulted on to his seat out of a
brief and not glorious Attorney-Generalship, thus
continuing a bad old practice. During his career
as a Judge he dressed better and hung more than
any of his colleagues.
Chief Justice Way, S.A.’s ornate and
gushing Acting-Governor, is believed to be a cer-
tainty for a new-year knighthood. The C.J.
has frequently declined the bauble, his enemies
alleging that he appraises himself at nothing below
a baronetcy, but if there is no sign of the
baronetcy it is better to take what’s going.
There is living on an East-coast (Tas.)
mining-field a man of phenomenally-mixed blood.
He is son of a Chinese, and his mother’s father was
son of a Hindoo father and an English mother;
her mother was a Frenchman’s daughter from
a Creole wife. He is mentioned as clever and
well-read, and has twice represented his district in
an important public body.
Dr. Campbell, M.L.C., who died suddenly
in Adelaide, the other day, was a curious blend of
Democrat and Tory. He will be best remembered
in S.A. for his advocacy of the homestead-block
system which was adopted after much agitation,
and has been a wonderful success. The doctor
was one of the numerous medicos who were mixed
up in the far-reaching hospital row,
Ednie Brown, whom Parkes brought over
from South Australia to conserve N.S.W. forests
at a big screw, and who was presently dropped,
has his troubles in Westralia, too. Provision has
been made in the Estimates for only six months’
salary ; but the Minister explained that though
the official would retain the position, “ it is a good
thing for all of us at times to get a scare.”
The whirligig of time has spun to some
purpose in the North. A few years since and
Morehead, the acknowledged wit and satirist of
Q. Assembly, scared quondam friend and foe with
sudden quip and merciless mimicry. Dickson and
one other were constant butts. Now, Dickson,
and the other sit in the high places, whilst More-
head is a broken and prematurely-aged man.
A much-criticised Judge of N. S. Wales
D.C. Bench expresses himself heartily ready to
quit office on pension, being of opinion that he can
command a good place at the Bar, with a possi-
bility of reaching the Supreme Court Bench later.
He defies Govt, to shift him except on pension, and
therefore welcomes strictures which may hasten
the Cabinet to open the pension door for him.
Throssell, W.A. Lands Minister, is very
deaf. Uses a “recorder,” an instrument which
he holds between his teeth, and is so enabled to
hear the faintest whisper. He had this in position
one day when a M.P. introduced a candidate for
a ™ et ' “Now speak up,” said the M.P., “the
old fraud is as deaf as an adder.” “ Deafer than
forty adders, young man,” said Throssell. “But
n A/r^ OU rol, ble to holler.” And he smiled at
the M.P.- “Go ahead —the old fraud is all atten-
tion. ’ The boy got his billet, and the story was
sent around to the credit of Throssell and the
confusion of the M.P.
Governor J. B. Thurston, of Fiji, died of
throat-cancer, and those natives, who at a mighty
pow-wow offered up prayers that Thurston might
die of something horrible, are now acknowledging
that “after all there is a Go“d! ” A God that
answers prayer !
Canon Potter, of St. Kilda (Vic.), says
that the Anglican clergy of Sydney have little or
no humor. All the better for them. A keen
sense of humor would only make them miserable.
The augurs should not smile, even at each other,
in these days of doubt and suspicion.
Percy Spence, on his arrival in London,
at once fell into heaps of work. As a black-and-
white man, Spence’s quickness and phenomenally
accurate artistic memory, which enables him to
draw correctly out of his head, where other men
need models, gives him a great advantage.
PREDESTINATION.
(Sketch at a City Poultry-shop).
The Earl of Eustob, who will some day be
Duke of Grafton, was once associate to Chief
Justice Way in Adelaide. He was then known as
Colonel Fitzroy and he was in Australia for
“colonial experience.”
The fate of the children of Mrs. Walsh,
commonly called “Granny,’'who died atGlenlnnes
(N.S.W.), the other day, in her
91st year, excited thrilling specu-
lations half a century ago.
Then, and since, many would-be
authors endeavored to invest the
story with permanent literary
qualities, but in no case with
success. The simple facts are
the drama. Walsh, shepherd at
Moonbi station, New England,
out with his men on the run ;
Mrs. Walsh, at home in her hut,
washing ; two children, Willie
and Alfred, aged 4 and 5, play-
ing, a stonethrow from the hut.
Mrs. Walsh saw blacks—it was
the year 1843, and there was
bad blood between blacks and
whites. The mother came to the
door, missed the children, searched ; when tho
men came home at night, they also searched ;
searched fordays, weeks, years. It is 55
years since then, but no word of the boys
or oftheir fate has ever come to hand.
The late N.S.W. Judge Win-
deyer, while visiting London, was once
approached in the street by a gentleman
unknown to him who held out his hand
and said he was glad to see the Judge
again. “You have the advantage of
me,” remarked his Honor—“l am
sorry to say I do not remember you.”
“Don’t you recollect my appearing
before you at Sydney as a petitioner in
divorce ? ” enquired the stranger. “My
name is “Oh, yes,” remarked the
Judge, drily, “I trust that you are satisiied
with my decision, whatever it was.” “Well,”
replied the other, “ to tell you the truth, I’m not.
You divorced us, but we’ve got married again.”
Certain admirers of the late Q. Premier
are moving heaven and earth to get a statue
erected to him. If Q. Govt, is going to take any
steps in the matter of commemoration (as a recent
vote appears to indicate) it is only fit and proper
that some Democrat should rise and ask what is to
be done towards perpetuating the memory of the
late Charles Lilley—a man whose voice was always
lifted on behalf of the people—a man who was
deposed from his lofty position because he dared
to call a spade a spade and a thief a thief.
The death of G. W. Goyder, for over 40
years S. A. Surveyor-General, recalls that through
ignoring his advice hundreds of farmers are now
face to face with absolute ruin. Goyder mapped
out an imaginary line of rainfall 20 years ago in-
tended to mark the limit of country fitted for
agriculture. His advice was ignored, but his rain-
fall-line proved remarkably correct. His forecast
has been wonderfully verified this present season.
In the Upper North country there is nothing to
reap, whereas in the lower country there will be
an average of five bushels.
At the first ball given by Gov. Hotham
of early Victoria, the supper was of the sixpenny-
restaurant sort—plentiful but primitive.
Beer, port and sherry were the drinks.
A notable of the time asked a
flunkey for champagne. Hotham
overheard. “There is no
champagne, Mr. ,” said
he. “These people, sir, are
not accustomed to drink
champagne. Do you think
that, as Governor of this
young colony, I should be
justified m setting such an ex-
ample of extravagance ? ”
“ Oh, as to that, your Excel-
lency,” sa rd the other, “they
are too far gone in the vice.
You, sir, should know that,
for don’t they pay you =£7ooo
a-year ! Surely, sir, that is
going in for champagne, and
a poor brand at that.” And
Hotham looked round for a cor-
poral’s guard of marines.
Five years’ practice at N.S.W.
Bar qualifies a man for appointment to the
Supreme Court Bench. A fair average, as ap-
pointments go, is, however, about 20 years’ prac-
tice. Judge Dickinson, in the early days, was
appointed a N.S.W. puisne Judge four years
after being called to the Bar, but that was before
the new rule.
Nov. 4th was the 12th anniversary of the
death of N.S.W. Chief Justice Martin. His pre-
decessor in office, Alfred Stephen, only died about
four years ago. Both are interred in the church-
yard of St. Jude’s, Rand wick. Last week a hand-
some memorial was erected over the grave of
Stephen ; but Martin’s tomb is still unmarked.
When Kir wan, of Kalgoorlie Miner,
was acquitted on the charge of publishing
“a scandalous libel” on Westralian Parliament
his staff remembered the stipendiary magis-
trate’s wire to Forrest after the Battle of the
Brolly— ■“ My God, I am proud of you ! ” But,
when they presented a similar message, the tele-
graph-office wasn’t taking any ; and “My colo-
nial ” had to be substituted.
To anyone who saw “ Manchester ”
around the theatres and hotel bars of Melb.
and Sydney the other month there is an exquisite
joke in the Parisian newspaper allegation that his
young mbs has been plotting with the Orleanists
to overthrow the French Govt. He might join in
a conspiracy to upset an oyster-stall, but that’s
about as far as Manchester’s political interest
would be likely to lead him at present.
The M‘Caughey brothers, of N.S.W.,
Sam David and John, surely own among them
more sheep than any other family in the world
—2,000,000 head at the lowest computation.
In ’92 Sam’s little lot numbered
250,000. This sheep-
UP-TO-DATE.
HE (appealing to Bench): “Got fined yesterday
for drunk, and paid that clerk there 5s., and
he never gave me no discount-coupon.”
king probably paid the largest sum ever given
for an Australian sheep-station when he gave
<£400,000 for Wallawalla. Fawkner’s purchase of
Tuppal station, near Tocumwal, N.S.W., for
.£392,000 stood for years as the record price given
for a jumbuck ranch.
Fetherstonhaugh, the hero of one of Bar-
croft Boake’s most dramatic poems, and who had
a reputation for taking coaching teams over five-
barred gates and for riding steeplechases at mid-
night, the jumps being marked with candles stuck
in bottles, is now a douce
Sydney business man
who takes a big in-
terest in frozen
mutton.
COBBY DRAWS THE COLOR-LINE.
COBBY (returning hat given him by Mrs. Cockie):
“No fear me wear it that hat. Lucy say
me like-it a Chinaman.”
Dr. Allan Campbell, the S. Australian
M.L.C., who lately died, was as good a representa-
tive as Australia had of the modern philanthropic
English Conservative ; and therefore, as Sidney
Webb found in the N.S.W. capital, was far
removed from the hard Tory who owns the Leg.
Council. Cockburn, fascinated by the doctor’s
tenderness of heart and active unselfishness, went
so far as to create a new Executive office for him ;
but there was a row, and Dr. Campbell went out
hurriedly. His last public action was to superin-
tend the opening of a Convalescent Home in the
hills, in connection with the Children’s Hospital.
“ I have often dreamt of this,” he said ; “ now it
is a reality.” Next day he suddenly died.
The sudden death of George M'Cullagh
Reid, cabled from Maoriland, relieves from the
strain of providing “copy” a journalist whose
career was exceedingly chequered. Originally a
Presbyterian parson, he drifted into Queensland
politics in the mid-Sixties, but failed to make an
abiding reputation, and 1870 found him at Auck-
land (M.L.) with no capital but a head full of
ideas. Blue-eyed, pushing Henry Brett was ship-
ping-reporter of Auckland Herald, and to him
Reid proposed that they should start an evening
paper. The Auckland Star was consequently
born, Reid contributing a pair of scissors and a
gum-pot, and leaders that burnt into the manifold
local abuses. Brett's contribution was .£BO in
cold cash, a thorough knowledge of the printing
business, and indomitable energy. There was
already a well-established evening paper in the
town —a nice, mamby-pamby organ that just let
things slide. The Star introduced carrier-pigeons
as an accessory to its news-getting department,
made a specialty of mining-news, and ran the other
paper to a stand-still in a couple of years. 11 should
have been mentioned that old “Willie " Wilson
of the Herald helped Reid and Brett by
machining their bantling for the first few months.
The incident, however, which gave the Star its
first strong grip on public favor was a brawl. The
streets of Auckland after night-fall, in 1870, w ere
unsafe through the chartered hoodlumism of
scions of the “ very nicest ” families, who under
the nom de guerre of the “ Rollicking Rams ”
took charge of the city, smashed in windows,
pulled down shutters, and remorselessly “ plugged ’
the more sober-minded citizens who remonstrated.
The social influence of the “Rams” rendered
them immune from police interference. Then
Reid took the matter in hand, ridiculing and
abusing the ring-leaders by name.- Vhereupon
the “ Rams ” swore to wreck the Star
office. A great crowd turned out to see
the fun, and one afternoon just after
publication, a champion of the “ Rams ” strolled
airily into the Star office and asked Brett
with mock-civility the meaning of the article.
He then strolled round the counter to chastise
Brett but the latter, a long-armed man then of
great strength, met the gentleman “in the open-
ing ” with a smashing upper-cut which knocked
him out and cost him several teeth. The crowd
then chivvied the “Rams”upQueen-st. with much
jeering and cabbage-stalk while Reid improved
the occasion by hanging the routed one’s incisors
in the window accompanied by a placard “Teeth
extracted free of charge. Apply within.” The
Star’s circulation trebled that night and never
went back. After about three years with the
Star Reid’s restless disposition induced him to
sell his share to Brett for .£3OOO and he went off
to Dunedin hoping to repeat his Auckland
coup. He started a paper, but foolishly,
in the strongest trades-union town in the pro-
vince, he tried to introduce female labor into
his printing department; his capital vanished,
and his paper was dead in a few months. Revert-
ing to politics, he gained a seat in the House of
Representatives, but subsequently took an official
position in connection with immigration. The
fast 15 years of his life he devoted to journalism.
He was by turns leader-writer on Auckland
Herald (and whilst there incubated his world-
famous Noah’s Ark hoax), editor of a short-lived
evening paper in opposition to his . old partner
(Brett), editor for a brief space of Melbourne
Standard, then for a few years leader-writer on
Sydney Morning Herald— and now he has died
in harness on the staff of Auckland Herald.
Peace to his ashes !


5(3
|2I
Else
«//Y
THEY*?
mm
4li It ' -■-■-• :Vv--■■■'•- Li'ilcfl*
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
Cecil F. : He de Rougemoilt’s turtle-
yarn. When two of us were on Tasune Island
(off Bornml r-« g j -island
turtle Loci. ® r an short, of meat, and, seeing a
turtle basking in the sun in four feet of water, I
toolt a small axe and waded out to kill the beast,
I came alongside from behind, and brought the
axe down on the neck. Then I took a turtle trio
out to sea, not on the surface like de R but iust
as deen tho m . > ouc just
/t b l rutt, could go. Iwo minutes later
suppose seemed two hours) the loop by which
the axe was fast to rny wrist snapp d or slipped, and
Signorina GESCA VOLLUGI, the Victorian amateur prima donna.
Photo., Falk Studios, Melbourne.
I came some 20ft. to the surface perhaps a hundred
yards from where we started. I have, however,
often ridden on turtle-back when a female had
been up to lay her eggs, but before launching her
I always tied a log of wood across her back so
that she could not dive. When I had ridden as
far out as I cared, I’d cut the cord, and away
would dive the turtle, leaving me to swim ashore
with the log.
* * * *
Thompson was in the embryonic stage of
jackaroo. His first day in the saddle was a 20-
mile ride—horse a “liver-rouser ’’—thermometer 90
in the shade—tweed pants. That night he con-
fided to the cook that he was very sore, and the
cook kindly gave him a box of ointment, and told
him to rub it well in. Thompson did; but,
when he bunked, things began to hum. A gentle
glow became such a terrible red heat that Thomp-
son’s groans aroused all hands. Ointment
examined—Stevens’ blister, the only substitute for
firing horses !
‘ ‘ Maranoa ” : One evening 30 years ago I
pulled up at a Queensland district accommodation-
house, on the verandah of which sat an oldish
man, with a bottle of brandy in one hand and a
small billy in the other. We foregathered, and
his first words to the landlord were “ Bring
another bottle, Mike.” It came, and shortly
afterwards tea was announced. I went in ;he
didn t. After tea I went out to the verandah
again, and his next words were “Fetch another
Mike—it isn ta ‘ Coo ’ yet, is it ? ” Mike brought
it, saying “Oh, no, sir ; not quite a ‘Coo ’ yet.” I
had a bad head when I left next morning. Re-
turned to the place a few days afterwards. A
saddled horse stood at the door. Presently out
came my branched friend, who sprang into the
saddle, calling out, “ All right; come up next
week, Mike. ’ I went in, but hadn’t been there
ten minutes when, at a hand-gallop, back came the
horseman, who yelled, “Here, Mike, you know
you re a scoundrel, and will cheat me if you can,
so put it down on a piece of paper, and be quick.”
Mike put something on a piece of paper, handed
it to him, and off he went. Later, Mike got quite
confidential with me. Rubbing his hands, he
said, “ Good deal, that—five cows in six days—all
for drink. He never drinks more than five cows
at a time.” The squatter died wretchedly poor.
Mike is now himself a rich squatter. He never
“touched it.”
* * « *
“ Tracker ” on healthy appetites :
Jack, a young Sydneyite ; Fred, a Queenslander, and
the writer were camped in the shadow of a mighty rock,
and, just before sundown, two native girls came up with
a fish of about 121 b., which they gave us in return for two
out of three magpie-geese we had shot. They roasted
and ate one goose, and we grilled our fish. We were al
pretty hungry. 1 ate about 21b. of fish, Fred about 3,
and Jack (still in his teens) all the remainder, certainly
51b. ; damper and tea as well. So no wonder the Queens-
lander said he was “as full as a tick.” But the Sydney
lad wanted to know if I wasn’t going to have the remain-
ing goose for supper ! “ Hang it all, man,” I said, “ take
what you want, and be satisfied for once.” Whereupon
he roughly plucked and cleaned the goose (at least 71b.
net), cut it in two, grilled one half and, to my astonish-
ment, polished it off, along with proportionate damper.
The blacks looked on in amazement at a whitefellow who
could thus beat them on their own ground, and at last
one of the gins crossed over to the performer, and, put-
ting her hand upon his stomach, observed, “My word,
you fat like ’em that young pellar buppalo when him
come alonga water when him big one tirsty.”
“ Ben Sun”: Anybody
explain system of exchange
between ant-colonies ? Have
found them, though quarter
of mile apart, with perfect
tracks between, and • the
same commodities are not
carried both ways. Groups
here and there seem to be
holding heated discussions,
and now and again a dis-
credited debater gets kicked
some distance out of the
confab. This ant, from
pique, probably, always
goes for the invescigator.
* * *
“T. Bend ” : Shot
head off whip-snake, once,
near Brisbane water-works,
and, coming to some blacks
camped round fire, offered
one of them the snake.
He asked first how it had
been killed, and, when told,
accepted it and laid it on
the tire till all the wriggle
was roasted out of it. Then
he curled it up and gave it
another two or three turns.
When it was done he took
it up and pulled it to pieces,
taking the skin off by sec-
tions and eating as he
skinned. Never offered his
mates a morsel, though he
asked me to have a bit.
Happening on a string of
eggs inside the snake he
remarked that they were
the best part of it; then
taking one end of the string
he held his head back and
let the whole slide down
his throat in an instant—
smacking his lips after-
wards.
“ Long-’Un ” on brush-turkey matters :
In answer to “ S.H.”. (Bulletin, 15/10/’9B), young brush
turkey (lowan, malle-hen, or native pheasant) as soon as
hatched works passage tail-first through about 2ft. of
mullock, flaps its apologies-for-wings until dry, and goes
out into the cold world on its little own. Robbing a nest
once came on a young ’un half-way down. Afterwards
great pals with poultry at home. Walking through scrub
once heard great row t’otherside brow of sandhill; crept
up and peeped ; 20yds. distant two lowans heaping up
nest; started 10 to 20yds. away, striking leaves and twigs
backwards with feet and wings. These birds build
mound in winter, after first heavy rain. Dig small hole
in ground, fill with wet sand, rotten leaves, &c., and
cover with sand about 3ft.-high, base dia. 10 to 15ft.
Start laying in Sept., and average about three eggs fort-
nightly ; opening and closing nest each time. Eggs laid
small end upwards (to give chick a start on upward jour-
ney), sometimes in layers of half-a-dozen. Once found 17
in one nest. Can tell good eggs by fresh pink color, but
when scratched and dull, beware ! Seldom more than
three eatable from one nest. Collected about 50 one
Sunday, and yanked ’em carefully miles to camp. Onlv
one in five good. Can catch this bird easily with aid c
A “ JIMMY WOODSER.”
HIS REVERENCE (bent on deterring an erring
parishioner): “Pat, there’s the Devil him-
self working in that hotel for you.”
PAT : “Well, Father, I'm sorry I won’t be able to
shout for the gintleman, havin’ only 3d. for
a beer for meself.”
doer. Latter spots lowan ; barks, and bird flies into first
mallee. Dog squats underneath barking, and while bird's
attention is thus fixed, .you walk up behind with a stick,
and there you are—game-bag full, and no powder wasted.
Seen this done often. You ought to give this "great”
bird a show with the bower and lyre birds, because he’s a
doer and not a talker.
* * * *
“T.L.”: Re “S.H.’a ” query (B. 15/10/’9B).
Nine-tenths of the young brush turkeys (or would-
be young turkeys) come out in the stomachs of the
goannas that burrow into the mound and “ scoff ”
the eggs. The other tenth, if if has luck, just
crawls out through the tunnels made by the goan-
nas. If eggs weren’t eaten as aforesaid, you
wouldn t be able to see the grass for turkeys.
Reminds me : Have seen young turtle in the S.S.
islands oome out of sand. They scratch their way
to the surface, and, after a few moments’ hesita-
tion, make straight off for the ocean. If nine-
tenths of them didn’t get gobbled by fish the water
would be stiff with turtle. Often 200 eggs in a
nest. Have kept these little chaps from time of
hatching (size of a 2s. piece) till 18 months old,
and then they weren’t quite as big as a saucer—a
slowness of growth which points to a very long
life. 6
* * * *
The best bit of cattle-lifting on record is
credited to a bullock-puncher in a far-out Vic.
mining centre. A young fellow, son of aforesaid
puncher, was arrested for embezzling two steers.
The animals were secured, and put into the police-
paddock with a mob of 50 or 60 head at sun-
down. At daylight next day the steers were
gone, and they have never since been seen. To
get away with the cattle the lifter had to pick
them from a mob in the dark, and get them out
of a well-fenced paddock, the gate of which was
securely locked. The police-station adjoined the
paddock, and the attempt was expected. The
case against the prodigal son was dismissed, and
on returning home he is understood to have dined
off the fatted steer.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin.— Re the “Sign of the
Cross.” I have seen here in California a half-
Chinee-half-American-negro. Had Ah Sin’s pro-
minent cheek-bones and slant eyes, combined with
Missa Johnsiner’s broad nose and thick lips ; color,
yellowish-brown. Told me he considered himself
far superior to either of his parents, and a notch or
two above the white man. Australia hasn’t yet
much to complain of in the way of crosses. In
New Orleans, not long ago, I noted the following :
Mulatto, quadroon, octoroon, nigger-creole, white-
creole, American-Chinee, and Spanish-Chinee. In
Texas and Arizona, you often come across the
American - Indian crosses and Mexican - Indian
crosses ; and the American-Mexican cross is com-
mon in border-towns. The most noticeable charac-
teristic of the crossbred in this country is the
female’s immorality, which becomes more" marked
as the cross deepens. Thus, the pure-blood negress
is strictly religious, mostly a hard-shell Baptist-
church three times a Sunday. The half-caste is a
lot less strait-laced; while, as for quadroon and
octoroon, they are seldom seen by day, as they
pursue their avocations at night. All due, in my
opinion, to the Southerners’ ineradicable abhor-
rence of the negro. The octoroon’s one-eighth
nigger makes the average white pass her by,
whereas she, being the other seven-eighths white,
shuns the nigger and nigger-crosses, and puts up
with the non-average white, who doesn’t mind
her nigger dash. Either he ruins (for want of a
better word) her, or more often she, being a big-
bosomed, voluptuous, splendid - eyed creature,
ruins him. From this stage it is a short step to
the Chinese quarter. —Veldt (’Frisco).
* * * *
“S.S.” : A Sunday-afternoon amusement
that I have seen practised by young men out in
the Lonesome is more entertaining than setting a
severed bull-ant to fight to a finish with his own
hind-quarters. Prospectors about Swift’s Creek,
Gippsland, catch jays and magpies in springs,
attach scraps of newspaper to their tails, and then
turn them loose. The jollification begins when
the decorated jay attempts to rejoin the jay com-
munity. The jays, apparently, are fiercely demo-
cratic, and object to tags of all sorts ; anyhow,
they pick on to the bird with the tag, and give
him a bad time, fairly hunt him bald if his docket
is not worried off meanwhile. By turning loose a
dozen or so magpies and jays so decorated it is
possible to fill a square mile of bush with racket
and fury and feathers and bird blasphemy.
Wanted, a Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Dicky Birds.
• * * •
“P.Gf.” : Struck a deserted camp on a
sheep-station out-back a few months ago, and
found following notice pasted on upright of ridge-
pole of galley :
NOTICE.
Visitors to this camp are respectfully informed that
Blasphemy is objected to. Visitors may Damn things
generally, or (embellish remarks with qualifications more
or less common. Bat profanation of any one of the
names of tub holy trinity will not be tolerated.
By order, &c.
An old Bulletin par. to be worried in the
41 A.boriginalities ” :
Popular Australian superstitions : .Snakes don’t die til
sunset. —It is always the night-shift that strikes the reef
with rich patches in it. —A horse with three white feet
can’t win a race.—Oattle on a camp see ghosts.—To find
a corpse in the bush is a sign of violent death for the
finder.
* • » *
3“ Timi : ” Was at the tangi, or obsequies,
of Te Moananui, one of the principal chiefs of the
Ngatimaru tribes of Maoris, who died at his
settlement near Thames, M.L., in the late seven-
ties. The rangatira had been dead about a fort-
night (ugh !) at the time of my visit, and the
august corpse lay in an open coffin full of rum, one
wife at the head and another at the foot armed
with feather dusters, keeping the flies off. There
were 700 or 800 Maoris present who every hour
or so gathered round the coffin and wailed per-
functorily for the dead. The interest of most of
those present, however, was obviously centred in
the commissariat. The staple was an immense
wall of dried eels which I roughly measured at
50ft. long, 6ft. wide and 4ft. high. And they had
been steadily eating their way into it for a f6rt-
night, mind you! Its original dimensions were
probably half as much again. Then there were
two or three carcases of beef, dressed with the
blood in them, and most unappetising in appear-
ance and smell, and immense pieces of dried shark
so uniquely pungent as to easily supply the pre-
dominant note in the concatenation of aromas.
For the refreshment of pakeha visitors there was
baker’s bread and rum in buckets, pannikins being
tied to the handles with withes of flax.
* * * «
Related that a snake, which lived under a
Hawkesbury farmer’s house, struck up a friend-
ship with an infant of the family, and when the
child was alone would leave its cover ancl let the
youngster fondle it. The terrified parents had
frequently watched proceedings from afar, but the
snake would make off on their approach. Even-
tually it was decapitated with a spade by the
farmer.
• * * •
“ W.A.T.” : Having seen a tiger-snake
frequently about our hut we decided to try music
to entice him into the open, so we got an acquaint-
ance to place his auto-harp on a stump about six
yards from the hut while self and two others kept
handy with sticks. The harpist played “Home,
Sweet Home,” through twice; but no snake.
Then the musician tackled “See Saw,” and
had strummed half-way through the second time
when our lodger made his appearance and glode
straight tovvards the musician, whereupon we
made a strategic rear-movement and cut off
snake’s retreat. It measured 4ft. 3in.
STRONG-MAN SAMPSON
Dear Bulletin: — Be “Nell Cook” and
her two little pigs (Bulletin, 8/10/’9B). About
midway between Bulumwaal and Sheepstation
lives a miner’s wife, who trained two little pigs
to fetch wood for her. Often asked by sceptical
travellers to give an exhibition of the intelligence
of her pigs. She would say “Go and fetch me
some wood, quick! ” at the same time stamping
her foot, and the pigs would instantly run into
the scrub, each grab the first dry stick it came
across and drag it to the house. Talk about pigs
being pig-headed after this I Can any Bulletin
reader quote another instance of a pig being made
useful when alive ?— Fred. Bradshaw. [Pigs
have been trained to act as pointers ; are still in
use as truffle-finders. —Ed. B.]
* » • •
Be animal companionship. Afc Camden
Park station a single sheep took up with a mob of
turned-out horses, and domiciled with them for
over two years, taking no notice whatever of other
THE SHEARERS’ COOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mnw , . ,
Now shearers cooks, as shearers know,
B, tXn S £ tZrTl t V V;
t when 1 took: to dabbing tar,
And picking up ”on Blaringar,
The cook, when “ barbers ” came at morn
To get a snack, would say, with scorn ;
“ Tpu nu fi, i
Lea on the left,
Oollee on the right,
Brownie on the bunk, and blast yez ! ”
rru
ine bunk or slab was in the hut,
And on it “ brownie ” ready cut*
Two buckets o’er the fire would be—
One filled wif-h r.r,f¥c , ,
une tilted with coffee, one with tea ;
Ana when the chaps came filing in
The cook would say, with mirthless grin:
“ Tea on the left,
Coffee on the right
Brovvnio r... fl, i , - ’ , , , ~,
LSrownle on the bunk, and blast yez ! ”
Peonliir mmi u > i
Fecufiar man, this shearers cook,
And had a very ugly look
To me—a new-chum rouseabout.
Said he, one day when all were out:
“There’s nothing in this world my lad
That’s wni-t-h , i , ’
o tn your woiry, good or bad ;
Grief on the left,
Sorrow on the riofit
rn ~ , , ,
Xrouble on the bunk, but blast it I "
W. T. GOODGE.


PIXLIXfQEIT
does not protect Jewellery Buyers,
Any jeweller can stamp 9-carat Gold W-earat in New South Wales.
J~Y CTI fife
vv)i[»y.ir'V
Solid
18-carat
Gold.
Exquisite
Fine
Oriental
Pearls.
Finish.
s
To be sure of quality, therefore, you must buy of a House with a known reputation.
BROOCHES in all the NEWEST DESIGNS at LONDON ARMY & NAVY STORES PRICES.
It affords us pleasure
to send approval parcels
to the country.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
(The Oldest Jewellery Mouse in Sydney) '
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia. '
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturer!*
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WHITE LABEL LAGER
America’s Finest and Lightest Beer.
slieep. A playful stallion ended the poor mut-
ton’s days with a kick in the side, and the mob
left him to die alone. No, there is no moral !
• » * •
Pluck ? Another back - country sample.
Some time ago a traveller threw dqwn his port-
folio-latest Darling-River-ese for swag—at the
door of the homestead of a man known to have a
little surgical skill. “Boss in?” “Yes, but
having tea.” “Right, I’ll wait. When he’s
through, tell him, willyer, I’d like a word with
him.” The traveller sat on his swag, and waited.
Half-an-hour, and he was still waiting. “ Night.
Ha’ you got a knife— I got a hook in my thumb ? ”
A great cod-hook, deeply buried. “Painful?”
“Bit.” “ It’ll have to be cut right out.” “Yes;
had one in my palm before.” The “surgeon”
gashed the thumb open, and bound it up.
“Thanks, you did it neat.” The missus came to
the door of the bath-room where the operation was
performed, and the traveller swiftly put his hand
and arm behind his back so that she shouldn’t see
the blood. Boss, after washing his hands, went
inside to get the man a drop of whisky, looked
down the track—there was the patient, swag on
shoulder, off to the river-side to camp.
* * * *
“ Munca Re tinned foods (B. 22/10/'9B),
an improvement on V.K.’s suggestion would be to
have date of canning stamped into top of tin, and
to make it illegal to cover this stamp with any
label.
# * * *
Among the ruins of Hobart’s most ancient
necropolis the local aldermen boast of having
lately discovered some Tasmanian blue-gum burial
crosses bearing date 1808. There is proof positive
that these “ wooden tombstones ” could not have
been erected less than three-quarters of a century
ago: and they are still fairly sound.
* * * *
“ May ” : That fish, after escaping from
the angler, often warn their mates is quite true.
I knew an eel that brooded over his injuries, and
even sought revenge. One morning I had jabbed
him with a three-pronged fork—one prong bent —
but he got away. In the afternoon I was stand-
ing waist-deep in water painting the bottom of
my boat that was hanging from davits attached to
wharf. I leaned against a pile, and trying soon
to move along, found it was no go—my legs were
tied to the pile. Had no means of cutting the
binding, so the rising tide crept slowly to my
chin. One inch more—but my mate came and,
stooping, cut away the very eel I had injured in
the morning (we knew it by comparing the fork
with his wounds). We were quite unable to untie
the knot that bound his head to his tail.
Mr. W. A. HOLMAN, Member for Grenfell in
N.S.W. Assembly.
TO ANANIAS ROUGEMONT, TOZER AND 00.
Oh, let the ’roo, the tailless, rest;
Avoid the jackass hateful !
Do give the hoary bunyip best,
The bower-bird', the rabbit-pest—
And we will all be grateful!
* * * *
t eroc^ous kangaroo ! In Bega district
of N.S.W. the other day a “pet”’roo made a
Ii? rC L attack upon a man and horse—springing on
the horse s back, clapperclawing the rider vigor-
-011 ’<( an d foll owing up the chase at a gallop
U jut °PP ort une assistance arrived ” with sticks,
and bludgeoned the marsupial from its prey.
At no f"ue in the world’s history was so
much thought given as at present to the question
o Drink. In America, England, and other
great centres, the best intellects of the community
try to solve the great question. That mankind
must drink something better than water, tea,
eottee, and cocoa is universally acknowledged. In
America the expression of public opinion is given
m the prodigious consumption of Lager Bier.
Hager is the national drink ; once Lager becomes
the established drink of a nation, diseases of
b ® oome unknown. Here in New
nouth Wales the Sydney Lager Bier Brewing Co.
Ltd. has established itself in the favor of the
community. And while Lager is known to be the
best beverage for men and women, it is highly
satisfactory to know that Sydney Lager is proved
by analysis to be the best on the N.S.W. market.*
Eight ex-Attorney-Generals of N.S.W. are
ahve-the senior being Lyttleton Holyoake Bay-
' y, Judge of the Supreme Court of Bombay, who
was A.-G. from March to Oct., 1859.
Mrs. Harrison Lee.
Mrs. Harrison Lee, the Australian prohibitionist,
is a woman who believes in milking the cows
regularly at five o’clock each evening. She was
brought up in the mountains of Victoria, “in the
great Dividing Range where we were all so
friendly,” and she advances this as an excuse for
her social w r armth. She is a good and simple
woman with a beautifully-arranged set of Sunday-
school principles. When you call upon
her, she greets you with a lovely smile
—and tea ; warm, tea. If you give
the password “Alcohol shall Die!”
she calls you “Brother” if you’re
a man, “Dear,” if you’re a woman;
and she becomes your sister Bessie,
purring, and purring, and purring.
She was married, eighteen years ago ;
spent eight years of married life
as an invalid: was then healed by faith ;
and has now spent 10 years in “the
happy service.” As an invalid, she
could not walk ; but, after being cured
by faith, she walked, and talked, and
fought the “Demon Drink.” She
rode 50 miles a day over mountainous
country and dined on damper in a
navvies’ camp, in order to preach that
evening in the cause of water and tea.
She believes “ Drink ” to be the cause
of all other social evils, and she be-
lieves that every man’s pocket has a
hole in it, and that hole is at the top.
She admits that the deduction from
history and from every-day observation
is that the desire for alcoholic liquors
is part of human nature, but she smiles
that difficulty away, and says in a voice
of high sweet key—“We can reform
human nature. ” She is so simple and
so optimistically imaginative that she
reminds you of the child smiling and
saying, “We can reach the moon if
we have a ladder long enough.” She
recounts her great record in Ballarat
in ’9l, when a poll of the people was
taken and 48 hotels were closed in East
Ballarat in one day, and 27 in West
Ballarat. And she dwells upon this
fact as if it were an indication ; when
all the time it merely signifies that
the sea-shore sands are fewer tempor-
arily by some grains. She points to
Edison, the genius, because he said
that he “kept his brains for a better pur-
pose than drinking ”; she would not point to
Edison, the “ chain ” cigar-smoker, or to Bis-
marck, the brandy-drinking and chain-cigar man;
she “loves those who bind themselves that others
may be free;” and her definition of, liberty, is,
that “it ends where another’s danger begins.”
Her own sex is her sorest trouble. “Itis so much
harder to cure women than to cure men of
drunkenness ; when women lose their self-respect
it is so seldom that they ever get it back again.
Signorina Cesca Vollugi (photo, page 14) is
the very promising young Melb. girl who lately
took the name-part in a Melb. amateur-produc-
tion of “ The Bohemian Girl.” Cesca Vollugi,
like Lalla Miranda, is the daughter of a clever
music-and-singing teacher, and, after her father’s
death, she had the advantage of further careful
tuition from Melba’s first tutor, Cecehi. That the
damsel is an artistic singer goes without saying.
She has a nice voice, pretty stage-appearance, and
a decided aptitude—probably a real talent—for
acting.
Labor-member W. A. Holman’s recent
maiden speech in N.S. Wales Assembly was
a welcome relief from the dreary drip-drop
that does duty for oratory in the Parlia-
ments of Little Pedlington. The subject was
the amendment of the I27th clause in the
Draft Bill—a theme which, of course, readily lent
itself to effective use at the hands of a man who
since childhood has fed fat his mind with the
literature of ultra-democracy ; whose god of
gods is the vox populi; and who for seven
or eight years—since he was in the last of
Lis teens —has been recognised as marvellously
endowed with the gift of speech. Starting in the
presence of a House half-empty, Holman quickly
filled the benches ; and when at the end of about
an hour he concluded, he received a round of
cheers from all quarters of the Chamber—a
tribute seldom paid to any member, and the equal
of which in enthusiasm has not been heard in the
House for many years. Premier Reid told
Holman the speech was one of the best
he had heard ; and Wise, to whose speech
Holman’s was a reply, was no less generous of
appreciation. No one in the House has claims
equal to Holman’s to be considered an orator;
but if the member for Grenfell talks often, one of
these days Speaker Abbott will be hit in the eye
by a Hansard man’s hand—thrown off by the
extraordinary centrifugal force which the record-
ing angel is called upon to develop in his attempts
to keep within cooee of “the last word.” The
cataractof Lodore is deadinanimacycompared with
Holman’s rate of speaking when he’s “at his top.”
The Bulletin, writingof Ashton’s maiden speech,
said that the speaker was so deliberate, and took
so long to get from the end of one word to the
commencement of the next, that the audience had
ample time to go out and have a drink, and return
without losing the thread of his discourse. But if
you cough while Holman is speaking you lose half-
a-dozen sentences.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8, 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, chemist, 246 George-st., Sydney.*
* The Bulletin’s brilliant and unique Xmas
number will be published on December Bth, and
agents who wish to make sure of their orders
being filled should send in early. Single copies
will be mailed from The Bulletin office to r.ny
Australian address (except in Queensland) for 7d.
in stamps; to any Queensland address, Bd. in
stamps. To any English address eightpence in
stamps.
Mrs. HARRISON - LEE, an Australian Prohibitionist.
Photo., Yeoman & Co., Melbourne.
Will Ogilvie’s charming volume of verse,
“ Fair Girls and Gray Horses,” is now ready. In
case of any local difficulty or delay in supply, the
best plan is to order direct from The Bulletin,
enclosing 4s. Cd. in stamps or postal notes ; and
get the book by return post.
“Anon ” : He the Wangaratta death under
chloroform (B 29/10/’f)8), it doesn’t follow by any
means that because the patient was healthy, im-
pure drugs passed him out. Fact is, few surgeons
know how to administer chloroform safely. An
eminent British specialist declares that all such
deaths are due to carelessness or ignorance on the
part of the administrators. Another specialist ad-
ministered the anaesthetic in 5000 cases without
one fatality. It’s the haphazard method of ad-
ministration that usually kills, apparently.
Writes Miss Hilda
Spong to Bulletin
from London :
Just two years ago (Sep.
’96) I made my first ap-
pearance before an Eng-
lish audience, at Drury
Lane, in the “ Duchess
of Coolgardie ’’ long
enough, I think, to justify
me in giving my im-
pressions of England,
especially as visitors from
this side don’t scruple to
sum up “down-under”
characteristics after being
but a couple of weeks in
Australia. Had I been so
hasty of judgment next
boat back would have seen
me on board, so wretched
did everything seem.
Chill, gloomy weather ;
chill, gloomy people ;
luxurious wealth joslling-
squalid poverty; an atmos-
phere more fit to chew
than to breathe, and an
apparent hopelessness of
ever getting a professional
opening with such an
over-crowded actor-mar-
ket. Such would have
been my verdict at the
time, and a very unfair
one it would have been,
for London isn’t England,
and the sun does oc-
casionally shine to some
purpose (89deg. in the
shade last week).
I got my chance through
an opportune introduc-
tion to Coleman, of Drury
Lane, when he was set-
tling the cast of the
“ Duchess of Coolgardie.”
Seemed favorably im-
pressed, and a reference
to Mr. Boucicault got me
the leading part. How I
succeeded, and how good
public and press were to
me, you know. And here
let me warn my Austra-
lian sisters of the difficulty
of getting an opening in
London. There is a hard
“ring," which it takes
strong interest to breal.
through; a letter of introduction will seldom do
it, and even when an opening is found, the engage-
ment is only for the run of the piece. Should it only
play for a week or two there is the expense of your dresses,
and another weary wait. Myownluckin being" out ” but
four rnonths in two years is very exceptional. As to
salaries also, only very few command big pay ; otherwise,
pay is lower than in Australia, especially in the provinces,
where £5 a week is average for leading man or woman.
The climate here is about one part sunshine to ten of
rain, snow, and fog, but there are compensations in the
chances of meeting such men as Pinero, Grundy,
Buchanan, Herman Merivale, or Anthony Hope. You
never know whom you may strike in a stroll down the
Strand ; perhaps the genial Louis Becke or the melodious
Ada Crossley. Then there’s a great old talk about down-
under. lam soon to visit America, and, as that’s on the
way home, I may perhaps be able to give you my impres-
sions thereof in my own proper person.
A PERTINENT QUESTION.
Why drink unknown brands of whisky of doubt-
ful quality when the “D.C.L.” Scotch (Black
Bottle) can be relied on as a real Highland
Whisky, thorough matured, and of guaranteed
uniformity.
A Modern Sampson.
Sampson in his clothes is nothing to set the crowd
agape. There are any number of men in Australia
who are more arrestive in a crowd than he; thou-
sands who are more expressive of strength, of will,
of determination. As for symmetry, you could
almost throw a stone at random, and hit a better
model man than Sampson. There are thousands
upon thousands of men in Australia who are taller
than he. As for big bones, stop the first police-
man you meet. He is bigger-boned than Samp-
son. But if you look for strength, wrestle with a
bull sooner than with Sampson ; take a kick from
a horse sooner than a blow from this human em-
bodiment of force. Lift his dumb-bell and he
pays you £ 100. That brick wall over there is a
good single-brick wall. Sampson stands ready,
his hand protected by a glove. He gathers
himself together; one punch !—out fly two
bricks. On the stage in his exhibition he
punches a 30001 b. blow. He gets down on
his hands and feet and supports a table carrying
twelve women. That is nothing. He has lifted
40001 b.—over a ton and three-quarters. He has
pulled against 14 men and beaten them. He
breaks shillings in his fingers ; iron rings upon
his biceps. At the age of 12 he was struck by
lightning; but, like the majority of those so
struck, he did not die. But he remained para-
lysed for 17 days. At the end of that time his
father, a doctor, suspended two iron rings from
the ceiling, and told his son to grip these and try
to raise himself. Then began the secret of Samp-
son’s evolution ; the summoning of the will. He
placed the iron rings upon his biceps, and strained
and strained his muscles against them. He arose
from his bed of paralysis, and kept on with his
iron rings for 26 years—till long after the world
had called him Sampson. That is the story of
Sampson, according to himself. Alow for his
regimen of health.
He takes a bath in the morning and he wouldn’t
mind a swim—“a swim’s an appetiser; it’s a
natural thing to do before breakfast. As for work
before breakfast—let fools do it. A man is weak-
est when he gets up, and the proper time for
exercise is in the afternoon or evening. When a
man exercises he should work—work hard with
101 b. dumb bells if he wishes to develop strength ;
light dumb bells are a mere farce.” Sampson’s
breakfast at 8 or 8.30 consists of a couple of eggs
or an omelette with brown bread and coffee. For
lunch at 1, he has two or three plates of soup,
beef, or mutton, with brown bread. He declines
potatoes and vegetables because they fatten:
eggs, meat and brown bread are muscle-
makers.” His drink with lunch is good wine—
Burgundy preferred ; if not this, then claret or
champagne. Dinner at 6.30 is a repetition of lunch
in quantity and substance. Between meals or
with lunch or dinner he will take any fruit that
is going. He takes wine or whisky at times.
But water ! oh never 1 Sampson has never drunk
pure water in his life. “Pure water it is bad *or
the boots ; it must be bad for the stomach.”
And tea ! Sampson is a Frenchman, and more-
over he earns “ ,£250 a week.” He dare not drink
tea ! This block of strength—built only sft. 7in.
high so that he shall have no weak spot—this
living force whose muscles burst rings of iron,
finds his weak spot in a cup of tea. “ Now, at 4(1
Miss HILDA SPONG, in “Trelawny of the Wells."
Photo., Alfred Ellis, London.
years old, tea makes me nervous as it has always
done; makes me feel that something dreadful is
going to happen—fills me with the feeling that an
accident or break-down will occur in my exhibi-
tion.” This from a man who claims to have worn
no support when he lifted close on two tons !
He does not smoke. Most of his work is done
by inflating his lungs—he can expand from 3‘Jin.
to 58in. And he considers that smoking injures
both lungs and heart.
S. A. MILLS.


“BOB’S” POLICY OF INTIMIDATION.
MINISTER BEST: “ Understand , once and for all, Gillies, if you worry this poor darling, or any other poor child of mine, I'll drop it."


Mr. Brutiker doelined to be interviewed. He shock
his head and walked away. Then turning round he
remarked, “It appears to me that the Opposition
want protection before federation.”
1 A £ u/|
A
° o> js- /'
.* V\</'
Ivf \
5/ v
i> “ffechol
Tfiii /yaa/jiaiftfio.^
. U- C ccfioy
7/Ora. lc( fy ccy js*yof (s
<?a-Si2y 'rjCLcyyfcL
of rectop\
p
-*«■ •, X
p
p \
' o - ■ o X
T* N
<s< x
c _T p \
N*r 'V x.
? cT"r*
V* -
7so£>" {j dtx.Y~ a. 37£> >
// /P{/eS cut
/Vzllj'a.tfrr
Jf7
J°/%ro/- ffa' y ?
d^7z-/j//se
c fif/veolßOfoßCfF - tv*??.
<£><? Tfeyre parity <*■ /
cl i/e* ~ or ft.
rfocLi’Tfu fearnecC /
7£c4\ /''*'? /
7/7/7/ffS/
£** s Za/-<y /ere Y OCt
$?/; you <
/r6t*3 / Q jb u f.
<7s a Ser/>e/}f //} Tcf S’ /ye 'll er /f~.
MELBOURNE, Friday.
A few days ago the Board of Health reoeived
an anonymous communication to tho effect that
l)i\ Heyden, residing at Macarthor, near Wci-r-
-nambool, who arrived from India about six months
ago, had in his possession a packet of bacilli of
the dreaded bubonic plague The board took
immediate action by despatching its health
officer. Dr. Gray, to Macarthor for the purpose
of ascertaining if the report were correct, and : if
so, to endeavour to get Dr. Heyden to hand thd
microbes over for destruction. Dr. Gray
ascertained that tho report was quite correct,
but Dr. Heyden refused 'td part with
the bacilli, which he had secured for ex-
perimental purposes at great risk to himself.
He receives £3OO as compensation. When this
was reported to the health authorities they
considered the situation, and found that they
had no legal power Jo interfere with
the importation. Dr. Gray accordingly left
Macarthur to-day on his letutn to Melbourne. In
the meantime the Minister for Health, Mr. WiL
liarns, was appealed to by the board, and it was
represented to him that the patter was st
very serious one and called for decisive action
in the public interest. The board argued that Dr.
/ Heyden must have smuggled the bacilli into the
L colony, as inquiries at the Custom-house
/showed that no such importation had
/, been reported. Microbes are not dutiable,
7and there was no law to prevent
/their importation, but the Secretary for Trade
a and Customs states that everyone coming to thq
A colony is technically bound to repdrt everything
/in his possession. Mr. Williams, at an interview
! with Dr. Wollaston, suggested that an officer of
i the Customs Department should be sent
to’ seize the germs, and that Dr.
Heyden he prosecuted for secretly importing
the germs of a horribly dangorous disease. Mr.
Williams regarded Dr. Heyden’s conduot as
objectionable and favoured desperate measures,
but upon Dr. Wollaston learning that tho
microbes had been imported in 'gelatine.-
he saw his opportunity to proceed in
a legal manner, for gelatine is subject to a duty
of 3d per lb., and as Dr. Heyden had not paid
duty the department was entitled to seize tho
gelatine. Detective-inspector Christie, was, there-
fore instructed to proceed to Macarthur by this
afternoon’s train and make the seizure, and for
this purpose he was accompanied by a bacterio-
logical expert.
Society op Ahtists. —Hitherto the Art Society
has enjoyed a Government subsidy of £5OO a
year, but nnder the new arrangements made by
the Minister for Public Instruction the Sum of
£BOO has been placed upon the Estimates for
equal division between the Art Society and the
Society of Artists. The members of the latter
society will in this way be enabled to retain per-
manently the handsome gallery occupied by - them
during the past few weeds, and they also intend
to found a travelling scholarship with the money
Similar to those which have proved so beneficial
to Victorian students.
°° N
f-oiL
| On the line between Narrandara and
Jerildcrie “ a plague of grasshoppers ” was met
■with. The wheels of the train inflicted instant
execution ; bat they became so greasy that they
would not “ bite.” They slipped round and
round with great rapidity, but the train scarcely
moved an inch. A little sand on' the rails set
matters right, and the driver on making known
the cause of the delay was instantly exonerated
by the department. ‘
$
■f
jA.
*
CARTOONLETS.


Do you ever have a headache ? Would
you not have a cure—simple, harmless, effective*
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets—
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post. *
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
Brooks’s Australian Christmas Annual
has been produced, under the superintendence of
D. H. Souter, with excellent illustrations and
bright typography. There is a cover in three
colours by D. H. Souter, and two coloured illus-
trations—one by Souter, the other by J ulian
Ashton. Other artists contributing are Mahony,
Lambert, Fullwood, and Alice Muskett; and the
light-and-landscape glimpses 'ey the two latter are
particularly full of sympathy and skill. The
literary contributors include Lawson, Daley, F. J.
Broomfield, “The Banjo,” J. A. Philp, W. B.
Beattie, David Grant, Chris. Brennan, and
others; and the price of the magazine (30 pages)
is Is.
“Timothy The Japs at the C.S.R. Co.’s
Victoria Mill on the Herbert River (Q.) being dis-
satisfied determined on strike. Moment bell rang
at six o’clock following morning all the night-shift
Japs—about 30 - ceased work and made tracks for
the barracks, and, the day-shift boys not showing
up, crushing had to cease. Took three hours
talking and concession of their demands to make
them resume work. Strong contrast to conduct of
white men at same mill, who have for sometime
been greatly dissatisfied with the cooking. Trying
to get them to act au Jap. is futile, as not half-a-
dozen will hang together, and the bosses know it.
The enormous new White Star liner,
Oceanic, is 702 ft. long—l 4 yards over |mi le-
as against the Great Eastern’s 675 ft. When
launched (early next year) she will displace 17,000
tons of water, and her coal capacity will be enough
to let her girdle the earth at 12 knots an hour.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
of Moore Park, Sydney, has placed upon the mar-
ket a splendid Lager Bier called Sydney Lager
Bier. This bier is the choicest thing ever offered
to the people of N.S.W. Analysts praise it most
highly ; doctors recommend it to convalescents,
and connoisseurs at the last Sydney Agricultural
Show gave it first prize against all competitors.
What has long troubled the rational people of
N.S.W. is “what to drink.” There is no fun
in summer weather in drinking fiery alcoholic
liquors that break up the nerves, affect the diges-
tion, heart, liver and kidneys; and on the other
hand there is an intense vagueness and total
dissatisfaction in drinking wish-wash. Sydney
Lager Bier is the happy mean between these ex-
tremes, and people in the country who desire to
have the newest and best drink going should com-
municate with the N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing
Go., Moore Park, Sydney, for particulars. Al-
though the new lager is so much superior to all
others, it is the most reasonable in cost upon this
market.*
“Strychnos” re impure drugs and want
of an official drug-tester :
Imported articles, even if tested and found on arrival
in Australia to be pure, are singularly prone to become
either inert or chemically decomposed by time and
climate. What guarantee, therefore, would an indivi-
dual have, especially in a country town, that the chemist
has not had the particular drug or drugs used in com-
pounding a mixture on hand for, say, anything up to five
years? Recently saw a rural apothecary sell a consign-
ment of Blaud’s pills - stocked article-to a customer,
one of which, on being fired from a pistol, pierced a half-
inch deal board and finally lodged in a pumpkin. The
pill, on examination, was found to be only slightly
bruised, and apparently quite prepared to "undergo a
similar ordeal if called upon to do so. I fancy that an
official drug-tester will not meet requirements.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Quaint advt. from Maoriland :
Ty ANTED, by a Woman—Respectable single Man,
' r about 40, to see her borne at night; she has a
good home ; write to “Alice,” Herald Office, Wan-
ganui.
Query : how old is Alice? Apparently this scheme
provides for the respectable man about 40 only
seeing her after dark. Perhaps she looks not more
than 32 in the starlight.
The happiest man in Sydney last week was
a 6ft. police constable, on learning that female
drunks are probably to be taken off his hands in
the lock-up. “The three lasht women I had,”
he says, “were divils, an 1 no mistake. A man’s
no match for the like o’ them.”
jHAU PENNY
GrO TO HEIIIII-
- for Pieity Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
FrcdL Hagcs),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizafceth-st„ Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
A. Saunders.
8 Love Birds Pearl-set Gold Brooch, 20s;
Plain Birds, 13s 6d ;
2 Birds Pearl-set, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls,
£3 ss; 5 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong
Brooch.
A. Saunders.
150. Gold, 5 Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
£4 4s, very strong.
2 Bird Pearl-set Gold Brooch, Red or Blue
Stones, 17s 6d, latest style.
A. Saunders.
150. Heart-drop, Diamond and Ruby, £2lss.
New Style, Love Bird and Chain.
Gold, 8s 6d.
mm
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
Any Name or Motto Free.
15c. Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2 10s and £B.
A. Saunders.
8 Bird Chain and Heart Brooch, 10s 6d.
A. Saunders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. Registered.
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
15s. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
2-Bar 15c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2.
A Saunders.
Ladies' Long Granny or Muff Chains.
9c. Gold, 355, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
15c. Gold, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6.
We can make any special design.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires or
Rubies, 4 Diamonds, £3 ;
Double - cut Diamonds,
£3 10s and £4. Send for
illustrations.
Send for Price List.
18c. Solid Gold Diamond,
2 Rubies and Sapphires,
£2 ; 15c. Gold, 20s & 30s.
Pure Diamond Band Rings,
15c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
18c. Gold, Pure Double Out
Diamon 1, £6 ss; Larger,
£6 6s, £7los, £Blos, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15c., 20s, 258;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
f
bJ
9c. Plain Links, 10s 6rl.
Chased, 12s 6d;
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d and 3s.
A. Saunders.
New Design Gold-mounted Boar’s Tusk, Chain,
and Bell, 15s6d; without Bell and Chain, 12s 6d.
Silver, 4s.
OLOs
A. Saunders.
Large Size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold „ „ 455.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Bird Pearl Set, Amethyst Heart,
21s; 15c., £2.
Latest London Rage. Try One.
AMY
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra Strong, 10s ;
15c. Gold, 15s; 18c. Gold, 20s.
Silver, 3s 6d.
A. Saunders.
lo?id m GowX d 6 d d in f 8 I “ n^ o and H KeeperS ’ 9c -
15s ; extra heavy 25s“i 8c Gold -
heay y- 30s, 355, 4 Send for car'd 1 CXtra
A. Saunders.
New Name Bracelet, 255. Any Name or Initials Free.
c/i
0
o
20s.
20s.
A. Saunders'
Unrivalled Non-Magnetic Lever : perfect timekeeper ; strong
Bushman Watch, 20/-. Written certificate 12 months. Last
„ your life. Other styles, 7/6, 10/-, 15/.
Pure Silver £2 £2 10s, £3, £4, 15, £6, £7, £B. 2,3, 4,6, and
6 years’ guarantee. Send for Price Book.
Gold Watches, £4 4s to £3O.
A. Saunders
15c. Gold, Pure Diamonds, Heart Brooch, £4 4s ; Rubies
and D amonds, £3 ss.
m
<r
Or
15c. Gold, Pure White Pearls £8 Bs.
A beautiful, choice brooch.
Gold Bird and 2 Heart Amethys!,
mmz&mmsmm
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS’
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
.]u S e oryouise f. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you
Lry us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney
Answers to Correspondents.
Ko notice wUI be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
*!° liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed m, and in no case will MS. be returned, un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
F. Cros: The detail makes it too audacious. If
we printed it a thousand people would bombard the paper
with things equally warm H.M.B. :The loves and kisses of
Eric and Edina, and how Edina’s nut-brown head rested
on Erie s shoulder, and the shriek Edina gave when she
found Eric was already married, are all declined.
....Ida (M.L.) : Practise on the local paper, and come
back in five years. If you’re a nice girl and sit on the
local editor s knee, and let him hug you on
publication-day, he’ll print anything. This we
know from our own experience as local editor
7x7: Odiously long-winded. First write your yarn, then
cn ni lt OW P by three-fourths. Then send it to us ; and
we’ll cut it down again by two-thirds. A Bulletin
column is a narrow plank on which you have to walk
carefully; it is not a 640-acre paddock for goats to skip
in Stuart L. H. : Great promise, if really first
attempt ... Emily F.C. : Rather crude treatment, but
not very far below mark ... E.I.W. : “Ashes” spoilt by
mixed metaphors. Is “ Romeo” absolutely original ? ... .
Waxy : Merely confusion of terms. People say “ sex-
problem ” when they really mean “ sex-employment pro-
blem.” A.L.R. :No more bower-bird ! G. Dudley :
Received Bargo : Skeeter-lie not funny. P.O. item
unintelligible Asmodeus : Some usable. Send only
“cream.” ...Fred. B. : No use for obscene jokes
H. Cal (W.A.) : Raw material of a poet, but workman-
ship crude. “ Pioneers,” will consider H.A.J. :
Named from fact, that Prince Albert suggested use in de-
fault of socks by British soldiers in Crimea
Tahune : “ Rondolet ” flat; epigrams feeble
R. F. : Not ill-written, but hardly interest enough
Rupert: But circulation-poisons are not always stomach-
poisons. The venom of many snakes can be swallowed
with impunity., 6x 8 : Bike-poem too bumpy Tor-
pedo : Didn’t hit us Namoi: “ Destiny ”is only ’pren-
tice-work 7x7: “ Tucker-Time,” promising. Others
m due course Straight-’un : Didn’t get home. Old
Jaekeroo : Too matter-of-fact Win.: “Suitors”
might have been much better handled. Dargo :No
P'th. Yorky : Funny as wet-day funeral A.C.M. :
No literary value. Lemuel : Like the pounding of a big
drum—and no more inside it. John C. W. : Praise-
worthy simplicity, but lacks finish E.B.R. : “ Doves ”
ends well, but rest of handling dull Rigel: Good
literary emetic !.. .Phil A. : Wooden-leggel mendacities
Lucius : On the contrary, man, with his brain, is the most
destructively-armed of all animals. The bullet that
floors the tiger is virtually projected from the man’s in-
tellect ... Albert N. : You deserve the Order of the
Defunct Cat Haricot: Obvious as the blast of a fog-
horn Quartz : ldwt. to the ton Saul: Well, you’re
not amongst the prophets, this timel ... Sivad: Neither
available Anxious I. (Bris.) : You can’t get the medical
qualification named without going through the Univer-
sity Alan Neville : None good enough—not even the
fat woman who spanks her daughter with an umbrella in
'bus Yarrum : Egg joke addled Bar.: Don’t know
where to advise you to go. The human race has been
moving on in search of that same better country since the
beginning of history. So far as we know, poor, dead-
broke Australia is about as good as any place even
pow A.C.D. : Proceed against him civilly for
illegal detention of property. Merely finding an arti-
cle gives the owner no earthly right to keep it ..
John Allen : Then better insure with the A.M.P.
Society Sirad : Under consideration B. : Can’t say
without legal evidence that that public official got his
vote hustled through before anyone had time to ask
questions about his smellful department, because he
backed the bill of the then Chairman of Committees
Rex : Well written, hut not enough story in it Kelm
Scott: Nothing in it but a faint smell of beer Araluen:
Stout woman jammed in gate declined Australia for
the Australians: Thanks ..Brains: Pale, thin rot
A.M. :Only the raw material fora story, not the story itself.
And the raw material is much rushed and jumbled
Alone 24: Stiff and dull D.P.S. : Look as if they had a
lanje moral loose about them Q.N.: Don’t drivel
Joe (Auckland) ; A fine specimen of native prigdom
eV^ (M S lb>) . : Copy awfuh ( p -S--So is the yarn.) ""
fe.O.U : Subject not popular enough for continued dis-
cussion. Anyway, you’re too vague and mixed. How do
you know what “ natural law ” is, for example : and what
do you mean by it? D.A. (Auckland): All that fuss
about her kissing you! E.Q.V. : Weep—wail—howl:
but not in these columns, thank you F.M. : Possibly
both Prof. : Thanks H.C. : “St. H.” fair .. Jim-
jams : Looks like it J.A.W.: Style and point too
familiar, and handling not bright enough to compensate
.. L.M.D. :“ Reason” declined “Breaker”: Send
address Perce : Once more, the triolet only looks easy
Conob : Considering H. CaI(W.A.): Pretty rough •
will try and deal with T.J. : Enough Fortitude Valiev
rumors P.R.A. : “The dew-flres jingled at my feet” is
about the least-mixed line in it Sedley : Mere froth of
words and sentiment Junius: Some inventive skill
but not enough narrative art Shaw’G. : Worthless
Tin : Tired of the played-out bush-misery controversy."
W ant bright comment or new fact, not dull, dogmatic
assertion C.R. : Yes indeed, why should a litigant be
landed in costs because a Judge does not know the law’ he
has to administer? M.R. : “Wanted to Help” too
laborious Boko: Small baby joke .... Long Un : Don't
like tale told in spasms and short barks ... Memento : Not
poetry ; only labored and mechanical doggerel. Possiblv
you could tell a tale in prose Ap. Rhys : Beer contro-
versy off .... Jep : Most of them are plain dull lies, but a
“Ogerately lr >teresting Ananias rises here and there
W.E.T. : Hardly worth space Telescope: Poem rushed
down a steep place into the abyss A.E.L. (Maclean) •
Many thanks G.H. (Balmain): Thin skim-verse and
water. And why bracket Du Chaillu and Park with
Rougemont ? C.A.W. : Hardly thrillsome enough
J. Novice : Too crude, and the story of that burst
has been told so often Spes: Vain J.M.
Whit.: “Straight” returned Ishmael : Uninteresting
as told E. Paraite : Dull; and don’t care for that
style unless first-rate Machete : “ Nell ” too stiff
Frank S. : If you’re not in knickerbockers you ought to
be ...Toby : Too rough L’homme : Don’t agree
T.R. (Coolabah): Pass in favor of the local paper
S. (W.A.): Good pars Passer-by: Can’t use. . .
Alex. R. : The gentlemen aren’t yet famous enough to be
glared at in a print-microscope Lettie : Situation
shrieks for the exhibition of somebody’s purple pills
Dido : Remember the Latin gerund joke, and be di-do-
aum. D. : Pretty limp, hey ?. Jingle: Guess you weren’t
built for a poet L.B.E. (Melb.): On second thoughts,
too long for merit Alone 26 : Worthless P.M. : Let
us know how things go H.B. : You ride a very wooden
Pegasus Matchbox : Noted Carini: Possibly one or
two. Videtur : Not quite up Carl O. : Let the doctor
distribute your alms. H& knows the really deserving
you don’t 11.W.C. (Melb.): It is quite bona
tide. The “chain-letter” in question, about which we
have had no end of enquiries, w’as started bv the Hurst-
ville lady named, who probably “didn’t know it w'as
loaded.” .C.W.E. : And that in face of the fact that the
administration of Queensland electoral law'during the past
decade has made the exercise of the franchise by the
working population more and more difficult Out in the
Cold : The influence of long service goes for much in
every line of business under any sort of management,
doesn’t it? It is nothing against a man that he happens
to bo a blood relation of an old and valuable
Hairpin: Inopportune. Ikey didn’t skin as'much
lamb as usual at the V.R.C. meet “ H.’’: Anyhow', Eliot
Warburton, in the “Crescent and the Cross,” published
half a century ago, refers to the universal impression among
the Egyptians that the British would take that country.
Pallamallawa : Too “rough.” E.S.A.C. : Premier
Turner’s “ I have no sympathy with drunkards ” is an un-
philosophical piece of Pharisaism. Almost as well say :
“ I have no sympathy with consumptives.” Turner has
done excellent work in Victoria, but he is as unimaginative
as cow-merchant Brunker Rowdy : But w'hocan main-
tain, in view of the innumerable examples of the sinister
power of “ suggestion,” that the slaughtering-in-public-
per-evening-newspaper of Lisson or any other man would
not encourage deeds of blood among those on
the mysterious borderland of insanity? ... Sayo :
If honorary stewards will not keep racing sweet
and clean, the “stipendiary” is not likely to do much in
that direction. An honorary steward is not an incom-
petent person, like an honorary “ beak.” He’s an expert,
and it is from him that the “stipendiary ” takes his cue.
• . H.R. : Atholwood had figured as an emergency
* leading 1 man ** in Sydney, and he played Napolen there
months ago Kanga: A modest bushman was the
author. (2) He is supposed to be a Britisher Ala:
Well done, in the indeterminate way ; but same old situa-
tion. Also, can’t print much of that sort E. Palk :
N.S.W. must, sooner or later, get a reasonable penal code,
for she was founded on lagdom, and can’t afford to keep
on for ever advertising the fact. She got her present
penal code from Lagdom’s high priest, Alfred Stephen
Amoko : What do we think of it ? Well, we think that
all “miracles” are about on a level. Your alleged Maori
miracle makes just as good and as likely a yarn as any of
the old-time miracles. No “ orthodox ” miracles happen
now-a-days. The spread of education is fatal to the mira-
cle-crop. All the miracles we are now asked to swallow
happened longago, when people would believe anything.. ...
Nono : You are wrong in supposing that the universe is
bounded by the four walls of the ’Erald office C.S.B. :
Bulletin has letters indicating that several malignant
Northerners are after Oliver Bainbridge’s scalp . , .67H. :
Thanks .Snakejuice: Little Pedlington again!. ...
J.X.B. : Too domesticated for Bulletin . J.E. (E. 0.):
Thanks Wendoro : Excellent matter—but it takes too
long to read your MS. We are all nearly blind
J.L.B. : The pen-name “Alone” belongs to another.
Copy unacceptable—this paper doesn't care to talk of
itself while other subjects are available Chaos: Pigs
are no doubt poisonable by snake-venom. But a pig has
very thick skin, and so its blood-vessels are well-protected.


Reid Has Put No Duty
- - oisr - -
BILE BEANS
THEY STILL REMAIN THE
People’s Popular ■ Priced Preparation-
A Terrible State of Affairs.
SEVENTEEN LONG YEARS OF AGONY.
PARALYSIS, SPINAL TROUBLE, PILES AND INTERNAL COMPLAINTS.
VICTORY FOR BILE BEANS AFTER DOCTORS AND OTHER MEDICINES HAD
FAILED.
It having been reported that a marvellous cure had been effected in the case of Mrs. H. Ford, the
wife of Mr. Henry Ford, the well-known stevedore of Newcastle,
a representative of the Newcastle Herald called at the lady’s
residence, No. 3 Mona Terrace, Reid-street, recently, and found
that in this case Bile Beans for Biliousness had established pretty
well a record as a wonderful curative preparation. Mrs. Ford
had been a martyr to ailments which weie found to be beyond the
power of medical skill. She was seized with an attack of para-
lysis some seventeen years ago. This left her with occasional
pa,ins in the abdomen, the result of stricture. Her spine weak, her
mind nervous, and her speech affected to such an extent that it
was difficult for her to pronounce certain words. She suffered
the greatest agony during the past four or five years, and in the
meantime she was attacked with that wasting and painful
disease, Piles. Then, to make her sufferings more acute, she had
the misfortune to be fish poisoned. One baby very shortly after-
wards died from the effects of this in her system ; another child
was born dead, and the agony of the mother can better be
imagined than described. The last baby, which its mother was
unable to nurse, now shows signs of waste. That the Bile Beans
should have cured a lady in this terrible and complicated con-
dition is certainly a very great achievement, and yet we have
Mrs. Ford’s positive and emphatic statement, that nothing
else afforded her any permanent relief. Her husband,
. . she says, had spent a power of money in doctor’s
medicine during the course of her long and continued illness. She never experienced more than tem-
porary relief from their treatment, but Bile Beans have wrought a wonderful change in her constitu-
tmn. “ I have been taking them now,” she went on to say, “since baby was born, five months ago,
and I tell you honestly I would never have believed they could do what they have done for me. The
effects of the fish-poisoning seems to have entirely left my system, and I am free from that state of
nervousness which made my life miserable. Ido not suffer from the spinal affection that I mentioned,
and I have now become regular in my system, with the absence of those agonising pains, which every-
one knows are associated with complaints such as I had. I attribute my cure solely to Bile Beans for
Biliousness. I might mention that I gave them a good chance to do their work by dieting myself
according to circumstances and directions. Needless to add, I cannot speak too highly of this remedy,
and I shall always keep a box near me for emergencies so long as I have a shilling in the house. I
have recommended them to many friends, and excellent results have followed their use.” Mrs. Ford
expressed her willingness to allow these facts to be published in the hope that other poor suf-
ferers might read them. The newspaper-man congratulated her on her wonderful recovery, and agreed
with her that, after what she had said, Bile Beans were in reality a poor woman’s, as well as a poor
man’s, friend.
X
-
1/
Woman’s Weakness-
The woman of to-day is usually ailing; there is always something the matter with her. The
world’s doctor bills for women is over double what they are for men and children. Of course, the
organism of a woman is much more complex and delicate, and requires a great deal of attention, but
to suppose that it was originally intended that women generally should suffer for the greater part of
i F r *^^ cu^ous 0n the face of it. The great trouble in this case lies with the woman herself ;
she disobeys the natural laws, fails to observe regular habits, and seldom takes proper care of herself,
or gives enough attention to her own bodily welfare. Tight lacing is one of the many causes of the
alarming predominance of weak women to-day. The abdomen is compressed into half its original
size, and the digestive organs not given sufficient room in which to perform their various duties ; they,
in their turn, crowd the heart and female organs, and the result is palpitation of the heart, irregular
function, and a general weakness of the whole system. It is absolutely necessary, furthermore, that
the waste matter of the body should be carried out of the system regularly and systematically, and this
can only be done by keeping the whole digestive organism in perfect condition. A bath occasionally
is an absolute necessity to good health; so is a thorough cleansing of the interior portions of our
anatomy.
A woman in an unhealthy condition is entirely unable to perform her duties as a wife and mother,
and instead of being a help and blessing to her husband, she will prove a fretful, grumbling burden,
whose very existence is a curse to herself, her family, and her friends.
Cleanse the system, then, and in future give more attention to the mechanism which forms your
womanhood. Take a few moments from the perusal of fashion papers and bargain advertisements,
and spend the time in finding what rules of nature you are disobeying, and what you can do to im-
P r ' )V , e your health and make those around you happy ; and remember that Bile Beans will cleanse the
whole body of waste matter, tone up the system, and give you renewed energy and vigor, thus enabling
you to make a fresh start, with a clear road to a healthy and happy existence.
4
Piles.
Here is an ailment which is a great deal more common than is generally supposed. Women suffer
from it to a much greater extent than men, and there is a delicacy about mentioning it which causes
much needless suffering. Bleeding Piles and Blind Piles are the two branches of this ailment, the
latter being by far the most painful and common. Blind Piles consist in the formation of hard,
knotty particles, singly and in bunches, extending upward into the bowels. Bleeding Piles consist of
a swelling of the hermorrohicle vein, which break their walls, and often cause great loss of blood.
I hey are an exceedingly disagreeable complaint, being accompanied by great irritation and inflamma-
tion. In cases of Piles the sufferer becomes irritable and restless, sour of disposition, unable to sleep,
and generally discontented.
Piles are generally accompanied by more or less constipation, and can be treated in two ways—by
injections, which is an exceedingly painful operation, or by the application of a purgative, which,
acting internally, will flush the bowels and thus soften and heal the afflicted parts. For this latter
no better remedy can be found than Bile Beans, as a trial will convince anyone. They act in a gentle
manner, doing their work thoroughly, without straining any of the organism.
Praise from Melbourne.
A WELL KNOWN THEATRICAL MAN CURED.
SEVERE CASE OF BILIOUSNESS.
A reporter having heard of a remarkable cure through the agency of Bile Beans, looked up Mr.
Frederick George Salter, a well-known figure in theatrical circles in Melbourne, residing with his
family at 15 Fawcett-street, Albert Park. After a few introductory remarks, the subject of our
notice freely entered into particulars regarding what to him and his friends is a matter of unalloyed
gratification and agreeable surprise. Mr. Salter tells his story as follows “For years I was a con-
stant sufferer from Biliousness and its dreaded effects. Needless to remark, various doctors and
patent medicines were tried with the hope of being cured, but little, if any, relief was experienced
from these sources. After an unsatisfactory night’s rest, I was wont to rise with a nasty taste in the
mouth and a feeling of intense weariness. The prospect of getting through the day’s business
was not, as may be easily imagined, a very bright one. The throat was parched
and dry, adding its quota to the evils already enumerated. Moreover, the whole system
was being gradually undermined, from loss of appetite, one of the
disastrous effects of Biliousness. Indeed, I turned away from meat,
especially in the morning, with disgust, and had to content myself
with a bare collation of a little bread and tea —a somewhat poor foun-
dation on which to stand till lunch-hour. In this age of keen com-
petition and restless energy in business circles, a man requires all
the help available to enable him to hold his own in the race for ex-
istence. Hence it is that people, when attacked with disease, are
prepared to spend their substance on physicians and medicines in the
hope of meeting with a speedy and effectual cure. Such was the
state of things when I happened to hear from a friend about the
efficacy of the newly-discovered cure for biliousness, Bile Beans. At
first I was a little incredulous, and no wonder, considering the many
alleged remedies for my distressing complaint which had all proved
ineffectual in affording relief. Nevertheless, following the motto,
‘ try again,’ I determined to procure a box of Bile Beans and put
their value to a test. Well, sir, my most sanguine anticipations as
to the curative properties of this medicine have been more than
realised. The fact is that, after one or two doses, I experienced a
change for the better in my system. I continued the course, and my
former vigor began to return, the symptoms above enumerated
gradually disappeared, and the whole man felt that he was in posses-
sion of a, new lease of life. That a change for the better had been
effected in the system was apparent. More palpable evidence of
restored health could not better be seen than the fact of the return
of my former healthy appetite, to which I had been for a long time a stranger. Thanks to the power
of Bile Beans, I can now take and enjoy a hearty breakfast, lunch, and dinner. My former glow of
health and lightness of spirits have again returned. In one word, lam a new man—and I owe it all
to Bile Beans.”
• ji
trrr
Si
3*
Biliousness.
Biliousness consists of a poor appetite, severe headaches, sallow, yellow complexion, and a feeling of
general want of energy, and fatigue. Its cause is the misdirection of the bile, which becomes mixed
with the blood, and permeates the whole system.
The bile is a fluid secreted by the liver, which, when mixed with the pancreatic juice, completes
the process of digestion. The supply of bile is kept in the gall bladder, whence it flows when needed
for digestive purposes. If the pipe or duct which conveys the bile from the gall bladder becomes
stopped up through the existence of gall stones or other obstruction, the bile is forced back into the
gall bladder, which overflows, and the bile is then carried out by the only other outlet—the thoracic
duct-which conveys it to a large vein in the left shoulder. From thence it passes to the heart, and
becomes mixed with the blood. Its presence in the blood,is made manifest in various ways, such as
pimples, face sores, yellow complexion, dark rings under the eyes, &c. The digestion, too, is impaired
for want of sufficient bile to complete the process. The detrimental effect of misdirected bile is there-
fore twofold.
Bile Beans put the liver in a perfect condition, and prevent the ducts connecting the various
digestive organs from becoming stopped up. In this way they prevent biliousness. When a cure,
however, is required they cause the liver to secrete increased quantities of this fluid, and thus flush
the whole digestive system, and carry off all waste matter from the system, clearing off at the same
time all surplus bile.
-
A Valuable Discovery.
EXTRACT FROM A SYDNEY PAPER THAT ILLUSTRATES THE WORTH OF
BILE BEANS.
Scientists tell us that, in this nineteenth century of ours, that about the greatest strides made in
the discovery-world has been in medicine. We have to record a discovery, by an American medical
man, of a certain vegetable substance that has the effect in the digestive organs of nature’s own animal
bile. This discovery is revolutionising all the recent theories and remedies for digestive ailments.
The old theory of pepsin, bismuth, starving, purging, &c., &c., is to be done away with. This great
vegetable substance is compounded with other ingredients to facilitate the working, and to-day this
remedy can be purchased the world over, under the name of Bile Beans fob Biliousness. This great
remedy possesses the peculiar properties of acting on the bowels without purging or otherwise weaken-
ing the patient. This is because the substance that relaxes the bowels has about the same action as
the natural bile. Bile Beans are purely vegetable, and a course of them will probably successfully
oust the most chronic cases of piles, indigestion, chronic headache, kidney trouble, rheumatism, con-
stipation, and a host of other ailments that owe their origin to defective bile-flow, assimilation and
digestion. These Beans are placed on the market in a form that anyone can take them without medi-
cal supervision, and, as the price is so very low, there are few homes that cannot afford to always have
a box on the shelf for emergency. To be obtained from all chemists. Australian Depot, 39 Pitt-street
Sydney ; Victorian Branch, Flinders-street, Melbourne ; S. A. Branch, King William-street, Adelaide •
Queensland Branch, Charlotte-street, Brisbane ; W.A. Branch, Murray-street, Perth.
|ILE
E^IS
FOf^
ILIOUSNESS
TN€ REMEDY OF THE A 6€
- - FOB - -
CONSTIPATION, INDIGESTION, PILES,
NEADACNE, DEBILITY,
FEMALE AILMENTS, LIVER TROUBLES,
4c«i &C.
|ILE
i pss
FOf\
ILIOUSNESS


HOT WEATHER DRINKS.
Man’s thirst in days of heat and toil
Is boundless as the sea ;
But once the SJXsIiY" gins to boil,
The fragrant TEA
Cures cark and care, and stills turmoil,
And satisfied is he.
Then, if on Sscial pleasures bent,
When friend would meet with friend,
You seek for means of quiet content
A pleasant hour to spend,
Of all the gifts that gods have sent
None beats “ White Heather ” Blend.
aM _,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE ;
Agents for “ White Heather” Whisky,
Granuma and Fodah Porridge Meals.
K uppers Elberfeld Lager
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Gaorge Street, Sydiey,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &■ FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction. Jtooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The new fiscal system—The Iteidiculous
system.
New book—“ Federeidation —a study in
Political Gymnastics.”
There will be no war. Paris has too long
been getting ready for its 1900 exhibition.
When Reid’s “ pure-Freeti'ade ” tariff first
saw the light, a big Sydney brewer sized it up :
“Now the taxes are to be paid by a few people
who own some land and a few people who drink
whisky.”
Australasian Premiers hold office—For-
rest, since 1890 ; Kingston and Seddon, since 1893 ;
lieid, Turner, and Braddon, since 1894; and
Dickson, since- Oct., 1898. And the last is likely
to go first.
“The man who can say ‘Yes’ or ‘No’
at the right time has the greatest command of
language.” —English paper. What a command of
tiie English language G. H. Reid must have, seeing
that he can say both of them at any time !
Barton entered N.S.W. Leg. Assembly in
1879; his first censure-motion against any Ad-
ministration was tallied last week. He adopted
Lyne’s motion and supported many others, but
that against Reid is the first solely “ off his own
fiat.”
Premier Reid, Cobden Club gold-medallist,
slowly but surely grabs the whole policy of
N.S.W. Protectionist party. At present, the
I’rotectionists are in the peculiar position of
objecting to a Protectionist tariff being imposed,
and demanding that the province remain Free-
trade.
Westralia spends £2OOO of borrowed
money this year to encourage immigration from
England. And, meanwhile, multitudes of the
people already in the country are doing their level
best to get out of it, Assisted immigration to
W.A. just now is very like assisted immigration
to Tophet.
Maoriland, although critics of its advanced
politics treat it as constitutionally a younger
country than N.S.W., is in reality older. The
M. Constitution Act was passed in 1852, whereas
that of N.S.W. was not passed till ’55. Even
Cape Colony obtained a Constitution Act before
N. Wales —in ’54.
The Kingston Govt, is safe to emerge
without trouble from the present Parliament, its
second since its formation in 1893. Premier
Kingston proudly claims that he "has a larger
majority at his back than he had when he formed
his team six years ago. Of his original colleagues
only Holder now remains.
Premier Kingston has ueclared that his
Govt, will be no longer involved in the great land-
gamble which has been going on since the Crown
first began to part with its estate. For the pre-
sent the proposal to substitute perpetual lease for
land sales has been rejected, but next year it will
probably have a big majority.
Q. Minister Barlow doesn’t believe in Leg.
Councillors addressing their House through the
President, but by the words “Members gener-
ally.” Why ? Because, Barlow says, the Presi-
dent is imposed on the House—the House doesn t
elect him. H’m ! Councillors are imposed on the
country—no one elects them.
Solomon, M.L.A., by way of his little
scoff at reform, wants S.A. Assembly to set apart
a day for considering whether rogues or fools do
more harm in this world. The fools are under-
stood to be people who don’t agree with Solomon,
M.L.A., and the rogues are the people who think
Solomon is a pompous and rather vociferous ass.
“0.L.”: How About Albany (W. A.) for Fed-
eral Capital? Lovely harbor; splendid climate; near
Europe, Asia and Africa ; all the fertile South and
S.W. of huge Westralia at the back door awaiting
development. Easy to get a large and valuable
chunk of that unwieldy country transferred to the
Federal Govt. [Not near enough to Australia.]
John Downer’s deposition from S.A.
Opposition is considered imminent. The one
politician considered capable of consolidating the
motley crowd of ex-Ministers, office-seekers, and
pilitical failures constituting the Opposition is
believed to be V. L. Solomon, who is, however,
i. uch handicapped by being a close personal friend
of Premier Kingston.
“ Atcheringa ” : In Cook’s voyages some-
v. hereoccurs a story of some Maoris, whenaskedfor
the whereabouts of any strange lands, pointing
; iparently in the direction of Australia and calling
oit “ Ulimaroa ! ” How about that name for the
1 ederal capital ? I think it the most beautiful in
sound of all suggestions up to now, and it is cer-
tainly redolent of the South and of our history.
Queensland has had the same Ministry
ever since 1890, but, now that Byrnes is gone,
there isn’t a single man of the original team left
in it. If MTlwraith had come back to the bosom
of his old Cabinet to clear his character, as he
promised, he would have been in the position of
the prodigal who returned to the old home and
found a strange woman at the door. “Yes, your
mother died, and then your father married Jane
Brown, and she married Smith after your father
died, and when Jane broke her neck falling out of
the cart Smith married me. But you can sit on
the fence and rest a minute if you like.” Same
family all the time, only different.
Visiting-inspector Brodie’s offi-
cial report on the state of Norfolk
Island will be moved for one of these
nights in N.S.W. Assembly. The
report, which deals with matters of
importance both to the island and
to N.S.W., its constitutional guar-
dian, has been months in the hands
of Govt., and will be suppressed
unless pressure is applied. Mr.
Brodie is an experienced and re-
sponsible official, holding in N.S.W.
the position of Assistant Auditor-
General and Chief-Inspector of Pub-
lic Accounts.
It is, indeed, anomalous that
N.S.W. Premier-and-Treasurer Reid
should only receive a salary of =£1370,
while the useless Colonial Secretary
Brunker pockets .£lB2O ! But the
way to remove the anomaly is, not
to add £5OO to Reid’s present salary
and leave Brunker’s as it is, but to
reduce the absurd Brunker’s salary
to £1370, and allow, as in the case
of Jack Robertson and Farnell, both
of whom held the Lands portfolio
and the (Premiership, the difference
to temporarily attach to the portfolio
taken by the First Minister. The
assumption by Reid of “ £5OO for
the Premier ” is really an advance on
the total of N.S.W. Ministerial
salaries.
In Tasmania all who are not
property-holders must send in their
claims for an Assembly vote every
year. The Electoral Act treats every
mere salary or wages man as a luna-
tic, a criminal, or a pauper, and in-
structs the registrar to officially ob-
ject to their names appearing on the roll, such
objection standing as a complete bar to the fran-
chise unless the claim is sent in annually. Hence
one flourishing concern in the Isle of Bad Dreams
is the great Waste-Paper Industry.
Whether one is Federal or anti-Federal,
Protrader or Freetectionist, one must admit that
Premier Reid has upset the Aristotelian axiom
that a thing cannot both be and not-be at the
same time. His agile ropewalk from Yes to No,
and his incantation of the new Sugar Duties from
the vasty Absolutes of Freetrade, are as interesting
in their bearing on the history of philosophy as
they are in other respects a pieasant break in the
monotony of honesty.
N.S.W. Civil Service voted pretty strongly
for Premier Reid because that astute gentleman
divulged, just before the elections, that the Public
Service Board was fixing up a scheme of salary-
increases. The C.S. now feels too miserable to
say exactly what it thinks of itself in this matter.
The allowance set down for increases is just
.£15,000 which would run to about 18s. each per
annum all round. And the N.S.W. public ser-
vant, as a rule, hasn’t seen such a thing as a rise
since 1893.
The Public Service Code, now before S.A.
Parliament, if passed, will increase the number of
persons on the fixed list from 6000 to 8000, by ex-
tending to the “temporaries” all the privileges
enjoyed by the.present permanent men. In holi-
days' alone this will cost £20,000 a year extra to
the State, but the Civil Service kicks because
automatic annual increases are abolished. If
SPIRITUAL FOOD.
“It is reported that the native congregation were so overcome on the arrival of their new pastor,
the Rev. Solomon Chops, that they actually shed tears from their mouths!”— MISSIONARY PAPER.
granted under the new conditions the system
would involve the expenditure of another
£60,000 a year.
Curious how many S.A. constituencies, all
of which return two members a-piece, couple an
incessant chatterer and a silent man. But in more
than one case the silent man is the better speaker.
Grainger and Hooper, of Wallaroo, are thus
mated. Hooper, a working miner’s man, who is
heard rather less than once a session, simply
chains the Assembly with his native eloquence
when he does speak ; while Grainger, who hollers
and pounds the air almost nightly, rarely com-
mands a House.
Melb. Age digs up Graham Berry’s indict-
ment against Vic. Council, with some additions to
bring it up to date. The Council maintained
State aid to religion for 15 years after the people
emphatically declared against it. In 24 years it
rejected six Bills legalising mining on private
property, seven Bills legalising payment of mem-
bers, a Tariff Bill and four Appropriation Bills.
And, in the end, it gave way on all these points,
so all it did was to grumble and fret and waste
time after all. Now it has three times rejected
the One Man One Vote Bill, and, probably, it will
reject it three or four times more, and then give
in. The fretful old political invalid always gives
in at the end ; only the end is such a long way off.
A RESPECTED CHESTNUT.
FADER : “ Take long steps, sohn, und not vear your shoes
out so kwvick.”
SOHN : “ Yes, fader; but vat about stretchin' me pants?”
The S.A. Govt, is anxious to see J. C.
Haslam elected as M.L.C. for the northern
district in place of the late Dr. Campbell, as
he has promised to support the Ministerial Bill
according a vote for the Upper House to all
householders and their wives. This would add
about 60,000 names to the Council rolls. The
Tories support Andrew Tennant, a gilded squatter
of some Parliamentary experience. He cannot
speak, and he knows little outside of pastoral
affairs, but he can vote most solidly.
“N.”: Brassey was the most efficient
talker amid the vice-regalities at Melb. Mayoral
banquet, through being so lately in touch with
Europe. He spoke of a conversation with Cham-
berlain on Australian Federation, but probably
the gush was mostly on his own side—he does not
seem to report the questions Chamberlain put.
How is it we can lay the finger on no remarkable
public utterance by the Secretary for the Colonies
on this important topic? Frankly, I don’t think
the Queen and the Salisbury Government favor
Australian Federation.
This year Yic. Government announces that
Victorian and N.S.W. coal must compete on level
terms for State coal contracts. And the Victorian
coal-owners kick—very reasonably, too. They
complain that, as they have to pay a legally-fixed
minimum wage, the outsider, if he gets the con-
tract, should have to pay the minimum wage also.
There is no coal-duty in Victoria as in Tasmania
and Queensland, and railway freight from Gipps-
land is quite as costly as sea-freight from New-
castle ; therefore, the minimum wage has a
tendency to become no wage at all.
The State’s right to deprive Dr. Heydon
of his packet of bubonic-plague bacilli is obvious,
and should have been promptly enforced, as
part of the supreme/, lex, without tinkering with
Victorian Custom House regulations. What if
the doctor’s effects had been burgled and the
packet appropriated by an unsuspecting thief, to be
thrown away on the discovery that it was unnego-
tiable? And a thousand other dangers, all outside
Dr. Heydon’s control, impended. The Supreme
Law of self-preservation moves, and should move,
by Executive minute, without waiting for police-
court or similar routine processes.
x) • i
Up to a very little while ago Premier Reid
declared that he had by no means lost hope ot
making Freetrade the policy of the Common-
wealth, and would fight for that pure and spotless
principle to the bitter end. Now his organ, Syd-
ney Telegraph, excuses his new protective duties
N.s!w. g of
wealth—and thus chucking up the sponge before
the fight begins. Reid’s loudest objection to
Federation with the Protectionist provinces was
that it would be one sober man going into part-
nership with five drunkards. So he proposes to
become slightly tight himself in order to reduce
the discrepancy.
The Victorian Land Bill—now going up as
a matter of form to be indignantly bounc ®4° to
by the 48 Rich Landlords-gives Govt, power
eompulsorily-purchase large estates to th
of <£loo,ooo yearly, and cut them up for closer
settlement. The original scheme gave> Gov£
power to spend £250,000 a year on land resump
tions; the Opposition proposed £oo,ooo , ang
Minister Best weakly compromised on *-WU,uuu
without fighting. Closer settlement on b S
sheep estates, which extend almost to the back
door of Melbourne, would mean more population,
more trade, and incidentally more grist to the
mill of the Fat Men of the capital. But ten to one
the House of Senile Debility will never notice this
point. It will simply give a pained yelp, as it ns
tail was trodden on, about the “interference witn
the liberty of the subject.”
Sudden outbreak of Toryism from Sydney
Telegraph i
Maoriland has inaugurated another experiment in cor-
pore non vili. This time the pretended reform is the
levelling-down of the ratepayer, who henceforth is of no
more consequence in his own city than the crossing-
sweeper, who, unlike the crossing-sweeper of fiction, is
not a millionaire. The majority will govern, with the
aid of the property of the minority. It is hard enough
for the boroughs to keep clear of bankruptcy under the
ratepaying system. Even with the supposed safeguard
of a special rate, municipalities have managed to heap up
obligations which they cannot hope to meet. What will
happen now that the safeguard is still further weakened
by being put into the hands of people who don t pay any-
thing? Will the majority of ratepayers vote ‘‘yes for
every proposal that will scatter coin through place i
Will they elect a council of non-ratepayers? Will they
scout the idea of being economical with other peoples
money? Will they, in short, gradually confiscate the
property of the rich by taxing it from under them ? They
may, of course, do none of these thing’s. But the risk
that they may do some of them under a system august in
principle and without safeguard against injustice is too
great to make one wish to run it. We can watch Maori-
land from a safe distance.
Yet the Telegraph supports Reid’s policy (the
one he had till lately) of putting all taxes on
people with large incomes or a lot of land, and on
drinkers and smokers ; and letting the teetotaller
with less than .£2OO a year go absolutely free,
and the poor in general go practically free, they
having exactly the same voting power and the
same control over the revenue as the largest con-
tributor thereto. The cases are exactly parallel
—except that in the N.S.W. instance the prin-
ciple of giving an equal vote to the contributor
and the non-contributor happened to fit in with
the interests of the big Sydney importer.
It takes one to make a quarrel.
“Mr. Duncan Gillies is not what he was.”
Melb. jqurnalistic lament.
Not what he was ! The little man
Of ruddy phiz
Has now the ill-luck to be known
For what he is.
To an advertising canvasser who recently
approached a Sydney undertaker the man of woe
said, regretfully, that his was not a business that
could be pushed, as people would inconsiderately
insist on staying alive. But the undertaking
business has one advantage as shown in verses
which Victor Daley wrote in The Bulletin long
ago—
It was a coffin-maker, and gaily carolled he :
“ Like that of undertaker can any trade there be?
Of butcher, or of baker, or grocer, don’t you see,
For they must wait for custom, but custom comes to me
“ Yang Anyut ” : The pre-natal-influence-
discussion suggests citation of cases of atavism or
reversion to ancestral types. Once knew a man
of good position, who had several children by a
Dusun woman. The third was quite black, and
showed other unmistakable signs of negro blood.
Titular father to all appearances was pure white.
Wondered he didn’t fire out the woman and hunt
up the only “ Seedi boy ” in the place, whom we all
put down as the true father ; but found out later
on that our friend was a Mauritius native and.
great-grandson of a negress.
From Tasmania. His reverence : “ Oh,
Mr. Doolan, do I see, sir, that Bulletin paper on
your counter?” “You do, father.” His rever-
ence : “Oli, my dear sir, and you a pious gintle-
man. Dear, dear, dear ! to see that paper here
after the manner in which it opposed His Eminence-
the Cardinal in the Federal elections ! ” And the
red cover of The Bulletin enlivens that counter-
no longer. However, most priests read this wicked
paper, and even His Eminence’s secretary is broad-
minded enough to convey The Bulletin (more or
less carefully wrapped up in the Unexceptionable-
S.M. Herald) to the palace at Manly.
Newspaper report of a Broken Hill Salva-
tion Army meeting :
In making an announcement, the Commandant referred,
to “ Adjutant ” Winter as “ Staff-captain ” Winter. Then
he turned to Adjutant Winter, and said—“ I beg your
pardon—not a staff-captain yet?” Adjutant Winter:
“No, sir.” The Commandant: “Never mind: it’s com-
ing.'’ Adjutant Winter: “When, sir?” (Laughter).
The Commandant : “ Well, if you want to know, it has
come now. It was one of the things I had up my sleeve ;
but I wanted to see how you behaved.” A tremendous
outburst of applause arid “ Hallelujahs ” at once arose, and
two of Staff-captain Winter's comrades seized him, and
after some struggling upended him and stood him on his
head on the platform. The performance plainly astounded
many of the audience, and the Commandant remarked—
“ You must excuse them ; it’s a way we have in the Army..
When an officer is promoted the promotion is not con-
sidered properly done till he has been stood on his head.”
By the way, there are female officers in the Army..
A Cautious Phrenologist.
“ Not being one who swallows every prescrip-
tion,” writes Mr. A. E. Wheeler, Phrenologist,.
High-street, Dunedin, in a letter, July 20, 1898,
“that is forced upon the public, it was only after
much persuasion that I decided to try Warner’s
Safe Cure. I had been a martyr for many years
to that terrible malady, indigestion. I was ulti-
mately induced to try a bottle of Warner’s Safe
Cure, which was said to give speedy relief. Al-
though not through one bottle, I have found to my
great delight that its virtues were not in any way
overestimated. I have been agreeably conscious
of its merits in relieving this terribly affecting
complaint, and can only in fairness add my testi-
mony to tlie many others who have secured relief
from its use.”


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
I
West Australian
International Mining 1
and Industrial
Exhibition
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars arp to he obtained from FRED. THOM A* s . 8(i P'M Pn-eot. KYFNEY.
SOTE--Our ONLY Australian Address— 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
18c. OIPSY.
3 Fine Diamonds,
£2 ss, i 3, £'4.
1 Fine Diamond, with 2
Sapphires, Rubies,
Opals or Pearls,
£1 15s, £2 ss, £3.
18c. BAND RING.
1 Fine Diamond, 40s,
60s, 100 s.
Ruby or Sapphire, 30s,
455, 60s.
Opal or Pearl, 255, 40s.
9c. Opal, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
18c. HALF-HOOP.
5 Fine Diamonds, t'7 10s.
Smaller Stones, A'4, £5, £6.
.2 Fine Diamonds, with
3Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, 4.3, 364, 45.
5 Lovely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s.
18c. ENGAGEMENT.
3 Fine Diamonds, £5.
2 Fine Diamonds,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal or Pearl,
£3 15s.
Lucky 4-Leaf
SHAMROCK
PENDANT,
Solid Gold Mount,
10s each.
OUR NEW
TWIN
BIRD
BROOCHES.
Plain Gold,
7s Cd pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d pair.
Solid Gold
Faith, Hope, and
Charity
PENDANT, ■
5s each.
With Pin & Chain,
8s 6d.
Name or Motto BROOCH, 8s 6d
Plain, without name, 7s 6d.
CHAIN AND PADLOCK BRACELETS
9c. GOLD.
255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
Extra Heavy and Wide,
60s, 70s, 80s.
Children’s, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
15c. GOLD.
£2 ss, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
Extra Heavy and Wide,
£5 10s, £6 10s.
Children’s, 32s 6d, 37s 6<L
Fitted with Key Padlocks, 10s. extra.
Sterling Silver Chain Bracelets, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
ALL ARTICLES SENT POST FREE
TO ANY ADDRESS.
OUR NEW WILD BOAR’S TUSK
BROOCH,
With Chain and Beil Pendant,
Silver-Mounted, 5,6
Gold-Mounted, 14/
NEW GOLD BIRD BROOCH, 8s 6d.
With Looped Chain to Heart, 9s 6d.
K
GOLD IVY BAR BROOCH, 10s 6d
With Looped Chain to Heart.
Real Amethyst
HEART
PENDANT,
2,6 each.
o
Rea,] Amethyst
BUTTON HOOK,
Very Pretty and
Useful,
2s 6d each.
gffr; '-HUB
!
]
These Three
Patterns
SLEEVE
LINKS.
9c. Gold, 13/6
15c. Gold, 27/6
Silver, 3/-
per pair.
PLEASE
SEND FOR
OUR
Illustrated
SLIPS
OF
NOVELTIES
THE UNIVERSAL VERDICT OF ALL HOTELKEEPERS is:
IT IS INDISPENSIBLE! IT IS INVALUABLE!
THEE HXTo. 1
The Hotelkeepers’ Special Bar Cash Register.
This Register
HAS BE EX
SPECIALLY . . .
MANUFACTURED
TO SUPPLY THE
. . NECESSARY . .
REQUIREMENTS
—FOR—
HOTEL BAR
BUSINESS.
Mr. W. C. Wilsox, pro-
prietor of Scott's Hotel,
Melbourne, writes :
“ l have ranch pleasure in
testifying to the efficacy and
convenience of the Registers,
which, answer the purpose for
which they are intended most
completely, and I canstrongly
recommend them to any one
conducting a business in
which much cash is handled.”
This Registers
the Amount of
your Purchase I
m
r\r^-
<<s
ass
3*
It is Supplied..
with :
1. A Special Arrange-
ment of Keys suited to
the purchaser's class of
business.
2. A large-sized Cash-
Till with wide base.
3. A Customer Coun-
ter, a Lid Counter, and
Adding Mechanism that
can be reset to Zero.
Full Particulars on appli-
cation to
The National
Cash Register
Company's
HEAD OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALASIA :
393 GEORGE ST., SYDKTEY
or to (!64 COLLINS STREET (Melbourne Office).
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
KNOWN IN MUSIC AT
Violins,
Accordeons,
Autoharps,
Cornets,
Banjos,
Flutes,
Guitars,
Mandolins,
Mouth Organs
Polyphons,
Strings & Fittings
for every Instrument.
m
■<SJJ
■?/iU
Af]g
3rff
and can supply
the most Reliable
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC
& Musical Instrum ants
of every description
at the
LOWEST
POSSIBLE PRICES
Catalogues
Post Free. .
X A
W. H. PALIN® & CO.,
HIXIMIITIEID,
Sydney, Bfisbane, and Newcastle.
EVERY CYCLIST
Should make a point of examining the Tyres when
purchasing a machine to see if they bear our Regis-
tered Trade Mark. This precaution is advisable, as
a few unscrupulous agents pass off on their un-
suspecting customers poor imitations of
; PuNiap Tyres -
as the genuine article, with the result that instead
of obtaining a pair of the finest Tyres made
they have only a poor substitute.
BEWARE
OF IMITATIONS.
First in 1888.
Foremost Ever Since,
aavux
MARK
THE WLOP PHEUHIflTIG TYRE CO. Ltd.
486 Kent Street, Sydney;
And at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BERTH, and
CHRISTCHURCH (N.Z.)
It would be a good idea to arrange for a
transfer of pictures when Vic. Artists’ Society and
its Sydney kindred associations hold exhibitions.
Many of the pictures in the new exhibition of the
Melb. Society are stale, from the show point of
view. They have been hung before, and are now
shown again, apparently to fill up. Meanwhile
there are many artists on Sydney side whose
work is only known by name in Melbourne.
What prevents such an annual exchange ?


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
mill, fflont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnbroking Branch:
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
v AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
u
head office
Intersection Hunter, Blighano
Castlereagh
•/SYDNEY*
/i. Established - 1879.
*m!*i*mm*o
in AUSTRO
Ann ual Income and „ _
Funds ExceedJ2oo,ooo Sterling
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland.
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
The Universal Land and Deposit
Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of 1874),
Of 250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DEBENTURES ISSUED, redeemable in three or five
years from date of issue. Interest ; 3 years, 6 p.c.
per annum ; and 5 years, 7 p.c. per annum—payable
quarterly or half-yearly at option.' The holder of Deben-
ture Bonds has a security in the assets of the Company—
past, present, and future. Deposits to limited amounts
received at 5 p.c. per annum. THE UNIVERSAL LAND
AND DEPOSIT BANK LIMITED has never reconstructed
or suspended in any way since its formation in 1891.
Advances made on Freehold Property, Bills Discounted
on deposit of Deeds. Business arising out of Real Estate
transacted in all Australian colonies. Depositors in the
country can remit by cheque, personal attendance at
Sydney unnecessary. Correspondence invited. Fullest
information from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Managing Director.
rnHIS ASSOCIATION is noted for its PROMPT and
LIBERAL SETTLEMENTS, having paid away upwards
of £200,000 in Losses in Victoria and N.S. Wales.
The United Australian mutual
FIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
Established 1879.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP 38,000
RESERVE LIABILITY 213,260
TTTI a 79 PITT STREET
HEAD OFFICES: SYDNEY ;
and 405 COLLINS ST., MELIiOUBNE.
The Capital of this Company is £38,000 Paid-up, with a
Reserve Liability of £213,260, which, in regard to its
liabilities to the public, is equal to that of the principal
Insurance Companies transacting business in Australia.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
The Bank uf north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. O. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” Gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
pg* Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SIDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
TN TrGstccs, €xec<itorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED ... ... ... £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. It. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant ?n r.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New 2o:bland.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,0(' -,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .-. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £3,069,662
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esn., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry G.vlesTurner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: Win. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jii.shops(/ate Street Within
(corner of Leaden-hall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuehar.
Haymarket, Gosford with atrency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. lOuip. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
IVATIONAL TRUSTEES,
-UTI EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS : Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; \V. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner Wiliiam-st., Melbourne
Cable Address— RrEMSKir,. Telephone No. t>9').
Code— Moueing & N GAG, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke «& Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
I ”I GRAPHOPHONE.
50£
GRc,
The Superior
TALKING
MACHINE
requires
No Needles, and
RECORDS
YOUR OWN SPEECH,
SONG, OR MUSIC.
Price (including Reproducer,
Horn, and Record), £1 lOs.
2 to 5000 CHOICE RECORDS
always on hand. Send for
Record List and Grapho-
phone Catalogues.
ALBERT & SON, 118 Kina-street, Sydney.
Agents for the Portable Vapor Bath Cabinets. Trade
supplied cheaper than any other house. Largest importers
of Music, Violins, Accovdeons, Strings, Mouth Organs,
Anglos, and Portable Turkish Bath Cabinets. Forwarded
to any part of Australia.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'!
GEELONG
PORTLAND |
WARRNAMBOOL J
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 19, 12 Noon.
Buninyonv, Tues., Nov. 22, 5 p. m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 26, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Nov. 22, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Buninyong, Tues., Nov. 22, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 19, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tues., Nov. 22, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 26, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GEIIALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 19, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 26, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CT! It It EM' FAKES TO ALL FOItTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Ss Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Svdney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AIND J 4
-vi-
a PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the following favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing- and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.’
Business Announcements.
kfkin Wideaded.
Tleii) Wkcotiery
“*£igmoi{fcne. ”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronio
Disease in the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
Woolloston-house, Castlemaine,
November 30th, 1897.
My dear Mr. Mali'on, —-
I have used your ointment. Ligmolliene with distinct
success in my own case, but with greater as an emollient
unguent for the face of a young lady suffering from
“ Acne,” very common during puberty, and you should
push it in that direction. Kindly send me another box
of it. —Yours truly, GEO. D. WOOLEY, M.D.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon, — August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record pro-
gress with regard to my old enemy “ Eczema Capitas,”
from which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treat-
ment for some years under the prescriptions of Pro-
fessor M'Call Anderson and other eminent’ derma-
tologists, with only partial and temporary relief.
When I' met you I commenced somewhat sceptically
your ointment Ligmolliene, and after about two months’
treatment I may honestly' say my enemy is defeated,
and lam perfectly well. I will only add that since I
commenced Ihe treatment of myself I have prescribed it
to others, and am still doing so with brilliant results.
Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain vours sin-
cerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
William Henry Malyon,
MANUFACTURING CHEMIST, Ballarat.
All Chemists, ss. ai.d 7s. 6d. per hox.
AGENTS
ELLIOTT BROS.,
Wholesale Druggists,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Shipping. -
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOK MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Wollowra, Friday, Nov. 25.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melbourne)
Saturday, November 19.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY,GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. .
S.S. Wollowra, Frida}',
November 25.
S.S. Adelaide (from Melb.)
Saturday, November 19.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bulimba, Saturday,
November 19.
Best Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. !S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching- at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money: LONDON, Return Tickets, 1 65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
jjiddart, parker § go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HOBART,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 0500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling' at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, ±25 to ±7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between S3’dney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
HT|larait!i, (|]‘Eachara t go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES,
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn So Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD."
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and everv Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,“ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 l'Js. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Go’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S- IM. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY AND ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktovvn, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance mid
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE - A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING.
1500 —:given away THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE:
~~T* E T M* F* R E* E*Y*Q*Y |
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
“The .Manager English Watch Co.—Miss Shellerg
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and chain re-
.ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
them. All Saints College, Bathurst, 19th July, 1897.”
Address-THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PTTT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
A. Solid Silver A7Vatch
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY!
Can you read this :
|W* A * S [| T* E |j T* M * (
We undertake and guarantee to aive away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions :—That .your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address-THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney.
gECOND-HAND
New furniture
(Best (Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Geonre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
'T
'V
2)r. Clarkson’s
lie-Invig orator.
We still offer £lOO Reward for any
case we cannot cure.
This Remedy stops all Ailments in
24 hours ; restores Vigor, cures DE-
BILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER, and
all other Wasting Effects. Sent sealed
to any part of the Colonies, 7/6
bottle, 3 bottles £l. Guaranteed
to Cure.
Clarke’s Blood Mixture, 28; Eno’s Fruit Salts, 21 ;
Fellows’ Syrup, 4-; Mother Seigel’s Syrup, 1/11 ; Pain
Ki'ler (Perry Davis’), 1/-; St. Jacobs Oil, 1/11; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
Sole Agents,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETII-
-ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
:ines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate List on application.
Cramps\
i Colic,
\ Colds,
I
V
Cronp,
Coughs.
Tooth-
ache,
Cuts
Burns ,
Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
(PERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
Sh
iiriVK
m
FOREIGN STAMPS.
,*N ETS of 15 Japan, Gd ; 45 Japan, 2s : 12
3 Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is Gd ; 12 Russia, Gd ; 12 Rouniama,
Gd ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, Gd; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ;50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, Gd ; 60, Is ;
100, 2s Gd ; 150, 5s ; 1000, 47s 6d; postage, 2d.
Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
“BUILT LIKE A WATCH.”
STERLING CYCLES.
Fitted with MORSE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
ON€ NON€STMAN.
TAEAR SlR,—Please inform your readers that, if
' J written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vi"or after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothin"- to sell, but, bein" now well, vigorous and
stron", I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
fect. It has been used (.secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation 1* ree and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
' BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., L+.d.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
tmm
COOL AND
COMFORTABLE.
Healthiest and
Very Durable.
lIIIDERIIIERR
9 •
. . FOR SUMMER
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Cotton, Lisle Thread,
Silk and Merino, etc.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
ear CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
David graham «fji jjo.
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
n sicuEß mm free.
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will spud. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Established Over 52 Years.
FOB SALE
ALL ARTICLES OF
GOOD QUALITY.
(GALVANISED Barbed Wire, 10s 6d cwt. ; Roofing Felt,
covers 200 ft., 9s roll ; American Axes, 4ilb. to 61b.,
35s doz. ; Axle Grease, 2s 6d doz. packages; Hay Knives,
3s ea. ; damaged Black Fencing Wire, 6s 6d cwt. ; damaged
Galvd. Fencing Wire, 8s cwt. ; Black Barbed Fencing
Wire, 8s cwt. ; slightly damaged Galvanised Plain Iron,
14s per cwt.; Flemming’s Boiler Composition, 20s cask;
Dynamite, taking a few cases, Is per lb. ; good Fuse, from
5d per coil ; Flax Engine-packing, Cd lb. by coil; §, l, $ rd.
India-rubber Packing, 6d lb. ; Muzzle-loader, Single-barrel
Guns, 15s ea. ; Double-barrel Breech-loaders, 30s ea. ; iron
Hay Collectors, 30s ea. ; Chaff Knives, Is ea. ; 2-pronged
Hay Forks, Is 3d ea. ; wooden Hay Rakes ; Bullock Bows,
Id per lb. ; Axle-anns, 2,3 J, 3i, Id per lb. ; Crosscut Saws,
Is ft. ; Pit Saws, Is 3d ft. ; Walker’s Horse Nails, Id lb. ;
Leather Girths and Hobbles, 9d; Globe Horse Nails,
slightly touched, 2d lb. ; Blue, Black, Green, Lead-color,
White Paint in 281 b. kegs, 15s cwt. ; other paint, from 10s
cwt. ; over 500 tons Bolts and Nuts up to 36in. long, and
one of the largest stocks of Ironmongery in Australia.
CHEAPEST PRICES.
JOHN MACINTOSH & SONS,
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers,
307, 321, 276, 280, PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
HE LAST OF
Price Is; per Post Is 3d.
SIX.
V/deefisn'
Bishop's
Granular
Effervescent
Citrate of
(z/TnltatUrtA
Obl"air\able at"all Ckenru&ta
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
Talking Macb'D? Pcpot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4.
Berliner Gramophones from £3. Latest Spring Motor
Gramophone, £7 10s. RECORDS, 3s.
Needles, Is. Cd. ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes.
Records, Blanks, and all Accessories in Stock.
Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous Farms of South Africa.
Extra Large Beautiful Black, White, Cream, Brown,
Navy, Grey, &<■., 3 for ss. ; worth 12s. 6d. Post Free,
securely packed.
When ordering, send Postal Notes for 55., and add 3d.
extra in stamps. Thousands have profited by us ; join
them, write now'.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
213 Chapel Street, Praiiran, Melbourne.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
CTJRB
Sick Livers, Sick Kidneys, —.
- and Female Ailments.
The Blood is the Life of the Flesh.—Leviticus xvii., 13, 14.
AS all diseases arise from impurities of the blood, it is needless to impress the public with the necessity, “if you desire health, of keeping the blood pure and in
a healthy state. To accomplish this it is necessary, once in a while, to cleanse the system of the many impurities which gather in the blood. The simplest way to
do this is to avail yourself of a mild and healthful medicine, which, taken once in a while, will purify the blood and keep the system toned up buch a medicine
we place before you in DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS, manufactured from plants and roots which grow around the mountainous cliffs, m Natures garden, tor
the health and recovery of diseased man. One of the roots from which these Pills are made is a Sudorific, which opens the pores of the skin, and assists Nature in
•throwing out the finer parts of the corruption within. The second is a plant which is an Expectorant, that opens and unclogs the passage to the lungs, an t ius, m a
soothing manner, performs its duty by throwing off the phlegm and other humours from the lungs by cojDious spitting. Ihe thiid is a Diuretic, whic gives ease anc
double strength to the kidneys ; thus encouraged, they draw large amounts of impurity from the blood, which is then thrown out bountifully by the urinary or water
passage, and which could not have been discharged in any other way. The fourth is a Cathartic, and accompanies the other properties of the 1 ills, \\ li e engage m
purifying the blood; the coarser particles of impurities which cannot pass by other outlets are thus taken up and conveyed off in great quantities by the 30ve s.
From the above it is shown that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills not only enter the stomach, but become united with the blood, for they find their way to every
part, and completely rout out and cleanse the system from all impurity, and the life of the body, which is the blood, becomes perfectly healthy ; consequently all sic nes>
and pain is driven from the system, for they cannot remain when the body becomes pure and clean.
...THEY CURE PERMANENTLY . . •
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a positive cure for BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, DYSPEPSIA, CONSTIPATION,
FOUL BREATH, LIVER COMPLAINT, SALLOW COMPLEXION, SICK HEADACHE, JCIDNEY TROUBL! S, and
FEMALE AILMENIS; also a PEREECT RLOOI) PURIFIED, Curing SKIN DISEASE, such as Eczema, Pimples and Blotches.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers, price Is. per bottle, or six bottles 6s. It unable to procure wheie you reside, IbeW. H,
Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt-street, Sydney, will forward same upon receipt of price.
They Do Not Weaken, They Do Not Sicken, They Do Not Gripe.
Dr. Morse’s Miao Root Pills
Staod AIoq? as a Wonjafy’S Best Fricod.


The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the dep6t, 257 George-street,
Sydney.*
G. 0. K. Waldron, Sydney City Soli-
citor, son-in-law of ex-Premier Dibbs, fell from
his bicycle on 9th inst. (it is supposed, owing to
an apoplectic seizure) and fracturing his neck,
died instantly. Mr. Waldron was a graduate of
Sydney University and a good all-round man,
popular in a very wide circle.
A good number of Sydney society women
have not yet stopped talking about the sale some
weeks back of furniture and household effects at
Cranbrook, Rose Bay ; and Kirkhain, Camden;
in the estate of Mrs. Scott, late widow of the
Hon. James White—-a sale that panned out to the
handsome total of £6600. Proceedings began with
a very able address by that boss auctioneer,
Walter Bradley. It needed an able address to
start the big ball rolling, for all the best people
attended the big sale—“ Mister James,” Mr. T.
A. Dibbs, Mrs. John See, Mr. Walter Hall, Mr.
Laidley, &c., &c. The billiard table was bought
by Mr. Eddie Playfair, for <£l9s ; a walnut and
satin wood bedroom suite was knocked down to
Mr. T. A. Dibbs for £lO6 ; and the cellar of
British cream sherry reached £7 10s. a dozen.
The Hotel Australia, The Australian Club, Mr.
Harry Rickards, and other celebrities figured
prominently among the buyers.*
yz- yz-
y~~
y*~
V-
*
*
*
ISOH
Bicycle Dealers
or Importers
Are not interested in any particular make of Cycle. . As a result,.
they sell several brands, but push the sale of those on which there is the largest
margin of profit This is the reason why dealers sell one make to-day and another
to-morrow,
“RED BIRD SPECIAL,”
“RED BIRD No. 1,” and
“BLACK BIRD” Cycles
are sold by the only Direct Branch of an exclusive Bicycle Factory represented in
Australia. We are, therefore, directly interested in ONE line of Cycles, which we
manufacture, sell and guarantee ; and, as our reputation depends on their quality,
it is to our interest to make those Cycles the Best.
All experienced cyclists will acknowledge RED BIRDS to be the strongest arid
best, unless they receive a commission to sell other wheels.
We want GOOD, LIVE AGENTS where not now represented.
The Goold Bicycle Co. [imited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY (Head Office).
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
Factories- BRANTFORD, Canada.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON.
AGENTS Everywhere.
*
$
*
%
~7\
i rents in Toivn and Country.
TTSIE THE
SunUgnt in Your Homes.
New Sunlight ” Incfludcsccnt Burncri
- AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burners
Complete, Os. Oil.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
the Grafter, the Melb. Cup winner, has been
sold for 2000 guineas to go to England, where he will race
In Mr. J. G." Clark’s colors.
* * * *
The biggest Sydney winners on The Grafter
were a certain publican who struck the double, llymettus
and Grafter ; a well-known pill-builder, who backs ’em
with much spirit; and a sporting tobacco-manufacturer.
• * * *
A Fremantle man who took a wager, £l2O to 2.\,
about Grafter and had no other bets, also went into four
sweeps and in each drew The Grafter. More peculiar
still, another sweep was being drawn incorrectly and was
stopped midway. In this one he had also drawn Grafter !
♦ * * •
A N.S.W. cane-cutter, who had invested ill in
Tatr.’s biggest Cup sweep, got a wire announcing that a
certain number had drawn The Grafter, and, not having
received his ticket, supposed himself to be on that
animal’s chance. Accordingly, when news of the win
came to hand, he started out on a 16-storey jamboree-
cut ignominiously short by the discovery that the mes-
sage had been intended for another person of name differ-
ing by a single letter.
* • • •
How do the various victories of a heavy-
weighted gelding- like The Grafter fit in with the ordinary
theories of the inferiority of the uusexed? Or is he a
unique Narses of the turf?
• * • *
Symmetry’s performances at the late V.R.C.
meeting seem to call for a word of explanation. In the
mile Coburg Stakes, on Derby day, the handsome filly
carried 7st. 31b. and finished nowhere, unbacked, un-
honored, and unsung. On Cup-day she was third favorite
for the six furlongs Railway Handicap, which she won in
a canter, under exactly- the same weight as before. Up
to then it might have been said that VV. R. Wilson’s filly
made a poor show in the Coburg Slakes, because she
couldn’t stay a mile ; but, lo ! on the Thursday she started
a warm favorite for the Oaks, and took the lj-tnile race
comfortably. Then she went to Williainstown, and
finished last for the Cup, her stable companion, Aurifer-
ous, being at the extreme other end of the field.
* • * •
Seeing that Lee Metford’s interference with
Cocos (only- four starters!) the other Saturday was not
attributed to foul riding, it must be charged to the horse,
or rather, to the course. Lee Metford, being on the out-
side, naturally bored in towards the rails. Probably he
is a brainy animal, and as he didn’t know but what he
would have to make another journey round the course,
he objected to Cocos having the inside berth. An Aus-
tralian racer soon learns to hug the rails, same as a circus
hoise.
* * • *
One of the V. A.T.C. stewards lodged a rather
violent complaint with a daily pressman who made nasty
insinuations re the honesty of some of the racing at
Caulfield Cup meeting. “ You don’t mean to assert,”
said the scribe, “ that every horse was on the job ?” The
aggressive potentate thoughtlessly replied that he only
saw one animal which was very stiff, and he didn’t take
particular notice of its stiffness because he was too busily
engaged watching his own horse. “ Well, if you can’t
keep an eve on everything you ought not to be a steward,”
said the pressman. Whereupon the steward, abandoning
his haughty tone, begged the other fellow to come inside
and talk the matter over quietly, and the lion and the
lamb went inside and sat down together, no doubt. The
steward was the lamb at this stage of the proceedings,
* • * •
Says a Tas. scribe anent Edmund Fisher’s Bul-
letin Cup verses : “ There was too much poetry about-
Amberite to give him any hope of winning the Cup, for,
as soon as the horse-reporter blossoms into verse concern-
ing- an equine favorite, from that moment the moke is
Doomed. When once he wins the great race, a marble
bust and Hades full of oats won’ t hurt him. Which sug-
gests the fact that Horsetralian versifiers seldom glorify
a present-day winner. Wonder why? Present scribe
had an idea last year of perpetrating some verses :
A picturesque psean of poesy rare
Concerning the merits of Forrester’s pair,
but was deterred by the dread thought that perhaps The
Bulletin had backed neither of ’em. ’Tis a cruel world
where the acceptability of poetry is reckoned its only
justification.”
• * • •
Secretary Byron Moore waxed rather wroth at
an Argus statement that the V.R.C. rule re smoking ora
the Grand Stand Terrace is never enforced, and was justly
mad when the editor printed his letter of explanation
minus a pertinent par. : “ Because officials are not seen,
and heard all over the place annoying and irritating our
vast crowd of visitors it does not. necessarily follow thaH
regulations are so utterly neglected as to become a bye-
word.” The good management at Flemington is recog-
nised in the fact that the iron heel of authority- never
treads on anybody’s corns. As a matter of fact there is;
very little smoking on the Terrace, merely because the few
careless ones who do break the rule are not bullied into l
insubordination. A reproving look from an angel in a.
muslin dress will put out a cigar quicker than ten official
threats.
* * * *
Don’t put much faith in the Hotham Handicap-
running as a guide to Melb. Cup chances, is this;
scribe’s advice to punters at next year’s racing carnival.
Time after time the Hotham winner has proved to be a
disappointment for the Cup, and in the notorious case of
Gatilus last year the future Cup winner ran only mode-
rately for the minor stake.
• * • *
W. R. Wilson has been very dangerous of late,,
when there were two strings to his bow, but the public;
were not generally successful in picking the right string
on “ latest form.” For the Final Handicap, at Fleming-
ton, Elusive and Auriferous carried the white-and-cardinal!
colors, and, seeing that Auriferous had run a good race
against the victorious Catspaw two days earlier, whereas
Elusive had performed very moderately at the meeting
up to then, it was surprising to find the mare the better
favorite of the two. She carried the stable-boys’ money
and won, the “ black ” colt being nowhere. Next week,
Wilson’s Symmetry and Auriferous ran in Williamstowm
Cup, and the mare, on the strength of two brilliant wins,
at Flemington, was preferred to Auriferous. This time,
the black colt won all the way, and Symmetry finished;
last.
* * * •
In Melbourne, as in Sydney, it is left for the-
suburban courses to distinguish between “ reversal of
form ” and “ running a bye.” At Flemington and Rand-
wick during any big meeting, the most extraordinary
“ reversals of form,” from day to day, are passed over by
the stewards, so long as the owner is “influential,” bub-
woe betide the countryman who tries the game on.
* * •
The Lament of the Kensington (Sydney) Race-
course co. When the gee-gees thunder round Kensing- ,
ton course the voice of the paying crowd inside is a-
faint squeak compared with the awful roar of the non-
financial horde outside the fence. Without are dealers,
charging a “ brown ” for a good view from their carts;:
extremely dubious box-perched bookies shouting the
odds; box-stalls where highly-colored and fearfully '
mysterious drinks are sold for what they will fetch; and
a dense crowd of “ sports ” who must go to a race or
burst, and are too poor or too mean to pay for admission.
And now the K.R. co. wants Randwick Council to shift
the whole caboodle, but the Council doesn’t see it.
Writer once saw a weird example of the ruling passion
mighty amidst ph vsical decay. An aged crone with her
withered, trembling hands held up some parcels of
groceries to the howling bookie pleading piteously to hinii
to lay- her a bit on some horse—she knew he was a dead
cert. “If he aint, take me rations! Guv’ment pays.
2s. 6d. for ’em ! ”
» » • *
One of the best p‘i-formances seen at Kensing-
ton, Sydney, for some time was put up by the “pony
Battler, who easily won the last H’dcap, carrying 10-3,
and giving away nearly 3st. to everything in the race ;
he ran the five furlongs in 1-41. And still Battler
couldn't score amongst the horses !
At Hobart turf club’s meeting, run Nov. 5, a
mare called Guy Fawkes was a starter. The betting
public were, of course, expected to rush the coincidence,
and some knowing owners rubbed their hands as they
watched the tote-figures. Their dart was a mare whose
chances of paying a £lO div. seemed rosy. But Guy
Fawkes led from start to finish, the niare aforementioned,
after getting off badly, running second in a field of half-
a-dozen. The public pocketed a 2)4 to 1 div., and
enthusiastically dilated upon the “morality” of coinci-
dences.
• « * *
The successes of Merman, Georgic, Maluma,
Ebor, and one or two other Australian horses in Eng-
land, have been assisted, in most cases, by the heavy
state of the ground. Australian thoroughbreds, as a
rule, are bigger-boned and altogether rougher customers
than the ’Ome bred ones. Likewise the French and
American racers show more size and less “quality” than
their English cousins, and are generally underrated on
account of their less dandy appearance, until they have
fairly proved themselves good bits of stuff. Granting,
though, that the Australians will not be so kindly treated
by the handieapper in future events, there is likely to be
a growing demand for our best animals. They are to be
bought at low'er prices than the “ cracks” of France and
'Murka, for the reason that they haven’t the same chance
to win rich prizes in their native land, and the turf in
England being more often soft than hard their extra
strength should be a decided point in their favor. On
the same line of argument it would seem that Australian
speculators might as well try their luck with importing
some good class English racers to a country where they
would feel happier and get a better show to travel fast.
London Referee was remarking, the other day', that
English horses almost invariably improve when they' go
abroad to a more genial climate. When will VV. R. Wil-
son or somebody import a batch of uppah middle-class
animals from’Ome? Horses that have won certificates
of merit, and may be fairly expected to do something
considerable.
• * * •
“ There has never been such a Cesarewiteh ”
(writes Tiie B.’s London correspondent). “ The iron-clad
ground sent them ‘ out ’ and settled many that stayed ‘ in.’
Asterie finished second—is in a pitiable condition—and
with King Grow and Beverini, all genuine stayers, was so
hammered that it is doubtful if one of them will race again.
The best horse won, though Newman ran a better race
than in ’97 and his owner got out ahead by backing him
' both ways.’ The four Australians finished third, fifth,
sixth, with Form anywhere. Newman is the ‘ Jersey ’
selection for the Cambridgeshire, but Survivor must be
close up in the lm. 240. Newhaven may surprise both
though the ’ome ’osses can well hold their end up. Aurum
is not expected to rur. this year, the Ascot Cup being set
apart for him and he is doing regular easy work.”
• * » »
Melb. Argus, a journal that seems anxious to
shine as the friend and adviser of Ikey Mo, has been
making some mildly cynical comments on the “Tatt.”
sweep business. The odils-laying “ metallieian ” considers
himself cruelly robbed of the custom which flows to the
Hobart lottery-promoter, and on his behalf, no doubt, the
Argus says .-—“Certainly ‘Tattersall,’ or the person for
whom that name is a symbol, does not serve the public
for naught. He deducts 10 per cent, from the gross total
sent him, to pay expenses and reward him for his exer-
tions. . . Hence it is clear that the one thing which
would pay him better than to make an excursion to the
other side of the globe with the money entrusted to him
is to stay' here and promote other sweeps in subsequent
years. ... It might be thought that his annual levy of
10 per cent, would soon exhaust the fund from which he
draws. But it is annually renewed by the toil of the sub-
scribers, and, like the Israelite of old, his handful of meal
and his cruse of oil never fail.” Quite so. Yet the pro-
fits of “Tattersall” are small and reasonable in compari-
son with the percentage which the bookie derives from the
money entrusted to his care every year.
Leaving book-bets out of the question. Ikey
handles many tens of thousands of pounds per annum,
and the average amount that sticks to his jewelled fingers
is considerably more than two “ bob ”in the £. He con-
tinues to carry out his obligations to winners simply
because steady'bookmaking is a more attractive game
than welshing. In many cases he has tried both games
and learned that honesty is the fatter policy, therefore he
doesn’t suspend payment when a warm favorite happens
to win. The Argus has no ground lor surprise in the
fact that “Tatt.” doesn’t exhaust the fund from which
he draws. The one marvellous thing in this racing world
of Australia is the public’s readiness to go on accepting
short .prices from ready-money' bookmakers when they
have practically the tote remedy in their own hands.
The public-uneaning the pleasure-seeking crowd of
punters, as distinguished from horse-owners and
“ sharps’’—Heave fully 30 per cent, of their yearly outlay
in the hands of ilke.v Mo. Their investments are made,
as a rule, at considerably shorter prices than the starting
odds quoted by theipress. Ikey plunders them, whereas
Tatt. charges no moreithan the maximum com. allowed
to the tote. The Argus might as well express amaze-
ment that the tote stream doesn’t dry up. Meantime a
lot of “ constant readers ” are almost beginning to wonder
whether Ikey Mo has bought a share in that misguided
newspaper.
<* *
Ed. Bulletin.— Re diversity.of morning journal
starting-price quotations, let me .say that the Argus
quotations are accepted as official, and the. bookies pay on
the word of that journal even where it would be more in
consonance with their interests to accept the figures of
the Age. This practice is somewhat, awkward ifqr) those
who undertake commissions—especially fqr .those who
undertake commissions for ladies. Ladies are always.un-
reasonable and sometimes suspicious. I took out ss.|fqr
a more or less esteemed petticoated friend to back .Pirate
for the Steeple. I waited as long as I could without
losing a seat, and took the best price then ruling—3 to 1.
But in the next ten minutes he eased off and the starting-
price was fives. At time of writing I have not decided
whether to pay over 30s. and defer the theatre until next
month, or to part 20s. and endure cold glances of sus-
picion for the term of my natural life.—Miyaii.
* * • *
The leading Adelaide sly-tote man admits to
having made a profit of £6OO, commissions and fractions,
out of Melb. Cup meeting. No wonder the tote-man
comes up and pays his fine of £5O with a smile !
* * * *
The victory of, say, ten warm public fancies in
succession at a Flemington meeting would reduce five-
sixths of the “ring” to a state of ridiculous insolvency.
Such as had not already lost more than their available
•capital would decline to bet against anything that
possessed a visible chance, whilst the dead-brokers would
simply stand, with closed bags, glaring at their hungry
creditors. The public are in a position to lose
an immense amount of money- to the “ books,” but
they are not in a position to win it. Certain newspapers
at this time of year entertain the public, as a body', with
gorgeous calculations of the amount which the public, as
a body, might win from Ikey Mo, and it’s all gammon and
spinach. The difference between the tote and the book-
maker is that the former admits to winning 8 or 10 per
•cent, of every- public investment without fail, whereas the
latter, who nets about 20 per cent, on an average, pre-
tends that the balance was won from him rather than
from his unsuccessful clients. ■
* * * •
“ Whirligig ” : “ Tattersall ” has sums of money
left over, unapplied for, from each consultation. His
trust-fund, so compiled, is probably now of cclossal pro-
portions. A drover, or sailor, or any- other worker, goes
away and, perchance, never sees a result-list. It may be
sent to him, if he is careful to ask for it and forwards the
stamp required. But, at the same time, it may never
reach his hand, but be getting daily unrecognisable with
fly-specks in some back-blocks kerosene-tin, while he is in
kingdom come or the Never-Never. Also, the most care-
ful of “ sports ” may fail to pick out the right figures from
the mass, or he may mistake the consult., and this is easy
•enough of late. These things naturally all make for
“ Tattersall,” who does not, I am sure, wish or want it.
Now, why does not our trusted friend establish a public
•charity-fund out of the above surplusage of unearned
increment—or send every one a notice of his wins, and, if
mecessary', hunt and harry, and look-up executors and
trustees until his duty is complete ? There's millions
in it for “ Tattersall ’’—he is well-trusted now, but Caesar’s
wife would then not be in it with him.
* * » *
Ed. Bulletin. — You made a hundred and fifty
pounds’ book on Moonee Valley Cup, not one hundred.
Add the odds and the stake together, and the total is the
book You had 175)4 to pay the worst, and it looks very
pretty—on paper, flow accommodating your punters
must have been to allow you to lay exactly what you
wanted, and as you were 26)4 °- r - (over-round), you
should have laid that against the favorite at 2’s, because
that would give you another £l2 10s profit and you
couldn't lose anything. In future, dear Bulletin, always
make the favorite the worst. Never lay your full book
against outsiders, or else you will never throw up your
castor. You will find as you proceed that it is not
always possible to lay ’em all up so nice and even as
you did at Moonee Valley. One of these days you
will be caught “napping” by laying two “ponies”
on the field and 4 to 1 bar one, and the poor punters will
take 50 to 25 about something and 40 to 10 something
else, and then the number-board will have a shock, and
the first something’s number will “go out,” and you will
return his money, and the second something will be a hot
favorite at evens, and you will look into that bag
and find 10 to pay 50 with. Right here your “agility”
can have a rousing gallop and try and get 40
out of the “stume pots”—for that’s what they are
generally- when the above tactics are employed. I shall
look with a keen interest to your next “ book.” Try one
of the suburban ramping grounds. Don’t say you “ re-
served ” Lochaber; the punters reserved that for your
book. One effect your par. will have is to bring a lot of
new blood and boodle to the ringmen, nine-tenths of
whom are cadging for meals in Pitt-street every day.
Some are all right, but ask any ringman how many solvent
“books ” there are.— Sievier.
» • » •
A man who had been at bicycle-sports came
down Queen-st., Auckland, to ascertain what had won
Caulfield Cup. Seeing a paper stuck outside a shop, he
thought it was a “ result ” notice. The letters seemed
to be sprinting around like quad-pacers, but he managed
to read —“(1) Schnapper ; (2) Rissoles ; (3) Beef Olives.”
He read no further, but said aloud to himself, in a severe
tone, “There y’ are; I tole y’ so. ’Nother (hie) out-
sider won : you would back the blanky Chief, an’ he’s
dead last.” So he was. The last item on the bill-of-
fare was, “ Antonio, Chef.”
■ » *
Dear Bulletin. —The artless “Victor” wrote
you re the Cup : “ A wary backer generally wished to
know whether owner, trainer, and jock are right." But
I would ask in the historic words of a bygone Ikey Mo,
what the blanky blank has the owner got to do with it ?
A respectable jockey tries his hardest to win, and a
decent trainer does his best to qualify the nag for victory
after he has got his instructions to prepare it for a cer-
tain race. An owner can t play any tricks with an actual
starter, not if his servants, the trainer and jock, are de-
termined to go straight. The worst he can do is to scratch
his bit of property. The late Fred Gretton (of Bass and
Co.’s Brewery) was an ill-conditioned beast with a par-
ticular fancy for scratching public favorites at the last
moment. When his trainer, Dick Porter, disgusted at
his tactics, asked him to state whether his intentions re
certain horses were strictly honorable, Gretton protested
that he had a right to do as he chose with his own. “ And
I,” said Porter, “ can give you a week’s notice to remove
your horses from my siable.” Gretton had to go away in
a hurry and find a trainer to help in his dirty work.—F.
* m m *
Although the wickets about Sydney on Satur-
day were batsmen’s wickets, the scoring in the senior
matches, with few exceptions, was poor. Playing for
South Sydney, C. Gregory showed himself worthy of the
family name by running up 203 in brilliant style, the only
other century being made by Richardson, of E. Sydney,
who scored 127. Amongst the bowlers,‘"Pye, for Central
Cumberland, took nine Leichhardt wickets for 40 runs,
and scored 86 not out, which looks well for his chances
this season. Last year’s Paddington cracks, Mackenzie
and Trumper, are not yet in fettle, and were disposed of
for 30 runs between them.
* • * *
Adelaide cricketers had bad wickets until Nov.
5, when batsmen opened out. Clenv. Hill (78) and Lyons
(66—14 hits for four) were in great fettle. Green (dropped
from the S.A, team this season) made 142 not out, with-
out a chance, and there is now a unanimous outcry'
against his exclusion. S.A. has unearthed a promising
bowler in a young player named Marrett, a country
trundler, who has done remarkably well. Like Howell,
Marrett is sturdy' and muscular, and can bowl all day.
W.A. cricket, after long languishing under the
old club system, has this year been galvanised into such
vigor by the introduction of the electoral system, that
1899 is expected to witness the formation of an inter-
provincial eleven.
• « * • »
George Bull writes from London, under
date 11/10/’9B “ I travelled to Chatham to see the races
between the Irex and the Maid of Kent. One —the first
of the trio—was enough. Maid Of Kent rushed through
it like a torpedo-destroyer; the-Sydney boat lumbered
painfully astern, and staggered home under overwhelm-
ing canvas and a far too-numerous crew' nearly lOmin.
late on a 12-mile course. Wyllie, A.R.A., who, with Linton
Hope, designed the Maid of Kent, took his win as a man
does who all along expected it; Foy' accepted the hope-
less inferiority of Irex gamely and in admirable spirit.
Maid of Kent had the best brains in the English boat-
designing profession, and money was never stinted. Re-
sult—an absolutely unsinkable craft, light and thin
almost as a wager-boat, a regular bag-o’-tricks—roller-
,boom for reefing while under way, patent instantaneous
hoist for centreboard, and bamboo upper spars. Flying
light, she draws about 6in., and shows 4 or sin. of fore-
foot when well down. ’Thwartship section shows how
she is unsinkable, and how the seas escape through the
centreboard-box as they come aboard. Candidly, Irex
couldn’t look at her under any conceivable conditions,
and Foy and all the Sydney boys who tried to draff her
home know it. Maid of Kent is tougrh, and shallow
—lrex is broad, deep, and heavy —hinc illae lachtymae*
A 22-footer for Sydney on Maid of Kent lines would open
the eyes of the younff gentlemen who fancy they have
done fast thinffs over the Manly course, and for the sake
of education in this class of boat-buildinff in Sydney I
sincerely hope you may see such a wonder, for wonder is
the only name for Maid of Kent.”
• * * *
The Golden Gate (Sydney) Athletic Club’s
Bst. 71b. “amateur” tournament, just concluded, demon-
strated beyond question that the non-professional section
puts as much work into one round as those who are out
for the dollars do into a dozen. The names of one or two
of the “ amateurs ” in the event under nolice were, to
the writer, reminiscent of professionalism in the early
part of the present decade. Mitchell, for instance —if
memory serves—fouffht a match with “ Chiddy ' Ryan,
and had ’em on with the famous Billy Murphy.
* * * *
The Australian maker of pugilistic champions,
Larry Foley, saw stronff-man Sampson at work during the
week, and this is how he sums the new-comer’s ability up
as compared with those who have been here before him :
“ They are the tallow-candles," says Larry, “ he is the
electric-liffht ! They are the strains of sand—Sampson is
the mountain ! Why, give him three-penn’orth of snuff
and he’d shift them all with a fairly healthy sneeze.”
* * » *
An index to Sampson’s marvellous strength may
be gathered from the easy off-hand manner in which he
has been breaking coins in halves round Sydney since his
arrival. Sixpences and shillings seem as pieces of lead in
his hands. At a favorite city resort, the other day, he
quite succeeded in convincing Hebe that she had given
him a cracked shilling, which broke in two as he swept
the change off the counter.
• * • •
Lucifer has bitten off a big lump — much more
than he can chew, some people think —in matching
himself against Harry Dunn. The American will be
giving away at least 3st., and is meeting a man who,
during-five years’tour of the States and England, never
suffered defeat once though he wrestled a score or more
matches, perhaps. Among Dunn’s victims were Evan
Lewis (“the Strangler”), Farmer Burns, Schumacher,
and the German strong boy. Wonder if Lucifer, when
at home, ever dreamt of meeting any of these giants of
the wrestling arena V
* • • *
The St. Kilda Cycling Carnival made an
uneventful start on Saturday, in the presence of a
largish multitude, which expectorated freely and knew
all the riders by their Christian names. Wheel-racing
seems to have lost its charm for the outside public. The
grand-stand reserve at St. Kilda is filled with all sorts
and conditions of pedallers, mostly young arid blasphem-
ous, who take 6 “bob” to 4 about the favorite from seedy
bag-men, professing to be “ registered ” by some unknown
power. The attitude of the police towards these bogus
Ikeys is quite friendly. They are even permitted to
stand upon the benches around the rails and howl the
odds in a major key, and if one of them were to risk
a whole sovereign in a bet and lose it, he would probably
be able to give the welshed backer in charge for creat-
ing a disturbance. Bike-racing management at St. Kilda
is evidently in weak hands.
A poor afternoon’s sport— with 20 events on the
programme and only £64 of prize-money hanging to the
whole lot—produced no new idols. Walne is seemingly
the best man as before, W. C. Jackson, Don Walker and
“ Loo ” Barker coming a bit behind the ex-Queenslander,
and “Jack Parsons” —beloved of the small boys—vainly
struggling to get back into the front rank.
* * » *
Edwards, the Yankee who undertook to bike
100 miles a-day for 12 months, put up a remarkable per-
formance before going down under to an attack of
typhoid. He kept up the weary wobble as per contract
for 250 days.


The N.S.W. Carriage and Saddlery Co.
has removed from Brown-street, Newtown, to IJ3
and 195 Ckveland-street, Redfern.*
Sydney Daily Telegraph announces the
publication in its columns shortly, of Ihe Em-
P „ nt i His Double,” a romance of the
JL of the great Napoleon, by Ambrose Pratt
Id “ Frank Renar,” two well-known Sydneyites.
Those who have seen advance-proofs describe the
work as strong and vivid. An historical novel by
Australian workers is a somewhat new idea. Ibe
talc will be published simultaneously in London.
The story of U.S. Ensign Gillis and the
torpedo in the Spankee war .
p M -.,j„n Gillis swam out to meet a stray torpedo that
was coining straight against an anchored torpedo-boat,
turned its nose away, and screwed up the firing-pm
tWitly so that it would not work. Then treading water
he saluted Lieutenant Fremont, and reported, bir, I
have to report I have captured a torpedo ” “ Bring it
aboard sir,” replied Fremont; and Gillis did so, swim-
ming- with it to the ship and fastening tackles to it.
° A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
At last, by a simple Gazette notice, N.S.W.
Govt, absolutely protects mulga and all the family
of edible scrub from timber-cutters in the far north-
west of the province. Mulga is the only reliable
cattle, and sheep fodder in that droughty part; a
dozen huge squattages at least would have been
swept of every head of stock but for the growth.
Unfortunately, the wood, though scanty, is re-
markably fine fuel; and so a great tract around
Broken Hill, and for 30 miles out from the Tarra-
wingeeandSilvertonlines, and smallerareas around
other mining townships, have already been cleared
of the plant to the encouragement of dust-storms,
among other things.
0/6 —A WATCH and CHAIN for 6/6
As a means of
introducing our
New Illustrated
Catalogue, we in-
tend, on payment
of 4s. extra, pre-
senting an Open
Face Keyless
Watch, guaran-
teed good time-
keeper, as illu-
strated, to every
purchaser of one
of our 2 6 “Bur-
mese” Silver
Chains, which, for wear and appearance, equal Sterling 1
Silver.
. . Ladies’ or Gent’s Chain is 2/6, with Watch, 4'- extra.
There are no Conditions or Guessing about this Watch.
We send the Watch and Chain registered (any colony) on
receipt of Postal Note for 6s. fjd. and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our price-list before Xmas, and to do so will send ns a
FREE GIFT, with all orders for same dated 1898, a beauti-
ful Pendant Charm Pencil to hang on the watch-chain.
NOTICE.—The Watch we guarantee ; it cannot be had
without the Chain.
11. POTIEIt & CO., Importers,
24 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.
CtfiREMODERMA,” the Great Freckle CURE.
v Removes Freckles, Pimples, &c. Cures Eczema,
and nil Skin Diseases ; Beautifies the Complexion ; and is
the Creme des Ci ernes for the Skin. Price Is., all chemists.
Post free all parts, Is 3d, from A. KING, Chemist, No. 2
Gurner-street, Paddington, Sydney. Wholesale Agents,
Elliott Brothers.
Not Poisonous! Will not Stain!
EXTEBMO
KILLS
All INSECTS, WHITE
ANTS, COCKROACHES,
BED-BUGS, MOTHS, and
their EGGS instantly.
BEING IN A LIQUID FORM,
EXTERMO will penetrate any infested place
which cannot be reached in any other way.
All Grocers. Price, Is. Bottle, with Squirt.
Dire ct from the Depot, Wynyard Building, Car-
rington-street, SYDNEY, by enclosing Is. 3d.,
which includes postage.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND)-
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Ritns to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. F. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
IN THE ESTATE OF SUSANNAH
FISHER BOBY, Deceased.
If 0. W. E. BOBY, born at Lyttelton, N.Z.,
in 1852, will apply at the office of the undersigned
he will hear of something very much to his
advantage.
W. H. QUICK, Solicitor,
Wellington, New Zealand.
AN AUSTRALIAN AGENCY. HOLDS-
WORTH & CO.’S Missing Friends and
Next-of-Kin Agency traces missing persons, in-
vestigates claims of next-of-kin, obtains copies of
wills, letters of administration, certificates of
births, marriages, deaths, etc., etc., and makes
general searches and inquiries.
Ofeichs : 101 SWANSTON STREET (oppo-
site Town Hall), MELBOURNE.
HAWES WILLIAM STIBBS, write at once
to Alfred, 79 Leadenliall-street, London.
Call on Robert B. Parry Esq., Solicitor, 177 Pitt-
street, Sydney. Important.
QUt BELL’S FLUID DISINFECTANT clears out Bugs,
Fleas, White Ants, Moths Silverfish, and Fevers.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
FILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
. . A and Carefully-Selected Assortment ..
also,
‘ Perfect,' ‘ Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
Frank grimly]
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-26') Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
Here To-day!
Yesterday!
and To-morrow !
txtE are one of the Pioneers in the Bjcycle trade.
’ ’ We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
ggg" Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department. ■ j
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER.
£
11, v
mmme
A&D
HAS NO FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGiiNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTriY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations.
“BEKTHAWS" is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/-& 2'6 ofr.ll Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
For Sale.
T7V3R SALE-
STEAM LAUNCH
(45ft. Long, Bft. Gin. Beam).
NEW FINE PLEASURE BOAT.
Full particulars from J. M. Maud, 515 George-
street, Sydney.
|OR the person who is not a millionaire, I here nr"
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at- in
SYDNEY. One is “THU < 'KKMEVr," situated 6!1
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Kilts’ King-street toffee Palace,” situated s:i
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
ST. PAULI
VRADE 'mm MARK
GIRL \\ BRAND
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
BICYCLES
. . FOR . .
LADIES.
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
‘garden gity’
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.”
Frank Grimley
{
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
" DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
qP
IS
your
WIF€
PRETTY
nearly tired out after a ride on her cycle ?
What else can you expect if you let her
ride a machine weighing pounds more than
your own ? Get her a
featherweight
which lies n :ii;v good qualities beside actual lightness.
full particulars.
Sole Agents for
Send or call for an ART CATALOGUE, which will give you
“SWIFT” Cycles with Dunlop Tyres.
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
391 George Street , Sydney .
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Charters Towers, Rockhampton, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin,
Launceston, Hobart, Bendigo, Hamilton, Warrnambool, etc., etc.


The Falling Leaves
Give Warning of Winter
So the falling of the hair tells
of the approach of age and declin-
ing power. No matter how barren
the tree nor how leafless it may
seem, you confidently expect leaves
again. And why?
Because there is Life
at the Roots.
So you need not worry about the
falling of your hair, the threatened de-
parture of your youth and beauty. And why ?
Because if there is a spark of life re-
taining in the roots of the hair
Ayer’s 1
Hair Vigor
will arouse it into healthy activity. The
hair ceases to come out: it begins to grow :
and the glory of youth is restored to you.
Prepared by Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co.,Lowell,Mass.,u.S.A
D . S .MAI R
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST
Mainspring-, 2/6; Cleaning, 2/6; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
26; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D S. MAIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydney.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 5/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, 6/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, yo per 02.
'Ve are the cheapeStin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H.’wigzell,-
110 Wim.iam Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe List.
Prompt attention'giyen to Country Order*
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites
for SALOONS and
Hairworking.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Sea) pets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
ASSISTANTS Engaged for the Country.
Dear Bulletin. — Be pastor Yarrington’s
lecture on the Oxford movement. Curious how
the average British Protestant worships Luther
with generally only the haziest idea of that per-
son’s moral calibre. As a matter of fact, the
great reformer was roughly materialistic, with a
strong dash of the sensual, and did a good
many other things besides floor a material devil
with a candlestick. He held that a woman was
only to be respected in proportion to the number
of children she bore. Also, the common R.C.
belief that he died in a drunken orgie is possibly
not ill-founded. With all, however, he was a man.
What have the Sabbatarian Saint Dunstans of
to-day to say to this : “ If you ever find yourself
keeping the Sabbath for the sake of the day, work
on it, play on it, dance on it —do anything except
keep it ! ” —C.C.
Some items from the insolvency schedule
of Ah, Pat, storekeeper, Inglewood :
Business kept till last year 1897. Young often said he
retire and sick of it and advertised any where tried to sell
out all. But no body have it then he asked me carry on
myself and give him the money he put down and £3OO for
good will he intent go home to China, then i considered
this place is rising So i Bought him out at together £157
10s. in time payment and -i thought could do better as if
i get an european drive to the country. But whoever
can make no defferent that unobtain my wishes and i
seeing that can pay 30s. per week to keep extra man to
drive and got 5 or 6 pounds from country. So i gave up
runing Country and kept one assistant from January this
year and since January many long over dtie account
to met and connection all time and it make my brain
turned over and over and lost sleep for manage this diffi-
culty Business. And i had trouble in last June for owed
the rent ran up to £35 that Mrs. solicitor sent his
man came to the shop and take stock without a day
notice then i don’t know what i can do i had Ten pounds
in hand he said must want all I considered after a while
ran to Mr. G. Floyd to get £25 to be enough to meet this
unexpected trouble also paid him 14s. expense. But at
present the rent had run up £24 again and some other
Bills and many long overdue account coming to keen and
close impossible me to meet it. Sometime creditors
sent me threaten Languages seems to be going
to press and now if meet the rent cannot meet
other creditors if i meet creditors other account the rent
come to me at the same thing don’t last. I cann see my
way clear in this great difficulties and troubles position
So i put it to my assignees hand to save waste my Brain
to manage any further. I not intent to do this 1 cannot
help it myself i am alway do my best to any body what i
could, and what i don’t like myself i won’t unto others
and what i don’t like when done to myself i don’t do to
others this is the principle of my mind, here is the
Books i been kept But i never Balance the Business and
taking stock as me and Young confidential each other and
never thought be in this trouble.
A Novelty for a Christmas
Present!
The Calendar Hatch.
Tells the correct time of the day, the day of the
week, the day of the month, the month of the year,
and the phases of the moon. Hall-marked, sterling
silver case, extra jewelled movements. Keyless.
Price, 455. Securely packed. Sent registered
post free to any colony.
Money Returned if not Satisfied.
Address-THE MANAGER,
THE GLOBE WATCH CO, LTD-,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNED
rHLOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlohodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
MICK SIMMONS.
4.
New Departure . Cash Trade Only .
——
All Sportios Materials at Lowest CGt Prices-
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SANDOWN, See. &c. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS!
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
BA TS.—Special Line Youths’All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9,5/6
~ Special line Youths’ Sing-le Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4/6
~ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle 11s 6d
~ F. H. Ayres’ ditto (International) 16s 6d
~ Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President) 13s Od
~ Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle 10s 6d
~ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive) 14s 6d
~ Clspshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s Cd, 9s 6d
~ Clapsliaw’s ditto (Extra Spring) 12s 6d
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring) 18s Od
STUMPS WITH BAILS. —Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special) 5s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod 7s, 7s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Brass-shod 9s 6d, 12s 6d
~ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod 12s 6d
~ Full Size 4s 6d
TAN LEG GUARDS.—Youths’ ss, 6s 6d
~ Men’s 6s, 7s 9d, 9s 6d
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape 10s 6d
BA I.l.S.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match... 5s Od
~ Duke's P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best 6s 9d
~ Wisden’s Match 4s Od
CRICKET MATS. —Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (Hit's is the best value in Sydney) .. 80s Od
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s Cd, 20s Od
With peg 3, runners, &c., &c. ... 40s, 50s, 60s Od
BATS.—Cobbett’s All-cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d,
„ Felthani’s ditto
„ Feltham’s ditto (Special)
„ Lilywhite’s All-cane Handle ...
„ Nicholl’s ditto (Automatic) ...
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto ... 6/6, 9/6, 10/6,
~ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) ...
~ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver)
~ Dark and Sons’ Patent Cork-cased Handle...
10s 6d
6s
10s
16s
15s
12s
16s
16s
15s
„ Dark and Sons’All-cane Handle
6AUNTLI? I’S.—Tan, full size, ventilated, pair
„ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair _ ...
~ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair...
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ...
BATTING GLOVES ... 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d,
~ Surrey Shields
ABDOMINAL GUARDS
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d,
BALLS. —Wisden’s Special Crown
„ Wisden’s Match ... 3s 9d to 4s
~ Coinpo.—Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
„ „ Match, Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 5d
CRICKET RETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
~ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men’s, 83, 10/6, 12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Stumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps ... 16s Od
6s
Ss
8s
9s
10s
6s
7s
2s
6s
ooggoggggogoggggggg
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLI
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
-A.s]fe Jqj*
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.
6
TiOOK OF NATURE
—and—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOB. HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid hare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED'
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
Tub Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dreasi
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6 ; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. TIIE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is Cd post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
Tiie Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
Tiie Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book. Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
BY ROYAL WARRAKTT OF AFPOIKTXMEKTT TO “THE QXJBEKT.”
A&k for
Wbi&ky aod
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
SO PA WATER, &c.
Ask for
BraQdy aijd
‘Scbwcppc’
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DA.PXO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near SYDIXTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
■ ■ 'MK)
:
j, •...
I '•
SB
-
11
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWAEM”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP. REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


H (rr RaSSn)(iSSci)’S Alfalioe Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
A. Pew of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended j’our remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you. —Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmcjssen. —Dear
Sir,—l think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many' friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, w'rites,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. An.vone
writing to me will have full particulars. I am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cal^'a wreck through in remperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks. —Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I inform 3'ou that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank 3'ou sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks.—l am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking 3'our
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify' to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it. —Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERE, RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies,
Sydney Bulletin.— “ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highlj' complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected I>3' his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S. A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona Jides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide. —“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing- botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.—" Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “ It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“ We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,— Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. 1 was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom' have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
Mission in the Herbal World.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and .manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his' pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remediesunprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
isi
•V .......
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-T)ate Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmvssen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alfaline Herbal
Remedies can only he
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent Medicine
dealers for the genuine
Alf aline Remedies.
£5O REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
\~Alf aline Remedies.
HERR RASSMOSSEH,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OE THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
and
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
a laro-e number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSniUSSeil>
whether you send to his Rranches or to his Head
Office,'and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to HailS RaSSIHUSS6H,
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“ H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
ADVICE FREE.
LIST
OF THE
ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMTTSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how- contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6dL
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidney's, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 68., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for ( oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6->.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder -Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
_ , . __ _ T ttvt tt-itA-LITY PILLS (Registered), -which, is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
raOOD m BIJttDEB th“ wo“w has ever seen, and nnegnalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, WITH ABB ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office: - 547 Georg*e Street, Sydney.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :
N.Z , WELLINGTON 91 Eambton Qnay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLGARDIE Bailey-at. (next Freemason Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next LindeH's, Jeweller)
XANOWNA ... Issabella-street (next Friedman’s)
FREMANTLE
Henry-street (near High-street)


fast Published. Price, 3/»j posted, 5/0,
TPith Rabbit Map ft/ Queensland and
Numerous Plates .
—THE—
RABBIT QUESTION
1 IM
QUEENSLAND
By C» L. MORGAN, Clerk Maranoa Rabbit Board.
Watson, Ferguson & Co., Brisbane,
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY-
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST 2 NIGHTS! LAST 2 NIGHTS!
UNPER THE REP ROBE.
JULIUS KNIGHT as GIL DE BERAULT.
ADA FERRAR as RENEE.
SATURDAY, November 19th, for Six Nights Only,
The Lady of Lyons.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
■pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction M. B. Curtis.
EVERY EVENING! and Matinee Saturday.
DANTE, The great Juggling genius.
CHANGE OF BILL NEXT MONDAY.
BLACK ART.
The Great DANTE BOOM. Sydney season extended
One Month in consequence of the Great Success.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Miss Katherine Russell
(Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
Business Manager ...Mr. George Buller.
Enthusiastic Reception of Alfred Dampier.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING !
. . . REVIVAL OF . . .
ROBBERY UNPER ARMS-
Admission—Dress Circle, 3s ; Stalls, 2s ; Family Circle,
Is; Gallery, Sixpence.
ALHAMBRA. The Coolest Theatre in Sydney.
Sole Lessees, Percy St. John and W. J. Wilson.
Every Evening, at 8!
Alhambra Minstrel & Burlesque Co.
A. E. RINGWOOD.
PAT MELTON. MILLAR FRASER. RAE COWAN.
WILL STEVENS. ADDIE PLACE. CARLETON and
SUTTON. T. EDMOND LEONARD. VIOLET BISHOP.
And our Grand TREBLE Company.
First Part ! Olio ! ! Humpty Dumpty Burlesque !!!
Popular Prices—2s, Is, 6d. Plan at Elvy’s.
mHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
To-night and Every Evening!
* MA6<SI€ MOORE
Supported by Mr. H. R. ROBERTS and Specially
Selected Company, including Mr. HARRY LESTON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS !
A. Prodigal Fatlier.
Saturday, Nov. 19, the successful comedy drama, “BOB.”
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. ... Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Town hall, Sydney^
Sole Lessee and Director ... Philip Newbury.
Next Saturday, at 8 o’clock.
I/- TH€ “POPS.” I/-
... A MAGNETIC PROGRAMME . . .
MADAME SPADA, Madame Belle Ray, Miss Maud
Dalrymple, Miss Annie Perry, Mr. Tralford Foster, Mr.
Rodda Perry (male alto), Mons. Aug. Wiegand, Mr. Gooud,
Miss Mabel Hastings, and PHILIP NEWBURY.
Plan at Paling’s. Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
CONTINUED GREAT SUCCESS OF
MiSS FLORRIC W€ST
(THE DAZZLER).
Miss CORA CASELLI, POPE and SAYLES,
D. H. CASTON, The BOVIS BROTHERS, FOREMAN
and FANNAN, SISTERS TERRY, DELROY and
LYNNE, FANING and DEVOE, ALICE SIMMONS, and
OUR GRAND DOUBLE COMPANY.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Mr. FRED. POPLAR. Miss KITTY WAGER
CHAS. W. COGILL.
Miss ETHEL YORKE.
Miss Peggy Pryde
Mr. WILL WHITBURN.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Hons. AJAX.
Mr. SYD DEANE.
Miss N- Wilson
WALLACE KING.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
The Enormously Popular Comic Opera,
LA POUP € €.
Interpreted by the Full Strength of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as Usual. ... Box Plan at ALLAN’S.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING!
Tbc BroCigb Conjcdy Coy.
First Production in Australia of
“ THEE LIA.RS.”
An original comed3’, in 4 acts, by Henry Arthur Jones.
PRICES AS USUAL. . Box Plan at Glen’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING 1
LIFE-%,
4th WEEK 4th
And continued Cyclonic Enthusiasm of this newest narra-
tive of Sport and Sensation, illumined by Scenic Splendor.
Interpreted by Mr. and Mrs. HOLT and their
Brilliant Dramatic Organisation.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE CYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPFIN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission -ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
QUIBELL’S FLUID DISINFECTANT is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
B-nutv. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
„,j|K i l’i.r lo Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.
The Australian Widows’ Fond [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors:
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O,
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898*9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
- Monday
- Tuesday
- Tuesday
- Wednesday
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - Friday
Tallow - Friday
Hides - Friday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchoombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
VELTEN LASER BEER.
An Ideal Summer Drink. Refreshing, Wholesome, and Perfectly Pure.
ASK ALSO FOR PELICAN STOUT.
The Best in the Market.
Dr. TARRANT
F.R.C.S.E.. L.RX.P.E., L.R.C.5.1., L.M.R.C.P.E.,
rs a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales GrOYernment
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising:, whether hereditary or
„ acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
, tion in the pnncipa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
> 3XTo Man or Woman.
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced ;heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, arid ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, replv cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr!
TARRANT makes
Absolutely Wo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in vour first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
m
i
*lWr rs | B^ T fcS*|'
je\**l>
IA«L tliwv
iToa
■f*iTT STRtef>
£*»
£sst
I
3
ATKINSONS
DE
THE FINEST ENCUSH MAKE.
More Fragrant; More Lasting;
and very much more refreshing
than all others.
USE ATKINSON ’S ONLY.
AND BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Only genuine with “ White Rose ” Trade Mark.
Of all Dealers & of the Manufacturers —
J. Sc Id. ATKINSON, Limited,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
Gent’s Kid-leg Calf Goloshed 10/6
„ ~ Patent „ 10/6
„ Glace-leg and Golosh, patent caps ... 10/6
„ All Russia Tan Calf 10/6
„ All Ooze Tan Calf ... ... ... 10/6
By Rail , Posf, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
are Famous
. . BEND FOB
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . OF . .
Ladies 9 , Gentlemen’s,
and
CHILDREN’S BOOTS.
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ARL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Geelong and Ballarat.
Rea l German h ollow Ground
iTbopp Rum*
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT. & CO., LONDON. C


A. H. MOORE & CO.
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYD NEY
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Keduoed Price List.
The SLASHING Rac -uet 15/; ea.
The CHAMPION R • • ,uet 15/- ~
The PERFCT Racquet 20/- „
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- „
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet S'!/- ~
Repairs, (id. Stripy.
RACQUETS RE STRUNG,
From 6s.
The ONI Tennis Ball,
12s. per Dozen.
This is the Best Ball obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, pc i loz . 9/6
Regulation Ui ey Uncovered ... 6/6
Red Enamelled, per doz 7/6
Hotels.
0T Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GO ROM'S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
North. Queensland..
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
d of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining i nformation to be obtained from J. W.
Publications, etc.
MRS. MACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s, 6 cl.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
''U
-Ballet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sidney
The Life,
Adven.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
Mai)do!io! f^aijdoliij!
VivaciU, Scherzo Spagnolo, Passione, and many
other favorite compositions, by Marchisio, Venanzi,
and other eminent composers for this Popular
Instrument.
W. Paxtoi) Si Co.,
203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE;
And 19 Oxford Street, LONDON.
TTENRY FARMER'S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Cucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
li\iso or Organ at sight, and without difficulty brilliant
acc'>nipanmj"iits to any song ever wr.tten. Pratt’s Chart of
UHORDSior Piano or O gan embraces nearly every major and
minor Chord u ed in music, a< dis a short cut to harmony It
IS THE MOST COMPIt i- HICNSIVE YET SIMPLEST CHART EVER PUB-
LISHED. indorsed by teachers and musicians everywhere.
The price of Pratt’s Chart alone is 55., but to in-
troouce it into every home, we will send free the
uriant Album of 184 -ongs, words and music, containing many
old and new favorit s, together with the Chart for ONLY
a/6, posted2/8, stamps 2d. extra. Address : Anglo-American
Publishing ( 0., Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N.s. w. JVlen-
tion this paper when writing. AGENTri WANTED.
FREE
SECOND-HAND BOOKS!
TTAVJNG devoted special attention to the Second-hand
Book trade, I have in stock at present nearly all the
Books I rescribed for the Junior, Senior Matriculation
fonn ’ an i! Tl ?ird year course examinations for
1 , and 1900. Special attention is drawn to students
and teachers that they can he purchased from me at
nearly one-half of their published price, namely—Abbott’s
Via Latma, 3/6 for 2/6; Ransome’s History 3 6 for 2 6 ‘
Geikie s- Physical Geography, 4/6 for 3/- ; Hughes’ Glass
Book Modern Geography, 3 6 for 2/-; Geikie’s Class Book
of Geology, 4/6 for 3 - ; Abbott’s How to Parse, 3 6 for
J odll «nfer’s Algebra, 2 6 for 1/6; Hall and Knight’s
Algebra, 4 6 for 3 ; Hall and Stevens’ Euclid, 4 6 for 3/-;
Todhunters Euclid, 3/6 for 2/-; Lock’s Arithmetic, 4/6
"/• I Lock s Trigonometry, 4/6 for 3 - ; Oliver’s Botany
4/6 tor 3-; Oman’s History of Greece, 4 6 for 3- ■ Hoi-
ton s History of the Romans, 3/6 for 2/6 ; Balfour Stewart’s
1 hvsics, 4/6 for 3'-; Otto’s German Grammar, s'-for 3/-
Lorges Modern Europe, 7,6 for 5/6; and hundreds of
others too numerous to mention. By post, 3d. extra
R. W. SKINNER,
Second-hand Book Arcade,
105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney,
Telephone, 3043.
FORTUNE
TELLING- Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 35.-——
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Supply Agency,
i Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
JtgfSend Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “ Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 nacres, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 2/6,
post free.
Erskine and Bearcroft were rival counsel
in a suit where a draper sought to recover his bill
from a husband. The wife had been a lady of
pleasure. Erskine: “My client gave up all his
connections for this woman.” Bearcroft: “And
she gave up all mankind for him.”
Concluding broadside of wrangle between
two Sydney ’bus-drivers, one very fat: —“ Garn,
yer fat-bellied old ! it I had me way with
you, I’d scoop out yer bloomin’ yes-no and make
a blanky dorg-kennel of yer.”
Egyptian Sirdar Kitchener described —
Major-General Sir Horatio Herbert Kitchener is 48 years
old by the book, but that is irrelevant. He stands several
inches over Oft., straight as a lance, and looks out imperi-
ously above most men’s heads ; his motions are deliberate
and strong; slender, but firmly knit, he seems built for
tireless, steel-wire endurance, rather than for power or
agility; that also is irrelevant. Steady, passionate eyes
shaded by decisive brows, brick-red, rather full cheeks,
a long- moustache, beneath which you divine an immov-
able mouth ; his face is harsh, and neither appeals for
affection nor stirs dislike. All this is irrelevant, too ;
neither age, nor figure, nor face, nor any acci-
dent of person has any bearing on the essential Sirdar.
You could imagine the character just the same if
all the externals were different. He has no age but the
prime of life, no body but one to carry his mind, no
face but one to keep his brain behind. The brain and
the will are the essence and the whole of the man—a
brain and a will so perfect in their workings that
in the face of extremes! difficulty, they never seem to
know what struggle is. His precision is so inhumanly
unerring, he is more like a machine than a man. The
man Herbert Kitchener owned the affection of private
friends in England and of old comrades of 15 years’ stand-
ing ; for the rest of the world there is no man Herbert
Kitchener, but only the Sirdar, neither asking affection
nor giving’ it. His officers and men are wheels in the
machine ; he feeds them enough to make them efficient,
and works them as mercilessly as he works himself. And
if you suppose, therefore, that the Sirdar is unpopular,
he is not. No general is unpopular who always beats
the enemj'. Other generals have been better loved ;
none was ever better trusted. For of this one human
weakness the Sirdar is believed not to have purged
himself—ambition. He is on his promotion, a man
who cannot afford to make a mistake. Homilies
against ambition may be left to those who have failed in
their own ; the Sirdar’s, if apparently purely personal, is
legitimate and even lofty. If in this case he be not so
stiffly unbending to the high as he is to the low, who shall
blame him ? He has climbed too high not to take every
precaution against a fall. But he will not fall—just yet,
at any rate. So far as Egypt is concerned, he is the man
of destiny—the man who has been preparing himself six-
teen years for one great purpose. For Anglo-Egypt he
is the Mahdi—the expected -the man who has sifted
experience and corrected error ; who has worked at small
things and waited for great, marble to sit still and fire to
smite, steadfast, cold, and inflexible ; the man who has
cut out his human heart and made himself a machine to
retake Khartoum.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Handsome Fickel Puzzle Matchbox.
Exact Size and Design as Illustrated.
$
/£/
/§ # 4
J
With Name Engraved on Reverse Side
NOVEL, USEFUL, and AMUSING. Post Paid, Is. Id. ;
Extra Good AI Quality, Is. 7d.
OUR MONSTER GIFT PARCEL.
100 ARTICLES for ss. And A GIFT FREE.
To introduce our Illustrated List, to obtain new Cus-
tomers and make ourselves talked about, we will
SEND, Carriage Paid any Colony, our Monster GIFT
Parcel, containing all the below-mentioned articles
(ICO) for Postal Note 55., or Three for 14s. One
pair Handsome Motto Pictures, 24 x 10, look and
wear like oil painting's; 1 Beautiful Pure Silk Hand-
kerchief, with Worked Flowers in Colored Silk ; 25 Asstd.
Xmas and New Year Cards, sold retail 3d. and 4d. each ;
1 Bottle of Good French Scent; 24 sheets Ruled Note-
paper; 25 Square Envelopes; 1 Penholder; 1 Pencil,
Point Protector, and Indiarub.ber ; 0 Ball-pointed Pens ;
12 Self-threading Needles, asstd. sizes, a wonderful inven-
tion —a blind person can thread them ; 1 Oval Pocket
Mirror, in Polished Case; 1 Japanese Cabinet Photo.
Stand ; and our Illustrated Price List.
Also an EXTRA GIFT of half-a-dozen Al quality Cam-
bric Handkerchiefs sent with each parcel. In return for
the WONDERFUL VALUE we give you, we certainly
expect you to show your friends the whole lot, and give
our name and address.
H. POT IE R & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
GRIMAULT’S
mDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
MmtU#
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds, Bruises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive bools: and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon,
Solution. Don't purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Lear-
mouth & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. (id. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, (Id. extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers, Pitt-st., Sydney.
The [atest Insect pouider.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
THE MARVELLOUS INSECT POWDER.
NO VEXATIOUS DISAPPOINTMENTS
KILLS FLIES, THE CARRIERS OF DISEASE GERMS.
KILLS MOSQUITOES, AND ENSURES A NIGHT’S REST.
Harmless to Animal Life.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
THE UNWELCOME GUEST^
WHERE HE COMES. HOW HE COMES.
WHY HE COMES.
Death
comes a n
u n vv e 1 -
come guest
to all ; yet
many
people un-
conscious-
ly invite
him.
They are
the people
who neg -
lect them -
selves;
who, be -
coming ill,
go on day
to day till
disease
overtakes
them, and
death that
is prema -
ture be -
comes in -
evitable.
Perhaps yon are one of those people, and are not
aware of it. You have something the matter
with you, but, not having any experience, treat it
lightly, while it gets worse and worse, untimately
destroying you.
The wise man will at once put himself in the
witness-box, and ask himself the following ques-
tions, as will the wise woman :
Do I sleep badly ; do I wake up in the morning,
even when I appear to have slept all night, fagged
and jaded, with lack-lustre eyes and an inclination
only to go to bed again. Do I eat badly, or, when
Ido eat “well,” does my food agree with and
nourish me ? Do Igo about my work dejectedly—
do I suffer from headaches, pains in either, the
limbs or body, and indulge in depressing retros-
pections ? Do I, in short, suffer from a loss of
mental and physical elasticity—that exultant
appreciation of life which all healthy people must
have ?
If to even one of these questions the answer be
“ Yes,” then that man realises that he wants a
tonic—-something to give him an appetite, to
steady his nerves, and to make him strong and
active in the daytime, and afford him calm and
refreshing sleep at night.
Such a tonic is Minerva Tonic, the world’s
greatest and only permanent restorative, the
praise of which is general and unstinted.
Professor Macadam, Consulting Chemist to the
British Government, writes :—“ Minerva is a
judicious combination of iron, phosphorus, and
alkaloid compounds, which will be found highly
serviceable as a tonic remedy for strengthening
the system.”
Very Rev. Dr. O’Haran, P.S., to his Eminence
the Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney, writes :
“Minerva is most palatable and energising.
Everyone who has had experience of it pronounces
it admirable.”
Mr. G. D. Clark, ex-M.L.A., Grand Lodge of
Good Templars, writes : —“ It is most helpful in
clearing the brain, stimulating thought, and mak-
ing work a pleasure.”
Mr. Wm. Stevenson, Manager of the Pkesby-
TEEIAN, Sydney, writes : —“lt is a strengthening
and invigorating medicine. It is especially suit-
able for the Australian climate.”
Also Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P. ; Mr. Stutcli-
bury, Chief-clerk of H.M. Customs, Newcastle ;
Mr. Luckham, of the Bulletin office ; Mr. Selby,
Feldheim, Gotthelf and co., and thousands of
others join in recommending it to the Australian
people
Til Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
l'rii-c, 10s. Od.
The Result .
Sole Agents :
Craig & Aitken, 680-832 George-st„ Sydney
QIEli
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
& Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
' to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
THE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE Is.;
per Post Is. 3d.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing- in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO,
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting', beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 (5. Dress Suits to Measure, 84
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Hiding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Oloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 211, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
ourSPECIAL BELTforLADIES
REALLY a MARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
. Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor
GENTLEMEN,sSIMPLYaWONDER
Drunkenness.
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
6UCM.
The CELEBRATED and only SAFE,
SURE, and SPEEDY ANTIDOTE
TO DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form). Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence cannot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operates soquietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. WE HA VE NO AGENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address —
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE.
DRROBERTS’
f
t fKHf JM£ASEf_
AND WOL/ A/JOS
Of EVERY
DESCR/PT/orf'
d^roberts
Alterative
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES[
A/vdall jd/sorders of the
STOMA CH & LJVER .
or ALL CHEM/STS f//£ & 2/?EACH
BEACH & BARNICOTT L°. BRIDPQRT.
MELBOURNE.
MTV POST FREE v”®-*
WATCHES-CLOCKS-jEVI/ELLERY-BIRTrtOAY-
WeddsNc z CHr!stei\!iNg Presents
H-NEY/MAr-l- 1755177-Fl PAEFTtJ St.
OFPOf'TF C-.PO
MELBOURNE.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €fi)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioQ.


c^*
C 6
o
LaWN White as SnoW”
CLOTHES
washed with
Hudson’s
are thoroughly washed there=
fore remain
Much Longer Clean.
<S>
linen when regularly
WASHED WITH
HUDSON’S
IS DELIGHTFULLY SWEET, WHOLE-
SOME, LILY-WHITE, AND FRESH AS
SEA BREEZES, AND WILL KEEP A
GOOD COLOUR.
SOAK YOURCLQTHES
WITH
HUDSONS
And the Dirt will slip out with about
Half the Usual Labour.
Ask for
QUARTER-POUND
PACKETS.
For WASHING-UP after Meals., HUDSON*S has no pm,-,! Ta a . ,
_ _ makes Grease Fly. HS/DSQM leaved no* Jilint or^eli ately ’~ enterS eYer y creYice ~
xeaves no Taint or smell.
HUDSON S ,s used m all the, “Happy Homea of
99
A 1
FINE mWBER.


A N.S. Wales P.M., whose name is no-
thing like Jones, was at one time also a Crowd
Lands Agent. lie took money from a squatter fot
lahd which he afterwards found was reserved.
Now, the rule is that all moneys received by an
officer must be paid into the Treasury, whence any
refunds are made. The official, not wishing to
advertise his error, refunded direct to the sheep-
man, who kicked up such a dust that the matter
reached head office, and the delinquent Was
ordered to Sydney under suspension. Old Jack
Robertson was then Minister, and interviewed
him thus : “Umph ! You’re Mr. Blanky Jortes,
Police Magistra te at Cow Flat, umph. Nice blanky
games you’ve been up to! I’ve a blanky good
mind to dismiss you, you darned scoundrel ” —and
jumping up and putting his extended palm behind
him, suggestively—“ I suppose you do a bit of
this blanky business, too ? ” Jones, recounting his
experiences to a crony afterwards, said, “ I didn’t
mind him swearing at me so much, doncherknow,
but when the old devil insinuated that I took tip,
I could have fainted.”
Gentlemen ! ! — -You can walk into any tailor-
ing establishment in Sydney, and you will hot find a
better or more wisely assorted stock of summer suitings
than at Hordern’s in Pitt-street. The superior style and
excellent fit supplied by our first-class cutters have given
universal satisfaction, and although the price of a suit to
order is only 455., gentlemen need have no doubt as to
the value being equal to similar suits quoted elsewhere at
three guineas. (A complete range of samples posted free
to any address in city, suburbs,or country towns in N.S. W.)
HORDERN BROTHERS, Economical Tailors, 203, 205,
207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*
■
This Bright and Happy Child
has
been
fed
solely
on
flrnott’s fflilk Jrrouiroot Biscuits
and
lie
is
still
enjoying
them.
[Testimonial.^
Mount Telford, National Park,'
15/9/’9B.
Mb. Arnott.
Sir, —I forward you a photo, of my son, Max Telford
Behmer, taken when he was seven months old. He has
been fed solely on Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits since
he was three days old, and he is still enjoying them. He is
now eleven months old. I highly recommend your biscuits
as a strong, healthy food for children.
Yours respectfully,
Mrs. HENRY BEHMER.
Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
are the Pure Biscuits. Never accept an imitation .
The N.S.W. National Art Gallery.
In providing a magnificent domicile for Art in the
Sydney Domain, the N.S.W. Government has
shown itself generously responsive to that higher
sentiment which forbids that a people not with-
out their hopes and aspirations, should be satis-
fied with bread alone. If I could catch the ear of
the new Minister for Education, who may be
credited with a laudable ambition to justify his
high office, and who is officially responsible in all
that relates to Art, I should like to say to him
that passing the contractor’s bill for the salons
recently completed cannot rightfully be taken as
marking the limit of his activity in this matter.
More properly, indeed, and on the assumption
that the administrative conscience in the educa-
tional section is in wholesome activity, I should
prefer to see it regarded as his starting-point.
•t * * *
The municipal governors of our city are, for the
most part, a poor enough set of creatures, but even
they have found the grace to acknowledge* that
they have much to repent of, much to learn, and
much to forget. Perish the thought that the
Trustees of the National Art Gallery of N.S. W.
should permit themselves to drift into a similar
Weakness. There are ancient acquisitions of the
“Dobson ” and other schools on the walls of the
Domain Gallery which not even a Gallery Trustee
would defend. Were we dealing with men
capable of being instructed by adversity, the exist-
ence of these exhibits could be tolerated if not
forgiven. But what is to be thought of men who,
with the accumulated abominations of nearly
three decades staring them in the face every time
they enter the building under their charge, are
content to move on indefinitely in the same dull
rut of helpless ineptitude?
* * • *
It is not necessary to say that East’s “ Sunlit
Haven,” Swan’s “ East African Leopards,”
Brangwyn’s “ Scoffers,” Riviere’s “Requiescat,”
are absolutely bad pictures. What I remark upon
them is that one and all they are innocent of any
distinctive quality or feature which should pro-
nounce them as suitably placed in a representative
national collection. They constitute the type of
picture with which one is haunted in the corridors
of the London dealer who, in most instances, has
a mortgage upon it to the extent of the cost of the
frame—the type which, at the end of an art-
season, was wont to find its way swiftly to its
doom, but which, in our own time, finds occasional
undeserved rescue at the hands of the Sydney-
London board of art-purchasers and the South
African millionaire.
* * » »
Look at the modelling of the right arm of the
girl in the immediate foreground of those truly
awful “ Scoffers.” Detached from its context,
who would ever pronounce it to be intended for a
human limb? In Riviere’s picture it is permis-
sible to say, “ Yes, the dog is a beauty, the armor
is faultlessly correct, the pattern of the embroidery
all that is to be desired.” But when these acces-
sories are brought in to reconcile us to nothing
better than the presentment of a cadaver
waiting for the undertaker’s last visit,
they arouse nothing better than a sense
of irritated disgust. There is one chance
for us. Should the Sydney morgue call for the
addition of an ornamental vestibule, it is to be
hoped that this precious “ Requiescat ” may be
promptly endorsed over to it. The extent to
which this wretched corpse was hawked about in
every possible world’s market, until an evil fate
brought it within the ken of the London selectors
for Sydney, is one of the open secrets of * the
picture-trade. Our men are now looked out for
in the centre of the picture-business, precisely in
the sense in which the yokel from behind our
mountain-ranges is looked for by the “ confidence ”
men of Hyde Park.
» * * *
I do not at all say that the London selections
are invariably bad. Mr. Yeend King’s “ Garden
by the River ” is one of the choicest productions
of an artist who, at his best, is far beyond the
average._ Mr. Margetson’s “The Sea hath its
Pearls ” is also a selection fairly calling for praise.
I’hat the right foot of the centre figure, with all
its purity of flesh tint, is as flat as a slab of jelly-
fish, without even a suggestion of contour or instep,"
is a deduction which does not seriously counter-
act the sense of satisfied artistic enjoyment yielded
by the picture as a whole.
* * * *
“ Why not then put the good against the bad ? ”
The question is of the essence of absurdity. It is for
the purpose of purchasing good pictures that the
Trustees of the N.S.W. Art Gallery are liberally
endowed with funds. When good pictures are not
offering can they not sit still and wait ? It is surely
a peculiar sense of compulsion under which they
operate when they fill these stately walls from
year to year with art exhibits in which the mean,
the mediocre and the commonplace constitute the
dominating note. A year or two ago the official
excuse of the Gallery Trustees for being con-
tinually struck with rubbish was that the growth
of a more exacting standard of taste was at all
times liable to overtake and stultify one’s estima-
tion of earlier purchases. When we are in front of
works like Peter Graham’s “ Glencoe,” recently
on loan from Melbourne—works like Leighton’s
“ Wedded ’’—like Cole’s “Arundel ’’—like Andrew
Gow’s “ Relief of Leyden,” it does not occur to us
to think of “standards of taste.” With a higher
standard of directing intelligence, the taste might
be trusted to look after itself.
* * m *
Every now and again it is thought necessary to
attach a working artist to the London board of
selectors. Naturally, the artist-selector must
have the compliment paid him of being requisi-
tioned for a picture of his own painting. Natu-
rally, under such circumstances, it would be quite
too unpolite to make any fuss about the price.
And that, I suppose, is how we come by Mr.
Alfred East’s “Sunlit Haven.” It was, at all
events, the method by which the Melbourne Art
Gallery acquired, for a trifle of IOOOgs., Professor
Herkomer’s unspeakably inartistic and hideous
picture of H.M. the Queen, which the Victorian
trustees daily pray may sooner or later be removed
from their custody, in the dead of the night, by
some public-spirited thief.
* * * *
The cost of a railway, a viaduct, or a new court-
house, is ascertainable by anyone having a know-
ledge of the literature of Parliamentary Blue
Books. The cost of any individual Domain
Gallery-picture is as completely blotted put from
human ken as if the transaction occurred in an-
other planet. Rumor has it that quite appalling
amounts 1m vebeen spent on some works—Riviere’s
“ Cadaver,” for example—which actually disfigure
and degrade the collection. If rumor is in error,
it can be easily overcome by a freer knowledge.
RAPHAEL SANZIO JONES.
Peter and the Voice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A desire to avoid raising harsh and revengeful
thoughts irt the minds of sundry creditors, by niy
presence among them, led me to take up niy
quartets in Rochester-] ane.
My little two-shillirig-a-week room overlooked
the lane, And whenever my work grew wearisome
I was able to aniuse myself by watching the Move-
ments of my neighbors. The staple industry df
the dozen inhabitants was bottles, which they col-
lected and disposed of to a marine dealer at the
end of the lane. My first impression was that
bottle-merchants could consume more beer and
make more noise about it than any other mundane
creatures, but when I became acquainted with
their wives I found I had done the bottle-ohs an
injustice. All day long, while their lords and
masters were out bottle-prospecting, these ladies
would stand at their doors, in various stages of
undress and sobriety, and bawl compromising and
highly-insulting remarks at each other, only stop-
ping to rush into the middle of the lane and bang
furiously their mud-bespattered offspring.
Whenever one of them possessed the where-
withal to indulge in the luxuries of the corner
pub. she became the centre of the envious abuse
of the other inhabitants, and carried herself with
that conscious importance which I formerly be-
lieved to be the sole prerogative of mayors and
town-councillors. It is a custom among savage
nations, who are not blessed with banks, to carry
their real estate about in the form of jewellery.
The Laneites followed this principle religiously m
regard to drink.
“Yah,” I heard an old dame - yeli to a younger
and more fortunate sister, “yer thinks yer ’igh an’
mighty becos ye’ve been drunk twice to-day—don’t
yer, yer ’ussy ? I can tell yer in boom time, when
champyne bottles was bumpin’ round, I’ve often
bin boozed fer two weeks at a stretch—garn, yer
bloomin’ hupstart! ” The young woman treated
this outburst of the old aristocrat’s with that ful-
ness of contempt which can only be attained by
the newly rich.
There was one little house that kept itself
strictly apart from Lane society.
It interested me, because I had never seen the
woman occupant, though I had heard her voice,
which might have once been an educated one,
though now shrill and acidulated by poverty.
The master of the house, whom I got to know
by the name of Peter, was a long, shambling fellow
with a damp, weak face, half Covered by a
straggling beard.
Every evening Peter would walk back from the
dealer’s, looking neither to left nor right, and never
by any chance going to the pub or speaking to his
mates.
After tea, lie would come out and sit smoking on
the step until summoned inside by the Voice ; even
on wet days I have seen him sitting there, holding
an umbrella over himself, and silently smoking.
One night, when returning home from a con-
vivial gathering, with a flask of spirits in my
pocket, I ran against Peter, lounging disconsolately
at the end of the lane. He looked so utterly
broken-up and weary that, in the fulness of my
heart, I invited him to come and share my bottle.
He gazed carefully at his house for a few seconds,
and then, desperately making up his mind, fol-
lowed me into my room.
I poured him out a stiff glass, which at oiioe
warmed him into revolt. He leant back in his
chair, and started recounting, in a brave voice, his
matrimonial troubles. “Ye ain’t seen my wife ? ”
he began. “ Well, I tell yer, sHe’si E fair terroi’i
and no mistake. She bosses me round, won’t let
me tyke a drop of beer, and won’t ’ehr pf itle
yarnin’ with the other blokes—says as she’s a
bloomin’ lydy, an’ must get respect”’
I filled Peter’s glass again, and he Went Bn with
added warmth.: “ I welit arid ’ad piiit tb-day;
a,nd she smelt it, and, before I. could lift hdy fjnger;
she up in i lirids irb orie oil tile ‘ poirit, ’ arid theri
turns me out without me tea ’’—Pe.t>r.helped, him-
self to another nip— “I tell ye, I ain’t goiri’ to
stand it. I’m a mari, airi’t I ? I’ll give ’er as good
as I gets —so there!”
I felt sorry for Peter, and I gave him my opinion
on the duty of a wife to a husband, and also on the
necessity of a man having a little alcoholic nourish-
ment occasionally. Finding himself supported,
Peter became very brave, and, marching to the
door, declared his intention “of goin’to be boss in
me own bloomin’ show.”
I watched Peter cross that road. His first steps
were very firm, but as he approached the door I
could see lie was trembling. He cautiously tip-
toed past it several times and then knocked ner-
vously.
» * * »
For about ten minutes I heard the shrill voice
that might once have been a lady’s, but I heard
nothing of Peter’s bass in answer.
For the next few days when passing my window
Peter kept his face turned away—l think there
must have been a mark on it.
In fact, I am certain there was, and I felt sorry
for Peter,
Also for the Voice,
ONLYS.


mm
GRAB
Do You Want a Pleasant Evening at Home,
or to give an exhibition? 'The
(SRftPHOPHONe,
a most marvellous instrument; reproduces the musio
of great military bands, famous opera singers, and
celebrated comedians in laughter-provoking monologues
produced upon the stages of the great cities of the world.
Simple to operate. Will not get out of order.
Write or Call for Catalogues or any information.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
lIIIT6DIIDPQRTIIG MIDPUM,
117 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
*■s2
6
§
e/?
mm
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
TA7 HY are the Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
'' LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting: the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge—2o years’ experience—of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by quacks, and are nothing but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says : —“ Everywhere Igo I hear
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair.”
Another gentleman says “By a mere chance I have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend’of mine since’ boyhood
was quite bald on top of head, and, to my knowledge, tried most things mentioned without any result. A few months
ago he informed me he was intending to give your Restorer a trial. Of course I laughed, and for which you must for-
give me. I did not see my friend again until a few days ago, and, if you can, judge my surprise on finding my old com-
rade, not with a bald head, but with a full, thick head of hair.”—P. J. CONNORS, Esq., Tooma, N.S.W. 20 9 97.
PRICE, per Bottle, 35., 45., 55., 10s. 6d, 12s. 6d. Ninepence (small) and Is. extra for postage. Sold by all Chemists.
M
m
Wtik
&
rj>
E. HOLLAND,
HAIR SPECIALIST,
193 Collins-st., Melb., VICTORIA.
m
j
FEDERAL PALACE HOTEL
COLLINS STREET WEST,
MELBOURNE.
(Situate Close to Stations, Steamers , and Centre of City).
This magnificent Hotel is replete with every modern convenience. It offers
a greater variety of accommodation than any hotel in the world.
CATERING.
PUBLIC DININGf HALL (on Ground I'loor). —MEALS SEEMED ala Carte, from Is.
EAMILY DINING HALL (on First FIoor).—TABLE D’HOTE, BREAKFAST. LUNCH
or DINNER, 2s. 6d. (open to non-residents).
CAFE (on Ground Floor). —OPEN ALL HOURS, DAY AND NIGHT.
accommodation.
BOOMS ONLY cau be BOOKED at from 2s. to ss. per day for Single, and 4s. to 10s. foi
Double—according to floor. MEALS as required.
BOARDERS (inclusive of Three Meals per Day, Attendance, Hot or Cold Baths, Storage of
■ jU BB a g e j ‘G*.) From 255. to A 3 3s. per Week, according to accommodation selected.
Electric Light in every Room.
A Songless Bird.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
C marked thy throat with music throb and thrill,
Thy tuneful voice in tender tumult swell ;
I marked thy changing cheek suffuse and fill,
Thy lips that laughed—a soft melodious bell;
A winged wonder—child of song wert thou,
And I— a songless bird upon the bough 1
Around thee, sweetly eager all, they prest—
The dainty warblers who were ling’ring near,
And one would sing the gentle billowy breast,
And one—the eyes that droop, so shyly dear ;
In dulcet phrase I heard them plead and vow,
And I —a songless bird upon the bough !
Yes —I —with seraph-harpings in my soul,
Could only gaze (O, drooping heart and wing!),
.While round I heard the puny raptures roll,
While ev’ry careless breast might homage bring,
Might breathe harmonious incense to thy brow—
And I —a songless bird upon the bough !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Backing a Dream.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I had a very peculiar dream a few years ago when
I was in New York. Gamblers, you know, are
mostly superstitious. I’d been “punting” in
partnership with an old pal named Fred Strong,
and we’d been doing so badly that our joint capi-
tal was down to fifty dollars. So, on one night of
the 3rd July, ’94, we had made up our minds to
“make a spoon or spoil a horn ” with the fifty
the next day at Brighton Beach. A good pro-
gramme had been prepared for the “Glorious
Fourth ;” entries were numerous, and a great holi-
day crowd sure to be there; so prices would be
liberal, and we determined to take a chance at
some long shots. It’s not often a favorite gets
home on a holiday at Brighton. Well, after a
rather hearty supper I got to bed late, and
ha l a restless night. Finally, however, I got to
sleep, and had a most vivid dream. I saw the
finish of a race just as distinctly as ever I saw any-
thing in my life. It was won by a black horse,
ridden by an English jockey named George
Taylor, who wore a black jacket with white
sleeves, and black and white quartered cap. The
number on the saddle-cloth was 8. Then, just as
clearly, I saw the numbers go up. with the jockey’s
names, on theboard—“Number 8 (Taylor) ” on top.
1 woke up as the clock was striking eight.
That’s a good omen, I thought. When I went to
the bar for my morning cocktail there were eight
men in the place. As I entered the restaurant
several men were going out. I looked round the
tables eight persons seated at breakfast. “By
Jove ! number B’s coming pretty strong to-day,” I
thought. “Guess I’ll have to back the dream.”
I breakfasted and called for my check. It was
numbered 88—and the amount was sixty cents. I
handed the cashier a five-dollar bill. He gave me
eight five cent", pieces, and eight half-dollars—
apologising for the small change. Well ! It was
coming pretty strong on the number 8. When I
met Fred I told him all the circumstances. He
was greatly impressed. As soon as we reached
the course we got a programme and scanned it
■with nervous impatience, for superstition was get-
ting a strong hold on both of us. In the fourth
race, a mile (8 furlongs), number 8 was Mr.
Lakeland’s black gelding, Stranger, 4 years old,
1081bs. (black jacket, white sleeves, black and
white cap). We stared at each other in silence.
At last I red gasped : “Why, it’s a dead moral,
old man ; a copper-lined cinch. We must plunge
on it. ” “Yes, ” I said; “ we’ll go the whole hog. ”
The only discrepancy, so far, was that Taylor
was not the Lakeland stable jockey.
Well, we looked on at the first three races —
never bet a cent. Stranger was good enough for
us, and we waited, wondering what price we’d get.
“Sure to be favorite,” said Fred. “Just our
luck,” I growled. You see, we’d become so
imbued with the idea of this dream that we
looked upon it as all over but the shouting.
When the numbers went up for the fourth race,
the jockey on number 8 was G. Taylor, and
presently out he came on Stranger, and number 8
on the saddle-cloth. That did settle it. We
rushed for the ring, which, in America, is a very
different style from ours. It is an immense shed,
and every bookmaker has a stand, on which is
a board with each horse’s name, and his price
chalked opposite. Stranger and another opened
at 4 to 1, but before we could get in the former
was rushed so that he was cut down to 2|. We
each took twenty-five dollars, and fought our way
through the crush in different directions. Lake-
land was going down the line, backing Stranger.
On my side the rush was so great that I saw the
books, one after another, rub out 2|. Down! down
went Stranger—2 to 1, 9 to 5, even touched 8 to 5.
I was in despair ; but I could not get through the
crowd. “Coine on; come on, boys; bet lively;
they’re at the post ! ” I gave one despairing
glance down the line, and at the last stand but
one saw Stranger. I tore through the mob,
but couldn't get within three or four rows of the
stand. Waving my money aloft, I yelled
“Stranger!” The bookmaker leaned across, and
stretching his arm over the heads of the people,
grabbed it. But he hesitated a second, looked at
the money, and spoke to his sheet writer. The
latter nodded. Just as my ticket was handed
over the bell rang. “They’re off,” yelled the
crowd, and there was a mad stampede for the
railings. I rammed the ticket into my pocket
without looking at it, and rushed out. I couldn’t
find Fred, but got a fair position for seeing. The
perspiration was falling off me and I was actually
trembling. I’m usually a cool gambler, but the
darned superstition had worked me into a nervous
state. I was really betting against my judgment,
for I didn’t like the horse.
Stranger was in a good position and going nicely
as they ran along the back stretch. Improving
along the top turn, he entered the straight a good
length in the lead and running easily. I felt a big
lump in my throat, “By Jove,” I said to myself,
“I’ll never laugh at dreams again. Let’s see!
Fred must Have got 2J. That’s a hundred
and twenty-five we win. ”
At the distance a red jacket and green cap shot
up to Stranger’s girths. Taylor sat down and
drew his whip. “Come on, Taylor; Good boy,
George ! Stranger ! Stranger ! The favorite ! The
favorite wins ! ” was shouted on all sides. I saw
Stranger’s tail switch, his ears went back, and my
heart sank into my boots. I knew it was all over.
Stranger had turned rogue, and was stopping like
a cur. In half-a-dozen strides the red jacket and
green cap was well clear of him, and I turned my
back on the race disgusted and cursing my folly
and superstition.
When I met Fred the first words he said, were
“You know, Bob, I’d never have thought of that
damned cur but for your dream. I couldn’t see
where he had a living chance —and what the deuce
they made him favorite on I don’t know.”
“ Where did he finish ? ” I asked.
“Eighth ! ” snarled Fred, with a scowl.
“It’s no use crying over spilt milk,” I said.
“By-the-bye, what did win?”
“Damfiknow. “Oh! number 13 —Banger.
One of old Bill Daly’s long shots again. I sup-
pose it was 50 to 1. ”
“Well, Fred, Banger’s a black horse; and
that’s as near as the dream has come to it.”
“ Curse your dreams, ” growled Fred, as he t re
up his ticket. “ What price did you get ? ”
“Five to two,” I said, producing the ticket;
and a nice time 1 had to get ”
“What’s the number?” asked Fred, as I
stopped, gazing open-mouthed at the ticket. He
took it out of my hand.
“ 1250 to 25 Banger,” he read. ' “ What infernal
fooling is this ? A nice mess and row there’d have
been over this ticket if we had won.”
“Holy Gee!” I shouted as a wild thought
flashed through my brain. I snatched the ticket
and rushed off to the stand I’d got it from. Not
a soul cashing. With a trembling hand I passed
the ticket up saying, “ What’s this ? ” “ What is
it!” said the cashier. “Why, it’s the only bet
we laid against Banger—so to I—and it’s spoilt
our book. How did you come to back it ? ” he
continued as he tore off the corner of the ticket
and stuck it on the file.
“Oh—a dream,” I stammered, for I’d hardly
got my breath.
“ A dream, eh ! Do your dreams often come
out ? ”
“ Well! —not often—at any rate, not like this
one 1 ”
“ I should think not ! Five—a thou—one, two,
three, four, five fifty’s—a twenty and a five.
Twelve hundred and seventy-five dollars. Bight!
Say ! Next time you back a dream, give some of
the other books a turn, will you ? We pass ! ”
As I grabbed the notes and turned away, Fred
was at my elbow.
“ Well!” he gasped. “The Lord is good to a
fool sometimes, isn’t he ? ”
“Ye-es, Fred. But I don’t think we’ll tempt
Providence again by backing a dream.”
How was it ? Why, in the crush and noise,
the bookmaker thought I said Ranger instead of
Stranger, when I handed up my money.
“ B.B.” ■ The fire which destroyed, half
Longreach (Q.), and did <£50,000 worth of damage,
originated in the pub. of a most violent opponent
to the laying-on of water from the bore to the
town. The bore yields 327,000ga1. per diem, the
water, at emergency, having pressure 971 b. to the
square inch. Had it been available the fire could
have been confined to the building in which it
started.
Premier Reid has made two grants of £lOO
each to help along Wragge’s observatory at Mount
Kosciusko ; also the reports therefrom are being
printed in Sydney Govt. Printing Office, at
N.S.W.’s expense. Wherefore it seems that
Wragge has got Beid firmly by the wool, or the
coat-tail, or somewhere. Yet the question about
the usefulness of high-level stations in meteor-
ological work seems no nearer a settlement. These
stat ons were tried for a long time in the United
States, and abandoned by the U.S. meteorologists
as useless. For a while the solitary, or almost
solitary, survivor of the species was the Ben Nevis
station in Scotland. It never produced any
visible results of a useful character, so far as the
public knows, and it was much scoffed at even
in Britain, except by Wragge and a few others.
Now even Ben Nevis has closed up. And the only
news that comes from Kosciusko is the invariable
report about how B. Ingleby got lost in the snow
while humping the tucker from Jindabyne.
A Reciprocal Situation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bonnivarde picked up an open envelope .md
removed its contents.
He read the curious, tangled writing to the end
of its four short lines. He passed his lean fingers
through his hair, replaced the note, carefully
putting it back exactly as he had found it, and
left the room. He went into the garden and
smoked three cigars—the one after the other. He
was evidently thinking hard.
* * * *
The river-wind bent the roses, and a beautiful
woman stood in the doorway of the house. Bhe
had dark hair and dark, slanting eyes. Her
fingers were without rings, her wrists without
bracelets. Presently she went in again.
* * * *
Bonnivarde’s wife was going to run away with
her brother-in-law. Bonni varde knew it.
She was going to run away that very night. Ho
knew that likewise.
The letter had told him all this, and yet lie did
not turn white with rage, or kick the gravel about.
On the contrary, he smiled, and blew fresh to-
bacco-smok e.
To tell the truth, he was Glad.
For, did he not like his brother’s wife uncom-
monly well ? So much nicer than his own. So
much plumper. Besides, she was fair, and did not
fly into devilish rages like Buna.
* * * *
Bonnivarde thought hard and wasted a great
quantity of matches. He would go at once to his
brother and offer a swap. Offer to give Buna in
exchange for Mae.sie. On second thoughts he
decided to leave that to a later date.
He would first frighten them.
* * * •
Bonnivarde’s brother, in his letter to Buna, had
said a quarter to eight.
* * * *
Bonnivarde put the clock on fifteen minutes.
So that at half-past seven the little side window
above the bed of heavily-scented wall-flowers
creaked slowly up, and the head of Buna showed
itself black against the yellow house-side. A man
signed to tier from the shadow of a huge pitto-
sporum, and in another moment she sank deep to
the ankles in the soft, noiseless earth of the
garden. Bonnivarde (for it was he) sprang to her
side.
She uttered a hasty exclamation and dropped
on her hip in the wall-flowers.
Then there was a sharp report and Bonnivarde
pitched head-foremost on to the gravel.
Meanwhile a third figure, which had been
creeping over the narrow lawn, turned and fled
into the darkness.
• * * *
A week later Bonnivarde had quite recovered
from his trifling wound. And Mrs. Bonni-
varde, writing to her brother-in-law, said, “ It
is well, perhaps, that he thinks I imagined myself
to be shooting you and not him. He says that he
has only himself to blame. I am now a paragon
of virtue in his eyes, and it will be hard to pull
me off the pedestal. Dear Wally, Max is going
out to-night. I shall be so lonely.”
* * * *
Bonnivarde knows that his wife recognised him
when she fired ; also, that she fired to kill. Never-
theless, he praises her fidelity.
Besides, Bonnivarde gets letters from his
brother’s wife, saying: “ Dear Max, Wally is
going out to-night. I shall be so lonely.”
Vic.
HUGH R. M'CRAE.


HEALTH AND STRENGTH REGAINED.
Could Eat and Sleep Like a Child.
Mr Mrs. Forbes, formerly of Johannesburg, now residents of East
London, Cape Colony, send their portraits and testify to
the merits of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
■S7
A
(Jim* *
111
mi
W>, h
m
WMm
m
;«
>-s£:
r-.r 4 -
iUHU
111.
Si Hi Hi
~Y
ffl
East London, Cape Colony, So. Africa,
duly 11, 1896.
“Shortly after leaving Johannesburg, wuere we had resided several
years. I contracted a fever, which left me in a very -weak state. I was a
long time without anj- improvement, and none of the various remedies 1
tried, under the doctor’s direction, did me any good. My husband finally
persuaded me to try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, which cured several acquaintances
of ours who had suffered from impoverished blood and general debility. I
therefore began to take the Sarsaparilla, and its good influence was soon
apparent. Within less than a month I was as well as ever, and could eat
and sleep like a child. Gratefully yours,
Lily Forbes.”
Mr. Henry Forbes writes in confirmation of his wife’s testimony, and
adds that he had suffered from dyspepsia and loss of appetite, and that he
was cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Beware of worthless substitutes. See that the name—Ayer’s Sarsapa*
rilla—is on the wrapper, and blown in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
*4
v
J
%
*3 I
752
m
W
*
fa
V
/
/iS
1 1 F
JI &'' I
\
r*
0
A GENTLE HINT.
Ctiotxy : “Wliy do you nevah awsk me to come Sundays?”
Miss Siiarppe : “ Because Sunday is a day of rest ! ”
THE LAST OF SIX.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦«
PRICE, Is Per POST, Is. 3d.
To Colonists and all pom
it may Concern * -
AH EXTRACT.
“The first night I had slept a little from sheer exhaustion. The
next was terrible. I vomited incessantly; I was chilled to the bone, and
could not warm myself. I suffered horrible pain in the head, and through-
out my whole body. Next day, of course, I was a wreck. They told me I
had been delirious half the night I remember nothing of the day; but
next night I got a couple of hours’ sleep, and was rather better in conse-
quence. But vomiting went on steadily, and the fourth night I was again
delirious. The next day I was as bad as ever; but, thanks to a good
dose of Beecham’s Pills, I had an excellent
night, and I truly believe that they saved my life. I knew well where I
picked up this fever—in the marshes of Mwenzo, and near Kituta —and the
killing thing was being unable to stop to cure it; the ten days on the lake
especially—often without food for twenty-four hours—nearly finished me.
I felt certain at the time that I was done for; and I very nearly was.”— See
“ Three Years in Savage Africa ,” by Lionel Decle — Methuen & Go., London.
Mr. Lionel Decle covered a distance of over 7000 miles at one
stretch, between Capetown on the South and Mombassa on the East coast of
Africa. It is worth noting that this ‘‘ unique journey ” would probably
have been cut short; and, to quote the introduction by Mr. H. M. Stanley,
M.P., “ its vivid record ” would never have been penned had not Mr.
Lionel Decle provided himself with a supply of
BCECNAM’S PILLS.
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
s
Cures While Sleeping.
IiISHROSS
TESTIMONIAL.
Adamstown, September 11th, 1896.
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,— Being a sutierer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis, I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, comes more readily away, and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified.
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, SORENESS OF THE
CHEST, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, and all other Lung Complaints
tending to CONSUMPTION.
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONNINGTON’S.
Bonnington’s Pills
Cure LIVER COMPLAINTS, BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, Ft attt
LENCE. THE BEST FAMILY PILL. NO GRIPING PaIN&


■ mm*
URGES^
“WHM '"^LeS
Established
1847.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO, LIMITED
Head Offiee and Faetoriet - Toronto, Canada,
Australasian Headq’rt’rs, 168-169 William-st. Uelb.
New Seuth Wales Address i
36 Broadway, Qeoree St. West, Sydney
.Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated.. Catalogue l'ree. on application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Liglit andL Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on' receipt ef Six Penny Stamps.
Address -S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
[IALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
Wortl)ii)gtoi) P(iri)pii)g Ei)gii)c Con)pai>y.
(Australasian Branch.) SIIIipSOII (Australasian Bran-h.)
32 Clarence-st.,
*
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, JNVS.W.
Agencies :
REGULAR PATTERN.
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T.. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WOUTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
TEAKS DYEIWGr
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 York sTitNior, svk.vey
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by yost irorn alt the colonies yroniytly
attended to.
THE! IkOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COC O A
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
What is Health?
J ’heumntism, Sciatica,
lannhaffo, &c,,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FA UKFII, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed
Six penny stamps.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
]■ OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
B There is not a countrv in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised hv thousands of sulferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent aotion is at once
recognised. Fullest, directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. { **" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they art
spurious.
W.
W.
m
M
“OLEAC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mndd, F.L.S,. Botanisr to
H,R.H. the Prince of Wales
ECZEMA
Jars (concentd.), 4/6, post
“OLE&C
Self Applied.
Sydney—M. H. Horwitz, 84 Pitt St.
Adedmde— Harris & Kemp, 6 Bundle St.
Melbourne—Fred. J E. Phillips, 817 Collins St,
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
LUNCHEON, 12,30; DINNER, 6.30.
Superior A ccomtnodaUon. Moderate Charges.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO., LTD.
PirmPArQ nf Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
riuiieei S 01 0 f Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Beg
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE —for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135
, '
KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AG 10NTS KVEUYWUEBB.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
n DATEQOXr S*
-tL r'AllhbUJN, jVI ANAGER.
Is
*
$
o
&
&
re nee ot.,
Ropp Straight Line Furnace.
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills.
Knowles Steam Fumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Huyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-Working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, &c.
Batho’s
Baking pQ^dg^
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co .
Melbourne, Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OF’ THE STOCK 14 D.B. Breech-loading- Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price
iB, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £lO 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete; 17 D.B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extenuon rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latent improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines ai d
cleaners complete. Usual price t'2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s fid per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques, Post Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
ll”' - - ■
fete;
“g-hIE: LONDON SMALL ARMS CO MPA NY- 137 ELIZABETH STREET
I MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BIOYOI-ES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes Call Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (S)d gross), Dunlop Yah es (10 - doz.', Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 36, Br ooke's Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genuine B.S.A. Sets, 82/6. Double But* ed Spokes, plated all over, Pern’s
8 3 gross. SEND FOR TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25
per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to
date, £7, ' 8, t’f), £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
_ „ * TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 25. PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
>- *\lN AUSTRALIA.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74
Clarence st.,
Sydney.
435
. r -• .. •' -
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Tlie Geo. F. Blaise Co.,
DIRECT ACTING ST RAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
"W*. Jb". & JT oil xx Barnes Co.,
FOOT, HAND, AND ST RAM POWER MACHINE TOOLS AND GENERAL MACHINERY.
33. 3T*. Sturteva.zit Co.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FORGES, ETC.
Representative in Western Australia —J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Fremantle.
~ New Zealand —J. BURNS & CO., Auckland.
