

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. BEAVER STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
14 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
lancet.
R. G, WATKINS & CO..
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
n/r s ■ —fob—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
& GO.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
56 and 91 TORE STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO LAND—
-1,000 Tons “ Ort) ” and “ Pyramid ” Galvanized Iron*
10,000 Casks Knlglit Sevan’s Cement.
tr
RY’S
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and
COCOA
of MALT.
'% S
<RAc<AjocK>
e 'u
R. A. HEUVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE 4 CO.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best ; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c. ;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbbnt & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“MANCHESTER” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants ; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
.7 -/•.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
A.n.ci see that you get it.
PROOF
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we hare
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices -Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
■ s
PROOF
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CIEIIETTES.
Smoked by
and Nobility
What is Health?
Tfheumatism, Sciatica,
■**' - - Lumbago, Ac.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
145 Victoria Paradb,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
Btfcre virih'ng the Ot/ writero the Manager for
Ora of Tariff. Correspondence promptly attended to.
THE - -
(arosv/eoorHotel,
Gro&venor Square ,
SYDNEY.
For TERMS, please address the Manager.
PIONEER
LEATHER
rBELTINC
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness-
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Piices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES : Brisbane, Queensland ; Perth,
W. Australia; Hobart, Tasmania; Adelaide,
S. Australia.
THE WOBLD-RENOWNED
ESdiswan - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN . .
. . . CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDM a SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branoh —l6 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient Jjotel.
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung. Is. 3d.
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASK FOR “ ROPCRICK PHU ’’ WHISKY
The Bulletin
Voi. 19.— jNo. 938. j
[Saturday, February 5, 1808.
registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


G
EORGE RQBhRTSON & CO.,
George Street, Sydney.
Publishers of
ALEX. MONTGOMERY'S ‘TORIES (from The Bulle-
tin' ; price. Is. 6d. ; posted, Is. 9d.
TALES OF THE OLI* REGIME (new series, from The
I Bullktin), by i’rioe VVarnny ; price, 25.; post-free,
! 2S. 6(1 •
MOSPYN STAYNE, by R 'deric Quinn ; price, 2s. 6d.;
posted, 2s. lOd.
Write to us for any Book or Magazine you want.
BOOKS by ‘Bulletin’ Writers,
forwarded from * Bulletin ’ office post-
free to any address for postal notes to
prices named—
“ The Banjo’s” “Man from Snowy River”
Verses, ss. Gd.
Henry Lawson’s Verses, ss. Gd.
~ ~ Sketches and Stories, 3s. and 4s.
Dyson’s “ Rhymes from the Mines,” ss. Gd.
Barcroft Boake’s “ Where the Dead Men Lie
Verses, ss. Gd.
1 BULLETIN’ PAMPHLETS. -
No. ll. —The Suffield Case : the Evidence at
the Police Court and at the Trial, with a
Plan of the Scene of the Alleged Out-
rage, and a Commentary on the Methods
and Manoeuvres of Botany Bay Justice.
Sixty-four pages. Price, Gd. ; post-free,
7d. in stamps. •
~l G. STEPHENS,
T ITERARY AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work involved between Author and Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
LIFE’S STRUGGLE . . .
Becomes more and more intense as the Nineteenth Century advances.
Mentally and physically we must conserve our energies build up our
strength, and equip ourselves for the contest. We must have sleep, good
digestion, steady nerves, bone and muscle, clear minds.
These can be secured, maintained and
enhanced by the constant use of
CAMEO CIGARETTES.
THE RED PAGE.
George Black writes—
I have patiently awaited a reply from someone,
with more taste for the task than I, to the attacks
on Robert Burns which appeared on Red Page of
23rd ©ct. and 4th Dec. last. Loath to engage in
controversy with you, it cannot longer be evaded.
* * * •
Condensed, your arguments were these : (1)
That Burns, for his own uses, stole the ideas, and
even words, of preceding writers; (2) That his
countrymen are wholly unaware of this alleged
fact. Quotation will prove the verity of this
synopsis. You said : ‘Nearly all that is best in
the songs of Burns never belonged to Burns at all.
. . . Burns, the songster, was an inspired vam-
per, mender, tinker, and little more.’ The idea
presented in No. 2 permeates both articles, and is
most forcibly stated in the following sentence :
‘ The average Scotchman does not know how good
or how bad Burns’s (sic) verses are, and he does
not know how much Burns plagiarised.’ Now, if
you will grant me space to reply to your eight
columns of railing, I will undertake to disprove
categorically every statement worthy of reply
which you have made.
• • * •
For the charge that Burns' oounbrymen were
and are misled as to his sources of inspiration :
the Scots of his day could not be so misguided.
The songs which lie collected, and made printable
for Johnson’s ‘Musical Museum ’ (of which he
was practically the editor), and Thomson’s ‘Col-
lection of Original Scottish Airs,’ were in
common use at the time. Had he claimed
aught not rightfully his, it is one of the
curiosities of literature that he was not exposed
by his contemporaries. Had there been grounds
for charges, these would have then been made.
As half of Burns’ work was published posthum-
ously and oue-third of it without his commands,
it is not surprising that some verses, mostly
inferior, have been improperly issued behind his
name by catch-penny publishers of little-rfegarded,
and now obsolete, editions. This is true of almost
every voluminous bygoue poet. But the ancients
had no misconceptions regarding Burns. As for
the alleged ignorance of the moderns —I know
personally that the average Scotch man and lad,
of from 25 to 35 years ago, knew just exactly what
was Burns’ and what was not. The Currie, Cun-
ningham, Stewart, Aldine, and Nimrao editions,
with explanatory notes, and the letters to John-
son, Thomson and 50 others, were open to him.
(At least 150 editions of Burns have been pub-
lished in Great Britain, besides those of American
issue, and at least one-third contain copious notes.)
I refuse to believe that the Scot of to-day, with
his wider education, is more ignorant of his coun-
try’s literature than his father of 30 years back.
• * * *
As for the plagiarism : If “ the average Scotch-
man does not know how much Burns plagiarised,”
it is simpLy because Burns was not a plagiarist.
He took, the rude or impure songs of his day—the
namelessness of whose authors lie bewailed—and
the fragmentary snatches that floated from mouth
to mouth at fair and market, and made them a
part of literature, saved them from certain anni-
hilation. Many hundreds of songs, some by his
contemporaries, put into print by his endeavours,
owe little or nothing to his hand and have never
been published with his works. Let the fair-
minded read his correspondence and doubt, if
they can, that his desire was to enrich Scots
literature by saving many fine songs from
oblivion and by developing or polishing the many
floating fragments that lived chiefly in the
memory of a passing generation, rather than to
augment his reputation by association with these
musical collections. This is made more evident
if it be remembered that the poet indignantly re-
fused remuneration for h.is priceless work. He
also rescued from oertain destruction many of the
songs without words composed or-circulated by
the wandering minstrels of his time and immor-
talised them by wedding thereto appropriate
language. Of intent, he hid nought. He
acknowledged the sources of phrase, a line, a
title, a chorus, a stanza, a tune, on which he had
built up a complete structure of song. To me,
the finest trait in his - character is the unselfish
enthusiasm he gave to this work. His country-
men know what he did—without fee or reward, at
the cost of health and prosperity—for Scottish
song literature, and are grateful. In moments of
exhilaration, some may have styled hi in the
greatest poet that ever lived—l have heard similar
Australian estimates of Gordon—but that pro-
vides- no excuse for the persistence of your
attempts to depose him wholly from their hearts.
Burns is not to be so easily set aside : those who
best know him can most easily dismiss the
littleness which joys to think that Henley is the
promulgator of a damaging doctrine concerning
the dead poet.
• * * •
The narrowness of vision, which views Burns
through the spectacles of to-day rather than
through the media of his own time, is sur-
prising. IBs influence on succeeding literature
is forgotten ; the fact that millions have re-echoed
his sentiments is not recognised. He is ‘ very
commonplace ! ’ But Was he commonplace in his
day and generation? ‘His homely verse suits
homely minds.’ His subjects were certainly
homely : Domestic .Toys and Screws ; the Beau-
ties of Nature; the Wrongs of Mankind; Love
and Hate; Life and Death. What else, good
Monsieur Frangipani, is there to write about?
He is homely in the company of those who have
always had first place in the hearts of the people.
To them, it matters little how they may be re-
garded by oold-blooded cynics of the nil admirari
school ! Let these things be remembered :
Robert Burns, for love, put new words to
many blackguard Scotch, Highland, and
Irish songs, or scraps of songs, in order
to preserve what was loveable in them,
and made full acknowledgement of indebted-
ness, where it existed. William Shakespeare, for
personal profit, took the o’er-long rambling plays
of his day and pruned them into proportion, and
made no acknowledgment. Not one Englishman
in 10,000 is aware of it, but no one heaves bricks
at Shakespeare’s tomb and calls him ‘ filcher ’ in
order to disabuse the ‘ average ’ Englishman of
the idea that Shakespeare is the greatest poet
that ever breathed. Shakespeare kept his own
counsel as to his founts of inspiration—he is a god ;
Burns, whoowned up, and whose so-called plagiar-
ism is not a circumstance to that of the Bard of
Avon, is a comtnon literary thief !
Your reviewer’s knowledge of Burns appears to
be derived solely from Henley, but there is naught
in the Centenary Burns to warrant this direct
statement :—‘Burns’ friends and relations, with
intent to heighten his reputation, deliberately
destroyed many of the old ballads from which he
borrowed.’ This is not only a malignant slander,
it is also silly, as iB the further assertion : ‘ Some
of his material was also lost in the process of
years; some, probably, is still suppressed by the
holders, and some has remained unknown in
various collections.’ These evil suspicionings of a
jaundiced mind could be used to tarnish the fame
of any man. It is not for me to disprove them ;
the onus of proof rests with the slanderer. If
idly made, then we know how to estimate their
author. It is impossible to believe that Burns
was the sole repository of any old song ; the other
wild charges are equally incredible. The fine art
of the New Critic is also evidenced in attempts to
belittle the poet by much talk of the man’s
drunkenness—he lived in a drunken age—or of
his very occasional servility to patrons—in days
when the servility of authors was proverbial. This
is not criticism —it is mere scolding 1
It is too late in the day to attempt the destruc-
tion of Burns’ reputation. His strength, his
directness, his vividness, his easy certainty, his
passion, wit, pathos, and lightness of touch have
not only made him the greatest poet and satirist
of his country ; they have also raised him to a
place of high honor among the few great song-
writers of the world. Even Henley styles him :
‘ The most exquisite artist in folk-song the world
has ever seen.’ Of his laurels, the carping of an
obscure unknown cannot rob him—here or else-
where. ‘ He is secure,’ says Henley, ‘ even out-
side the Vernacular, of the fame of a unique
artist.’
* • • *
Henley is usually fair, or disposed to be fair.
‘ The Bulletin ’ only applauds him when he is
hypercritical or unjust. For instance, when he
accuses Burns of borrowing a measure from Fer-
gusson. This, the poet did when first launching
forth on callow pinions into the high atmospheres
of poesy. But to his prototype—cut off before
he fully flowered-the Ayrshire peasant is as the
sun to a farthing rushlight. Henley’s strongest
indictment is that Burns lacked, the power to
originate a new vein of thought, a new rhythm.
Has Tennyson done either ? Wordsworth ? Byron
—who borrowed his ottava rima? Milton ? Can
it be said that there is one poet of the Victorian
era, except, perhaps, Browning and Whitman,
against whom the same charge could not be as
forcibly laid ? Most measures, if not all, are in
oommon use; they are no man’s copyright. Is
there a poet, alive or dead, whose measures were
all original ! Burns borrowed his measures 1 So:
and who did the man that he borrowed from,
borrow from?
* • • •
I have been much awed by the keen moral sus-
ceptibility which causes you to shed inky tears
over the ethical bluntness that permits a Scotch
poet to use in combination any two words similarly
conjoined —before or since. Should this become
the vogue, the Scot who wishes to remark that
the sun rose will be compelled to find a new lan-
guage to do it in, or he will be nailed as a
plagiarist and damned in a chorus of inconse-
quential snarls from The Bulletin—while its
cover keeps on.
♦ * * »
Your reviewer says on Dec. 4 : —“ln the clean-
steal category are ‘ The Primrose’ (ravished from
Thomas Can-w —Burns himself calls it ‘an old
English song which I daresay is but little known ’
4 —herefore he ravished); ‘Bonnie Dundee’;
‘Whistle and I’ll Come to You. My Lad ’ ;
‘Landlady count the Lawin '; ‘Laddie, Lie Near
N'e’ ; ‘ We’re a’Noddin’’ ; and some two score
more. In tln-se cases, if Burns has not annexed
the whole of his originals, he lias annexed so much
of idea, phrase and rhythmus that the song would
be nothing without tlUm.”
* * * *
It is interesting to observe the lengths to which
unscrupulous prejudice will go. ‘ The Primrose ’
was collected for Thomson by Burns. He wrote
thus to him : “ For ‘Todlin’ Ham's,’ take the fol-
lowing old English song, which I daresay is but
little known. N.B. I have altered it a little.”
(He did not even Scotticise it.) I know no better
proof of the malignity of your bludgeoner. Re-
viewing Henley’s Look ; basing his attacks pre-
sumably on the evidence therein, he accuses the
poet of ‘ clean stealing ’ Can w’s poem. Let me
hoist him with a quotation from II nley 1 On page
104 of volume i v. this editor says : “ Burns did but
ply his trade with a view to filling a page in
Thomson’s book ; and as he claimed not the
maker’s honors but was content with the vamper s,
there is no more to be said about the matter, so
far as he is concerned. But one can’t help wish-
ing that he had lived to curb the enthusiasm of
certain of his commentators.” It is never safe to
review a book after merely smelling the paper-
knife ! I have read many editions of Burns and
have never yet met ‘ The Primrose ’ in any. The
commentator alluded to by Henley is Scott Douglas
—a very incompetent literary authority, who pub-
lished, £ am told, a very heterogeneous edition of
the poet: a menace, from the rubbish included,
to his reputation.
» „ • •
The so-called ‘clean-steal’ of ‘Whistle and 111
come to you, my lad,’ lies chiefly in an adaptation
of its chorus from that ol an old Scotch song.
Cunningham somewhere says—‘ Burns’ version
of this lyric is founded on an old fragment,
but he poured his own feeling and fancy so
happily through the whole, that not a single line
remains entire, nor can the new be pronounced
free of the language of the older minstrel.
Burns, then, acknowledged his debt,. and Cun-
ningham proclaimed it. Yet, Burns is styled a
thief, and the Scotch are accused of ignorantly
participating in the robbery, of reset after the
theft.
* • • •
Burns laid no claim to ‘ Bonnie Dundee.’ The
version now most popular—it begins ‘To the
Lords of Convention, ’twas Ciaverhouse spoke ’
is by Sir Walter Scott. In a letter to Cleghorn,
Burns says —‘ You will see by the above that
I have added a stanza to ‘ Bonnie . Dundee.’
This was the one beginning— ‘ My blessin’s on thy
sweet wee lippie.’ He used infinitely less of the
various editions in circulation than did Scott, who
has taken the old chorus —holus-bolus. But
Burns, who died before his sun had attained its
meridian, leaving his poetical affairs in confusion,
is styled a thief, though his borrowings were less
and his acknowledgments no less ample than were
those of the later poet, who goes scot-free of
abuse.
• ♦ * *
With the MS. of * Landlady, count the Lawin',’
Burns acknowledged his indebtedness to two old
songs. Let me quote for the purposes of compari-
son. -Sings Burns:—
Landlady, count the lawin’ Cog, an’ ye were ay fou,
The day is near the dawin ; Cog, an’ ye were aye fou,
Ye’re a blind drunk, boys, I wad sit and sing to you,
And I’m but jolly fou. If ye were ay fou.
Hey tutti, taiti,
How tutti, taiti— Weel may ye a’ be 1
Wha’s fu noo ? 11l may ye never see!
God bless the king, boys,
And the companie!
JACOBITE SONG. POLITICAL BALLAD.
Here’s to the King, When you hear the pipe
Ye ken wha I mean, soun’s
And to ilka honest boy Tuittie tattie to the drums,
That will do it again. Up your swords and down
your guns,
And at the louns again.
Even had there been, no acknowledgement of
the source of suggestion, would any honest man
call Burns’ verses a ‘ Clean Steal ’ ?
• « • •
It will surprise no one who has followed me
thus far to learn that Burns made no claim to
‘Laddie, lie Near Me.’ He was asked, quotes
Henley, to set words to the air of a song thus
named, and refused on the grounds that he did
not know the tune. Henley, however, is of opinion
that Burns amended and condensed the original
for Thomson. In his ‘ Remarks on Scottish
Song ’—appended to Cunningham’s edition of his
verses—Burns says : ‘This song is by Blacklock.’
Is this the conduct of a ‘ Clean-Stealer ’ ? It is a
safe thing to libel a man dead for over 100 years.
• * ♦ • ' '
I have wearied myself looking through editions
of Burns for ‘ We’re a’ Noddin.’ He supplied it
to Johnson’s ‘ Musical Museum ’ and the note
therein says ‘ corrected by Burns.’ Henley prints
one or two poems and songs in the ‘Centenary
Burns ’ which never before, so far as I know,
were attributed to the poet. He has no authority
for assuming that this is Burns’ song; your writer
has even less for stating that Burns stole it.
_____
The Local Dogmatist: This is only half George
Black’s apology for Burns (the other half will
appear presently), so reply is deferred. But some
minor points may be poohed while space permits.
. 1. G.B. begins by putting the case incorrectly.
Vide attributed statement ‘(2) That his country-
men are wholly' unaware of this alleged fact.’
Compare actual (quoted) statement that ‘The
average Scotchman . . . does not know how much
Burns plagiarised!’ Thus what I say of a parti-
cular class of Scotchmen G.B. applies to the whole
body : my qualified allegation of ignorance he
converts into a ehatge of complete ignorance. If
I also were of the race which bred Hume and
William Hamilton, I should be ashamed of such
a controversialist. Being a mere Australian, I say
Pooh !
2. G.B. adds a superior ‘ (sic) ’ to my ‘ Burns’s.’
Pity so many superior persons have such inferior
knowledge—of the inflection of nouns and other
matters. I do not vehemently object to * Burns’ ’
-Mor the usage is unsettled ; but ‘ Burns’s ’ is
(rightly) preferred by usage and by authority. If
G.B. will ask (as I asked) a bookseller for stan-
dards, he may be handed (as I was handed) ‘The
English Language,’ by J. M. D. Meiklejohn,
M.A., Professor of the Theory, History, and
Practice of Education in the University of St.
Andrews (has G.B. heard of the University of St.
Andrews?)- published by Holden, Lond , 1895
and he miy read (as I read) that ; We say and
ought to say, Jones's books, Wilkins s hat
James’s, Chambers’s Journal, etc. And G.-B.
enquires further, the bookseller may give him (as
he gave me) ‘A Higher English Grammar, by
Alex. Bain, L.L.D., Emeritus Prof. KHor of Logic
in the University of Aberdeen (mark! Aberdeen)
—published Longmans, 1891-and he may read
(as I read) at page 134, ‘ say “St James s
and St. Giles’s,” “ Moses s, f 8 s ’
“ Burns’s.” The general, rule is adhered_ to as
much as posse L. When the word consists of
more than two syllables, the “s” is dropt, as
“Euripides’ dramas.”’ I might add examples
from classical mil hors; but the Red Page does not
exist to teach rudimentary grammar to Scotchmen
uninfluenced by their own Universities of St.
Andrews and Aberdeen So against G.B. *
‘ LSurns’s (sie)’ I write Pooh ! (sic) and pass on.
3. If only ‘at least one-third’ of the, editions
of Burns ‘contain copious notes ’ pointing out the
alien origin of many of the songs attributed to
Burns, is not ‘ the average Scotchman's ’ ignor-
ance ‘ how much Burns plagiarised ’ amply ac*
cotinted for by the other two-thirds? (Here G.
B(, if he chooses, may say Pooh !)
4. G.B. says ‘Burns was not a plagiarist. He
took the rude or impure songs of his day. . .
Lower down—‘ He acknowledged the sources
. . . on which he had built up a complete struc-
ture of song.’ Lower down —he ‘put new words.
Lower down—he '’collected.’ Lower down
—his * adaptation .’ Losver down—his ‘borrow-
ings.’ So, according to G. 8., Burns took, built
up, put new words, collected, adapted, borrowed—
other fellows’ songs or fragments of songs. I said
Burns plagiarised. Why, apologist is almost in
agreement with assailant 1 Let us magnanimously
consent to pooh-pooh our difference ! There must
be some common ground of language upon which
we can stand and rub amicable noses. . . .
Aha ! I have it— 'convey, the wise it call! ’ Burns
did not plagiarise those disputed songs—he con-
veyed them —good ! Brother Tweedledum ! em-
brace your Tweedledee !
5. So far as their conveyings are concerned,
Burns, for the most part, gilded refined gold :
Shakespeare made gold out of lead.
6. G.B. incorrectly speaks of ‘ attempts to be-
little the poet by much talk of the man’s drunken-
ness.’ The reference tc Burns’s habits of drinking
and loving neither belittled nor implied belittle-
ment. I think no whit the less of Burns the poet
because he frequently got drunk and frequently
fathered illegitimate children. I think rather
more of Burns the man—and of other Scotchmen—
when he and they exhibit such virility. For I know
that these things flower from the root of the old sav-
age stamina which our city-spawning civilisation
tends to destroy ; I know that modern ‘ morality ’
implies not so much spiritual resistance to temp-
tation as physical incapacity to be tempted ; and
in the interests of myself, my kin, my country,
my humanity, I ery with Whitman, ‘Muscle and
Pluck for ever ! ’—and all their implications for
ever ! I believe that illegitimacy is preferable to
sterility ; that last-century’s three-bottle men
were better race-types than this century’s three-
teacup men ; and, however a comparison of indi-
viduals may issue, I hold that the race must argue
to its own standard, and let the individual go
hang. Thus, from a racial point of view, Burns
was superior to Shakespeare, for he was a better
propagator of his species. And if Brother
Tweedledum thinks drink should necessarily be
despised and illegitimacy should invariably be
denounced, all I can say is—Pooh !
7. 8; 9, 10, 11, 12, and the rest are reluctantly
held over for future investigation. In the mean-
time—Let us Pooh !


Medical.
DR. FREEMAN
(SYDNEY’S LEADING SPECIALIST) and
In the Laboratory.
DR. WALLACE,
The tried & trusted
Fbikn dsol suite j er*
Second to Noun in
knowledge.
Excelling most in
experience.
Consult these able
Specialists,
And get rid of your
troubles.
DR. WALLACE
(LEGALLY QUALIFIED & REGISTERED),
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.
THAT THESE NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the head of the medical
profession is no longer a question of doubt. That
they have investigated further into the mysteries of
life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease,
than their quite worthy but less successful associ-
ates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience
is lifelong, and their record right here in SYDNEY,
IS A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
There are thousands upon thousands in this land
to-day who are praising their names, because
they have made their lives happy and brought
sunshine into their homes
in 910 m
If yon are troubled with
pimples, bashfutfliess,
aversion to society,
stupidness, despondency, loss of energy, ambi-
tiou and self-confidence, and absolutely unfit
for study, business or marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. Get well and be r>«m
MIDDLE-AGED 8 OLD Ml
there are thousands of you troubled with weak,
aching backs and kidneys, frequent painful urina-
tion and sediment in urine, and other unmistak-
able signs of nervous debility and prematura
decay. Many die of this difficulty, ignorant of the
cause, which is the second state of seminal
weakness. The most obstinate cases of this
chaiacter treated with unfailing’ success.
Complaints. Inflammations,
Hydrocele, Varicocele, and
kindred troubles quickly cured
without pain and detention from business?
NHL.
By this
means
you
can describe your
troubles to tbe
doctors if living
away from the
city and unable
to come to their
office. Treatment
in this manner
always satisfac-
tory. Write for
our valuable trea-;
tises, NERVOUS•
AND PRIVATE
DISEASES, post
free on applica-
All Trams stop at the Door .
and* * hem save much mental
your We Tn 1 lUg and add g ° lden years to
£1 br mail and f“n"? 6 prompfc attention, forward
and we will full descr ’P tloll of your complaint,
ailnmnt. necessary for
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box, 1359.
EIGHT
Diplomas and Certificates of qualifi.
cation and registration adorn the
walls of the Consulting Booms.
If we cannot Core yon, no one can.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
“VA BS. K K W OL T D n VcKS>
vM?rvr^. e T ? evv Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
NDERFUL little
®£owinfr how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘TRIUMPH,' P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“A Boro PbySiciao.”
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
THE GREATEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL PRACTI-
TIONER IN THE WORLD.
f T ° f n ? ted specialists have sprung into pre-emin-
ence and an immense practice as Surgeon Langston a
resident and pracOtmner at 121 Collins-street, Melbourne
His name has become almost literally a household word:
almost every other man you meet has a wonderful story to
relate of some almost miraculous cure he has performed
in an acute or chronic case of long standing, where other
physician shave failed. He addresses himself in particular
docinr« S t rr t have baffled the skill and science P of other
doctors. His name is a sufficient guarantee of a perfect
® f eVery case Consult him this day!
6 yOU much lnental and Physical suffering, and
add golden years to your life.
y OUNG MEN You will find this distinguished doctor
your best friend and benefactor. If you are troubled
with want of sleep, a tired, gloomy feeling, and loss
r^’ ch I 2 l P a,r both y° ur body and brain
and absolutely unfit you for study, business or the
proper enjoyment of life ; if you are suffering from these
or similar symptoms you know the cause. Before it is
everlastingly too late, consult this reliable old specialist
h « 0 -iil °T ? i y Un<lerStands y°ur trouble, and can treat
it with unfailing success.
MIDDLE-AGED MEN. There are many of you afflicted
with weak, aching back and kidneys, loss of mental and
PbyfWfl Power and vigor, and not unfrequently accom-
panied by an impairment of the general health. In justice
to this celebrated specialist it can be truthfully stated
that in all such cases of middle-aged men, as well of
TrnnvLo n T’ his has been almost invariable.
Troubles of every kind, name and nature, treated far in
advance of any institution in Australia—female com-
plaints, liver, lung, chest, throat, stomach, bladder
kidney and heart disease ; rupture, piles, fistula, hydrocele
and kidney troubles.
. VARICOCELE. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant
with double compress, price £2. Constitutional or
acquired weaknesses treated successfully.
CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments
Surgeon Langston, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
.. t 121 Collins Street. MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper i
Medical.
Dr. SPEED,
' 7 York Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
P.o. Box 920.
(Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board
oi N.S.VV. and N.Z.)
rn h Hehimwh an M Sc i enti - flc Treatment, by purifying and
thn?A th b oo , c ’ " lvea new life and tone to the
® nervous- and muscular systems, and builds up a
treltmonr I *^-" ln tbe , most enfeebled. The first week of
6M,™!H, br ' ngS u £ lad relief, and PERSEVERANCE
ensures a thorough and LASTING CURE.
MEN
fr°fihi d Remedies, which strike
•JL 1 ?® 0f th , e , dla ease. The symptoms gradually dis-
r Pf- and lost health return, sunken eyes retain
old lust re. The blood-giving principle of the medi-
himself ?S a bealth 7 appearance, the patient finds
Dg ln i vei B rht and fl esh, hollow and sunken
tnHnn T e T nd^ d ; the weak and shattered consti-
‘L r f, Btored ’ arld .„, the fon ner sufferer finds himself
cured with all the animation and vigor of
AliL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
trmfhf^fln 6^ “f 1* a , di ® tarj ee can, by describing their
n d .?, talI > be treated at home. The course of
busing 6WU “ 0t m any way interfere with their
. tr E yU y pers °n applying to the Doctor will receive a
nSn f d and ca P dld opinion of the case, and the
hSwfoTT. ? of a o ur e- .If the patient is curable, he will tell
he wdl also teU him. He undertakes no
case which he cannot cure.
MEDICINES SENT SECURELY PACKED
AND FREE FROM OBSERVATION TO ANY
PART OF THE COLONIES.
LADIES!
Diseases, incidental to Young, Middle-aged,
ana uid Ladies, treated with entire confidence
and sucoess.
20s.
is sufficient to send for the Remedies in all ordi-
nary cases.
7 York-st, Wynyard-sq.;
Box 920 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYHE.
"" "
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
-iemedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BfiOHCHITIS,
DLAKBHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad .with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of. a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
JffHN, HUH ANTI
BUI
BqmJ
FULL 'DIRECTIOUSI
> ■ ENCLOSED? J
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
'I directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or b3‘ post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative: Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England
LADIES!
Don’t Fret or Worry, but remember that Tly,
Speer’s invaluable Remedies are always
Certain.
Pills, ss, 10s, and £1 (extra strong).
Guaranteed O.K.
BOX 920. 7 York Street, Sydney.
Dr. CARTWRIGHTS
female tablets
Nothing causes Girls and Women so much Worry and
Distress as Irregularities and Delays. These Newly.
Discovered Tablets are a Positive Cure, even in the most
obstinate cases of Obstruction.
Prioe 10s and £1 per Box (extra strong). Call or Write
7 York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies.
AST Send Pour Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend ”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2.
post free.
BOOKS!
New, Up to-Date
Publications.
Tub Soiled Dove, the History of a Young- Lady who ran
away from her parents and eventually “went to the dogs” •
Miss Skittles, the girl with “ six husbands ” ; Sappho Life
and Love in Paris—each post free Is. 6d. The Ballet
Girl, her natural history, “gay life behind the scenes”—
post free, Is. Maria Monk ; Ovid’s Art of Love : Don
Juan —each post free, Is. 9d.
W. SKINNER, Bookseller and Publisher, 106
OASTLEREAGH-ST., SYDNEY.
Medical.
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at his
Electrical & Consulting Rooms,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBOKTS,
trebly-qualified, and registered in London
and the Colonies as a Physician and a Surgeon,
received his education in the English and Scottish
universities, and completed his studies in the lead-
ing hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN
DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period of
many years, obtained the highest position in his
profession. The various diseases embraced in his
speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
Young Men and Those who
Wish to Marry
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more mature age, suffer from any of the follow-
. namely : —Frequent headaches,
u ll6B8 ’ drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity
of the bowels, feeling of fullness after eating,
specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a
candle, cold hands and feet, pains in the back or
under the shoulder-blade, tenderness of thebreast-
n° ne °n pressure, yellow discharge from the
mouth on to the pillow during sleep, palpitation
of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands,
an aversion to society, a whitish or cloudy sedi-
rnent in the urine after standing, fearof something
dreadful about to happen, impure blood, spots or
pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing
memory, hacking cough, falling of the hair, Ac.,
&c ; , should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and
so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6cl. in Stamps lie will send
(POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
ma y quickly and permanently
CURES, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
after having lost all hope.
One Pound is sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
debility,
And should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above, Do Not Delay,
your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down’quietly,
in the privacy of your own chamber, and write out
a full description of your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work
in which you will find a list of carefully-prepared
questions that will assist you in crivinar a true
description of your ailment. 8
None Need Despair.
as in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedi-s, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their LETTERS
ARE DESTROYED BY FIRE
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CORED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed
IM1«B
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred—
The Proprietor, Bos 230, G.P.0., Sydney.
Consulting Hours : 9 to 5 DAILY.
EVENINGS- Monday,
Wednesday and Saturday,
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Medical.
PERFECT HOOD.
)o(
Health, Strength & Vigor
to a Ripe Old Age.
XV KAKNESS AND DISEASE quickly, thoroughly and
permanently cured by new perfected scientific
methods, that cannot fail unless the case is beyond human
aid. You feel improved the first day, feel a benefit every
day; soon know yourself a king among men in body,
mind, and heart. Nerve force, energy, will, brain
power, when failing or lost, are restored by our treat-
weak parts of the body strengthened and
Victims of disease, sufferers from ill-health, over-
work and other excesses, regain your vigor. Don’t
despair even if in the last stage's. Don’t be dis-
heartened if quacks have robbed you. Let us show
you science and business honor still exist. Patients
uving at a distance who cannot conveniently visit us,
when writing, should state their case as minutely as
possible.
Just Published Pocket Medical Guide, containing
chapters on Marriage, Nervous, Skin and Diseases of a
Private nature, etc., remarks on Quacks, Prescriptions
etc., sent free on receipt of address.
Consultations Daily. Private Waiting Rooms.
BRUNSWICK, HAMILTON & CO.,
Boston Herbal Institute, opp. Stow Memorial Church,
11a Flinders-street, Adelaide.
All cases are treated strictly confidentially.
In publishing the following remarkable state-
ments, we do so at the special wish of the writers
only ; otherwise secrecy is considered inviolable,
letters and particulars of cases being destroyed
at the termination of same.
Mr. J. H. WEHR, FARMER,
WASLEYS, S.A. writes:—“l can-
not refrain from adding my testi-
monial to your numerous list. In
justice to science, humanity, and
yourselves I must say that your
treatment of sorrowful afflictions is
Fast all belief. For seventeen years
have been a sufferer, and four
months ago 1 went from bad to
worse ; in fact lost all hope of ever
being well asain. When I visited
you I was at once placed under a
course of treatment entirely new to
myself, and from the first I was able to attend to my
occupation as farmer. lam happy to state that lam now
well and better than I have been for years, but shall
follow your advice arid take the remedies for some time to
do away with all risk. I shall always remain indebted tc
you for my wonderful cure.”
ANTHONY BARRY, Castle Inn,
Hindley-street, Adelaide, writes :
“I will be glad if you will publish
the following for the benefit of suf-
ferers. For the last five years I
have been in the West, having
worked from Lake Darley to the
Horse Shoe Bend in Murchison.
Nearly the whole of the time I have
been a sufferer from Debility,
and loss of energy, always moping
alone, afraid to join in any
conversation, noises in the ears, and other symp-
toms too numerous to mention ; in fact, was a nuisance
to myself and mates. Tried many advertised remedies
wnthout obtaining: any relief. On my way to New Guinea,
and hearing: of so many from the West on their way to
other colonies breaking their journey at Adelaide to
obtain your treatment, I decided to do the same. lam
glad to say I now feel fit to continue my journey without
fear, and am sure I have only to take your remedies a
little longer to obtain a thorough cure. lam well known
in all parts of the West, and write this that my mates and
others may know where they can obtain a certain cure.”
Mr. M. J. DENAHY, Beryl
Street, Broken Hill, writes:—
“ Your remedies have acted
like magic in my case, having
been a sufferer for months
from weakness, and through
weakness I was so ill that I
had to give up work, and I
say truthfully I never thought
I should ever regain my
strength, as I took so much
medicine before seeing you
and without feeling the
slightest bit better, when
fortunately I met a patient of
yours, Mr. J. Kent, who
advised me to lose no time,
and, using his own words, he
said : 1 The only chance you
have is to go to Brunswick, Hamilton & Co., who will
very soon put you right,’ and I am thankful I took his
advice, for since I took your remedies I am as well and as
strong as ever 1 was in my life. I cannot thank you suffi-
cient for what;you have'done for me."
REMARKABLE CURE OF DEBILITY.
AITCHLSON, 22 North-st., Adelaide, writes I
Gentlemen, I cannot refrain from adding my testi-
mony to your extraordinary and most marvellous treat-
ment of one of the worst cases of Debilitv such as mine
was. Since being under your care I can safely say that I
am a strong man once more, and the distressing symptoms
from what I was suffering from have all disappeared in a
most miraculous manner. I had previously been under
the care of live different practitioners for the past four
years ; purchased three different galvanic or electric belts
without deriving any benefit whatsoever. I had given ud
all hope of ever being myself again, when I was recom-
mended to see you. In two weeks’ time I began to feel
improvement, and your remedies did more for me than
the whole four years' treatment with others. I feel as if
1 c s n nev f r f hank y° u enough, and, as I should like other
sufferers to know what you have done for me, make what,
ever use you like of this."
JOSEPH MARTIN, Cen
tral Mine, Broken Hill,
writes :—“ Accept this tes-
timonial in recognition for
the valuable services you
have rendered me by per-
forming a wonderful cure of
my case, which has been on
me for over five years, and
now that I am well and tell
you that I spent over 1200
before consulting you, and
deriving not a farthing’s
worth of benefit from emin-
ent men makes my case one
that other sufferers should
hear about, so that they can
be treated and cured as I am,
and also made strong,
9,
healthy, and happy, which I never thought could be done
until I was a short time under your care. I could con-
tinue for months writing of the misery and anxiety which
1 have suffered, and it makes this testimonial one of great
value, not only to you, but also to those who may be
sufferers like I was, and those that read this and will take
my advice and place their case in your hands will not only
thank you, but also me for making it known to them.
Insert this in any paper you like.
Brunswick, Hamilton S, Co.,
BOSTON HERBAL INSTITUTE,
(Opposite Stow Memorial Church),
11a FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Open Daily
Consultation Personally or by Letter.
76iuvraa


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
To TATTERSALL.
Address.
COOTAMUNDRA C. Feb. 9.
10,000 Subscribers at 5 (
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
NEWMARKET H. Feb. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me, shares in the above.
Name.
Address 1
Australian C.
March 1
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address
*
NEWCASTLE C. March 17.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me ~ shares in the above.
Name
Address
SILYER CITY C. March 23.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo ; in the above.
Name.
Address.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony Hordern's
NEW
CATALOGUE
0 0 0
K- f, ..
_
. . IS NOW READY, . .
and will be sent anywhere
POST FREE on application.
<aET ON€ !
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
“SANITAS”
NATURE’S
GREAT DISINFECTANT.
Non-Poisonousm
Does Not Stain Linen*
FLUID, POWDER, SOAPS, &C.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Valuable book. "HOW TO DISINFECT,”
tree on application.
The SANITAS Co., Ltd.,
BETHNAL GREEN, LONDON.
The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE’S
BABY/’
says
“Most
decidedly .
use KOKO,’
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It is a
nice clean preparation too -
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
KOKO’
1 Eradicates .Scurf and Dandrifl, Prevents
I Ha r Falling,-Promotes Growth, and isThe
1 Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
1 Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i'-, a/6 and 4 16 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c, 1
THE KOKO MARICOPAS C 0„ LTD,. !
16, Bevis Marks, Bon don, England.
PILES.
rpilE Advertiser having: suffered for years from Piles and
tried all sorts of ointment cures, which only gave
temporary relief, accidentally discovered a simple but
permanent cure for Piles. Used once, gives instant
relief, and after being used a few times the Piles dis-
appear. The remedy is very simple, and can be obtained
anywhere ; gives no pain whatever. On receipt of Postal
Note for 55., to pay for advertising, &c., the cure will be
sent; it is quite genuine. Address—
D. 0. DAVIS, Rockhampton, QUEENSLAND.
(?ASGARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S GUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Eestorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SANDAL OR COPAIBA
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil, and free from the ob-
jections to all Gelatine Capsules.
CAPSULES
Savaresse’s Capsules are not made of Gelatine.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 165,; Buck-board Buggies, £lO IQs. ;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
-® r * STLLIEIt, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Spring's, etc. Send for a Catalogue.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in th*
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Positively the Best Dressing
EDWARDS
Pit
t
s*s-
-V
Vs
FOR
PRES ERVING- & BEAUTIFYING-
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“HARLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to be devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Son. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract.—The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the value
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will he pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holborn LONDON, W.C.
IPKOBERTSOfI S CREUline Gllfll
Quality and Flavor: SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion ,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath.
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
D
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Full Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists Sc Stores.
Works :
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
W E ,
- “ SFE Cl Ali ]\roTlCE
beg to NOTIFY customers that by buying from us
.«. «? < L t i hey wiU save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manufac-
_ rT _ turers—not dealers.
OUR BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including silver
£ l l6B ■ ° ur s P ec 'al 3 SPRING STICK
i SULKY, silver dash rail splash-baards and lamps, £8
4 17s. fid. DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps
£2l. ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather
a " d , lam P s . £26 - LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l.
All descriptions of Saddlery and Harness at lowest possible prices
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS: r
N.S.W. CARRIAGE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, Brown Street., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send for and compare our illustrated catalogue and price-list with any other house in Sj'dney.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
MACKENZIE'S Soap is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most
lovely Complexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples Deliciou"’v
expensively perfumed.ONE SHILLING PEIiTABLET. Hector’s certificate w'th gach cake cerMfvine
to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imitations Mlruuc
ADELINA PATTI writes : “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s Arsenical Toilet siap mostTxcel en ” This <oan
cures shiny and greasy skins. a e
HARVEY, LTD., 5, Denman Stieet, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists and Stores.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
When the pie was ■ fencu
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRDS
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED I
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Oustard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Go., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Bards of the Backblocks.
Although respect for the feeling that prompts
in memoriam newspaper verse has always disin-
clined The Bulletin to scoff at its characteristic
grotesquerie, the appended effusion —from Dun-
munkle (Vic.) Standard of 13/8/’97—is printed
in full, as an example of honest, inarticulate,
human emotion which it would be pity to let pasa
into oblivion: —
IN MEMORIAM.
OUR DEAR MOTHER AND MY DEAR WIFE.
Dear Mother, thou hast left us here
In sorrow and in tears,
And some of us remember you
For more than twenty years.
We looked upon thy cold, cold form,
Upon thy icy face,
We squeezed thy hand and kissed thy brow
It was our last embrace.
Dear Mother, if thou have the power
To look down on us now,
To see us when around thy form
We kissed thy icy brow,
And as we looked upon thy face
And kissed thy icy brow—
Dear Mother, it is hard to think
We’ve got no mother now. £
Now let your father say a word—
Your Mother was his wife;
I had her long before to us
A child was brought to life.
No man on earth except myself .>.
Can write her happy life.
She was a Mother to you all
And was a loving Wife.
Oh, God, I pray that she may find
A resting place with Thee,
And all her children meet again,
Please do the same for me.
And let our children and our friends
I ask—I beg—I pray,
That all may meet each other when
We all are called away.
I remember that she would go
To the sick with fever;
She’d go away and stop a week—
Now she’s gone for ever.
When others did refuse to go
To nurse the sick for pay,
She’s gone to them and seen them through,
Take nothing, come away.
Sometimes in temper she would say
Some words she did not mean,
Then go away from me and cry
And let it not be seen.
She was a friend to everyone
That was in need of bread ;
Some swagmen will be sorry when
They hear that she is dead.
Sometimes they come to our back-door,
Beg something for to eat;
She’s filled their little bag full up
With onions, bread and meat.
Sometimes they come into the bar
And beg a glass of ale ;
“ You had too much last night,” she said,
“ I see you’re looking pale.”
“ I had too much last night,” he said,
“ I long for one to-day,
The place I spent my money at
Has turned me right away.”
“ But why do you come here to me,
You spent no money here,
And how can you expect for us
To give away our beer?”
And as she looked at that man’s face,
And saw his trembling form,
Says to herself, “a glass of beer
Will do that man no harm.”
She gave a glass of beer to him,
Tell him to go away ;
He said, “ I’ll come again sometime
If I should pass this way.”
Sometimes I said unto my wife,
“ You're doing wrong, I think,”
“ It was for God’s sake, Jack,” she said,
I gave that man a drink."
“ It was for God's sake,” she would say—
I won’t forget my wife—
“ That glass of beer,” she often said,
“ Might save that poor man’s life.”
She gave them food, she gave them clothes,
She gave them money too,
That they might travel far away
To get some work to do.
Now, perhaps we’ve said enough this time,
We’ll bring this to a close ;
That body will decay to dust
Just like a fading rose.
But one more word to Him above—
That we may meet again,
In joy, in happiness, and love,
To sing and pray—Amen.
“BETTER THAN FAME IS STILL THE
WISH FOR FAME.”
—Owen Meredith.
If, fighting through life, you’re a failure,
Don’t grieve overmuch !
If efforts to climb or to scale your
Ambitions and such
Are waited upon by ill-fortune,
Then while you the Fates still importune
To give you a chance for one more tune,
My lyre I will touch !
I’ll show you that though for rank, riches,
Wine, women, cigars,
The mouth of the failure still itches,
Though poverty jars;
Though the stamp of “ poor devil ” is written
Upon you; though hunger has bitten.
And Love from its throne has been smitten ;
Cease cursing your stars!
The way is all stretching before you,
Your fight’s to be fought;
You’ve sized up the blows that will floor you,
The tide’s to be caught.
To win where you’ve never been beaten
Is black bread to whitest of wheaten,
Is winning where leeks have been eaten,
Cause rations were short.
You’ve delved ’neath the crust, and discovered
Away down below,
The black soil where great hearts lie covered
With anguish and woe.
They’re fighting their battles, and straining
A hand to the weaker ones waning,
And fainting on tracks where the training
Has broken them so.
And if through the wild upward seething
You never come clear,
’Tis honest, the sweat and hard breathing,
And game may be near.
You try —and go down —well, your dying
Will send a soul silently flying
To where the dead failures are lying,
With never a fear.
N.S.W.
J. JINGLE.


a jl I ■ m j A m A fl ESt Sibil Sil 6cl 1049.
7l6straliai) WCial Prox/id . nt c oc j € t v .
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established “ * w 1 %“X • X
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy -Chairman ;
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ;
J. T. WALKER. Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £128,797, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON, Secretary.
. -TVi:j~ - '1
florae
gr/W /2/6 perdap&apu
lAi<LUSTVE.OF ALL WEAU AMD ATTEMDAMCE
Aottraiia
/’ i4y/ity M? or «-.
WHY NOT TRY
A ROOF OF
P;B RUBEROID
c,o° v &&
Piß Preservative Paints
are WATER, ACID, DAMP-PROOF.
Australasian Agents: E. RICH and CO. LTD.,
O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Every V ariety of
TEA. s
• AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
fltcherley and Dauison, limited
257 George Street, Sydney.
tar SPECIAL VALUE FOR CASH.
iHVOOOB
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
1 OR MAKING DELIGIGUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGOS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. . Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Deli-ious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. W 11 give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the great s confidence in the article, and caurecom-
mend it to housekeepers generallv as a usefu age't m the preparation ofa good Cus ard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: QOODALL BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. EMC.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
J 0 3HUA j3!FI.OS.’
BOOMERANG
BRANDY
As Supplied to the British House of Commons, War Office* London County Council
Asylum, and many of the leading Hospitals in Great Britain and Australasia.
ANTWERP EXHIBITION, 1894 - - - GOLD MEDAL.
BORDEAUX EXHIBITION, 1895 - - - BRONZE MEDAL.
AMSTERDAM EXHIBITION, 1895 - - GOLD MEDAL.
BRUSSELS EXHIBITION, 1897 - - - - 2 GOLD MEDALS.
. of n.ll Wine & Spirit Merchants.
painless dentistry.
TTIFTTT FROM £1 I s ' SFT.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and: Mechanical
Dentist.
rpilE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of liridr/ea’orfc.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note —We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address
93 Kiixg-st., Svclney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL -
PALACE
w
m WwM
Wm
M ELBOURNE.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
. . . 500 Rooms. . . .
Two Dining Rooms ; and Caf<s open Day and Night.
Ease, Comfort, Elegance.
Ask your BOOTMAKER
FOR
Farmer’s Patent Elevators.
Height increased as desired.
H. JOHNSON & CO. (Agents N.S.W.),
472 George-street, SYDNEY.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully.so per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Public Companies.
THE . . .
CITS Mime FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
STRONG. RELIABLE. PROMPT.
Head Office: 95 Pitt-st., Sydney,
Victorian Branch :
EMPIRE BUILDINGS, 416 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Robert A. Paxton, Local Manager.
Guaranteed Security to Policy-holders nearly
£3,000,000.
Rates : Settlements
Lowest Current. Prompt and Equitable*
BT INSURERS ™™ A Y °y A EAl BONUS
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., .£B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable, on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability..
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts.
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Accident
and
Gtiarantce
Co. Ltd. of Lor'' 1 n.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W, M‘MiMjAN, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiky, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. , 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O- EIjDE-IDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STRUCT, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
80 Too& n>ore Imported Leaf
tbai) all tbe other Tobacco
Factories Ptit Together
were used by DIXSON & SONS for Six Months
ending 30th June, proving the Quality Of Dix son’s
Brands- DIXSON & SONS, the largest Tobacco Maim lac*
turers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Yafykee Poodle.
Mild Dark and Aromatic
Bright. Surpasses any-
thing made in Australia, and sales increased
117 PER CENT, for the SIX MONTHS
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Cban)pioi).
The Oh
Cooq(i?ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
C€ot€i)i)ial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite MoilOpO e,
Rothschilds.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Ciw-u
retailed at 4 ip a packet for 6d.
Importers of Pipes, &c.„ and all. Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper .
Vol. 19.—N0. 938.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1898.
Price, Gd.
SYDNEY YOG.
OPEN EVERY SUNDAY 1
Z7c/miSdio/i Z r /?Zf . J '
HOWLER
him hmh mfu S mcltui
S(s £ J 'ZTC / W
(SuwfafA tffatr/a/tfiZ /
yz/Tyr// ssiQ/y - - # <£}/^er
THE PARSON OR THE TIGER.
“The Sunday Opening of Sydney Zoo. — lb was reported at the monthly meeting of the East Sydney Ministers’ Association, held yesterday morning in the
Bourke-street Congregational School-hall, that the action of the Government in subsidising the Zoological Gardens for the purpose of admitting the public free
on Sundays had already considerably affected the attendance of children at the Sunday schools in the district. And it was resolved unanimously that the free admis-
sion of children to the Zoo on Sundays, on the plea of educational advantages, is unnecessary, as all children of the public schools are admitted free on certain week-
days; and, further, that it is wrong for Government to vote money to secure for one section of the community privileges of which another section cannot
conscientiously avail itself.”— Daily Paper.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ~
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... oob
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required —
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Draff ts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
A Co.. Cornhill.
South Africa.— jR. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetoum. Also in the Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 32 Hout.-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith A Co.
Fi.ii. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia
Westralia and lHaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Intervrovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside" N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
Tj&^&aXZdEwt.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1898.
The “Honest” Artisan and the Other
Fellow.
Henry Wrixon is a dull and “ right-think-
ing ” Victorian lawyer, who emerged from
comparative obscurity when he married an
immensely wealthy heiress, and became fora
while a second-rate politician. For a year or
two the community took Wrixon seriously
as a man of possibilities ; then it realised the
hopeless mediocrity of its long barrister, and
he is now only a H.C.M.G-. and old Money
Miller’s son-in-law. And Henry Wrixon,
with the horrible unfitness of people and
things, got up recently to deliver himself of
a plaint about the over-educated state of the
new Victorian generation, its loathing for
cheap and muddy “ graft,” and its desire to
wear a black coat and be “genteel.” This
is the same plaint which every Tory gets off
his chest at intervals. The new generation,
it is alleged, wants to live in a city and be a
clerk, instead of going on the land and
driving the honest bull-team of its fathers.
It objects to agriculture. It doesn’t want to
be a slavey and wash up the plates in
Wrixon’s kitchen. It yearns to wear a hard
hat, or a leghorn with a feather in it. It
wants to be a lady or else a gentleman, and
if it can’t be a gentleman it wants to be a
gent, and if it can’t manage to be a gent it
wants to be a city bounder. And over-edu-
cation, in the opinion of Wrixon and his
fellow-Tories, is the cause of this truly
lamentable state of things.
* ♦ ♦ •
If there is any lamentable state of things,
which isn’t at all certain, the Tory of
Wrixon’s stamp is certainly the last man
who should complain. The typical Wrixon
lives in cities ; he doesn’t go on the land, and
never did ; he follows no kind of horny graft,
and he produces nothing ; he doesn’t bring
up Ids son to he an or his
daughter to clean up dishes and struggle
with the family wash. He says that people
ought to do these things, yet he does none of
them. He says that they don’t do them
because they are over-educated, and have a
vulgar craving after “ gentility,” so presum-
ably he is an over-educated person with a
useless desire for tawdry fashion. If the
Victorian farmer and his sons, in the inter-
vals of stump-grubbing, delivered a severe
lecture to Wrixon and co. about the mean
ambitions of the kind of man who prefers to
be a fourth-rate lawyer, a tenth-rate poli-
tician, and a useless non-producer sweltering
beneath a tall hat in a city, rather than go
forth like a man and do some good to his
country by honest toil, the situation would
be intelligible. But when the useless and
non-productive swell city Tory reproaches
a community, four-fifths of which is toiling
hard for a living at anything which turns
up, for not tackling honest, hard work, the
situation is wildly ridiculous.
« * * »
In any case, the hackneyed tale about how
an over-educated generation has grown
ashamed of labor and won’t work as its
fathers did, rests on no visible basis. In
the first place, there is no evidence that it is
over-educated There is no standard of
education. At one time the individual who
could read and write became an archbishop
or a minister of state on account of his vast
erudition, and the average earl or baron
made his mark on important documents with
a straggling cross. As for a common, dread-
ful person like Wrixon, or Gillies, or
Harper, he was expected to know practi-
cally nothing. Now the middle-class man,
like Wrixon, is over-educated to an in-
credible degree according to the view of the
Tory of some centuries back, and he knows
a dozen times more than used to suffice for
an emperor. The ploughman of to-day isn’t
further ahead educationally of the plough-
man a few centuries back than the lawyer of
to-day is ahead of the lawyer of a few cen-
turies back, and the one is just as awful an
example of the evils of too much education
as the other. Nowadays the average plough-
man stands, educationally, where the average
emperor stood a very long time ago ; and the
emperor—if he is a decently-educated em-
peror—knows more than God was formerly
supposed to know. But the distance between
them remains the same, and one is just as
much sodden with superfluous culture as the
other. Five or ten or twenty centuries hence
it is quite possible that a man will need to
know about as much as Edison and Huxley
put together in order to get a job at fencing
or tank-sinking, and that the Edison and
Huxley of that period will know more than
the wildest dreamer has ever yet dreamt of.
But the relative distances between them will
probably be the same as they are now ; and
the man who knows least will still be doing
the tank-sinking job, or whatever the most
animal and least scientific job may be ; and
he won’t be over - educated even then.
There is absolutely no limit to the amount
that a tank-sinker ought to know. Ap-
parently there will always be some work
which requires the minimum of intelligence.
The man with the minimum of intelligence
will always get it, and there will always be
the man with the minimum of intelligence.
That is the whole story. Far back in history
the said man was a naked ruffian with matted
hair, and only half a remove from a beast.
Far ahead in history he may be sinking
tanks because he only knows four languages
and half-a-dozen sciences. But no one can say
that he is over-educated, unless that dogmatist
inows how much education there is and how
much of it anybody ought to have. And the
spectacle of any commonplace person with a
little money undertaking to define these
things is one for the gods to howl at in
Olympus.
* m * *
Moreover, though it is the custom of the
bell-toppered city man to lament the grow-
ing disinclination of other people to go on
the land, and their increasing yearn after
“genteel employment,” and the needless
education which gave rise to the evil—is
there any evil, after all ? Wrixon and his
black-coated kind, when they flutter about
their city haunts and contemplate the
struggle after clerkships and other billets
that have decent clothes attached to them,
conclude that there is quite an unreasonable
rush after jobs of this sort while hard,
honest “graft” out in the backblocks is
perishing for want of hands. But it isn’t.
If the narrow little city Tory went out and
spent 20 years in the bush he would probably
realise that the rush after tank-sinking and
mining and railway-construction jobs is quite
as furious as the rush after clerkships. Then,
being a narrow man who can only take in one
side of a question at a time, he would prob-
ably conclude that over-education was caus-
ing the new generation, which ought to be
doing honest toil in an office, to scramble
for ploughing and fencing jobs with a fury
that is simply unparalleled. The wail of
the Tory gent, sunning his shiny bell-topper
down Collins-street, about how a new and
awful generation won’t “ go on the land ” is
very pathetic, but when the Government
throws open for selection at a reasonable
price a piece of soil which isn’t .absolutely
desert, it is quite common for somewhere
between 10 and 380 applicants to apply for
it. The real facts of the case are that no
generation ever tried harder to get on the
land. If it hasn’t got there to any great
extent, there are plenty of reasons for it.
Vast areas are held idle, or held for sale at
hopelessly unreasonable prices, by the city
Tory who wants to know why the people
don’t go on the land, and who covers the
land with notices that the man who goes on
it will be prosecuted. And the man who
gets on the land generally succumbs to low
prices, drought, bush fires, caterpillars, high
interest, and the like, and his mortgagee,
the same city Tory, hustles him off again
with an energy which is quite surprising.
• * * *
The theory that a community with over-
much history and geography in its brain has
grown too dignified for labor is a convenient
way of explaining that it isn’t borrowing,
booming, land-monopoly and lory adminis-
tration which has brought Australia to its
present pass. But anybody who advertises
for a miner, carpenter, blacksmith, shearer,
rouseabout, or bullock-driver, or anything
else with hard work, long hours, and low
pay, and considers the rush of applicants,
knows perfectly well that the explanation is
a hollow lie. The only industry in which
labor is scarce is domestic service, and the
reasons for that are sufficiently apparent.
The household “ slavey ” has no fixed hours
—her hours are from the time she rises in
the morning till she goes to bed at night.
She has no privacy, no home of her own ;
she is always under the remorseless eye of
the “missus.” Also, though the class which
gives so much good advice to the poor is
always explaining that her position is quite
as honorable as any other, the members of
that class will marry almost any girl except
the honorable kitchen toiler. She is the one
female of the rising generation who is under-
stood, on account of her occupation, to have
practically abandoned all hope of rising in
the social scale —and so long as it is the
ambition of the average woman to have a
home and an affluent male of her own, the
domestic will be just as scarce as she can
make herself —unless public opinion alters.
* • * *
The class of which Henry Wrixon is a
sample asks with a sneer why the Australian
youth wants to go into an office and drudge
in a black coat at 255. a week, instead of
being an honest artisan—the honesty of the
artisan is always insisted upon—or bushman
at twice or three times the wage. The simple
reason w’hy he should do so is that the
artisan now is very fortunate if he averages
30s. a week all the year round, and the bush-
man is lucky if he makes 20s. And their
lives include longer hours, heavier toil,
rain, sunstroke, liability to accidents, little
amusement, few r books, rough food, uncom-
fortable lodging, and practically no hope for
the future. Whereas the youth in an office
has a multitude of things the other man
lacks, together with the chance of rising to
be a merchant, lawyer, or bank or insurance
manager at a big salary, or becoming a
politician and marrying a rich man’s
daughter, and dying in the odor of K.C.M.G.
If Wrixon had followed his own advice when
he was young he would probably be putting
up cookies’ fences at 20s. a week to this
very day.
The Federal River Problem.
The bitter struggle in the third Convention
over the Federal control of rivers is a rnelau-
choly evidence that the national spirit has made
very little progress up to date. The question
at issue is whether rivers which flow through
two or more states, and the waters of which
are consequently joint property, should be
placed under Federal control. The alternative
is that each state should have absolute control
of as much of the river as flows through its
territory, and that the one above .should, if it
is so inclined, have power to use all the water
for irrigation purposes, and leave a dry channel
for the one below. Also that either state
should have power, by letting its part of the
river channel silt up, by diverting the river, or
by neglecting to clear it of snags or sunken
vessels, or otherwise, to block the other’s com-
merce if it has any interest in so doing. The
Murray system is the only one of any import-
ance in Australia which flows through several
states, and it is around it that the controversy
rages. South Australia, which holds the lower
part of the stream and sees possibilities of its
water-supply being cut off by irrigation-works
and its commerce obstructed by neglect of
the upper channel, favors Federal control. Vic-
toria, which has hitherto borne almost the whole
expense of keeping the Upper Murray—a river
that is claimed as the sole property of N.S.W.
—open for navigation, also favors the Federal
view, as tending to lift a heavy charge off its
shoulders. N.S.W. has systematically followed
the policy of drawing trade by rail to Sydney,
and this policy would be advanced if the
Murray and lower Darling became hopelessly
unnavigable, consequently it is solid on the
principle that each province should do as it
darned well likes with its own fragment of
river.
• • » *
According to the bitter howl of Lyne and
Rkid and M‘MILX,AN, N.S. Wales, under the
Federal control idea, is asked to give up every-
thing and receive nothing. This is a hopelessly
one-sided statement of the case, and quite
worthy of those narrow provincialists. South
Australia proposes to hand over, as its share,
the whole lower Murray—some 500 miles of the
most navigable portion of the river—and the
command of its sea-exit. Victoria offers to
throw in its share of the upper Murray ;
that province has no legal share, certainly,
but it holds a half-share as a matter of
fact, and, seeing that it has done
almost all that has been done to make
the river useful and navigable, and that,
down to the Murrumbidgee junction in the
far west of N.S.W. it supplies the
bulk of the water, it has claims which it
probably wouldn’t surrender unless N.S.W.
could grab the disputed river by military force.
It nlso gives in the Loddon, (Joulburn, Carn-
paspe, Ovens, and a few other rivers. N.S.W.
is asked to throw in the Lachlan, Murrain-
bidgee, and their affluents, also its share of tha
Darling and its affluents, and its attitude is that
it will see the other provinces dead first. The
Darling is the principal subject of contention.
Every drop of water in the Darling, according
to Reid, Lyne and M'Millan, belongs to
N.S.W., which remark, seeing that half the
Darling water comes down from Queensland,
shows hideous ignorance of the whole business.
But while retaining the Darling, Lachlan,
Murrumbidgee, &c., Reid offers to federalise
the Murray, and as Victoria commands the
main water-supply of the Upper Murray and
S.A. owns the Lower Murray bodily, the offer
to go shares in these streams is a rather smart
proceeding.
* * * •
Whether the Murray system remains a
navigable group of rivers, or whether it is
ultimately so used up for irrigation purposes
that its navigability practically disappears, the
position of Lyne and Reid is equally illogical.
In the former case the object of Federal control
is to give power to the central authority to keep
these rivers open for navigation. So far S.A.
has done its share in order to bring commerce
into South Australia. Victoria has also done
its share, because the Murray and the South
Australian ports are the easiest outlet for
the north - western part of the province,
where railways are still non-existent, and
also because the river brings trade to its rail-
way at Swan Hill and Echuca. New
South Wales is building a railway running
parallel with the Murray in order to drag the
trade, at a tremendous waste of money and
mileage, to Sydney. Also, it has systematically
neglected the lower Darling in order to force
the Western trade on to the railway line at
Bourke or Cobar. If any Federal authority
took measures to make the lower Darling always
navigable, three results would ensue. Sydney
would lose some trade. South Australia would
gain some. And western New' South Wales
would gain enormously by having constant
access at small cost to a port comparatively
near at hand, instead of having to send its goods
over a long and enormously expensive railway
journey, and haul them up a mountain range
3000 feet high, and haul them down again,
and finally land them at a port 1000 miles
further from Europe than the river out-
let ! In this matter, western New- South
Wales would probably gain far more than
Sydney W’ould lose. But the fact that S.A.
would gain something at the same time is a
fatal objection in the eyes of Lyne, and Reid,
and M'Millan. M ‘Millan, by the way, being
a Sydney commercial man, is an interested
witness.
* * * *
As regards irrigation, the question is dif-
ferent. No one knows at present how far irri-
gation may yet go, but in all probability it will
one day be conducted on so vast a scale that, in
dry or even moderately dry years, practically all
the w'aters of the Murray system will be used
up, and, so far as navigation purposes are con-
cerned, that group of rivers will cease to exist.
S.A. lies on the lower reaches of the great
river which combines the Murray, Murrum-
bidgee, Lachlan, Darling, &c., and wmuld then lw
wholly at the mercy of the other provinces, which
could mop up the available waters and leave
their barren neighbour nothing but a streak oi
sand. Consequently S.A. asks that the Federal
authority shall have power to control the use of
the waters, and share them out among the
parties interested. Victoria is agreeable.
N.S. W.,by the voice of Lyne, Reid, and M‘Mie-
lan, again says that it will see its neigh
bour dead first. The Darling, allege Reid & Co.,
is exclusively “our” river; every drop of its
waters belongs to “ us,” and the proposal that
“ we ” should hand over “ our ” river is simply
outrageous. The fact that N.S.W. isn’t asked
to hand over its rivers to its outrageous neigh-
bour, but only to a partnership of which it will
itself be the largest and most influential
member, is a view of which Reid, Lyne, and
their fellow-provincialists say nothing.
• * * *
This provincial view, if Reid, Lyne, and
M‘Millan were only capable of understanding
the situation, may produce remarkable results.
Supposing the policy of Federal control is
made part of the constitution, Queensland,
when it comes in, as it certainly must some day,
will come in under that proviso and be governed
by it. As it is, it will probably come in under
a system which allows each province to do with
its own waters as it pleases. Ihen, if a vast
irrigation system is ultimately established in
all the three eastern provinces, the possible re-
sults are these : The sources of the Darling are
located well up towards Central Queensland.
Queensland controls a large part of the water
supply, and by using it for its own purposes in
dry years it can leave the Upper Darling,
just at the time when N.S. W. wants a plentiful
water-supply in the west, a mere series of mud-
holes. Victoria commands almost all the tri-
butaries which create the Murray until il
junctions with the Murrumbidgee out west, far
past Albury and Echuca and Swan Hill; and,
if Victoria ever starts irrigation-works on a
huge scale, it can wipe a big share of New South
Wales’ other big river practically off the map.
And the N.S. W. delegates, mainly for the sake
of preserving full control of their Darling river
in view of a possible great irrigation system
some time far ahead, are clamoring for a policy
which will enable Queensland to annex a great
part of it bodily. Also, N.S. W. claims to be sole
owner of the Murray, and yet its representa-
tives advocate a policy which gives Victoria
a very large control of the Murray waters.
Plainly, it doesn’t take much knowledge to
make a politician—even a leading politician in
Australia.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Lukewarm Holder.
The suggestion made by Treasurer Holder, of
S.A., that the less populous provinces should
wait to see the result of the Federal vote in
N.S.W. before taking a poll, so that, if the
national cause goes down, they can save the
expense of taking any poll at all, shows that
the lukewarm preacher - man from Adelaide
has got things wrong end up. If arrangement
can’t be made for taking the vote in all t he pm


vinces simultaneously on an early (lay, then the
next, best thing is for t lie small provinces to
hustle all they know. The cornstalk Premier
is the only one of the five who has deliberately
proposed postponing the Federal referendum
tor six months or so—apparently with a view
to letting things freeze. N.B.W. is the pro-
vince where there is the least chance of getting
an affirmative vote, because there the propor-
tion of voters required to carry Federation is
now tar larger than it is anywhere else. Also,
it is the only province which, by the terms of
the Enabling Act, must be included before
t here can be any Federation. And these are
just the reasons why it shouldn’t be waited
tor. If the other provinces go ahead with-
out delay, there will be all the less
excuse for the large, lukewarm laggard
to hang back; and, considering how eagerly
the Reid Government is looking for excuses to
hang back, that is so much the more cause why
it should get none. Further, if the other pro-
vinces carry Federation by big votes, there is
so much the more chance of the requisite vote
in N.S.W., for enthusiasm is contagious as well
as indifference and panic. Also, if the other
provinces fall into line, and Federation only
scores, say, 70,000 votes at the N.S. W. polls,
it will then be so obvious that the national
cause has been wrecked solely through the
treachery of the cornstalk Legislature in depart-
ing from the original agreement (under which
the required minimum vote was fixed at 50,000),
that it is just possible the Act may be amended
back again, if only for shame’s sake. And if
Federation does fall through, and Premier
Reid’s breakage of the original agreement is
the cause, the other Premiers, for the sake of
their own good name, need to paste it up in ten-
foot letters on the biggest dead wall available
that such was the cause, and that neither they
nor their provinces are responsible. Otherwise
it will only be remembered in after years that
N.S. W. took a vote on the subject without suc-
cess, and that sundry wretchedly-unpatrioticper-
sons named Kingston and Turner and Braddon
and Forrest were so indifferent to their mag-
nificent opportunity that they wouldn’t even
submit the matter to their respective states. If
all the other provinces let the matter drop, and
Tasmania alone carried the acceptance of the
Federal Constitution by a majority of one, and
that last lone voter was a disreputable charac-
ter, just out of gaol, it would at least be
remembered to Braddon’s credit that he was
the one boss politician who saw the matter
through, however uselessly, to the bitter end,
while louder men of greater political ton-
nage fell in the ditch. And that would be
something to be proud of, anyhow.
The Gathering 1 of the Clans.
Writes Thos. Ewing, M.L.A.:—
Dear Bulletin,—Many professedly fervent Federalists
in N.S.VV. attested their genuineness recently by passing
legislation which isrnored the time-honored principle that
the niajority is entitled to rule. They strengthened the
position of the anti-Federalist by stipulating that, al-
though a majority of one against Union is to be sufficient
to destroy it, a majority of 79,000 in its favor doesn’t
necessarily carry it. The niajority in favor of Union must
consist of 80,000 suffrages or the vote is to be regarded as
tantamount to a defeat. You have so fully exposed the
injustice of this procedure that it is not necessary to
make any further reference to the main question. The
anti-Federalist understands the difficulty likely to be ex-
perienced in persuading any people to surrender pro-
vincial rights even to participate in the greater privileges
of nationhood. When the union of England and Scotland
was accomplished, in the early part of the eighteenth
century, few Highlanders would have relinquished
the privilege of massacring the retainers of a rival
chief in an adjoining glen, on any terms what-
ever. The Highlander’s intense loyalty to his chief,
and .his obligations to his clan, were the only responsi-
bilities to which he was accustomed, and he could imagine
no other. Any change from the state of isolated rapine
in which he lived would, to him, have seemed unbear-
able. His ignorance and petty spirit was bred of loyalty
to a state of things not worth preserving. For the High-
lander we find an excuse, since clan cohesion was, for a
lengthy period, essential to his existence ; but it is diffi-
cult to explain why the question of union should be
viewed in the same light by communities which have not
been hammered into serious antagonism. Still the same
species of argument which obtruded itself at the Union
of England and Scotland found its counterpart in the
debates during the critical times when the American
colonies paused on the brink of union, and again at the
creation of the Dominion of Canada.
The fact that time has refuted these doleful apprehen-
sions does not affect the provincialist in Australia; he
grinds out the same old dirge, which has done dntv on
every previous similar occasion, as strenuously as if the
world had never before heard it. The essence of this wail
is the splendid quality of his own clan (or province), and
the degeneracy of those separated from him by a parallel
of latitude or the width of a stream.
The fervent Federalists, who have been borrowed by
the provincialists, endeav our plausibly to defend them-
selves under the pretext that unless union springs spon-
taneously from an overwhelming niajority of the people
it is not worth having.
This passionate demand by the whole people for Feder-
ation is possible only in the trail of some appalling
humiliation, which, by union, it is possible to avoid.
Let me direct the attention of the fervent Federalist to
the difficulty experienced in obtaining majorities for the
unions previously mentioned, with regard to the supreme
wisdom-of which there is now no question.
In .Scotland, Union was ushered in with the direst fore-
bodings and prophecies of misery and humiliation. The
step was taken in the face of hitter opposition ; no enthu-
siasm was manifested—nothing more than a sullen acqui-
escence. Of the wisdom of the action, and the vast
material advantage therefrom, there is now no question.
Again, those who endeavor to find an excuse for aiding
the anti-Federalist by placing a snag in the Federal
stream, make no attempt to show any evidence of any
outburst of enthusiasm at the creation of the United
States of America.
Of course, the Constitution of the United States is very
defective, and suffered much from the absence of some
of our Australian statesmen ; but it does well enough for
sixty millions of people. Notwithstanding the terrible
indictment.against- it which has been delivered by our
local authorities, and the fact that the American people
generally regret that a benign Providence did not create
these able men in sufficient time to enable them to have
fully advised the framers of that Constitution—generally
speaking, an American values his nationality more than
his stateship, and believes the Union has been a splendid
success. But there was less enthusiasm than adverse
comment at its birth. Localism (as here) was stirred up
by squibs and pamphlets abler and coarser than anything
the anti-Federalist has yet produced in Australia. Hamil-
ton and Madison were “ mere boys” ; Franklin, an “ old
dotard”; Washington, a “born fool.” “The colonies
had done well enough without union ; why make anv
change?” 1
In some of the States the proposed new Constitution
was cursed. The State of New'York approved by a bare
majority of three. No enthusiasm, few immense majori-
ties; hut sensible men deliberately did what was right in
the face of scurrilous and virulent opposition.
Again, in Canada—but everyone knows the story of the
croakings in that country and their refutation.
In no instance has Federation been accomplished by
the sweeping, overwhelming niajority which the ferveiff
federalists profess to expect in Australia, but reluctantly,
m the face of large minorities, has the step been taken,’
and in every instance it has been fully justified by subse-
quent experience.
The provincialist is busy fomenting local jealousy ; he
understands that “ a man s shirt is closer than his coat.”
The anti-Unionist scored when he persuaded the fervent
federalists to give provincialism a double chance.
♦
The Alleged Tropical Chow.
Pritchard Morgan, the painfully British indi-
vidual who was once a Queenslander, is per-
fectly frank about his reasons for advocating
the establishment of a Chinese-and-nigger pro-
vince in Northern Australia :
His idea is to draw a line across the continent of Aus-
tralia barring off those portions wherein European labor
has been found practically impossible. This would form
a fresh colony called “North Australia,” and to it the
immigration of Chinese, coolies, etc., would be permitted.
By taking this step the colonies concerned would gain
much and would be opened up by the capitalists, who are
now scared by the impossible labor conditions, and in
return for permitting Chinese immigration you could
extract important concessions. “At present,” says Mr.
Morgan, “ when you complain to Li Hung Chang of'the
English trader being barred out of China, he smiles
sweetly and observes that his countrymen are similarly
treated in Australia.”
There is no disguise about that, anyway. Aus-
tralia, according to Morgan’s idea, is to endure
the presence of the leprous Chow, not for any
payment which it will personally receive, but
to pa,y China for admitting the English trader
to his Flowery Land. And what better will
Australia be if the English, or the Greek, or the
Yankee, or any other trader is admitted to the
Flowery Land? Also, why should this country
care one bush swear whether anybody is ad-
mitted there or not, or pay for anybody’s
admission there ? Moreover, there is no part
of Australia where Australian white labor
has ever been found impossible. In N.S.W.,
Victoria, S.A., and South Queensland a new
white race is already formed which can stand
the climate of any part of Australia. Whether
European labor is or is not possible in the
North doesn’t matter in the least ; no one asks
European labor to go there. But white Aus-
tralian labor is possible there, and the white
Australian will swarm into the North when the
South gets a little more crowded. And in any
case the Chow, as a man who is specially
adapted to a hot climate, is a very foolish
superstition. He comes from a comparatively
cool country. The most tropical part of China
is only in the same latitude as Bowen (Q.).
The coolest part of China proper is in the
parallel of Southern Tasmania, and the coolest
part of the Chinese empire is equivalent to
being far south of the furthest south part of
Maoriland—well on the way to the South Pole.
China may be averaged as being in the same
latitude as Katoomba, in the N.S. W. Blue
Mountains. r lhe Chow capital has an average
temperature five degrees colder than that of
Melbourne, and the Chow really dies off faster
in North Australia than the white man. The
only reason why he is supposed to be specially
fitted for the place is that he dies with much
less fuss—in which respect he resembles the
Kanaka, who is supposed to be specially fitted
for work in the Queensland canefields (where
he dies several times as fast as the white),
simply because the white takes no notice of his
awful death-rate. And when Pritchard
Morgan, or anybody like him, prattles through
his shiny silk hat about the special fitness of
the yellow heathen to live in the Far North,
he is gibbering through his tile in a very foolish
manner indeed.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Lyne’s announce-
ment that when he becomes Premier Lyne he
will have a land-tax for Local Government pur-
poses only, ought to be made a trifle more ex-
plicit. At present, certainly, the situation is
very much mixed. A very large part of
N.S.W. is under no municipal Government and
pays no local rates. The municipally-governed
portion pays most of its own local expenses,
and a State land-tax, and (per medium of its
contribution to the general revenue) more than
half the local expenses of the part that has no
municipal Government. Theunincorporated por-
tion of the province pays a State land-tax and
(through its contribution to the general revenue)
rather less than half its own local expenses. If
Premier Lyne (supposing there ever is such a
person) established a good system of Local
Government over the whole of N.S.W. ; enacted
that local rates were to be levied on the value
of lands alone (not on improvements); enacted,
also, that the minimum rate was to equal the
present average local rates and the present
State land-tax ; abolished all State aid to
municipalities except in the thinly-peopled
regions of the far west, and greatly re-
duced the borrowing powers of munici-
palities ; and then abolished the State land-tax,
it would be in some respects as broad as it is
long. The land would pay about the same, and
the distinct advantage would be that there
would be much less buying of political support
with roads and bridges and the like. The dis-
tinct disadvantage would be that there w’ould
be little chance of applying the graduated
taxation principle and very little prospect of
the much-needed absentee tax. And, anyhow,
The Bulletin hereby sorrowfully bets its
other boots that there is nothing so comprehen-
sive and radical as this in Lyne’s programme.
R. E. O’Connor, Convention delegate from
N.S.YV. : “In the surrender of the Murray
N.S.W. has given up the exclusive rights over
the best collecting ground for the supply of
water in Australia.” The Bulletin desires to
present the usually accurate but, in this case, the
horribly ignorant “ Dick ” O’Connor with the
following: A very large part of the waters
from the N.S.W. range known as the Snowy
Mountains—the collecting-ground in question
—fall into the Snowy River and go down into
Victoria, therefore the Murray arrangement
doesn’t affect that part. The Murray doesn’t
rise in N.S.W. at all, but (under the
name of the Indi) in Victoria among
the Australian Alps, therefore N.S.W.
never had exclusive possession of the
“collecting ground” above-mentioned. As
a further commentary on the said “ex-
clusive possession,” Victoria supplies the
following tributariesGoulburn, 345 miles
long; Mitta-Mitta, 175 miles long; Lod-
dan, 225 miles ; Campaspe, 150 miles ; Ovens,
140 miles ; the Cudgewah, Corryong, and a
great network of creeks flowing down from the
Alps. N.S. VV. supplies only three creeks large
enough to have a name on the map until the
Murrumbidgee drops in, which isn’t till
the Murray is nearly out of N.S. Wales
territory. But the surrender which O’Connor
was speaking about was that of the Murray,
apart from the Murrumbidgee, and if the
Murray only is federalised, and N.S.W. retains
control of the Murrumbidgee, Lachlan, and
Darling, it is Victoria which is giving up almost
exclusive control over what is nearly, though
not quite, the best collecting-ground in Aus-
tralia. N.S.W. is giving up just about nothing
in the way of collecting-ground or water-supply.
If a politician of O’Connor’s standing doesn’t
know a little thing like this, wdiat can be ex-
pected from the smaller fry ? And what chance
has Federation, when even its leading advocates
won’t take the trouble to learn the position of
things, and block progress by sheer gross
ignorance and blundering ?
When the promised Bill authorising a Referen-
dum on the fiscal question and on Upper House
reform in N.S.W. conies along, The Bulletin
presumes that both Reid and Lyne will demand
that there must not only be a majority, but a
majority including at least 80,000 votes, before
any change is made. In this matter Protection
and Federation and Council-reform stand on
exactly the same level. Freetrade and Provin-
cialism and the existing crowd of ancient
nominees are the things which exist. They
shouldn’t be interfered with unless the country
is ripe for a change. If 80,000 voters won’t roll
up to advocate a change, then it is evident that
the country isn’t ripe. That is the way that
both Reid and Lyne argued in the case
of Federation, at all events, and this paper,
which tries to be logical as well as objection-
able, doesn’t see why the same reasoning
shouldn’t apply all round. In fact, it doesn’t
see why, on LYNE’sown reasoning, the mode of
Parliamentary election shouldn’t be altered
and Reid’s crowd be allowed to hold office,
even if nobody votes for them, unless Lyne’s
crowd can raise 80,000 votes against them.
Reid represents the statu* quo just as much as
provincialism does, and if 80,000 people won’t
take the trouble to vote that he be thrown out
then evidently the country isn’t ripe, &c., &c.
The familiar wail about the painfully hard and
green state of the country comes in just as well
in one place as in the other.
•*
Somebody draws attention to a string of
carriages “ standing in Little Collins-street,
Melb., every Sunday morning, waiting for their
godly owners—a class that howls against Sun-
day labor.” The Bulletin, with all its born
antipathy to church-carriage people, is not
quite sure that they do howl against Sunday
labor. The sanctified small capitalist who
walks to the tabernacle, attended by his un-
happy offspring, and leaves his wife to cook
the dinner, is the representative howler in this
matter. And what is a coachman’s labor, any-
how ? He prepares a horse and vehicle for a
drive, and gets a drive - “ on his own.” In short,
he does for wages very much the same thing that
an ordinary Sunday sinner who can borrow a
buggy does for love every time he gets the
chance. Ihe oppression of the workingman,
as regards driving Midas to church, lies mainly
in the fact that Alidas “ orders ” the carriage,
instead of saying to his coachman : “ Lo ! it is
the Sabbath-day, John ; suppose we drive to
church together. I will endure the sermon
whilst you wait outside on the box-seat and
praise the Lord.” From which point of view
the bloated plutocrat seems to be providing
rational Sunday recreation for the poor toiler.
The official tabooing of Sydney and Melbourne
“ hospital stamps ” by the British Philatelic
Association, or whatever it calls itself, is one
of those unexpected things which was most
likely to happen. An awful rush for these
engravings, at twelve times their postage value,
arose from the simple philatelic fact that a
certain number of wealthy cranks in various
parts of the world will pay a more or less extra-
vagant price for every stamp, and inasmuch
as the number of cranks exceeds the number of
2Jd. hospital stamps issued at 2s. 6d., dealers
reckoned themselves safe in applying for large
parcels of the silly “ stock.” Nobody cared a
dump about the hospitals; everybody was a
dealer, with usurious designs upon the
stamp - collecting plutocracy. The Sydney
scheme, subsequently imitated in Melbourne,
was an appeal to cupidity, not charity. Seem-
ingly the B.P.A. found itself cornered as
regards Australian hospital stamps ; individual
collectors couldn’t buy the stock at a reasonable
advance, so they arose in one great indignant
body and disqualified it. Unless Baron Roths-
child, or the Duke of York, or some similarly
notorious crank, can be induced to tighten the
silken bonds by getting this disqualification
removed, for the sake of Her Majesty’s loyal
Australian stamp dealers, public and private,
the hospital stamps will be worth nothing more*
than their postage value. And this, in a great
many cases, has been already destroyed by
postmarking, which the Government consented
to perform gratis at the request of philatelic
customers.
+
“ Hermes ” to The Bulletin:
Re your statement of 25/12/’97, the writer, as an ex-
patient, can honestly say that the Sydney Coast Hospital
scandal is a very small scandal indeed—if it is a scandal
at all. The poor down-trodden nurse is certainly “on
duty” on an average 11 hours per day, but by no stretch
of imagination can she be said to work. All the drudgery
is done by convalescents, and, failing these, men are sent
from the lock wards to do it. The dainty nurse does little
but make up a few beds in artistic style ; cool the fevered
brow, and that sort of thing; do a'little dressing, and
talk metaphysics with interesting young men patients;
while the lock-warder sweeps out the ward, scrubs the
floor and lockers, bath-bricks the tables and forms,
washes-up the dishes, polishes the forks, carts round hot
water and beef-tea, carries the food from the kitchen, and
acts as a servant generally. Nurses have nothing to do
with the laundry ; it is run by a special staff of strong
Hibernian ladies, assisted by a contingent of loek-
warders. As regards the little work the ministering angel
does do there are plenty of her to do it: and all
the talk about “duties protracted to exhaustion” is bosh.
Truly the nurses should have one-day-in-seven rest, but
even without it they are better off than thousands of
good women in domestic service, shops and factories, who,
after the doors are shut and the front lights out, have to
work much harder for as long, and often longer, hours in
a very different atmosphere. Little Bay is one of the
healthiest places in N.S.W., the ward's are all small
separate buildings, and have a continual stream of fresh
air flowing through them. But there are two people in
the Coast Hospital treatment is a scandal ;
and they are the medical superintendent and the
wardsman in charge of the lock wards. Includ- .
ing the medical superintendent there are only three- *
doctors to the whole big hospital and sanatorium, and
besides supervising the institution, the supfe, has to do a
big share of the medical work, and to be present at nl*
operations (sometimes they operate two days a week)
the hospital supplies “married” quarters for the
mechanics, who only work from 8 a.m. till spm and
never on Sundays, but the married wardsman, who has
all the dirty work of two lock-wards, and who is required
at nights and on Sundays, is charged ±5O per year by a
niggardly Government for singde quarters, and has to
feep a home in JBolany for his wife and family. And if
the Govt, can’t afford to treat these two men better, it can
afford to lessen their work by suppressing the quacks who
flood the hospitals with their wrecks after having ex-
tracted all the hard cash from their pockets.
Geo. Black, M.L.A., writes (on both sides of
the paper) as follows :
,J'! F®Pb’ to an art ' c ' e of this week’s issue, let me say
that the question asked me was : “ Is it not better to tax
foreign products than our own?” I replied that a tax on
land was, in most cases, by no manner of means a tax on
products. At the same time, your position with regard
to unimproved value is far from impregnable. Unim-
proved value chiefly arises from the concentration of
Population. When the population departs, it leaves the
land behind, but the value has emigrated—with the
people. When they form a new settlement, it again
squats on the land. But it is not in the land; it is out-
side it. Not from within but from without. An exterior
condition removable with the circumstances that oc-
casioned it. Therefore, the results of no man’s exertion
or foresiuht; therefore, strictly, no man’s property;
therefore, a fit subject of taxation.
What The Bulletin said was that the Single-
taxer is fond of splitting dreary hairs by deny-
ing that he wants to tax land, and alleging that
he only wants to tax the unimproved value of
the land. And Dibbs, in the same manner of
speaking, didn’t put any tax on the great bulk
of the articles on bis tariff—lie only taxed the
imported value of them. Tor instance, tie put
10 per cent, on telescopes and thermometers,
telephones, tacks, and iron tanks. Unless there
are people to look through the telescope, and
keep water or possibly rum in the tank, and to
drive the tack in straight, these things have no
value whatever. The same applies to every-
thing else. A whole forest of mahogany isn’t
worth a cent unless there is a popula-
tion _to use it, and all the edible
fish in the sea have no cash value unless
there are people to catch and eat them.
Everything, as well as land, owes its value to
the presence of population. And the Single-
taxer who says that he doesn’t tax land, but
only the unimproved value of land, should be
equally accurate about the Protectionist, and
say that in most cases he doesn’t tax imports,
but only the imported value of imports. On
the other hand, if the latter fellow, when he
levies ad valorem duties, taxes imports, as the
Single-tax man says he does, then the Single-
tax man does tax land, and the hair that he
splits so carefully is a very ridiculous hair, and
not worth splitting. The other thing that The
Bulletin said was that it advocated a land-
tax, and didn’t mind saying so straight-out—
that it didn’t want to waste time splitting the
small, aggravating hair aforesaid.
Federation Convention
Vignettes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
George Reid.
A sophist-statesman, ever-gay,
Whose brow no cares corrode ;
He loves the shady, crooked way,
And hates the plain, straight road.
Barton.
A full, rich-brained, rich-blooded man,
Who, when the doubting cliques
Exclaim “ We might,” says out “ I can
And knows more than he speaks.
Brunker.
A pious statesman ! Phoenix rare
In any time or clime !
He makes men wish that Virtue were
A punishable Crime.
B. R. Wise.
A brilliant man,
Too keen to rise ;
Too large of plan,
Too always—Wise.
George Turner.
A man who hates exaggeration,
This cool, strong Leader of the State ;
A soupgon of imagination
Would make him almost great.
Graham Berry.
Grey Tribune of a vanished day,
Though sunk is now your star,
You, looking on the rest, might say—
“ I was more than they are.”
Peacock.
He laughs when graven statesmen groan ;
So gay is he.
Alas ! He even now is known
As—“ L'Homme qui rit.”
Isaacs.
Incisive, keen, without endeavour ;
Were he—so friends suppose—
A little deeper, and Jess clever,
He might be what he chose.
Trenwith.
The People’s Tribune ! sound and straight,
And hard to harm ;
He lacks, to make a Leader Great,
But one thing—Charm.
Alfred Deakin.
A man of talent and of clean good sense,
Who speaks with polished air—
On silver floods of his own eloquence
Ho floats to God knows where.
Kingston, President of Convention.
His bluff voice has a hearty ring ;
The man himself is straight ;
He might be almost anything
But —Maker of a State.
Braddon.
One who, in days gone by, has been
An actor brave in dramas bold,,
But who, for this Historic Scene,
Is all too sick, and tired, and old.
Van Dobson.
Tasmania’s Tower of Strength, you see,
First Tory in that little nation —
An o d red sandstone statesman he,
Of Heav’n alone knows what formation.
Adye Douglas.
A reverend figure, Moses-like,
With glances ever rearward cast,
Who, while the Clocks of Progress strike,
Advances backwards towards the Past.
Forrest.
A kind of King Dontgiveadam,
Without regalia,
Whose air and carriage say “I am,
By G d, Westralia ! ”
CREEVE ROE.


THE MUTUAL LIFE . . .
INSURANCE COMPANY
. . . OE NEW YORK.
ESTABLISHED 1543. RICHARD A. McCURDY, President.
STATEMENT for 1007.
Assets exceed ...
Surplus exceeds
Income exceeds ...
Hew Business exceeds...
(Just received by cable.)
£52,100,000 Gain over 1896
7,290,000
11,121,000
27,879,000
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT
£3,900,000
1,190,000
700,000
1,431,000
(Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager)
Company’s Buildings, Martin Place, Sydney.
The. .
Infinite.
Capacity
for , ,
taking.
Pains. .
Which characterises
all our work, enables
us to guarantee ab-
solute satisfaction in
every case
We invite you to
call and see our spec-
iraens of Photo-
graphic Art ....
We have spared
neither labour nor
expense in main-
taining our acknow-
ledged position at
the head of our pro-
fession in this city.
Six Enamelled Cabinet Portraits,
with Beautifully Finished Enlarge- I
ment in Permanent Bromide or J
Opal. Any style or pose. No extras J
7/6
Portrait
Corppaoy
480 GEORGE STREET
(ground floor, no stairs.)
OPPOSITE MAIN ENTRANCE TO NEW MARKETS.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Babes in the Wood."
Lyceum “ Work and Wages."
Criterion “Mamma.”
Tivoli Rickards' Comhined Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess “ Ben-my-Chree.”
Royal “ Dick Whittington.”
Opera House “Jack the Giant-Killer.
Alexandra Dan. Barry’s Dramatic Co
The lamented vanishment of “ Miss
Brown” has been temporarily averted, a pro-
mising state of business having induced the Cri-
terion management to extend that lady till to-
morrow (Friday) night. In bygone times, when a
lady was extended, it was generally done by %
machine which dragged her out to an unnatural
length on account of her religious opinions—but
this is a mere aside. Next Saturday Thornton
proposes to stage “ Mamma,” which is, so far as
.Ihjs Bulletin remembers, the only modern play
in which a gentleman smacks a lady in public. A
great many ladies in this country are smacked
very hard privately—some of them, perhaps,
being considerably improved thereby—and among
them are quite a number of ladies who look the
very last persons that any one would expect to be
smacked ; but the publicity given to the spanking
of the lady in “ Mamma ” makes the case some-
what unusual. The present version of “ Miss
Brown ” has gone well so far. Miss Clare Mani-
field has Noney Seabrooke’s old part as Angela,
and does it in a bright, fresh, off-hand fashion.
She looks young enough to have just escaped
oyer the wall of a boarding-school with her
nightdress in a bag, and youth counts for a lot in
such a case. Miss Madge Corcoran is the dusky
maid from the isles where the unripe alligator
chases the mosquito in the spring, and the land-
crab goes laboriously along the pebbly beaches in
the twilight. This paper hasn’t decided in its
own mind whether Miss Corcoran is as good as
the last brown girl or not, the last brown girl being
one that requires a lot of beating ; but, if she
doesn’t get quite there, she arrives very near to it.
Messrs. Cochrane and Carey fill the places of two
gentlemen who went off with a loud report since
Thornton’s last Sydney appearance, and the rest
of the capable cast is mostly as it was before.
• * * *
In the present issue appear the portraits of
Misses Clare Manifield and Florence Poole of the
Criterion co. They attained the distinction of a
place in this usually rather unappreciative and
grumpy paper by reason of the excellent work
which they did in “Sweet Lavender.” Miss
M inifield shook a shower of golden curls at the
universe generally in the character of Lavender
to the satisfaction of a discriminating public, and
the Minnie Gilfillian of Miss Poole was a par-
ticularly agreeable vision dressed in a lot of some-
thing which looked, to the ignorant male eye, as if
it had cost a good deal and a halfpenny per yard.
Both girls did their parts cleverly and intel-
ligently, and they look nice enough to excuse the
appearance of their photos, even if they hadn’t
done so.
** * *
The present Sydney Lyceum drama goes
off on Friday, on which night Diver will crumple
up in the dock for the last time. Diver is sup-
posed to have heart disease (not aggravated corns),
and when the jury finds him guilty of pouring
Maud Williamson’s vital fluid all over the pre-
mises he slowly telescopes together with his head
hanging over the spikes, and two policemen try
vainly to prop up the remains. The curtain goes
down with the remains hanging in every direction
except the right one in the arms of policeman
H’X, and flatly refusing to stand up straight and
be lectured, while the judge, with his sentence
unfinished, vainly endeavors to catch the eye of
the deceased and get some impressive remarks off
at him. As the eye of the deceased is all over
the shop, according to how his head wobbles on
the shoulder of policeman H’X, the failure of his
Honor is quite natural. The next Lyceum pro-
duction isn’t officially announced at time of
writing.
** * *
“Babes in the Wood” has lasted into a
second edition at Her Majesty’s, and is now the
lone survivor of the three pantomimes which came
down on Sydney at Xmas. Another week will
see it extinguished also. The new edition
songs are. not more of a success in a topical sense
than the last ones, but the topical element has
been weak all round this year. Probably the
trouble was that there was very little material
available. There are no politics going, except the
Federal Convention, about which the public is
very tired ; it is unsafe to say anything severe
concerning the Carruthers libel-case, as it
might lead to the warbler being committed for
contempt; and the bank which looked like
bursting appears to have come round. Still the
panto, gets on about as well without any topical
element. Alice Leamar has quitted the co., and
Miss Carrie Moore, formerly a “Babe,” is Maid
Marion in her stead. Two much smaller babes,
Connie Solomon and Isabel Hindley, now appear
in place of the original pair, but without having
any fault to find with these two cheerful
mites, this paper prefers its babes large. The
sho.v is as beautiful as ever, and Miss Reeve's
Robin Hood is a dream of loveliness as usual. So
are most of the other girls. As for Uncle,
he is still drinking himself into an early grave as
formerly, and a tombstone that hangs sideways,
with its epitaph tipped over its ear, is being got
ready for him.
** * *
Rickards’ show at Sydney Tivoli makes
good time as usual along the heavy road to success,
and some of the old people are doing their last
nights, and some new people of immense musical
and comedy tonnage are to arrive shortly. Emily
Lyndale has reappeared, and Newbury and Austin
Rudd, having taken solid root in the public soul,
appear to stay on indefinitely.
** * *
By the time this appears in print Rickards’
pantomime will have gone to sleep with its fathers,
and Sydney Royal will have relapsed into its
usual darkness.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess's, last Saturday, a
crowded audience gave a lot of silent attention to
“ Ben-my-Chroe,” adapted and altered from “The
Deemster.” “ Ben-my-Chree ” is doubtless a
“tremendously powerful play” from every, or
nearly every, actor’s point of view. It is loaded
to the muzzle with situations and business of a
highly theatrical character. It represents the
leading characters in such a large variety of suffer-
ings that it must be a painful entertainment for
those who feel persuaded by it. Is “ Ben-my-
Chree ” a truthful-seeming story of what might
have happened on the Isle of Man 150 years
ago ? Tne present writer finds it unconvinc-
ing, and therefore dull —a gloomy disappoint-
ment, in fact. Whereas the tragic interest of
“The Manxman ” seemed to arise naturally from
the narrative, the appeals for interest in “ Ben-my-
Chree ” have a false ring. It seems a play sug-
gested by Wilson Barrett, the actor, Jor actor
Wilson Barrett, who fills the principal part, and
is seldom absent from the centre of the stage. A
very frequent recurrence of the same character in
the centre of the stage grows oppressive when the
character is not a great reality. Mr. Barrett starts
operations as an unsober young man addicted to
bursts of hollow merriment and small jokes. After
sharing a rather feeble love-scene with Miss
Jeffries, in the course of which they sing a doleful
song, he falls under false suspicion of having
visited her bedroom by stealth. Next act he has to
kill the lady’s indignant brother in self-defence,
though it were easy to explain matters, and Act
HI. brings him to trial before a couple of Judge
Windeyers, who conduct the prosecution On
bloodthirsty Manx principles, and condemn the
prisoner to death. Wilson Barrett would have to
die on the gallows at this point but for his aged
father, the bishop of the ridiculous little island.
Aged Bishop commands the Windeyer men to get
off their judgment seats, and they get, whereupon
his reverence assumes sole control of the tribunal,
by virtue of an obsolete Manx law. The sentence
of this weird, peculiar court is that Wilson Barrett
be set apart from humanity in general, and left to
endure a Robinson Cruso« existence on the Isle of
Man. Stage thunder and lightning intensifies the
horror of the situation. The court and population
retire hastily, and a tableau of the felon kneeling
alone amidst the fury of the elements brings the
judicial proceedings to a close.
* * * *
For the next few months Wilson Barrett
is a sad and solitary herring-catcher, and then a
young fisherman (the' least irrational being in the
whole show) coming to see him, despite the paren-
tal Bishop’s decree, takes him away towards his
best girl, Mona. Things are going badly with
Mona. The Governor of the island has lodged
a malicious charge of unchastity against
her, but the dear old Bishop excavates
another Minx law which enables the virgin,
to proclaim her innocence in church, there-
by convicting his Excellency the Governor of
criminal libel. Miss Jeffreys swears, also Wilson
Barrett comes along to confirm her oath, and the
Governor is arrested on the spot. Good old
Bishop, having praised his son, W. 8., for nobly
testifying the lady’s innocence, orders him off for
execution in fulfilment of the original Windeyer
sentence. Fortunately, Mona drops dead in her
lover’s arms. By the light of the lime streaming
down upon his countenance one can see that Wil-
son Barrett hopes to rejoin his sweetheart in
Heaven the moment he is hanged. Here falleth
the curtain on a play which, according to London
D.T. and other reliable journals, “ unlocks the
casket of human nature and shows us the deeper
man, the truer woman, the nobler life.’’ Rats !
• • * *
“ Ben-niy-Chreo ”is beautifully mounted
(scenery by Goateher), and the stage-management
is melodramatically effective. Wilson Barrett’s
performance is strongest in the manslaughter
scene, but throughout the piece he acts up to the
best traditions of the school in which he was
trained, and the roll of his elocution should be an
example for the youth of this country. Pretty
Miss Jeffries scores as Mona, and the company
give able support all round. If “ Ben-my-Chree ”
runs for a second week several members of the co.
will get honorable mention in next issue. But
this is a quick-change season, and “Silver King ”
will be wanted shortly.
** * *
The pantomime at the Royal published its
second edition on Saturday. The new items
were probably an improvement on some that got
cleared away to make room for them, and the
brightest item in the panto. - a coon song-atid-
dance by eight youngsters—had been left in much
tie same condition as at first. “Dick Whitting-
ton.” seemingly, will run for about six more
nights and two matinees, and when the bulky
spectacle has breathed its last in Melbourne the
Holloway-Anderson management will produce
“Grattan Riggs,” or some other drama of that
description.
* * *
A few more remarks about the wonderful
Hegelmanns at Melb. Opera House are postponed
indefinitely because the Hegelmanns, and Miss
Lilian Tree, and Whitburn, and every other mem-
ber of the present variety co., will shift their
quarters after Friday. The Rickards’ pantomime
from Sydney is due at the Opera House on Satur-
day next (sth), and, seeing that several gorgeous
accounts of “Jack the Giant Killer ” have been
received in advance, the forthcoming sensation
may reckon on a boomsome greeting when it
arrives. Prices for the panto, season are fixed at
3,2, and 1, and Melbourne is cordially invited to
book its seats a fortnight in advance.
** « *
“ Never Too Late to Mend ” is putting in
a week at Melb. Alexandra, where Charles
Reade’s respectable old drama puts a severe strain
on the resources of Dan Barry’s eo. At times like
the present The Bulletin regrets to mention
that the resources aforesaid don’t amount to much.
Some of the Haleck comedians can show a little
cause and reason for their histrionic tendencies,
but there are others among them who should be
arrested in their mad career and bound down not
to act for the remaining term of their, natural
lives. All the same, “Never too Late.” drew a
fair'y large attendance on the first night, and the
announcement of a Startling Novelty for next
Saturday indicates that Dan Barry has further
designs upon his friends in front.
At Poverty Point .
A theatrical divorce-case now on the tapis should make
pood reading. It seems the husband is a barman, whom
the lady—very beautiful and very talented—somehow
or other contrived to marry four years ago. She declares
she left him next day, and that no conjugal fondlements
occurred. He tells another tale, and defies her to divorce
him, as his record is clean.
At a variety show in an Australian city on a recent
Saturday night three items were contributed hy female
serio-comics. All three songs were about prostitutes. Of
late street-walking has quite displaced child-birth and
under-garments in our 'alls as a humorous theme.
Melbourne tobacconist Bentwieh, who some years ago
printed a fat testimonial from G. A. Sala on his bags
(trade bags, not personal), is retiring from biz. “ Day
tickets at Bentwitch’s” has been a familiar line in Melb.
theatrical advts. for years, but he had no wild longing to
sell benefit tickets. His laugh is said to be the heartiest
in Australia, but the man who heard him laugh is so far
undiscovered.
Adelina Patti has been left a widow by the faithful
Nicolini, who for years watched over her valuable health
and checked the diva’s occasional disposition to take half-
an-ounce more of food or wine than was good for her.
Tenor Nicolini was an operatic hero until about the time
when he formally took up the position of Patti’s husband
in succession to the Marquis de Caux. Nic. had figured
as the co. in the Marquis s divorce suit.
Patti could never get people to tolerate Nicolini. He
was a shiny, hlack-e.ved man, always dressed in Continen-
tal-cut garments, and a tall hat, and patent-leather
boots. He looked a sort of lackey', and not. of the first
class either. And he had no conversation. But he could
sing, and play' billiards, and never gave Adelina any
trouble, and so was suited to the sphere of work to which
it pleased Providence and the diva to call him.
Albani will be accompanied to Australia by that sweetest
and most effective of all ballad tenors, Orlando Harley,
who was fairly worshipped here during his all-too short
previous visit. The veteran will also have with her Miss
Sarah Berry, contralto, and basso Pauli.
They were speaking of “ Virginius ” at the Princess bar
in an interval between drinks. “Who is the author of
this piece, anyhow?” asked the fatman. “Knowles,”
taid his friend over his glass. “ Knowles ? That’ll be the
seller that was singin’ here a while back. Shouldn’t ’a
thought it was in his line.”
Sheridan Knowles, author of “ Virginius,” renounced
the stage and took to Baptist preaching. An
evangelical brought this under Henry Irving’s notice.
Irving pointed out that Knowles went on taking the
royalties from his plays as long as he lived. He had mar-
ried a brilliant young actress, Miss Elphinstone, whose
portrait appears as Constance, in ‘The Love Chase,’in
Cumberland's ‘ British Drama.’ It is remarkable that
Miss Elphinstone, though comparatively in the heyday of
.youth, took on the drab color even more strongly than
Knowles.
The much-adored Gaietv co. of two years ago are
all variously settled. Fred. Kaye married little
Murray', of the co., on landing in London ; the cold-
looking, floppy Blanche Massey married an English ad-
mirer ; Decima Moore accepted her Hope, and has to keep
the family pot boiling; Ethel SeUvyn left the boat, at a
way-port, and hasn't yet returned to public life; Claire
Leighton, in Sydney, married Mr. Alf. Marks and settled
down to country life, and intends soon to take a trip to
Europe with her husband and infant daughter.
Holdar : “ Find it heavy hardship to suffer from ‘that
tired feeling ’ and be confronted with a plain statement
of the current symptoms on the curtain of a panto., to
which place I had fled for relief. Appreciated, however,
the limelight man's delicacy in casting a genial, greenish
glow over the ‘ Dou’t-you-feel-well ?’ inquiry, just prior
to its animating absence."
Newspaper-man to picturesque Australian baritone:
“ Well, how are you getting on ? ” P. A. 8.: “ Oh, so so ;
walk about the stage every night, sing a few lines
nothing to what I could do, y T ou know : but a fellow must
remember his Monday (‘treasury day); when the im-
ported crowd have got. their whack, I get a little bit of
what’s left-better than nothing, I suppose.”
Geo. Rignold declares that he has trodden the hoards
for the last time, and intends for the future to devote
himself to stage management.
Actor Wakefield has put into dramatic form for Mr.
Harry Shine, Victor Daley’s clever Bulletin sketch,
“ Between Two Bottles.”
“ Anything beautiful must be true,” writes Mrs. Brown-
Potter in the New York Journal. Well, Mrs. B.P. her-
self is passing fair, but see what she says “ Labor is
sacred. It is prayer. It is the watchword of the living,
it is the guerdon of the dead, the crown of the immortal.
When the final ‘ Well done, thou good and faithful ser-
vant,’ is said, it is the labor of life that is beautified, and
after the stress and storm it is the labor that cives us
‘rest.’ ” It may be a good thing to “ scorn delights and
live laborious days,” but the ingenupus Cora isn’t built
that way.
Ketten, that eccentric musician whose genius cannot
now be regarded as problematical, is happily dead. In
one of his many moments of aberration he presented his
portrait, to a distinguished Sydney pressman, with the sub-
joined autograph legend: “To the Editor of the
• Henry Ketten, Sydney, April, 1881.” Medioc-
rity so highly appreciates genius that the picture is now
exposed for sale in a George-street music-seller’s ware-
house, priced at one guinea. Poor Ketten! Poor editor!
Lion-and-elephant story. The lion that rides on the
back of the elephant in Fitzgeralds’ circus noticed on one
occasion that the elephant had a sore neck, and was
much attracted by the raw flesh, which he ominously
smelt at and growled over. The elephant, perceiving
this, lifted up his trunk and gave the lion a thwack which
knocked him almost silly. After which the king of beasts
meddled no more with the elephant’s sore neck.
“The murder of actor Terriss,” writes Tub Bulletin's
London correspondent, “ has given the manager of one
of our largest music-halls a means of explaining whv
though there are five exits from the building, he never
egresses at the same door two nights in succession
Although his roomsare within walkabledistance, he always
cabs it for fear of being gingham-whacked by some fair
creature whom, in his capacity of protector of proprieties
he has had to eject from the hall as not being sans beer et
sans reproche. Some of the limelighters,” continues the
writer, “ were indignant at the mention, bv one London
daily, of the fact, that Miss Millward kissed the dving
hero of melodrama as he lay bleeding to death in her
arms, but those unaware of the friendly relations that
existed between the actor and actress would see naught
bat a natural ebullition of stajriness in such an action/’
Pattie Brown, the charming soubrette, will soon be here
again with the Australian rights of Barrie’s “ Little
Minister. Her fervent admirer, Clement Scott, has
already started to bewail the loss which the English stage
will sustain through Pattie’s departure.
Sitj/ward BenUey is runnin »' for alderman for a Brisbane
Queen Victoria was one of Mr. Thomas
A. Edison s first constituents in England for
a Phonograph, and now she is to make
a record of her voice on the instrument for pre-
servation in the British Museum. Anyone who
purchases a Home ” Phonograph for .£l2 at the
Edison Electric Parlor, 102 Pitt-street, Sydney
can make records of peoples’ voices ad lib., and
also secure a fine selection of musical and other
records of the highest quality.*
8.8. : " Saw * Virginias ’ for the first time at Melboiirn«
Prince?®’ last week, and do not wonder that it had been
undei the dust for 17 years—wonder only that its gravs
was noi. respected. Finely dramatic in spots, but how
stagey in the lump—how unreal 1 Never for more than
three consecutive minutes are you permitted to believe
t hat the characters are any thing’bnt declamatory puppets.
How they gabble ! Think of the scene wherein the
fat uous Roman seeksto inform .Virginias of his daughter’s
danger ! Half-a-dozen times the gaudy veteran breaks in
upon the story to stamp around, and jerk out long
sonorous remarks like Federation oratory after a fat
banquet. That model father in the pure white bedgown
of private life is frequently in a hurry, but, however
pressing the time, he finds leisure to work his nocent
woid-spout, and much of the resultingyahher suggests an
imitation of William Shakespeare by John Cash Neild
Barrett is certainly better in this than in the somewhat-
similar ‘Claudian,’ but how hard it is to make a noble and
virtuous Roman live in our time ! To present a licen-
tious and vindictive—an unholy—Roman is comparatively
an easy task.”
Boor old organist Best’s widow and children are very
badly off ; and so far there seems to Ue no offer of assist-
ance. Best was not over-popular with the profession, who
envied his attainments ; and, to this day, one of the best-
known musicians in Sydney', whom Best repeatedly
snubbed, actually declares that the latter was a third-
rate organist. Also, Best was about the only man on
record who ordered two whiskies-and-sodas for himself at
once. The slowness of Australian waiters, he used to
declare, was one of the wonders of the world.
Apropos the Sydney question-of-the day, what consti-
tutes evening-dress? Alexis Soyer, cordon bleu, econo-
mic philosopher, bon enfant, some 60 years ago (what
time he was chef at London Reform Club) had a singular
wrestle with this question —to the astonishment of
George Nugent, the fidus Achates of Lumley, manager of
Her Majesty’s Theatre. It was de rigueur to go to H.
Majesty’s in evening-dress of English conventionality.
Soyer had sought ingress in artistic raiment of splendid
velvet and brilliant silk, only to be denied by the polite
myrmidons of Nugent. One night he turned up in fault-
less black with white tie, and the rest of it, and was, of
course, “passed.” But, alas for Nugent! The cunning
Ajexis had had “claw-hammer” and vest so fashioned
with false, shiftable cuffs, lapels, and so on, manageable
by artfully concealed wires, that on pulling at a certain
tape which Alexis did pull at, once prominently seated
the raven blackness of “ evening-dress” became trans-
mogrified into a radiancy of colors, aurorean, re-
splendent.
At latest advices R. S. Smythe was at Rome, probably
suggesting a farewell tour to Leo XIII. R.S.S’s new star,
Forward Lely, t,he Scotch tenor, is not due in Australia
till April; he is at present doing well in America. R.S.S.
returns here per Barharossa
One of Harry Baulton’s co. re Christmas trip from
Maoriland to Tasmania ; “ We absolutely couldn’t keep
warm on hoard. It was frightfully cold, and the man
who didn’t shut the door after him ran big risk of being
thrown overhoard. Then we struck fearful heat, a big
fire, and Amy Sherwin in Tassy. Paulton was the first to
go front the heat, and ice had to be applied to his head at
short intervals. Alma Stanley collapsed next,, and most
of the rest of us followed suit. Business? A mere
handful seemed to drop in unconsciously. Amy was
packing her crowds wherever she could.”
“ H.’s” remarks here on the play of “The Manxman”
fall in line with what Oscar Wilde said ten years ago of
Hall Caine, novelist, even before Wilson Barrett had
dramatised him. “He shouts so loud that you can’t hear
him ” was the verdict of that acute critic. Did he have a
melancholy foreboding that “The Christian ” was to be
the climax of that artistic vociferation ?
When Probasco’s circus was leaving Ktunara (M L.), a
pony belonging to boy Walter St. Leon bolted, jumped
over a 20ft. cliff, and walked away as if he hadn’t done
anything out of the common.
The teacher of a Sydney private school took his pupils
on a holiday trip at Xmas, and more than paid expenses
by holding concerts at the various centres visited. Thus
is a new horror added to places where the only prayer
that strays heavenward is, “Give us this day our daily
stranger.”
Amorv Sullivan, whose death was reported in last
week’s Bullbtin, and who was then alluded to as Barry
Sullivan's youngest son, desires to say that he isn't the
youngest son of Harry S., and that he is still alive.
Under these circumstances, he will be allowed to live.
At the same time, Tub Bulletin requests Mr. Sullivan
not to let this sort of thing happen too often. If that
gentleman happens to he dead in this paper
again he will have to stay dead, whether he is
dead or not. Owing to a too-continuons diet of pickles
and cigar- moke the nerves of The Bulletin staff are
none of the best, and gentlemen who call to say that they
aren't dead give it the jumps. The said staff doesn't see
why any man should want to complain about a little
thing like that. Most people are dead and have been
dead most of the time, and it isn’t fashionable to be alive,
and there is also very little money in it, and in most
cases it isn’t even ornamental.
The Federal Convention, in an unwonted
burst of plain horse-sense, has decided that,
except in cases where the State is involved, the
appeal to the British Privy Council shall be
abolished. The Convention holds that there is
something ridiculous about the idea of sending
Judge Way to London, 1(5,000 miles away, to hear
Australian cases, and sending the cases there after
him, and then the case, and Way, and the deci-
sion all coming Lack again in the same boat.
Premier Turner, in a very bad attack of drivel,
declared that he would rather sacrifice the
Federal Court than give up the right of
appeal, and Premier Braddon maundered dread-
fully about the right of appeal being a “ tie,” the
removal of which would “sap the foundations of
the Constitution.” He also declared that every
British subject had the sacred right of appeal to
the Privy Council, yet when Isaacs pointed out
that the people of England, Scotland, Ireland and
Wales didn't have it, Braddon looked not in the
least ashamed of his unspeakable ignorance, and
drivelled right on. Reid set down his 18-stone of
solid carcase on the Privy Council idea, and de-
manded a final Court of Appeal in Australia, and
finally the precious tie that binds us to the mother-
country burst with a loud pop.


R. BELL & CO.’S VESTAS
—ARB-
BRITISH VESTAS.
Ads. (
Rkps. ('
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney ;
and Wellington, N.Z.
Bleaching Powder, Soda Ash, Caustic other Sodas,
Be rax, Litharge, Chlorate Potash Is .n j Benzine.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100 %.
All Other Chemicals, Lowest Possible Prices.
Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hv. Markwald,
11 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
IVB William-st., Meluournk ; 14 Currie-st., Adelaide.
THE
ENGLISH MIDLAND RAILWAYS
STOCK
Refreshment Rooms
(under contract)
ONLY
SIR JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey.
Aus. |
Reps, f
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney ;
and Wellington, N.Z.
• o
Simpson’s
Sulkies,
•ffl Buggies, and
Buckboards.
Good Work. Lowest Price. Cash Only.
75 KINO STREET. NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Perth—Roltt. Wolfe.'
Gerald ton —W. Madowcvoft.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
There is still time for the Federal Convention
CO think seriously over the public debt problem. Even if
the delegates can’t agree about the value of their railways
or rivers or any other assets, the debt question is so very
simple a proposition as to be almost beyond argument.
The smallest debt in Australia is Victoria’s £4O 12s. 4d.
per head. If the Federation, took over the whole of Vic-
toria’s debt and £4O 12s. 4d. per head of the debt of the
other provinces (the remainder being left for the present
as a provincial liability) every province wou'd be relieved
of exactly the same liability in proportion to population ;
even those 50 Kilkenny cats, the Federal delegat es, could
hardly dispute that. The next trouble is that the same
amount of debt doesn’t carry exactly the same amount
of interest, but that could be got over by an easy
process of account-keeping- until the debts were converted.
If N.S.W.’s interest bill on the amount taken over was the
smallest —say 1 110 s. per inhabitant per annum—the per-
fectly intelligible process would be to charge each of the
other provinces with its own particular excess over that
figure and deduct the difference from its share of the
Federal surplus. As the debts fell due they would be
converted into a uniform Federal stock at low interest,
and when they were all converted the account-keeping
process would cease.
Some method of taking over the whole provin-
cial debt might be devised later on, but this much can be
done immediately. The reason why something should be
done immediately is obvious enough. The credit of
Federated Australia must be a little better than that of
the separate provinces. If it is only ss. per cent, better the
conversion process, even on the comparatively small
amount which would be taken over under this scheme,
would save the Commonwealth about £325,000 per
year; if it is 7s. 6d. per cent, better the saving
would be about £500,000 ; and if the Commonwealth
took over the debts which mature earliest the benefit of
this reduction in the annual tribute to Bull would begin
to be felt very speedily. On the other hand, if the Com-
monwealth doesn’t take over the public debts, or any
part of them, its superior credit is simply running to
waste. The Federal name on the back of the great Aus-
tralian p.n. would cost nothing, and would save a lot in
interest, and if the provinces refuse to make use of it they
are throwing a big income overbpard out of pure cussed-
ness. The five provinces have about £7,000,000 of debt to
be renewed in the next two years, which is a very good
reason why the matter should be attended to note. The
conversion of this small sum,' to begin with, by the
Federal Government might easily save £20,000 per
annum.
••' * •
The municipality of Leichhardt has a loan of
£5400 falling’ due, and is struggling hard to get it renewed
at 5 per cent. If the 41 pocket-handkerchief munici-
palities of Sydney would only unite on the London County
Council principle, their joint credit should enable them to
convert their debts as they fall due into a 3.) or 3j, or per-
haps even a 3 per cent, liability, whereas the rate now
spreads from 4to 8 per cent. But the harrowing little
Bumble of Botany looks on the inhabitant of Botany
North as the same kind of violent and fraudulent out-
lander as the South Australian appears to the N.S.W.
1 ederal delegate, and the idea of federating with him is
scouted.
* • * *
The outrush of gold from Australia seems to
nave eased a little in the last quarter of 1897. During the
three months the N.S.W. banks’ stock of coin increased by
£12,917, and now stands at £5,941,587. The Victorian
accumulation increased by £16,657, and stands at
£7,358,753.
• ♦ * *
The A.J.S. Bank, for the second half of 1897
reports a profit of £1725, which is pqual to rather less than
6s. per cent, per annum on capital. But the previous
half-year showed a loss of £53;506, and the half ended
December, 1896, produced a loss of £48,200, so even this is
a great improvement. The report, alleges that the differ-
ence between the present profit and the recent loss repre-
sents the difference between the old ti per cent, interest
and the present 3 per cent, rate, but the 1 i percent, in
question doesn’t account for it'-by a. good way. Possibly
the balance is made up by economy in working expenses,
or by taking a more sanguine view of the securities.
During the half-year, the cash and liquid securities have
gone up from £1,165,000 to £1,725,000, which is a large
increase. Note circulation has increased £16,000, and
there is an improvement of over £130,000 in deposits. Ti e
cheerful manner in which old “A” and “B” deposits,
new fixed deposits, and current accounts are mixed to-
gether makes it difficult to say exactly where the increase
comes in, but the total has gone up to the extent above-
mentioned.
It is very hard to tell the exact situation, or to
define the prospects of the A.J.S. In 1893, the old
reserves (about £750,000) were set aside to cover losses in
realising the old assets. At June, ’96, there remained
£374,000 of this, and then the balance-sheet ceased to
give particulars about it. Six months ago it was men-
tioned casually that about £95,000 remained, and how
much remains now to cover further losses on liquidation
of old assets, or how much old assets remain to be liqui-
dated, or how unpromising they may be, is all a mystery.
When the last remnant of that old reserve goes the rest
of the depreciation must come out of earnings, or reserve
fund, or capital, or out of whatever profits may be made
by buying up “ B” deposits at a discount, and how far
they can stand the shock—if there is a shock—is another
mystery. It was broadly stated in London some time ago
that the capital was practically all lost, and if it is
assumed that the shareholders’ funds should earn 3 per
cent., which is about the average now, it would seem on
the present profits, that only £115,000 out of the alleged
£1,219,000 of shareholders’ funds really survive. Yet
there has been no writing-off and no suggestion of any,
and as the A.J.S. has less than £400,000 callable capital, it
can’t afford to write very much off anyhow.
Three-fourths of the assets consist of “ bills and
all other debts and other assets at old valuation,
£6,720,855.” How much is “assets at old valuation”
doesn’t appear. Presumably the old valuation is the in-
flated value as it stood in the optimistic ante-smash days
of 1892. There are awful possibilities under this item,
and no estimate of these possibilities is given. The A.J.S.
is—so far as the writer can recollect—the only recon-
structed bank of any size which still keeps the old boom
values standing in its balance-sheet. How far the profits
which may be made by buying up “ B ” deposits at a dis-
count may go to square things depends on the amount of
the loss, and the amount of “ B ” deposits which the bank
can buy, and the price it gets them at, and the possible
revival of trade and expansion of property values, and
other things. In fact, the only things which seem reason-
ably certain about the A.J.S. are that things look much
better than they did six months ago, when the A.J.S. was
the most awful-looking bank in Australia ; that the profits
are still less than those of any other bank in the Seven
Provinces; and that most of the information which
should be in the published balance-sheet isn’t there. An
application of the Victorian banking law in this case
would cast a good deal of light on some things that are
now very obscure.
* * • •
The Queensland National Bank reports that its
half-year’s profits, after providing “substantially” for
bad debts, is £Booo—no odd shillings, no pence, no beastly
farthing. The “ substantially” and the exact £BOOO seem
to imply that the bank put away towards losses as much
as it thought it could spare, while showing a decent pro-
fit, and that it doesn’t pretend to any fatal accuracy in
the figures. Compared with the loss of £25,425 last half,
the present alleged £BOOO profit, which equals 34 per cent,
per annum on capital, looks respectable, yet it is a violent
drop from recent expectations. The Q.N.B. is supposed
to save £56,000 per half- year by its great reduction of de-
posit interest. The last complete half-year at the old
rate the loss was £1607. The first complete half-year at the
new rate the profit, instead of being £54,393, is set down at
£BOOO. At June, 1896, the alleged protit was £10,021, so
now, after saving £112,000 a year interest, things are
£2OOO worse on paper than they were 18 months ago.
The cash and liquid securities (£1,494,293) are some
£30,000 less than they were six months back, and the un-
reconstructed deposits (£1,837,803) seem to be £770,000
less than they were last half-year. Even of this com-
paratively small amount one-half (£918,892) is Govern-
ment cash. The private depositor seems to lie very low
indeed.
The Q.N.B. balance-sheet is a difficult thing to
draw up. That concern gave new deposit receipts for
15s. in the £, the difference to go towards writing off
losses. At the same time it agreed to pay the other ss.
in the £ by instalments out of profits, so it still remains a
liability. If this liability doesn’t appear in the balance-
sheet that document doesn’t show anything like the
amount the bank owes. If it does appear, then the
assets must either remain at their old bogus value to
square the accounts or the accounts must be balanced by
some such gruesome entry as “ Loss, £2,100,000.” It
strikes a middle course. The £458,000 which is to be re-
paid to the Government out of profits is put down as a
liability, and the £1,039,000 odd which is to be repaid to
private depositors out of profits isn’t put down, and the
assets are apparently partly written down and partly not
—in other words, they seem to be written down far
enough to make things balance. The most beautiful
asset among them is “ debts in suspense, pending realisa-
tion of securities, £742,834.” The Q.N.B. has now
£456,000 paid-up capital, of which £286,000 is repre-
sented by “ premises, furniture and stationery,” leaving
just £170,000 to trade upon.
Of the .£BOOO profit, .£2OOO goes to reserve fund,
£4OOO towards repaying the ss. in the £ written off pri-
vate deposits, which, at this rate, will be all paid off in
about 129 years, and £2OOO towards repaying the odd ss.
in the £ of Government deposits which, at the same rate,
will be all liquidated in 114 J years. But as the Govern-
ment’s whole reconstructed 20s. in the £ (£1,833,326) has
to be paid by 1921 (23 years hence) it is evident that the
Q.N.B. will have to get a violent hustle on itself. (The
private depositors are to be repaid any time between now
and the general resurrection, so they don’t matter.) The
Q.N.B.’s reconstructed deposits now cost it only £2 12s. 6d.
per cent, interest all round, and even at that very moder-
ate rate it certainly isn’t doing much good. It would be
a risky thing to say that it looks solvent even on paper
despite all the writing down.
The directors make a weird announcement that
they have accepted the surrender and forfeiture of certain
shares. The Q.N.B. shares are not assets at present;
they merely consist of a liability of £2 per share, and if
things go badly the calling up of that amount is the only
hope the depositors have of receiving their money. Under
these circumstances, the idea of voluntarily relieving any
individual of his liability seems remarkable. Q.N.B.
deposits are now selling somewhere below 10s. in the £,
and if the bank would call up all its available capital so
as to give it some spare cash, or could turn a lot of its
dead assets into money, and would buy these deposits on a
large scale, it would make a profit on the transaction that
would do a lot towards putting it on its feet again. But
it apparently won’t, or dare not, make calls, and it never
seems to accumulate any spare cash worth mentioning.
• • * *
The fading process still goes on as regards the
profits of the Ballarat Banking Co., the half-year’s net
takings being £2637. Seven half-years’ profits how show
as follows:
December, 1894 . .£3710 December, 1896 . .£2936
June, 1895 .. 3449 June, 1897 .. 2881
December, 1895 .. 3463 December, 1897 .. 2637
June, 1896 .. 3250
The increased during the half-year, and the
bank has £70,046 in cash and Government debentures,
which is equal to 33 per cent, of its liabilities to the public
—one of the strongest cash reserves in Australasia. The
usual 5£ per cent, dividend absorbs £2337, and £5OO is
added to reserve, making it £53,500. But, in doing this,
the profit-and-loss balance is diminished by £2OO, so in
reality the funds are only increased by £3OO. In view of
these things, the management should drop that aggra-
vating odd i per cent, at its dividend. The 5J percent,
div. seems to be an irritating tradition with this concern.
The Ballarat Bank has a good reputation as one of the
soundest concerns in the seven provinces, but in these
times of low interest, 5 per cent, should satisfy any body
of shareholders.
* * * •
The N.S.W. Shale and Oil Co. (capital, £75,000)
announces that the half-year’s profits are only £520, equal
to less than 14 per cent, per annum. For the correspond-
ing half of 1896 the profits were £lOB6, and before that
they used to run to *'6ooo or more. There is no divi-
dend—there hasn’t been one for a year now—but the
Shale and Oil concern says it has hopes.
• * • *
Richardson and Wrench (Sydney) pay 3 per
cent, dividend as compared with 4 per cent, in 1897 and 5
per cent, in 1896. North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney) pays 6
per cent. (£2700), and has a balance of just £5.
* • » *
That eminent three-ball institution, the N.S.W.
Mont de Pi6t6—where you can leave your watch at half
the average rate of interest charged by the private Moss
Cohenstein—realised £4297 last half-year, as compared
with £4225 and £4284 for two previous half-years, so
apparently the public has been leaving its watch there
with even more energy than usual. AlO per cent, divi-
dend (£3679) is declared ; £3OO goes to reserve, making it
£13,900; £3OO to contingency fund, making £4654, and
there is a small balance over. The Mont de Pi6td is the
one Sydney institution whose 10 percent, seems a dead cer-
tainty in all weathers, and when manager Lewis Levy,
J.P., sits discounting bills in the comfortable office, and
sees all that is left of Pharaoh, with two thin legs and no
stomach worth mentioning, hawking brass jewellery on
the wet pavement outside, he doubtless feels that things
might be a lot worse.
* * * *
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
issues a gorgeous statement for 1897. Assets are now
£52,100,000, an increase during the vear of £3,900,000.
The surplus (£7,290,000) has increased by £1,190,000. The
annual income for ’97 was £11,121,000, which is £700,000
more than the income for ’96, and the new insurances
effected during the year were within a very small amount
of £28,000,000.
* * » *
The aldermen of Camperdown (Sydney) have
formally resolved, in view of the many recent shortages in
municipal accounts, all of which the auditors punctually
failed to discover, that the present system of municipal
audit is a gruesome farce. But considering the recent
case of auditor Groves, of Rookwood, who was fined £2
and costs by the unspeakably pig-headed Parramatta
bench for refusing to certify to the correctness of
accounts, which even the witnesses for the prosecution
(according to the newspaper report of the case) admitted
were not correct, what kind of decent auditing do the
Camperdown aldermen expect ? In Groves’s case, by the
way, the awful Justice Department, being appealed to,
briefly replied that it couldn’t interfere with the sentence
of the court. Considering how many fines are remitted
and sentences commuted by that Department, this is a
remarkable statement. Anyhow, it is distinctly the busi-
ness of the Justice Department to see that these Parra-
matta beaks never sit on a bench again.
• * * »
The Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney) after a long
struggle in its earlier days, seems to have at last become
a steady dividend-paying - concern. Last year’s profit was
£3095, whereas the takings for 1896 were £2967 ; for 1895,
£2571 ; for 1894, 2702 ; and for 1893, • 2414. A dividend
of 6 per cent, absorbs £l5OO ; another £l5OO is added to
reserve, making' it 45500; and the remaining 195, with
previous balance, leaves £592 to carry forward. If the
Perpetual manages to avoid the big-dividend thirst which
has reduced some Southern companies in the same line to
a state of shaky uncertainty and aggravated financial
grog-blossom, and resolves to have a reserve of at least
a 100,000 before it goes on any festive outbreaks, it should
have a fine future ahead of it.
* * * *
The Australian Kerosene Oil and Shale Co. has
closed up its soap and candle works at Parramatta
(N.S.W.), “in consequence of the influx of foreign-made
candles.” And yet candles don’t get visibly cheaper to
the ordinary consumer who uses a tallow-dip to go to
bed by.
* * * *
Business never was so bad with the Melbourne
money-lenders. The biggest of them told the writer last
week that since the new year he hadn’t lent £5, and
that the only enquiries he was getting for money were
from people who “ vanted to rob him.”
» • * *
The big drawbacks frauds down South don’t
seem to have led to any definite action so far. It would
appear that this is to be another mining-lease job—to be
laid to rest by a red-herring commission of enquiry.
• • » *
A second sudden retirement of a big man’s big
man occurred down South the other day. As in the other
case, although the alleged discrepancies are large, nothing
further is likely to be heard of the matter. Knowledge
is indeed power.
* * * *
There has been considerable excitement in Syd-
ney speculating circles over an alleged invention for mak-
ing inflammable gas, for which patent was applied for 13th
Jan. by G. \V. Lee, agent; Frank Elliott, plumber ; and
Geo. Tatham, engineer. Before information re the inven-
tion was generally available the original £TO syndicate
shares (said to be 400) were reported as changing hands
at three and four times that sum. The idea is to pass
moist air over a mixture of diluted sulphuric ether and
citronella oil—thus carburetting it and making it inflam-
mable ; and an automatic device for regulating the flow is
included. The awful secrecy in which the affair has
been enshrouded has helped to make investors bite ; but
so far there seems to be no published expert evidence
as to the novelty or efficacy of the invention.
» • * •
The British Broken Hill co. has lodged a P.C.
appeal against the Vic. Full Court award of £4240 damages
to the Australian Smelting Co. on a breach of contract.
Whatever the legal merits of this hazy dispute, the differ-
ence between the Full Court’s judgment and the modest
£2O which Judge Hodges awarded in a previous trial of the
same issue seems to justify the defendant co’s appeal. The
alleged breach of contract is a tale of years ago when the
8.8. H co. and the Dry Creek Smelting Works were con-
trolled by what was practically one and the same board of
management. The bond, so says the defendant co., was
not regarded at the time as a possible source of trouble,
but rather as a friendly agreement which might be sus-
pended, strained or broken to suit the interests of either
party. Later on, the 8.8. H. co. “sacked” its original
directors ; the Smelting co. was reconstructed under new
management, and what had been practically one indivi-
dual became two. After a long interval of silence re the
unfulfilled contract, legal proceedings came to pass.
Judge Hodges heard all the argument, and gave £2O
compensation to the plaintiff. Subsequently the same
old story was told to Judge Williams, who fell off a bike
and got severely shaken before he had prepared his judg-
ment. Judge Williams, it seems, put his notes before the
Full Court, and that learned tribunal multiplied the
Hodges award by 212.
• * • •
Broken Hill Prop, directors have no important
announcements to make this half. The chief is that
exploration in the sulphide zone has been suspended, as
“ there is sufficient ore already proven to ensure the
largest possible output for a number of years to come ”
which, of course, is as delightfully vague as you would
expect. Also, the square-set system of timbering is to be
continued on a very limited scale only ; for the rest, as
ground is worked out the excavations will be packed up
with waste (though it is true the report doesn’t even say
that much). Anyhow, as declared in this column about
ninety 7 and nine times, the square-set sy r stem of timbering
with soft-wood, and most likely 7 any other wood, is of
itself quite inadequate ; and no man who wasn’t trained
in an American mine, where the conditions are very dif-
ferent, ever did, rely on it. Moreover, the timber bill
shows a big difference already 7. There was a time when
£lOO,OOO used to be down on this line in the co.’s half-
yearly sheet; this half the total is £15,984.
* • • *
Latest official assays from the 715 ft. working in
Block 10 give 15 4oz. silver, 23-3 per cent, lead, and 26 per
cent. zinc. This, by 7 the way, is by far the most import-
ant working on the Barrier at present.
• • • •
A B.H. Prop, figure or two : Total divs. to date
(the mine is 13 years old), 46,520,000 ; this is in addition
to bonuses in cash and shares. Total silver (to Nov. last),
90,775,1530 z.; lead, 336,977 tons ; copper, 3593 tons ; gold
(first recovered in ’9O), 27,1580 z. ; besides by-products,
such as antimony and zine. The plant has cost about
£828,000 ; now set down at £279,758. In wages and sala-
ries during the last half-year £178,350 was spent; for
coke, t'67,234 ; coal, 4 25,462 ; freight, £40,000. Stamps
(postage) ran away with £353. And the fire in Block 12
cost £14,803 —which presumably includes the bonus of £1
per man to the couple of hundred men who risked their
lives and spoiled their Sunday clothes, and by whose “ able
assistance ” (directors’ words) and the officers’ efforts, “ a
very serious catastrophe was prevented.”
* * • *
During the last three months of ’97 and the first
month of ’9B not enough rain fell at Broken Hill or at
Stephen’s Creek (whence the town derives its water-
supply) to be registered by gauge. Because fair rains
have fallen along the coast, city people don’t seem to
recognise how appalling is the drought in the back
country of _N.S. W. and S.A. In fact, in very large areas
there, this is the ’96 drought not yet broken up.
* » * •
The blessings of true mateship have been fairly
well illustrated in old N.S. Wales, as well as in New Aus-
tralia, writes a Bulletin correspondent. The Wyalong
goldfield has been worked on the co-operative sy 7 stem, and
experience has shown that human nature is not y 7 et ripe
enough to give confidence that the other fellows are doing
their fair share of work. Moreover, it has been found
that amongst eight men—the usual claim is eight men’s
ground—there are usually at least three, and sometimes
eight, different methods of working proposed. Then when
a chance to sell the claim arrives, seven of the partners
are willing to take £lOO or £2OO each, but the last man
sticks out for about £5OOO for his interest, and when the
sale is off he offers his share for a fiver and two drinks.
Sometimes the mates try to freeze one another out—just as
their “ betters ” do—with various kinds of success. Co-
operation in mining is a fine, large idea, and would work
well amongst men who thought they were all equal in
every respect, but on the Wyalong field the mates do not
admit equality. Each one is better than all the others, so
we have sometimes seen a good old fight with bare
knuckles on the surface; while at others we have seen
contradictory shafts being sunk, each faction ignoring the
other—when they were not waging a war of extermination
as in a notable recent instance.
• * * *
In the good old Bull-baiting days of Westralia
men who were “ handy with the pen ” got large fees for
putting the reports of mining experts into readable
English, the said experts, in most instances, lacking the
verbal opulence necessary to give their opinions realistic
f )rm. One expert who got £lOOO for his report paid hi»
ghost” £2OO for a couple of days’ word-painting.
* * * •
An old friend of The Bulletin, writing from
Kalgoorlie, predicts that the “coming” field this year
will be Mt. Leonora, situate 70 miles from Menzies’, and
says there are people sanguine enough to believe that it
will vie with Kalgoorlie. Bewick, Moreing and Co., the
big English mining people, are said to be “ up to their
necks ” already in the new district.
• ♦ * *
What marvellous patches there must be in the
awful Never-Never country between Menzies and the
Murchison, in the Lawler’s district! Ex-mine-managei
Leyland and party have had a “ show” there since 1894.
A few cwts. —picked, of course—have been taken away on
pack-horses ; 11 cwt. in ’94 gave432oz.; 26 cwt. in the next
year gave 1310 oz. ; 13 cwt. in ’96 gave 260 oz.—this besides
several thousands dollied out. But it’s exciting work.
The party has had 18 horses speared ; and only the other
day Leyland had his head cut open by a native’s kylie.
» * * *
Wired that last crushing of the Londonderry
gave 6500 z. from 330 tons—not including any of the rich
specimen stone recently secured in the pocket.
* * * O
W.A. Minister for Mines Wittenoom was dis-
tinguished by being burnt in effigy at Bulong this week.
Cause : his new regulation (probably illegal) prohibiting
alluvial miners from sinking more than 10ft.—denounced
also at a big Kalgoorlie mass meeting. Westralia is run
in the interests of the British investor nowadays, and of
the Ministerial entourage which picks the British in-
vestor’s bones ; and as the 8.1. likes big unscratched
areas the Govt, is going to give them to him. If the
working miner objects, the working miner may go to the
devil—but he mustn’t go below 10ft. The Bulletin, is
glad to see the much-trodden-on worm showing fight at
last
* * * *
Chinaman’s luck ! Twenty nine years ago a
“ Chow” worked an alluvial gold-patch in the bed of the
Ovens, Vic., and struck a couple of reefs. But the sludge
buried them; and having enough from the alluvial he went
back to China. Lately he returned, and after four days’
scraping - struck those same reefs, still untouched.
* * * *
Compared with January, ’97, the Gympie mines
are exactly 100 per cent, ahead on last week’s Exchange
prices. The Phoenix and Glanmire lines of reefs are
mainly responsible.
* * * *
Since ’B9, when the bottom fell out of the
Towers boom, the Brilliant and St. George has paid an
average of 9d. per month div.—say, £3l2s. Od. And shares
are now quoted 445. buyers.
* m m *
A correspondent : —Re par. in “Wild Cat” page.
The Jew is rarely seen on new rushes. I have been on
many in Victoria, Queensland, and Maoriland, and have
observed that until the field was tested and found all
there the Semitic presence was not noticeable. Have
only known two Jews as genuine diggers in my experience
—and they ate pork. The Jew follows up and deals with
the needs of a settled population. Levy, of the Burgess,
Kelly, and Sullivan syndicate, in Nelson province (M.L.),
was an illustration in point. Barney Barnato was another,
in a more legitimate direction. The Jew doesn’t graft for
gold with pick and shovel, but with brains. He sits around
while others fill up. Then he empties them.
* * » •
There were two of them—seeking information
sto the best way of getting to Klon lyke. Ole of them
inquired at an “ agency,” and, upon rejoining his mate
outside, explained : “ Party wanted ’arf-a-crown, Joe ! ”
" Did you give it to him, Tom ?” “ Not much. I wanted
to know what it was for, and he ups and spins me a regu-
lar yarn. And what d’ye think ?—it was just a chapter
out of that book we were reading about Circle City and
the fur company last night in the public-library ! ”
* » * •
In a private letter from Johannesberg — “The
crowd at the railway-station as each train leaves here puts
me in mind of the struggling masses at Spencer-street on
Melb. Cup-day. Everybody who can get away is leaving
—some for Klondyke, others for Japan, where mechanics
are said to be getting fabulous screws. ... I could not
have believed that a large city like this could go down as
it has gone. No business doing, and I myself leave it, like
most of them, empty-handed. Bad government and cor-
rupt administration! ”
Despite Sydney D.T. and other cavillers,
the appointment of six members toN.S.W. Leg.
Council is a like'y sequel to the close of the Federal
Convention. Inquiries, usual before such appoint-
ments, have been made.
From S.M. Herald. 25/1/98 (Mr. Delo-
hery, P.M., presiding):—
Theft of Tobacco. —Joseph Heapy (42) was sentenced at
the Central Police Court yesterday to four months im-
prisonment for stealing an ounce of tobacco, worth 3d.,
from Robert Smart.
Such is the force of precedent; the three-years-for-
a-ninepenny-tin-of-baking-powder record is in
danger at the hands of a common stipendiary.
The man Guest, mysteriously slain ata free-
and-easy house in Darlinghurst, last week, is de-
scribed as a “ backer of horses,” and the discovery
in his pockets of only two pawn tickets and a few
coppers is strong circumstantial evidence to that
effect. In fact, while the woman’s defence ap-
pears to be an allegation of accidental shooting,
the police case will, no doubt, be based on the
theory that he was not a “ paying guest.”
The Bulletin sincerely regrets to hear of
the death of John Steele Robertson, librarian to
the medical school of Melb. University and an
old contributor to this paper over the pseudonym
of “Steele Grey.” The verses titled “The Path-
way of the Sun,” for example, in 1893 Xmas Bul-
letin, are still cherished by good readers—
They are verses touched with a lofty and yearning
emotion—and the last might be Steele Robertson’s
epitaph.
Do you hear the West a-calling, brother mine?
Do yon hear the West a-calling, sweet and low?
'Tis the voice that ever calls in shade or shine,
In madness or in gladness or in woe.
’Tis the voice that through eternity and time
On the strong soul of a man laysits behest,
And ihe burden of its ever-heating rhyme
Is “ Ever to the Westward lies man’s quest 1 ”
In the West the prize is waiting for the bold ;
In the East the days are'Jlead and life is done;
And the banners of the shy are red and gold,
That beckon to the Pathway of the Sun.
And thus on to —
The knell of all things dead again is knolled
To-day, as it was knolled in days that were,
And the dole that ever was to seekers doled,
Is the dole again of them that do and dare.
We are born of dust that unto dust returned ;
We are seed of ashes that to ashes went.
As the embers old, so embers now are burned ;
As the dust of old, so dust is ever spent.
For aye and ever man his way shall wend
Where gold and glory wait him to be won,
Shall follow still the voice that has no end.
That calls hiin to the Pathway of the Sun.


d
d
ORIENT " s
CLOTH INS
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOB
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SOCIETY
Rorlestin
COGNA[?]
A certain Australian Governor was recently
entertained at a big dinner by a high official of
his province, and when the host had led the way
to the dining-room with the Governor’s wife,
H.E., instead of taking the hostess, secundum
ordinem, under his own wing, calmly stalked in
solus. And it wasn’t till he noticed that nobody
followed that he sauntered out again with his ser-
viette in his button-hole, and made matters, if
anything, worse with the indignant lady of the
house by coolly explaining that he’d forgotten all
about her!
• » * *
Yet another Adelaide Hospital doctor has
been dismissed in the person of Dr. Russell,
medical superintendent, the only remaining mem-
ber of the old staff. He was conge’d for refusing
to consult with Dr. Ramsay-Smith, senior physi-
cian. The Adelaide Hospital row started through
someone saying “ haw ” in an insulting manner
during a game of tennis ; and now, in its fourth
year, it is still young and growing.
• • • *
The most effective means to coerce the
Government employed by the “ striking doctors ”
since their banishment from the Adelaide Hos-
pital has been to prejudice the nurses against the
new staff. Directly a probationer completes her
term of three years, she is offered a position
outside more attractive than can be given to her
A ROLLING STONE GATHERS MOSS.
STOCKMAN: “Hullo, Jim, what yer doin’ here?”
SWAGMAN : “ Travellin’ for tea."
STOCKMAN: “Since when?”
SWAGMAN : “ Since dinner-time!”
within. The result is that nurses are continually
resigning. But it’s a desperately hard strain on
the old doctors —this constant hunting up of good
positions with which to lure away the gentle pro-
bationer.
• * * *
In the Adelaide Hospital morgue. (Sound
of doctors and nurses squabbling in the distance.)
First Cadaver :
“ I cannot rest; their wrangling jars me so.
I wish that I could only yell ‘ Police 1 ’ ”
Second Cadaver:
“ Cheer up, old chap ; we very soon shall go
To where, beyond these voices, there is Peace.”
Under heading “ Medical Ethics,” the
Australasian Medical Gazette reproduces,
with implied disapproval—“A Card. Dr. F.W.B.
presents the compliments of the season to his
clientele, and wishes all a hale, hearty and prosper-
ous New Year.” Well? Nobody will suppose
for a moment that any doctor really wishes his
clientele to become no clientele by getting hale and
hearty.
* * * *
“Rap” writes: —“Was through Pent-
ridge prison the other day. Mat. Larkin, bright as
a bee, will be out again in less than two years.
Murderer Phillips looks three years younger than
when he ‘went in.’ Bean, the defaulting civil-
servant, looks simply aw'ful. Forger Lefebvre
looks it all over. Baby-mover Dr. Walsh, moving
manure. The £130,000 bank-defaulter reminds one
of the late Archbishop of Canterbury. What, how-
ever, struck me most, barring Taylor, was that the
‘ better class ’ of confinees all look bigger villains
than the lower-class convicts.”
• * * #
Latest quotations for assaults in Sydney :
For brutal assault on a woman by a policeman,
10s. ; for ordinary assault on a policeman, A 3.
These are actual cases reported in Sydney dailies.
* * * *
A recently-departed vice-regal left
suddenly and discreetly, preceded by a credi-
tors’ povv-wow at which influential pressure was
brought to bear upon disloyal tradesmen.
• * * *
The Harmy announces a great spiritual
corrobboree, to take place during the present year.
The Australian provinces will be represented on
the occasion by girls, dressed in white, who will
kiss each other effusively, as a sign of good feel-
ing. But what have Hallelujah Bill and Brother
Bang-the-Drum done that they should not be
allowed to share in this pious osculation ? Girl
kissing girl is at any time a most insipid and un-
convincng spectacle.
* * * »
Melb. : “ The tented camp of the Seventh
Day Adventists, in the truly rural portion of St.
Kilda, has been carried on so long, from week to
week, that even the shadow pantomime cinemato-
graphe is beginning to pall on belated observer
Amid the subjects are ‘Deborah hunting a flea,’
‘ Brother Tadger over - heating his clean - boiled
rag,’ ‘ Sister Teemer kitchi-kitchying the baby ’ —
and others.”
* * *_ *
C.R. : “ One of the reasons given by the
managing committee of Melb. Women’s Hospital
for rejecting the applications of lady-doctors for
positions on the resident medical staff was that
women have not sufficient nerve to undertake
serious surgical cases. It is women, too (the
committee is composed almost exclusively of
ladies), who talk this trash about doctors of their
own sex. Nobody supposes that there is amongst
the latter a practitioner with the delicacy and the
A SYDNEY STREET SKETCH.
dexterity of a Fitzgerald or a M'Cormick. But
they will, as regards these qualities, compare
favorably with quite a number of male medieoes.
The writer had occasion, some years ago, to have
an operation performed on his corpus. A doctor
living near by was summoned, and came with
his kit of tools and a chloroformer. The
latter was all right, but the doctor’s hand
was shaking like the head of a toy-man-
darin, though, judging by the odor of his
breath, he had made several valiant attempts to
steady his nerves that morning. The writer, not
wishing to be hackedabout promiscuously,refused
to allow the Unsteady Sawbones to go on with
the operation, and he departed in high dudgeon
with his kit of tools and his chloroformer. Now,
this is a sort of contretemps hardly ever likely to
happen in cases where the sawbones is a lady.
Next time the writer feels in need of a little
probing and slicing, he will call in the nearest
female M.B. to do the trick.
* * * *
A police escort for Premier Reid ! Why,
when Minister Garrard took a look round the
Broken Hill schools, the other day, to see which
of the barns wanted painting, two troopers
scudded ahead. They don’t do these things in
the city ; the farce is reserved for the country—
where, of course (in the city clerk’s idea), every-
body is a gaping clodhopper, who needs impress-
ing. Therefore, there’s a standing-order to police-
officers to provide escorts to visiting Ministers.
In the not impossible event
of Australian military activity be-
coming necessary, how many N.S.
Wales officers could undergo the
consequent hard routine for more
than a week without getting
knocked-up? When .Col. Hutton
took command of the local troops
he found that many officers de-
voted their forage - allowance to
personal use, hiring chargers from
livery-stables on the occasion of any
official turn-out. The cynical com-
mandant accordingly took keen de-
light in getting his subordinates
within view of a crowd of people
and then ordering a general flight
over the highest fence at hand.
The Colonel himself would glide
over the obstacle wearing the grim-
mest of smiles, and he always rode
straight ahead until a clatter of
accoutrements and the breathless
objurgations of some tumbled war-
rior drew his attention. Then the
Commandant, still smiling sweetly,
would turn round and remon-
strate — “Demn it all, man!
you’re making yourself uttahly
ridiculous. Why the devil don’t
you learn to raide ? ” Consequence
—any mention of the respected dis-
ciplinarian still provokes a scowl
of disapproval from more than one
flabby officer.
Judge Rogers,at Albury (N.S.W.) Quarter
Sessions, said it was a most unfortunate aspect of
social life that so many respectable girls preferred
to stand behind a bar to the less alluring work of
domestic service. Of course Judge Rogers has an
idea why girls prefer the bar to the scullery. The
main reason is that in the bar they serve men,
whereas in the kitchen they serve women. In the
bar, if a girl is smart and popular, she gets per-
haps 30s. a week, to say nothing of occasional
presents from her friends—and even a barmaid
may have sincere friends—whereas in the kitchen
she gets at best 155., and fare which compared to
that of an hotel is niggardly and monotonous. As
a barmaid she gets to know all sorts and conditions
of men, and may (as hundreds of barmaids have
done) possibly secure from among them a good and
gilded husband ; as a mere Mary Ann minion of
“ the missus ” she hasn’t Buckley’s show of marry-
ing anybody much better off than a baker’s driver.
And yet Judge Rogers wonders why any respect-
able girl should want to be a barmaid and wear a
nice dress and talk to Johnnies, while she can get
12s. a week to wallop pots in an obscurity only
relieved by stolen back-gate interviews with
butcher’s delegates.
Dear B.—The
humor, artistic in-
stinct, or refine-
ment (I do not ex-
actly know which)
of the average sec-
ond-hand dealer is
grimly ghoulish. In
a certain Sydney
shop one of these
gentry has a large
soup-tureen filled
to overflowing with
ghastly - looking
plates of second-
hand false teeth of
all sizes, ages, and
denominations.
Gracefully poised
in the middle of
this gruesome mass
is a magnificently-
executed miniature
of Christ, evident-
ly done in the Re-
naissance ! Two
periods of art—two
saviours of man—
to be ladled out of
a soup - tureen.
Ugh 1-H.C.S.
* *
One Morey, a
Tasmanian agent
for Salvation Har-
my tea, writes to
Melb. War Cry :
-—“ I have not had
all sunshine in the
effort, but I thank
Goo He has given
me strength and
courage to push
this tea.” May the
Lord have mercy
upon him,and in-
cline bis heart to
push this tea.
“ Eye-witness ” to The Bulletin :
Some folks who pride themselves on not taking all that’s
printed for gospel describe the newspaper reports of the
Gippsland fires as grossly exaggerated. I have been in
the midst of one conflagration and rode through another
fire-stricken district immediately afterwards. Of the most
disastrous fires no description could exaggerate the awe
and the horror, the mingled helplessnes and bravery of
the settlers amid the overpowering heat and stupefying
smoke and darkness, and the sickening ruin that has been
left as legacy. Wherein the newspaper accounts are in-
accurate is that the picture they paint is one of unre-
lieved gloom and universal destruction. The wind
chopped and changed so much that now the count y
looks like a chess-board ; and yet the black patch and the
untouched one both go down in the reporter’s notebook
as totally destroyed. The animal destruction is not a
creditable feature, for much of it was unnecessary. To
carelessly allow cattle to be hemmed-in in paddocks, to
leave horses in stables and pigs in sties, worst of all, a dog
on the chain, is either greed or cowardice or both.
* * • *
Why didn’t the Victorian and Tasmanian
and Maoriland parsons pray for rain to extinguish
the bush-fires? In drought-time, when a week or
two or three, or a month or so, doesn’t matter so
very much, they pray elaborately, and if rain
comes within six weeks or five months they claim
it as an answer. In case of a huge, screaming
bu.sh-fire there is no such margin ; if the answer
proposes coming in time to be of any use as an
answer, it is wanted inside 12 hours —a long way
inside often. Quite frequently it is wanted
inside 12 minutes. There is no chance in that
case of claiming as a direct reply to prayer the
casual drop of moisture which comes down half-a-
HE THOUGHT HE HAD NO FLIES ON HIM.
JACKEROO : “ Look here, me man, how do you know I’m a
new-chum? I thought this get-up would deceive
anyone.”
C OOKIE: “ Pooh I It doesn’t even deceive the flies! ”
year later; it is a matter of putting the alleged
e^, cac ' y prayer to a sharp, sudden test, with the
risk that it will emerge bashed out of all recogms-
able form> And th( , parsons didn’t unanimously
for rain in that awfu i furnace week, when
rain was more wanted than it has been for 30
years past. In other words, they dodged the test,
* * * •
mi n ■ i „,i i-r. i OT ,,i
Thus a Gippsland farmei to Que . <
cousm on recent tires: -
one fanl >ly took refuse in a waterhole from the fires
!' hat were ra png all round. While ensconced there a
large gum fell, a mass of fire, across the shelterin'! water,
and tlle family was only saved from roasting by a vigor-
ous use of the hilly. In one case a burnt-out family saved
themselves from starvation by eating potatoes already
roasted in the ground. In another case the father made
the children lie down and then covered them with sacks,
ground and covered with a damp sack. The child slept
away peacefully in this condition while the fire was raging
all around.
*** . * .
In a Brisbane husband-and-wife police-
court case, the husband said : “Oi kape a broom-
shtick by me bid for me own purtection.” And
his name was Ryan—Pat Ryan !


A .
SNAP
SHOT
, The
Victor
Camera
21/-
Tha
Duplex
Camera
i
plate,
25/-
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS 9
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
See our Advertisement on Page 28.
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
R
OSE’S CELEBRATED
lotion -
STANDS ALONE
Flii\ T n,^rT ECT n 0r : S ° f fct ? e EYE8 = contagion from
1 ues, Sun Glaie, Dust, or other causes.
ObtoiMWe frpm all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. Open all Night
also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A astral la.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’laud.
Suffield is still in his living grave, and the
N.S.W. Justice Department is jumping on him
with all its feet to make him fit that grave.
Suffield is a victim not only of Windeyerism, but
of Government by Contradiction. Both N.S.W.
political gangs, the ins and the outs, are interested
in justifying the actions of their respective Minis-
ters of Justice. A pamphlet fully dealing with
this monstrous wrong has just been published.
Post-free from The Bulletin office for 7d. in
stamps.
Mr. Arthur Griffith, Patent and Trade
Marks Agent, 41 Castlereagh-street, wishes to'
*l' s c > e nts an(l intending patentees that
li. Allen, Consulting Mechanical Engineer
has joined him as partner, and will henceforth
control the engineering branch of the business.*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6.; Drab, 26/6 each.
Recommended by the leading' Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B» MQUNTuAS ILE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
IDREAMT
THAT I WAS
DEAD
Gov. Buxton has beaten all his past records
by remaining m Adelaide for a whole month
without taking a holiday. It is ae-ain rumored
S' jufn the year *u A . delaide wIU not be
aorry, as the (governor, who is an entertainer of
one Sunday-school picnic order, has been a terrible
social failure.
Cairns (Q.) Post : “Every
{>enny which the (Q.N.) bank has
ost has gone to encourage local
settlement and industry; but, if
the giant be now fallen and help-
less, it is a fitting opportunity for
the dingo in human nature to make
its appearance.” Cairns habitually
takes its hat off to every China-
man, and to the Q.N. Bank !
* * *
At a recent function in one
of the Australias the St. Dingo
Rifles acted as guard of honor to
the local viceroy. When the shivoo
was over and the corps was dis-
missed, the officers started in a
body for the nearest hotel. Follow-
ing them went Private Jones, who
had been severely spoken to in the
course of the morning for his awk-
wardness and other defects. He
seized by the tunic-tail the rear-
most captain, the one who had re-
proached him, and held him firmly
for purposes of remonstrance.
“ Look ’ere,” said the perspiring,
white-faced, infuriated Jones, “wot
the bloomin’ ’ell do yer mean by a-
torkiir to me like yer did just now ?
I ain’t a dorg, an’ I ain’t a-goin’
to stand it. I know I don’t know
my work too well, but I’m bloomin’
well sure I know it a bloomin’
sight better than you know yours ;
an’ I ain’t a bloomin’ dorg, anyhow.”
This torrent of remonstrance was
too much for the captain, who
hastily snatched the tail of his
tunic from Jones, and fled into
the. hotel. A brother officer re-
mained to remonstrate. “Now,
Jones, you ought to know better
than to talk like that. Remember
that you belong to the St. Dingo
Rifles, and the eye of the public is
on you.” “ I don’t care if the jore
of the bloomin’ public was on me,”
retorted Private Jones. “ I ain’t a
dorg, an’ he ain’t a-goin’ to tork to
us like that. I don’t take no sich
tork from nobody, and it ain’t no
use of you a-gassin’. I ain’t a
DORG, and you can tell Captain
Dash ter bile ’is ’ead.” Then
officer No. 2 also fled from the
scene. Good old volunteers ! And
Private Jones still answers the roll-
call of the St. Dingo Rifles.
Something Lost.—The first white
woman who married a Otiinamanin Australia.
* * * *
There has been a disturbance in
Melb. about the manner in which occasional
corpses are “ planted ” in the local general
cemetery. In some instances it is found
that fever-victims have been buried under a
thin layer of earth, not more than 2ft, from
the surface, so that a smart shower would
probably wash a man out of his grave, and
float him away in his “ piner.” The Board
of Health has snorted aloud, and the Minis-
terial head has ukased that every corpse
has a legal claim to 3ft. of earth above it,
as a guarantee against a premature resur-
rection. This evil is the result of burying in
layers—a system that robs the man who
never had a foot of land to call his own in
his life of the joys of proprietorship after
death, and forces him to share his little six-
by-two with half-a-dozen strangers on the
co-op. principle. In the days of the “men
who made the country,” land about Mel-
bourne was given away like dirt, and now
the Govt, is stumped for a decent paddock
in which the metropolitan dead may be
turned out to grass.
“ K.M.” to The Bulletin :
I was amused at “ O.’s ” reference to the two poor men
who shivered in the cold water for an hour because there
were two ladies sitting: near them. I happen to know the
circumstances of the ease. The ladies sat down without
the men in the water-, and having- their backs to
the bathers naturally knew nothing- of the crime thev
were committing by sitting there, till the men walked
past them with their towels round their necks, and from
their remarks as they passed the ladies found out how
they had offended. The reason that ladies have not to be
warned off the vicinity of gentlemen’s baths is, that
ladies don t take the trouble to play “ Peeping Toni ’
as .‘‘.°-” B °. "tosjy P uts it; - On one'point, at least, I
willingly yield the superiority of MAN, and that is—
curiosity as regards the other sex.
* * • •
Fearsome libel on Townsville harbor re-
cently circulated by envious detractors. A poor
woman, sick of life, lately threw herself off
lownsville wharf into the alleged deep water
that floats “ vessels of the largest size” into afore-
said city. But the dredge had been removed for
some 40 hours, and the hapless would-be suicide
floundered hopelessly about seeking extinction
2 n , ly J SUCceeded ’ n wetting her stockings.
Was hshed out none the worse—excepting a slight
cold arising from damp feet.
* « • *
Libels on Queensland are common enough
and somewhat monotonous, but the following by
James Robb, a Bananaland Scotchman, on ’the
land of his adoption, has a slight flavor of redeem-
ing novelty: “Queenslanders have no ardent
desire to make the acquaintance of the cemetery
—knowing that when they reach their destination,
six feet below the burning surface of Queensland
soil, in two months the large white-ants will have
eaten them up root and stump, coffin included,
leaving’ only the metal plates of their false teeth
tor grave-diggers to pocket as perquisites.” The
Ayrshire Post gives this ingenious item to the
world.
* * * •
A Q. contributor tells The Bulletin that
Brisbane tailoresses are glad to accept 4id. for
making a pair of trousers !
T.D. : “ In a George-st. (Syd-
ney) window I notice a stuffed two-
headed sheep. Surely the obtrusion
of such malformations where they
are certain to be seen should be
stopped. We do not want more
double-headed boys or slobbering
idiots than we can help.”
* * *
A Maoriland J.P. is in trouble
over a woman and a charge of shoot-
ing, which is a little out of the ordi-
nary rut—the regular J.P. trouble
is over a woman and whisky. The
story goes that the honorary beak
was living with a girl that didn’t
belong to him, and he drove out
with her to the races. Her friends,
who were also at the races, con-
sidered that he was needlessly adver-
tising the family disgrace, and the
mother publicly belted him across the
nose with her umbrella. She then
departed amid the cheers of the
crowd, but presently a married
sister _ came along and gave him
four in the countenance with a
vigorous hand. After this the crowd
chased the J.P. back to his buggy,
and ran after him with mud as he
drove homewards. In the evening
one of the girl’s male relatives called
at the house to remonstrate, and he
and the J.P. filled the passage with
hair and dreadful vocabulary, until
the trouble wound up with some
shooting. The average J.P. being
a. vigorous, full-blooded person whose
vitality is evidenced by the successful
way he shoves his grocery-business a
long, is probably more apt than
other men to get into trouble over a
woman. Anyhow, the J.P.’s sin is
mostly a rich, mellow, full-bodied
sin with a woman in it.
Heavy old Gov. Brassey is not above
Joking points from the inspired German Emperor.
Ihe latter, when abroad in his yacht, preached
to his crew every Sunday, and subsequently pub-
lished his sermons in book-form under the modest
title, “ The Voice of the Lord Upon the Waters.”
.Brassey also grinds out a hum-hum haw-haw
sermon now and then when on the bounding
billows. Clipped from a report of a meeting of
the committee of the Melb. Women’s Hospital :
His Excellency the Governor forwarded copies of an
address of a religious character which he delivered on
.'f X car s on hoard the Sunbeam. It was received
with thanks.
It was received with thanks ! ” The writer,
who has heard “ Me Lord ” grope and stumble
wearily through many speeches, can understand
how terrible he would be attacking a defenceless
crew with a sermon. It was recorded that even
the most experienced sailor on the Sunbeam was
sea-sick as a result of one experience on the last
trip, but people were artfully led to imagine that it
was the effect of a storm.
* * • «
Gov. Brassey has fairly earned the belt for
vice-regal accidents and casualties. He was quite
a new figurehead when he nearly smashed himself
into pulp through a cycling mishap; a carriage
accident gave him a shaking up and he narrowly
escaped with his life; after which a fall from his
saddle-horse added another lucky let-off to the
list. His latest peril was a combination of possible
watery grave with the danger of getting bashed
between the two vessels, and a further (much fur-
ther) probability of shark-bite. The Bulletin
accepts the assurance of the Melbourne dailies
that his Excellency might have met his death in
Hobson s Bay last week, although the shark
theory seems untenable. No full-grown monster
°f the deep would be likely to bite Gov. Brassey,
though a young beginner might nibble at him.
Correct particulars of Gov. Brassey’s bath
hi Hobson’s Bay did pot appear in either Argus
or Age. Official particulars were printed in the
Age only, and these laid much stress on “ the
considerable swell,” “the swift-running tide,”
‘ the wave-driven launch,” “the swirl of the cur-
rent, and so on, all of which would leave the im-
pression that Hobson’s Bay was as bad as Largs
Bay at its worst, on the afternoon of Foundation
Day. In any case, it’s too much to expect of an
ancient mariner that he should see an A.N.A.
banquet through, put in an hour on the Nelson,
and then tranship himself safely to meet his wife
—all on the one afternoon.
“ INTERCOLONIAL."
TH' OULD SOD.
SHIP'S OFFICES (to applicant for employment): “ Ever
been to sea?”
APPLICAT : “D'ye think Oi came all th ’ way from Oireland
on a boi-cyele?”
“Lord Richard Neviil, having business
ashore, thought it to send a doctor to the
Sunbeam.” “ Having business ashore ”is lovely !
Now, who did supply the Age man with “ fuD
and true particulars ” ?
* * • *
“ Although much blown and fatigued with
his exertions in the Bay, his Excellency sustained
his perilous adventure with great good humor.
He accounted for the bruise on his forehead by
having, he supposed, struck against the staircase
in some way. Bo’sun Jessop, who fell in on top
of the Governor, said, however, he struck some
object with his heel when going down, and
possibly it was his Excellency’s head. It was for-
tunate, if this is so, that he was not rendered in-
sensible.”— {Extract from Melb. Age account of
Thrilling Accident to Lord Brassey.)
Superstition—and a cure. A well-dressed
woman stooped to pick up a horseshoe the other
day in the middle of George-street (Sydney). At
the same moment she was knocked down and
trampled on by a passing cab-horse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Idredml- that Ih ad died *
mid the g-rave - stones wKde
crowned a rivers side
JL strode, or\C spectral nighf,
p assed bu maou a mound
WRere. weed and wvlol - -flower drew
JAnd wandered rour\d and round .
Hied 'found no one A K.ne W .
home returned m oloorrs ,
Le! wiTK dew-wet ham,
I focirvd upo rAL| ,
maider\ sitting There •
CDflvcf who ore- cjou 11 Xs> clioi
hove made-mu Lj°ur Stool
sj with down cas t bead .
and Sorrow fal
ami ! she replied,
u sobbing, weeping l°w.
The s°ol of cjou that died
s nrgfvl" gcjear ago'”
Fanck Ke[?]d
THE FORGIVENESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She stood, the mirror of his mind,
His fevered thought’s embodiment,
Whose radiance made his reason blind
And filled his soul with discontent.
A look of scorn stood on her mouth,
But not for him whose dazzled eyes
Saw but the sadness of the South
Where morning never lives or dies.
“I have forgiven all your sin,
Though with its guilt your soul is crammed.”
He said—“ So ere the day comes in
Come to me though my soul is damned.”
And as he spoke her lofty head
Was lifted in excess of scorn,
While in her eyes a hate long dead
Showed like the dimness of the dawn.
“ So, you forgive me, just as I
Forgave you in my woman’s way—
Your infidelity, your lie,
And all the madness of your day."
Then fiercely shone the eyes of her—
“ I did forgive a man his deed,
But you forgive a woman, sir,
You are no better than your breed.”
W. BRUTON.
THE YARN OF THERO'SUN'S BOOT.
The bo’sun, having- wrung his hands,
A shrilling whistle blew
And piped his nose, as up I goes
To seek an interview.
11 Good bo’sun, of the Sunbeam yacht,
What cheer, yeo-ho ? ” quoth I;
He looks at me, and sez, sez he :
“ Avast, my lad—stand by 1
“ I wish as how upon this barque
My corpse had fallen dead
Afore my foot was doomed to mark
The skipper’s ’oly ’ead.
“ We fell into the foaming deep,
A mem-o-rable flop.
That’s not the worst, for he fell first,
And I come down on top.
“ I’m not a member o’ the Press
As ridicules the Queen,
Yer can’t imagine my distress,
Yer Sydney Bullyteen !
“ I serves the Governor afloat,
I honors him ashore ;
Just take a note that off the boat
I’m loyal to the core.
“ And, consequently, whilst we sank
Beneath the raging brine
I minded that his lordsnip’s rank
Was different to mine.
“ But, all the same, I had to drop,
And, meaning no offence,
I felt my shoes inflict a bruise
Upon his Excellence.
“ The British peer to whom I owe
My duty and regard
Was struggling in the sea below,
And I 'ad 'it ’im ’ard.
“ I saw the bloodstain on his brow
And cried aloud, ‘ O, Lord ! ’
When me and him (we both can’t swim)
Was safely hauled aboard.
“ His Excellence he only laughed
To see the narsty cut
Where I, the bo’sun of the craft,
Had kicked his cokernut.
“Hedoesn’t bear the slightest grudge.
The ’earty ’igh-born gent;
He’s making fun o’ what I done,
But I can’t rest content,
For though I eat, and drink, and smoke
As reg’ler as before,
I know that Heaven damns a bloke
What boots a Governor.
“ And every time he takes command
Of this here yacht at sea,
I’ll lay my neck agin the deck
Until he’s trod on me.”


'S§7
s
M
)
iRRoWRpoi
K)OD
jft'M'Xoude?
e®
©;
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND, &0.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
All Drapers Everywhere.
A Lady Athlete.
A woman need not necessarily become an ath-
lete to fit herself for the duties of wifehood or
motherhood. If she will obey common-sense
rules of health and be sure that the organs that
N
constitute her woman-
hood are always healthy
and strong, she will be a
capable and healthy wife
and mother. If a woman
suffers from Biliousness,
Indigestion, Headache,
Female Ailments, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, Fulness
after eating, Buzzing m
s, the Head, etc., etc., she
- should at once obtain a
box of Bile Beans. They
are one of the safest and
surest purgative medi-
cines on the market, and,
unlike most laxative re-
medies, they act direct on
the bile ducts, causing the liver to secrete and cast
increased quantities of this fluid into the bowe ,
thus flushing the same out as a stream of wate
would a drain. A Bile Bean taken now and then
will keep one free from digestive troubles, their
attendant evils and dangerous after-effects. Man
faetured at Detroit, Michigan, U.S. A., they are
sold throughout the world. Brice, per box, •
Bile Beans are not an ordinary medicine.
They are manufactured in one of the best-b
and equipped laboratories in the world, an ....
only on account of the sales being m the mi .
annually that they can be sold at the P •
Obtainable at all chemists, or the Australian
Dep6t, the Bile Bean Manufacturing U>.,
Macquarie Place, Sydney.*
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 1, 1898.
Mt Dear Myee—
Much of the gilt came off the gingerbread when
it was announced that the “diamonds” in the
ring dropped into the plate at the bishop-making
service at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, last week, were
non-existent. It was only “a plain gold ring ”as
per revised version of the incident. Great
Heavens ! can it have been a wedding-ring? The
newest and youngest Australian prelate, Rev.
Stone-Wigg, is the object of much hysterical
ladylike regret that such a clerical darling should
be destined to the dusky heathen in New Guinea.
What a weird taste in nomenclature the forbears
of some Australian bishops must have had !
Stone and wig indissolubly hyphenated combine
as oddly as Field-Flowers-Goe. But irreverent
young Australia doesn’t trouble much about
bishops or their titles. When Dr. Green, of
Grafton and Arinidale, was iti Melbourne recently
he was chief attraction at a churc h tea-party, and
was spoken at by Bishop Goe as “ my brother of
Grafton and Arinidale.” A small boy auditor
nudged his mother and whispered loudly, “ What
sort of a job has he got? ” “ He's not on a job, my
Bon,” replied the mother. “Yes, he is,” objected
sonny, “ 1 heard the preacher call him 1 my brother
who is grafting in Armidale.”’
At one stage in the consecration of Bishop
Stone-Wigg at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney,
the right rev. gentleman was carted off by a
couple of parsons to the vestry to put on a
“rochet.” Several minutes elapsed, but the partly-
finished bishopand his valets did not appear. Bishop
Goe grew so anxious at the delay that beads of
perspiration oozed from his brow ; but at last out
came the new bishop in a white night-robe to the
accompaniment of much tittering from the female
section of the congregation. I am told that
the delay in the vestry occurred through the valet-
chaplains being at variance over the canonical
method of getting the bishop into the garment;
one man advocated putting the right arm first
whilst the other decided contrariwise.
Anniversary Day regatta was a placid and tame
outing as viewed from the jumbo German boat
used as a flagship. A steady stream of visitors
was pumped into the liner all day per ferry from
the Quay, but its long decks weren't overcrowded
thereby. One of the features of the day was the
feeding. An invitation lunch was given in the
chief saloon, and the paying public were feasted
in other parts of the ship at so much per head,
while onlookers on deck, finding things rather
slow on the water, gazed at the luncheon through
the port-holes. For the first time the regatta was
made a society function, as Mrs. Merged, the
agent’s wife, dispensed afternoon tea to a favored
company of ladies in the saloon. Up to date the
feasting on Anniversary Day has been for men
only. There was some showy dressing on the
flagship. The aquatic girl was in great force. One
boat rowed by four girls in pale-green blouses kept
up a food pace within eye-shot of the flagship all
the afternoon, and the weary oars women were
finally given tow homewards by a friendly
yacht.
Rand wick, as a promenade of fashion at last
week’s meeting both on Wednesday and Saturday,
was quite deserted. The women who did attend
went out strictly with an eye to business, and
kept under the trees, putting their little bit on.
The stand sweep-promoter has had her day at
Randwick ; the plausible women who scattered
their tickets among surrounding strangers, in re-
turn for half-crowns which never returned,
have been absent in large crowds from recent
meetings. The most prevalent type of betting-
woman is the straight-out backer. The most
noticeable gown on Saturday, had there been any-
body there to look at it, was a white brocade with
sky-blue points. White muslin and lace unskil-
fully combined made one wearer look as if she had
step[»ed out in a breakfast-jacket and petticoat.
Govt. House was represented by the newly-arrived
brother, Thomas Brand, a mild-looking young
person in a suit of the fashionable pyjama-like
grey flannel.
A courageous man in the d.c. of a Sydney
theatre, the other night, solved for himself the
evening-dress problem with which the Philhar-
monic fogies are now wrestling, by appearing cool
and comfortable in white duck with tailless coat
and scarlet waist-girdle. This is the correct style
for evening dress in India and up North, and the
bold innovator who introduced it in Sydney was
the envy of all the surrounding males sweltering
in broadcloth. The musical person who wished to
make evening dress in reserved seats at concerts
compulsory was merely trying to take off by a
side-wind the women’s vast, obstructive hats
which conceal the singers. But at the Philhar-
monic sing-song a grateful audience would con-
sider it a boon to be mercifully shut off from some
of the derelicts in the chorus. “ Evening dress”
in Sydney theatres, especially since the.low prices
came in, is a shabby, shoddy farce. The Lyceum
circlers show depressing rows of straw sailor-hats ;
the hall-mark of fashion at the Royal is a gaudy
blouse topping a black skirt; and even the more
fashionable Her Majesty’s only decks itself
showily on Shabbas night.
On Friday at the Royal, when Addie Conyers
benefited, the house had a bright appearance;
the d.c. went into write-chokers and swallow-tails
for the occasion. It was chiefly a masculine
audience, and became delirious with joy over
Addie’s favorite Leicester Square song—one of the
baldest accounts of an every-day ordinary mash
ever set to alleged music, and yet the first bar of
it thrills the gallery to its lowest vest-button. The
principal boy of H. Rickards’ panto, has been one
of the draws of the show : she fas outclassed her
rival boy at the Lyceum because she wears her
tights more gracefully. The whole art of being a
stage boy consists in putting on tights, and Jack
apparently inserts herself into her white wedding-
suit as if it were one vast stocking, and arranges
all the trimming on afterwards.
Introducing his brother, Capt. Brand, to the
dairy-farmers at Kiama agricultural show as an
expert. Gov. Hampden declared that Australian
pastoral statistics staggered 'Ome supporters of
the agricultural interest, and joked about the
way in which Lady H.’s friends had politely ac-
cused her of drawing the long bow over some
surprising facts sent her by the Gov. for diffusion.
When she observed that some Australian farmers
milked IJOO cows per day, her English hearers
had metaphorically remarked “Rats!” Capt.
Brand also arose to say that, as the owner of a
dairy-farm raising 10001 b. of butter weekly, he
thought he knew something about the product,
but felt himself in a very small way of business
compared with the men he was addressing, some
of whom turned out as much per day.
By the death of Madame Juliette Henry,
whose portrait appears elsewhere in this issue,
the French colony in Sydney loses one of
its most prominent and remarkable members.
As the organiser of the French Literary
Circle, Madame Henry was for many years
directress of the only organisation for the ad-
vanced study of French literature in Australia.
Mdlle. Dreyfus, who has made a success of her
French lectures in Melbourne, avowedly obtained
the idea from the elder lady. Mme. Henry was
a tall, handsome and commanding woman with a
manner suggestive of the salons of the last cen-
tury ; her career since she left France was varied,
and should she have left notes for a biography, it
ought to prove interesting reading.
Melbourne Punch’s penlady deplores the fact
that.it is “ bad form” to testimonialise Sassiety
Don Juans, otherwise “so distinguished a mem-
ber of the peerage as the Earl of Shaftesbury
would not have been allowed to leave us so
quietly.” But I understand that his Shaftes-
buryship did get a testimonial —though certainly
not of the sort that any young man would be
likely to run after. ■
Some of the pars, about royal personages in
London papers are interesting as showing in what
infantile prattlmgs it is considered good form to
talk of royalty. For instance, in certain chatter
about the “ poor ” Teck widower, he is patted on
the back by a gossiper in the World (of all
papers !), who observes that “he is in a very bad
way, and has now got a nice clever man as a doc-
tor ’’—and praties of the bereaved person as if he
were an ailing brat of six who must take the nasty
medicine and let the nice kind doctor cure the
naughty tummy-ache. The same scribe records
that the Duchess of Albany had a nasty fall and
scratched her royal nose, but was “ very brave,”
and didn't shirk the arduous labor of opening a
bazaar afterwards, and she didn’t cry, she didn’t,
when the horrid gravel scratched her nosey-posey.
Also, that at a function at Windsor Her Gracious
looked “smiling and gracious,” and the “late
Lord Mayor ” beaming and radiant. It is futile
enough to chronicle royal grins, but imagine the
fatuousness of a public that would be interested in
counting the courtier-like smirkings of an ex-
tremely-commonplace middle-aged man 1
Tailors from the east who goto W.A. goldfields
generally soon retire from the business in disgust.
They can’t make a living in outlandish districts
where the male elite celebrate the coming of
summer by throwing off their coats to transact
business in their shirt-sleeves. The “evening-
dress” worry isn't much of a problem on the
Murchison. For eight months out of the 12 no-
body in that benighted region sees a coat or vest.
But the social reporter has got there all the same,
and glorifies accounts of battery-christenings with
descriptions of Mrs. Expert’s grass-lawn and Miss
Esmeralda’s taffeta glace. And it is an under-
stood thing that all such records are paid for at
per inch.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Lord Brassey first came to Victoria as
Governor with sticking-plaster on his head,
caused by a bump on the Sunbeam, on the way
out. In his cycle-accident and his horse-accident
he bumped his head. In his Hobson’s Bay ad-
venture he has bumped his head again. Fate
knows where Vie can be bumped with least
liability to injury.
“The poor Governor’s friends are hardest on
him. He gets a ducking and bumps his head,
and,- by way of consolation, Capt. Currie, at Vic.
Yacht Club’s smoke-night, says: ‘lf Lord Brassey
had been a prominent cricketer or owner of race-
horses, he would be now the most popular man in
Australia, but ’ (oh, that but!) *he had fostered
the manly sport of yachting.’ Therefore, by
inference, he isn’t popular. True enough, but,
when a man has bumped his head, why bump it
again by throwing at it a hard fact like this?
“ At the Princess’s, during the ‘Virginius’
revival, the dialogue was at times almost drowned
by the subdued snuffling of harrowed spectators.
It’s a terrible pity that real-life mourners cannot
sorrow gracefully after the manner of novelists’
heroines. You know the sort of thing— ‘ Pale yet
beautiful, with pearly drops chasing one another
down marble cheeks!’ But it can’t possibly be
done, so regrets are useless. Even stage emotion,
if at all convincing, smacks more or less of the
ridiculous. For instance, the weep-method of
Maud Jeffries (whose histrionic lot has fallen in
watery ways) bears out the contention that grief
and hay-fever have pretty much the same symp-
toms. Certainly, in extra-tragic moments, both
Miss Jeffries and Lilia M’Carthy (when she got the
chance in the Claudian prologue) discard nasal
effects for a sort of plaintive eerie keening.
“ The lugubrious Roman chronicler who first
wrote up the Virginian legend must have deter-
mined, by hook or crook, to lacerate what Gov.
Brassey calls ‘the tender parts’ (suggestive of
boarding-house pullet) ‘of human character.’
Dramatists Knowles and Barrett have added all
they could to its pile of pristine pathos, with the
result that, if you dodge the dismals at
one corner of the play, they’re sure to overtake
you at the next. Spectators, conscious only of
luke-warm sympathy for betrayed Dentatus,
sneak out their handkerchiefs at the first squawk
of the abducted heroine. Surely no section of
sentimentalists can feel itself uncatered for with
three corpses (assassinated patriot, massacred
maiden and strangled villain) to gloat over, and a
brace of stage-murders and another of funerals to
pick and choose from. Then there are so many
minor miseries and so few relieving touches of
brightness that the final tableau of lunatic father
dying a natural death beside his slaughtered
daughter’s bier is unanimously hailed as an unex-
pectedly cheerful ending.
“ Apart from histrionic horror, * Virginias *
melts audiences to tears by the power of its
associations with ‘old, unhappy, far-off school-
days. impositions, exam.-crams., &o. Oh, those
night-mare Roman history names ! Picture your-
self a trembling examinee again, with three
minutes left to answer a question like this: Give
full name of every Cains in your history period,
with exact dates and minute particulars concern-
ing each.’ , , •
“ Maud Jeffries with her dark, curly hair
tumbling over white silk draperies looked artless
enough for the little plebeian ‘maid from school
and pretty enough even for ‘ Young Virginia, the
sweetest girl in Rome.’ Pa Virginius (Wilson
Barrett) apparently always wore white, too.
Muslin, his civilian robes looked like. Fancy men
walloping round the place in white muslin. I
hope I’ll be dead with stones on my head before
they take to that fashion again. Careless, go-as-
you-please creatures, most of them ! Their clothes
are bother enough already.
“The same high-minded patriarch fought the
Sabines in a delightfully-glittersome white uni-
form, while Lover Icilius (Edward Irwin) vir-
tually bade old Roman frugality go hang every
time he got into his red-and-gold regimentals.
To everyone’s disappointment, refreshing Ross-
Christian Hodges had sunk all his crispness and
vim in the plaintive personality of amiable old
Uncle Numitorius. But better luck next time 1
“The Ahgus quotes a par. from London Daily
Chronicle, stating that:
Aristocratic ladies, both married and single, are send-
ing to their favored friends, in lieu of the hackneyed card,
photographs of themselves as attired for hed.
The curious thing is that the par. says that this
suggests the story of Pauline Bonaparte and
Canova: —
When Napoleon’s lovely sister sat to the sculptor as
Venus Victrix some of her admirers exclaimed, “How
could you do it?” “Oh, it was all right,” answered the
Princess, “ the studio was well warmed.”
But why should the freak of the fashionable ladies
suggest this story ? Does the Argcs suppose that
»
“ One of the pleasantest functions of the past
festive week was the luncheon-party given by the
Yacht Club on board the Nelson on A.N.A. day.
Wednesday was about the only cool day in a week
of scorchers. The scene during the regatta was
brilliant, and a small—a very small—element of
sensation was lent to the whole by llis Ex.’s
plunge into- the lukewarm waters of the hay.
This much-chronicled incident, which resulted in
nothing more serious than a ducking, is regarded
by some as a judgment on the vice-regal one for
his unsportsmanlike treatment of the crew of the
Helen. The yachtsmen who sailed the Helen in
an easy winner, and by so-doing netted for His Ex.
.£5O, received hardly a word of thanks, and the
yacht was as barren of provisions as the ancient
mariner’s boat.
“In Govt. House drawing-room on Saturday
night were gathered together, at Lady Brassey s
invitation, that august body of intellectual woman-
hood known as the Austral Salon. Taken thus
en masse in evening dress the salonites do not
appear at their best. On Saturday night, though
the electric-light was mercifully veiled in gauze
bags and the company was planted in rows,
weirdly-dressed heads surmounted by marvellous
feathers and flowers, and garments betraying
hasty ‘running-up’ at home, proved that the
* woman of mind ’ seldom has any of it to spare
for fashion. There were a few exceptions to
the rale of dowdiness. Lady B. herself looked
entirely elegant in yellow satin and superb black
lace, and a Sydney woman in a gown of
black with elaborate sequin trimming and an
orange-velvet belt, showed up like a peacock
in a fowl-yard. It was a night of heat so
fierce that the vast multitude of addresses,
arranged round the drawing-room walls in two
unlovclv rows, wilted and curled up and fell about
like withered leaves, and the refreshments served
at the end of the programme were the most
popular number on it. His Ex. eclipsed the small
modicum of gaiety going by reading lugubriously
lines addressed by the poet Cowper—pronounced
vice-regally ‘ Cooper ’—to one * Mary ’; also some
dreary verse of . Byron—why does the unlovely,
prosaic millionaire persist in flying to Byron ? A
song from ‘ The Geisha,’ by Mrs. Frank Stephen,
in blended black and green, and a pretty ‘ spoken
piece’ by Mrs. Levy, of Sydney, were the most
admired items of the evening.
“Signor Buzzi, the only professional per-
former, volunteered a solo in view of an unlooked-
for gap in the programme. Mrs. Bingham
warbled tunefully and looked refreshingly cool
in. primrose brocade fichued with white lisse.
Miss Buckley in white satin, with corsage and
sleeve fixings of geranium color, was less sooth-
ing to the eye. An all-black toilette temporarily
added 10 years to Mrs. F'reeman-Thomas’ apparent
age, whiie an equally sombre gown made Miss
Dorothy Brand twice as effective a damsel as the
muslin gowns of her daylight wear. Old ladies in
the audience praised his Ex.’s good sense in giving
his aides plenty to do in opening and shutting
windows in the concert-room instead of keeping
them kicking their heels in idleness all the time.
Gov. Hopetoun, in his day, believed in impressing
his guests by an army of gorgeous flunkeys, but
the Brassey domestic staff apparently runs to
check apron rather than plush. Austral Salonites,
handing over their wraps t’other night to a couple
of any how maids in the vice-regal cloak-room,
plumed themselves complacently as they thought
of the sprucely-uniformed, well-mannered, softly-
spoken abigail in attendance at their own club-
rooms.
“Profiting by the ‘awful example’ of the
Hawkesbury trip, the Vic. Government, deter-
mined that history of that kind should not repeat
itself, hired the huge * Hygeia ’ and invited only a
very small and select number to accompany the
delegates down the bay. Eatables and drinkables
in vast quantities and an exciting sham tight
helped to make one of the worst days of the
season endurable. The trip came to an end at six
o’clock. When the Hygeia reached Port Melb.,
the whole ship's company rushed frantically for
evening papers to see the cricket-score.
“ Melb. girls’ devotion to cricket was clearly
manifested on Saturday afternoon when scores of
them sat parasol-less in the blazing sun and
parching hot wind, to see one hero after another
go down before tho English bowlers. Joan of
Arc’s sufferings at the stake must have been mild
compared with the tortures of those fair girls who
sported light muslin blouses with transparent
sleeves, and whose arms slowly blistered and
seared beneath the scon lung rays in sight of the
multitude. Hut the sufferers seemed to heed it not,
and sat under the scanty awnings through the
terrible afternoon till stumps were drawn. All
the visiting celebrities who were not down the
bay with the Premier were in evidence. G. H.
Reid wasted visibly in the reserve, and Wilson
Barrett in Claudian attitudes viewed the play
with close attention The ladies of his co., too,
turned up in force. Maude Jefferies looked cool
and calm in white with some pink roses in her
hat. Handsome Lilia- M‘Carthy was in black
and heliotrope. After M‘Leod’s brilliant innings
of one run, that hero clad himself in garments of
fashionable cut and strolled elegantly among the
girls, receiving congratulations on all sides on his
marvellous performance. And every maiden who
could get within speaking distance of him sent
gushing messages of love and admiration to Clem.
Hill, who was regarded on the spot as the saviour
of his country.
“The Convention bi-weekly garden-parties will
keep Melbourne humming for weeks, though up
to now they have been only politico-social. The
female tails of Convention comets and the lydies
of local politicians have foregathered ; but the
higher tone has been supplied only by the wives
of official persons. Society, pure and simple, will
come more numerously when it knows that there
are free cakes and ices, not to speak of a brass
band and the pleasure of talking to Speaker Mason
twice a week. Society is never far off the scent
when there is anything free and good going.
“ One of the Brassey aides, notover-p'umpatthe
best of times, is said to have shrunk visibly since
the exposure of his bold, bad brother Bill. But,
according to the law of averages, no family of any
size can expect to dispense with a scapegrace,
and, anyway, the Melb. representative of the cul-
prit’s clan is admirable enough to atone for a host
of fraternal failings. No one, high or low has
aught but good to say of him.
“ Apart from official allowances, the present
Mayor of Melb. can afford to shed more splendor
on bis civic position than most of his predecessors
in office. For one thing, he is strong in the pos-
session of a rich wife, one of a family of gilded
n.ining-eentre girls. Another of these golden
maids married a famous cricketer, while a third
went to law with her trustees, some years back,
because they withheld their consent, and conse-
quent settlements, on the occasion of her marriage.
“ Bendigo, by the way, like Chicago, begins to
have quite a reputation for heiresses. And some-
how the climate up there kills off the old folk
comparatively early, which makes the sailing so
much plainer for the legatees. Comparatively
recently a clergyman thereabouts advertised for
an upper-crust duenna for the orphan heiresses of
a local quartz king. In due course the girls were
domiciled with the near inarriage-eonneetion of a
high and mighty Melb. potentate, and already are
both married to handsome scions of their cha-
perone’s toney clan.
“ Lord Brassey’s naval scheme whereby mer-
chant ships trading to Australia were made train-
ing vessels for midshipmen, promises to create a
nautical disposition among the natives. Three of
Devitt and Moore’s line carry ‘sons of gentle-
men’ who will not live in'the fo'castle or do
menial work, and already several lads have joined
and paid the premiums for a course of instruction
in inidshippery. An up-country lad wrote to the
agents in Melbourne, the. other day, wanting to
know what the wanes were, and if he would be
able to have a ‘fling in London?’ Knight
Wrixon bewails the ambition of town-bred young-
sters to wear a black coat and a pen behind the
ear, rather than go upon the land, whilst up-to-
date baokblockers hanker after a blue jacket and
a life on the rolling deep. Possibly a time is
coming when the girl who wants to * get on the
land ’ will need to marry a Chinaman.
“Piano teacher Guenett, musical critic of the
Argus, ran his bicycle against a cart-wheel, the
other day, and has his left arm broken near the
shoulder. The music-man was one of the nrst m
tlie above office to mount a wheel, which for years
he, with gripped-in trouser-hems and flying coat-
tails, has navigated across Princes Bridge into
town as painfully and nervously and with as
disastrous results as those which ensue when
Brassey navigates his Sunbeam. Now all the
Akg us men, except six-foot Donald M Donald,
have caught the epidemic. Even portly editor
Haddon glides carefully about his front garden
in spare afternoon hours. ” —Yours truly, Ouso.


Kuppers Elberfeld Lag
WtfMm
*► V' l ..
.Vnniii*:
\.7 >y /. ?, ii ”™«“!fiii**yini ,, w■ ■"w vv. •* v
3...1P- i\K nil' *' Valine
<lllll.. .til. ■< 11“ i" *Y*•'
THE NEW SHIPMENTS
—OP—
FOSTER’S ALE
I Just Arrived by Steamer-
IN SPLENDID CONDITION.
- - - LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W, BALCHIN, Agent, SYDNEY.
Soft Ca O'/as Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30j- per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or'Stamps, 5/6.
Ve^ y t ? tron Br> Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Personal Items.
The O'Sullivan, Keystone of the N.S.W.
Democratic Arch, is now acting as editor of
Sydney Freeman’s Journal.
There are only two Judges of Supreme
Court rank professing the Hebrew faith in all Her
Majesty’s dominions : one in London, and one—
Cohen—in Sydney.
Hancock, M.L.A. (Vic.), on Tocsin Pren-
. dergast : “ Your name’s George Michael Prender-
gast. The George is all right, but that Michael
gets you into trouble. ” *
G. D. Clark and F. Bevill, the N.S.W.
panjandrums respectively of water and whisky,
were originally pressmen, and still lean occasion-
ally on that slender staff.
EQUIVOCAL .
YOUNG DAUBER: “ That is a portrait of a particular friend of mine.”
V ISITOR: “Is he still a friend?”
A certain Southern squatter separated
from his wife always sends her the quarterly
cheque made out as follows: “Pay the old cow
£ • ” The bank values the hunks’s account too
much to dare to refuse payment.
Primate Smith has voluntarily surren-
dered a sum of .£2239, the proceeds of the Moore-
bank estate, on which his claim was legally
admitted. The money goes to the clergy fund
instead of into the episcopal pocket.
Ed. Bulletin, —You are very rough on
Judge Gibson for having given a man three years
gaol for stealing a ninepenny tin of baking-pow-
der. But the Judge is only acting as he has been
taught to act. He was once Associate to Judge
Windeyer. Evil associations, etc.— Spero.
Dear Bulletin,— That prose-poem on
whisky you quote may be the advt. of an Ameri-
can distiller, but the author is Col. Bob Ingersoll,
and it was written as an acknowledgment to a
friend who had presented him with a jug. And
didn’t the church-folks slate Ingersoll for it>
Overproof.
Justice Mathew Henry Stephen, now in
his 70th year and supposed to have an early retire-
ment under consideration, was the first native
Australian to ascend the Supreme Court Bench.
His father and grandfather were also Supreme
Court Judges. He was born in Hobart, but has
spent almost all his life in Sydney.
Died recently, at Portland (Vic.), William
Carney, who arrived in Tasmania 77 years ago.
Also, at Ballarat, Mrs. Catherine Manning*, who
arrived at Port Phillip the year after Fawkner,
and lived in a tent where Maryborough now
stands. And thirdly, George Glyde, who arrived
m W.A. in the time of the first Governor—lB26
to 1832.
On Monday, 16th Jan., John Davies,
J.P., was elected chairman of petty sessions, at
Essendon (Vic.), for the 30th time in succession.
His predecessor was John Thomas Smith, the
seven times Mayor of Melbourne, and first intro-
ducer of the donkey to Australia. A generation
ago, Mr. Davies represented N. Melb. in the Leg.
Assembly.
Wade, Harris, Murray, and a few other
barristers who would like a few years’ rest on
N.S.Vi7. District Court Bench, were so nearly
even in Ministerial eyes, and were supported by
influences so likely to prove irascible if one of the
named were preferred to the others, that the
canny Reid Cabinet passed over the lot, and
offered the first vacancy to Frank Rogers.
A point in connection with Righteous
Wrixon's jeremiad about the eagerness of the Vic.
State school boys to wear black coats and push a
quill pen for a living, and their utter unwilling-
ness to “ graft ” in a field or workshop, is that
Wrixon himself has never been seen out of a long
black coat by any human eye; in fact, he is
utterly unimaginable without that respectable
garment.
One S.A. pastoralist who, 14 years ago,
wholly held, or had a large interest in, five big
squattages in his own province and the far west of
N.S.W., lately lost the last of them—abandoned
it after a three years’ drought, during which not
12in. of rain in the aggregate were registered.
And he was an oldster.at the game, too—stood, at
one time, on about equal terms with Thomas
Elder and Peter Waite.
It seems definitely settled that J. H. Fin-
layson, editor and part proprietor of S.A. Regis-
ter, stays London as correspondent of that
paper. ‘ Finny” wielded a pen dipped in gall,
and did much to keep the Hospital squabbles alive.
Although a sworn political foe of Kingston’s, he
was one of the latter’s greatest personal friends
until the medical squabbles came along, but they
renewed their friendship when they met in
England at Jubilee time. Finlayson started as
office-boy on the Register, and climbed right ud
the ladder.
Birthdays in February interesting to Aus-
tralians are: Editor Finlayson (S.A.), 55 on the
3rd ; Arthur Garner, 47, and editor Haddon
(Argus), 59, on the Bth ; B. R. Wise on the 10th ;
Judge Molesworth 56 on the 23rd; Inglis Clark
(Tasmania) and Grant Allen, both 50, and Julius
Vogel 63, on the 24th ; and Premier Reid 53 on
the 25th ; General Downes, once Commandant of
S.A. Army and now a pensioner at Geelong, will
lie 64 on Feb. 10.
The news that Thomas M‘llwraith has gone
back to Paris, where he is under the care of high-
class physicians, and that he will shortly return
(in the saloon, presumably) to Queensland, is an
interesting comment, in a small, silent way, on
his alleged “penniless” condition. A penniless
man can’t go wandering expensively about the
Continent of Europe, and get high-class medical
attendance.
The crank who got up the monster Scots-
men’s petition re “ Britons,” etc., was well known
in Melbourne during the Hopetoun regime. He
was chiefly conspicuous for an aggravated Hieland
uniform, and the huge hedge stake with which he
used to pound the pavement at every step.
Nothing short of death would force the writer to
acknowledge himself a fellow - Briton of that
aggressive individual, whose bitterest revilers in
Melbourne were the Scot men themselves.
Dear Bulletin, —Re
the Smith plague. At
Salisbury Downs station ;
10 or 12 men at men’s
hut sitting under veran-
dah. Boss comes and
calls, “Jim !” Eight men
rise and go towards him ;
then he calls “ Jim
Smith ! ” and five out of
the eight continue to ad-
vance. The Boss : “ Oh,
damn it all, I want Jimmy
Smith ! ” And he got him
at last.—O.B.
The appointment of
Rev. Stone-Wigg to be
be Bishop of New Guinea
knocks out the hopes and
endeavors of the ex-
Queenslander, Canon Tay-
lor. Years ago the Canon
(now working in Corn-
wall) tramped from Cook-
town to Cape York, and,
crossing over, looked wist-
fully into the black faces
of the Papuans. He
reckoned upon being made
first bishop of the new
territory, and when Pri-
mate Smith went north a
year or so ago the Canon’s
was the name constantly
associated with the ven-
ture. The Canon’s scheme
was,_ however, expensive.
He insisted on being pro.
yided with a steamer and a permanent staff to
work it, and, besides, he was determined to pick
his clergy from England. Anyhow, his dream is
over, and his numerous and voluminous letters
to everyone in Australia who could further his
ambition will now cease.
Mrs. Crooke, who died the other day in
Melbourne, was a grand-daughter of Thomas
Jamison, M.D., R.N., who was in 1808 appointed
“Surgeon-General of N.S. Wales and His
Majesty’s Settlements of Sydney.” His son, Sir
John Jamison, was one of the surgeons who
attended Nelson when he was fatally wounded.
Sir John owned Regentville, Penrith, most of the
Emu Plains, and after him was named Jamison-
street, Sydney.
BOTH TO BE PITIED.
“ Hullo, old man—where to?”
“Oh, bally dawnce! An’ you?"
“ Oh l bally-dancer! ”
An irascible Anglican is exerting himself
to induce the C. of E. Bishop of Colombo to sail
for Sydney with a view to instituting legal pro-
ceedings against Cardinal Moran for alleged
slander and defamation. It is contended that
the Cardinal, in citing the Bishop as a besmircher
of the morality of Anglican missionaries, preju-
dices the Bishop’s position, and damages his influ-
ence with the body over whom he rules.
During his 23 years of office N.S.W.
Government Man-butcher “Nosey Bob ” Howard
has hanged 54 men and one woman. Has made,
say, one hundred yards long of corpses.
A Mount Gambier J.P. (strange as it may
seem) recently bathed in the dusk at Beachport.
When he got to shore he could not find his clothes
and had to make his way home arrayed in sea-
weed.
The retirement of Dr. F. N. Manning
from the position of N.S.W. Inspector-General
of the Insane may not, as alleged, have been
directly due to any action of the Public Service
Board, but the medical profession will neverthe-
less be unable quite to rid itself of the impression
that if the P.S. Board had appr.-ised Dr. Manning
at his proper worth, the country would not now
be losing his valuable services. It may be said
without offence that no doctor in N.S.W. has
ever personally stood so high in the esteem of his
fellows as the retiring Inspector-General.
During the Duke of Edinburgh’s first visit
to Sydney, Lord Newry- now the Karl of Kil-
morey—was one of his suite, and one day my lord
got into a dispute with a cabman—Flash Harry—
concerning a fare. “Look here,” said the latter,
“five bob ain’t much to quarrel about, but I'm
going to have it or take it out of yer hide, me lord ! ”
Newry jumped into the cab. ‘ “Drive into the
Domain to a quiet place,’’said he, and Flash Harry
did so. Half-an-hour afterwards he drove back to
the club with one eye like a tomato, and a lip
looking in at his ear. My lord jumped out.
“Here you are,” said he, and he handed up a
sovereign. Newry was about the best of a very
shady lot.
When M.L. Minister for Lands M’Kenzie
first put up for Parliament he was one night ad-
dressing, an intensely Scotch and somewhat hostile
audience, down Dunedin way. After his speech
an old man arose at the back of the hall, and, with
a “ twang ” strong enough to stack wood, “ put ”
the following : “Jock M‘Kenzie ! D’ye nae think
it presumption for a man o’ your calibre to put up
agin a man o’ the calibre o’ Meestir M‘Lean—
whose shepherd ye hae been?” The Biblical
knowledge of the people before him struck
MTCenzie with lightning quickness and with well-
simulated fervour he answered: “No sir! No!
For I would ask you if the Lord did not choose
David, a shepherd, as King over Israel ? ” On the
wave of that reply he swept in.
Handsome Paris Nesbit, Q.C., of South
Australia, is another example of the divine
saying about the near alliance of great wits
and madness. The last letter the present
writer received .from him recorded an improve-
ment in health. Since then— presumably—the
heat oppressed him and Nesbit has gone down
But only for a while. Some years since he was
confined in Kew (Vic.), and lie devoted his forced
leisure to translating info English verse some of
Goethe’s poems. Not quite the thing you could
expect of a lunatic. One of the most cultivated
professors of Adelaide University said of Nesbit—
and this was a man who had mixed with high
literary society in all parts of the globe—that
he had the keenest and brightest brain of any
man he had met. After a little rest Nesbit will
again be seen in his chambers. There is not a
better man living than Paris Nesbit, and one
wants badly to say this in the hour of his mental
darkness.
Privy Councillor
Way had a serious
bout of illness during
the last week in Janu-
ary, but nothing was
printed about it. Im-
mediately on his re-
covery he sent £5 as a
thank-offering to the
fund beintr raised for
the benefit of Labor-
leader M‘Pherson’s
widow and children.
The Governor (anony-
mously) and Judge
Boueaut have given to
the same fund, which
so far has received
little support from the
Labor-party itself.
Josiah Clifton
who died the other day at Auckland,
JM.Jj., was a man of great force of character
and considerable eloquence. At one time he
was reputedly worth millions, and was a
director of the B.N.Z. But when the boom-
burst came, and the bank had recovered its
overdraft, Josiah was a much-shorn poten-
tate. One story told of him is worth repeat-
ing. He had made a big reputation amongst
the natives as a pacificator, and Chief Wiremu
Tamilian a, on his death-bed, stated that he
wished Birth to receive a present of land at
Matamata. The tribesmen were turbulent
and not too anxious to comply with the request'
but Firth fixed the matter up by erecting a
monolith in memory of the deceased chief
right in the centre of his land-grant, and had
inscribed on the monument in Maori the
words, “ Tamihana’s last words were—Let
Hohaia (Josiah) remain on the land.” Firth
was the author of several books, and a lengthy
conversation which he had with historian Froude
is recorded in “ Oceana.”
Convention-leader Barton relates that on
one of his numerous lecturing tours in Sydney
suburbs the local mayor announced to the audience
in the town hall: “I have to apologise for the
absence of Mr. Blank, who, as you have seen in
the notices, was to have taken the chair. Mr
Blank writes to me saying he had to go into town
to examine the corpse.” “Good Heavens!”
exclaimed Barton, “what corpse?” Mr. Blank
had recently been appointed captain of a Volun-
teer corps.
A “RANGY SINGEY."
Clayton, a reporter on the Geelong Adver-
tiser, had his estate proved for £2040. Even a
reporter can accumulate capital at Geelong, if he
doesn t get driven to drink by the awful monotony
of his existence.
Apropos “ My Life in Two Hemispheres,”
now being published. Charles Gavan Duffy had
been exactly six years in Victoria when, by two
years service in all as a political Minister, he be-
came entitled to a pension of .£lOOO a year—which
he has steadily drawn ever since, to the tune of
over .£35,000 in all.
“At the concert of the Royal Amateur
Orchestral Society,” writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, “Prince Albert Edward turned up,
accompanied by the doddering Duke of Cambridge
and Prince Edward of Saxe-Weimar. Wales has
very little hair indeed, except a fringe inside his
collar, and his beard is quite grey. Cambridge is
bulbous, and likewise, only more so, bald. Judg-
ing by appearances, his faithful gamp would be
of more regular service if he swallowed it each
morning, so that it would be in the place where
Cambridge gets wet most frequently.”
In Auckland (M.L.) years ago an estab-
lishment occupied by ladies, single but certainly
not celibate, was locally known as “the Con"
vent. ’ The late Bishop Luck, who, despite an
ascetic face, wore a beard which gave him the
look of a Yankee patent-medicine agent, was mis-
takenly driven there by an unregenerate cabman
whom he told to take him to the Convent. His
lordship, after having in horrified accents re-
counted the occurrence to Charles Otho Montrose,
journalist, concluded by asking pathetically :
“Why do they call that dreadful place the Con-
vent, Mr. Montrose?” “Dunno, my lord,” re-
plied the irrepressible ‘ Monty.’ “ But after what
has happened to your lordship, I shall endeavor
to get it re-christened ‘The Drum Ecclesiastic.’ ”
Thomas Arnold, Mrs. Humphrey Ward’s
father, still lives—-a professor in the R.C. Uni-
versity, Dublin. He was once Inspector of Schools
m Van Diemen’s Land, where he married Julia,
daughter of old Anthony Fenn Kemp, of N.S. W.’
Corps and Rum Traffic celebrity. Mrs. Arnold
inherited the fine old-crusted-port temper of her
papa. When her hubby, for conscientious reasons,
went over to the R.C. faith, she made things very
lively for him : when Arnold was one night wor-
shipping in St. Mary’s R.C. church, Hobart, the
lady stood outside, with a supply of road-metal at
hand, and smashed as many of the windows as
she could. I his was her way of expressing her
disapproval of Mr. Tom Arnold’s apostacy. Mrs.
Humphrey W. is also of a mystic and religious
turn of mind. Another illustration of heredity.
Writes H. :
What Graham Berry has to do is to write his autobio-
graphy, run it for a twelvemonth through Age or Argus,
gather it in a book, and make a pot of money.
The kind of birdlime scattered in Duffy’s reminiscences
of Victoria would be peppered all through Berry
who, in addition to the unspeakable advantage of quorum
pars magna fui, has that of being a journalist, though
nothing like so accomplished in that line as Duffy, much
as he surpassed him as a politician. But Duffy was the
journalist throughout, a more unreal Disraeli. Berry
far more of the history-maker than Duffy, whose skill
makes his ant-heap Icok a Himalaya, plunges into the
middle of things at the verv outset of his career
His impressions of Wilson Gray, Higinbotham!
Heales, O Shanassy, and countless other men not
forgetting M'Culloch—why, there would be no read-
ing like it, and everybody is in Majority-land, except
him and Duffy, leaving David Syme to run the race
with these toughs. History of Protection and land
legislation, the Darling grant, by a keen observer, who
happened to be outside the whole affair, the incalculable
advantage of Berry and Service. And, even outside
politics, indeed, Graham could tell of an exciting life
breasting the blows of circumstances, and grappling with
his evil star. “ The Run-down Dingo ! ” P *
Old T. G. Gregson, once a political and
social notable in Tasmania, was one day waiting
for the boat from Kangaroo Point to Hobart. It
was blowing and raining hard, and the roaring fire
in the inn’s coffee-room tempted him to patience
and a glass of hot grog. Here he got talking with
a stranger who proved so intelligent and well-edu-
oated that Gregson, who knew everybody in the
Island of any educational standing, was puzzled.
So, at last, after much punch and many cigars, the
old man took the liberty of asking the 'stranger his
name. The man seemed confused. “You won’t
recognise my name, sir,” said he. “ The fact is I
have been unfortunate, and I have only recently
worked out my sentence. Ah, sir,” he went on
don t shrink from me ! If I have done wrong I
have paid the penalty. Yes, I have paid the
penalty. Gregson rang the bell. “ Paid the
penalty ! ’ he echoed. “ You’d better pay the bill
and go. ” And the poor wretch slunk from the
room. “ Fancy ! ” exclaimed the old man, when
telling the story. “ After capping verse for verse
and line for line, from Horace and Virgil, to find
that my gentlemanly scholar was fresh from the
penitentiary. Faugh! ”


“ THREE GOOD TXXISTGS ”
. . Made in England. . .
Holbrook’s - Smcg
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
Holbrook’s Vinegar
“68 PRIZE MEDALS.”
Holbrook’s Sauce has been awarded more Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES !
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “ PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
Liverpool ai?d Loodoi)
# (a lobe Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Pounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
FIRE INSURERS with this Company have an
undoubted security without liability of partner-
ship.
LIFE INSURANCE can be obtained for about
half the usual ordinary premium for the first five
years.
Local Directors:
Walter Claiming Watt, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; Hon. H. E. Katbr, Esq. ; and
Eric H. Mackay, Esq.
H. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Office Australasia —
-62 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
Warner's Safe Cure is a Specific for Liver
and Kidney Disease.*
“ The altar-cloth of one eon is the door-
mat of the next.”
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
AT THE CAFE.
Hello ! Have you taken a half-holiday ? ”
No ; why did you think so ? ”
Because I once heard you say it was a mystery
to you how people could keep awake after
dining at mid-day.”
Ah! that was before I got LOASBY’S
‘ WAHOO.’ You see, I was a dyspeptic
then. Now, I dine when I like, and eat
what I like; but always with my eye on
the ‘WAHOO’ bottle.”
FRANZ JOSEF
FII.SE3NER
Largely bnitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
LAGER B€€R.
Aboriginalities.
Snell: “ A contribution to the chronicles
of the butting ram. My special ram began life as
a little, white, woolly lamb of unimaginable inno-
cence, beloved by a township, and grew suddenly
into a large, lusty, ravening animal that literally
possessed the place, and butted himself into the
position of a bloated and unquestioned autocrat.
When the spirit moved Jack, he would butt any-
body, from a lady to a red-gum stump, but he
loved best a fat small boy, or a big metal wash-
tub. The latter he would steal from a back yard,
and butt into a mangled ruin, driving it through
Waddy with the rattle and clamor of an old-time
battery. Jack was a terror and a joy to the boys
of Waddy. When there was a means of escape it
was the juvenile custom to bash the riotous
jumbuck on the forehead with clods of dry earth.
When this was repeated two or three times, Jack
went butting mad, and would butt a new track
clean through the township if nothing immovable
intervened. This is how he was cured : One day
the boys found the hub of a cart-wheel, and ran a
stout rope through it, and suspended it from the
top rail of a fence. The bottom rails were missing,
and the hub swung about 18in. from the ground.
Then Jack was inveigled into the trap with green
vegetables, and his enemies worked him up by
bombarding him with clods, and he fell. The ram
went for the swing-hub, and his first drive caught
it “fair,” so that it wliirled clean over the rail,
and took him in the rear with a fearful boost, that
drove him all of a heap. Gan you understand the
surprise and the fury of that ram ? He gathered
himself up again, and went forth to war. Rearing
up he dropped the hub another hot un, and it
came back at him unexpectedly, and knocked his
chin in with an upper-cut. But Jack was game,
and there and then commenced the world’s record
catch-as-catch-ean butting match. The whistle
sounded, and the innocent children were called to
school, when the fight raged most furiously. Two
hours later they rushed again to the battle-ground,
and found Jack spread out, utterly done up. The
hub lay at a distance, the inch rope having worn
through under the ram’s attack. Jack did not
stir from that spot for three days, and then moved
feebly and in great dejection and he could never
be induced to butt anything again even under
pressure of the most grievous abuse.”
• * * *
True Bill : “Way back in the ’7o’s I was
tramping with a mate from Hill End to Sofala.
Entering the latter town after a long day’s march
through snow and sleet, we made for the first
pub., and, being wet and cold, we called for
brandy—dark brandy. ‘ Roman Catholic or Pro-
testant ’ ? asked the man from Erin ; and, quick
as thought, my mate replied ‘Roman Catholic.’
A bottle of Hennessy’s *** was thereupon un-
corked, and, after having smacked our lips over
the excellence of the ‘craythur,’ I made bold to
ask our host what was the difference between
‘ Roman Catholic ’ and ‘ Protestant ’ brandy ?
‘ One carries the heads, me bhoy,’ he replied, with
a wink, ‘the other doesn’t.’ Thenceforward, we
were devout Catholics.”
• * • •
There is a species of frog which dwells on
the Western Tiers, Tas., whose voice resembles
Miss FLORENCE POOLE (of Frank Thornton's Co., at
Sydney Criterion).
Photo., Greenham & Evans, Perth.
the bleating of a lamb. In the olden days a shep-
herd, thinking he had discovered a contingent of
lost ewes with lambs, followed the sounds for
some days and returned in rags and half-starved.
Latest W.A. aboriginal amenity to come
to light is the alleged flogging to death of a black
boy by a teamster, at Nullagine, in June last!
* * * *
The appearance of Prof. Morris’s diction-
ary has suggested the idea of opening an academy
for the study of the Austral language. A Bulle-
tin correspondent has prepared a paper for the
first annual examination :—
EXAMINATION PAPER.
[The candidate must not answer more than six ques-
tions, and the eighth question must on no account be at-
tempted.]
(1) “ Who are you slinging-off at?” Is this phrase good
Austral-English ? What does it mean ?
(2) What difference is there, if any, between the terms
“ a narrow squeak ” and “ a close shave ” ?
(3) Do you consider the opinion of George Bird, ex-J.l.,
regarding the origin of the word “ larrikin a correct one,
or do you prefer the Daltonic theory? Do you consider
Sergeant Dalton a myth, and, if so, how often ?
(4) Prof. Morris says some connect the Australian word
“ gin ” with the Greek for woman ! Do you favor this
view ? If so, how do you account for the fact that we call
gin “Old Tom”?
(5) Is opossum of Keltic origin ? If so, trace its pedigree
to its latest royal ancestor.
(6) Is there any philological connection between
“Baraechi” and “barraoker”? Are the final endings
“ i ” and “ er” merely extinct case endings? -
(7) Australians are said to pronounce the word “ cow ”
as if written “ kee-ow.” Is the Vic. stock-tax in any way
responsible for this ? Give your reasons.
(8) Why did not George Giffen play in the test-matches?
Give his reasons. . .
(9) Prof. Morris has included the “ toe-rag ” in his dic-
tionary. How do you regard this lack of good taste on
the part of a man of delicacy and refinement?
«i * * * *
The shire council, or some other Philis-
tinic, unimaginative power, has perpetrated a
ghastly outrage on the good old mineral spring at
Hepburn, near Daylesford. Bor 30 or 40 years—
in fact, ever since the time when Hepburn got its
first testimonial from the diggers of that mining
district —the local inhabitants and dyspeptic
health-resorters had swilled mineral water at a
place where it gushed invitingly from a hole in
the ironstone rock. But a few weeks ago the fat-
headed authorities aforesaid, being anxious to
boom the sleepy hollow as a Victorian spa, built
a common or garden kind of wall around the rock,
and covered the top with concrete to “keep the
gases from escaping,” since when the main flow
of their pungent Hepburn water is through a
screwless brass tap protruding from the red
brick wall! A new-chum, arriving at the
“ springs ” with a large tumbler and a
simple determination to cleanse his or her in-
terior from all imaginable diseases, loses a lot of
valuable faith at the sight of this arrangement.
The idea that Providence can be dispensing cure
for rheumatism by the medium of a tap is not
easily maintained. Anyway, the oldest inhabitant,
a hard-shell Scotchman, has ceased to be a walk-
ing advt. for the water which built up his iron
constitution, and his beverage nowadays, says the
reckless ancient, is whisky as often as he can geb
it. A charmingly peaceful spot—Hepburn Springs.
The hotel on the high road hasn’t changed hands
for a quarter of a century or so. All things there-
abouts are as they were in the beginning, with the
exception of the brass tap, and the brick wall, and
a noisy, puffing engine-house, where a speculator
fills torpedo-shaped vessels with aerated mineral
water for the Melbourne market at the rate of
five shillings per gallon.
• • * »
Dear Bulletin, —Here is one
case of Lynch-lawin Australia. We
were about a hundred diggers on
the Cloncurry, in ’7O, and several
Bneak robberies had been com-
mitted ; so one day a man went to
the mouth of every shaft on Shar-
key’s Flat and whispered the magio
words “Roll up.” In those days
we had no shoes, and every man,
bar two, walked about a mile bare
foot to his work and carried his
crib. Assembling accordingly at
“ The Bishop’s ” humpy we found
that “ Bill, the Soldier,” was ac-
cused by his quondam mate Brummy
of stealing some 20oz. gold from his
tent. A jury was appointed, the
accused selecting six and the ac-
cuser six. The trial was short.
Several pieces of gold, sworn to by
prisoner’s mate,.were identified by
the butcher and storekeeper to
whom they had been sold, and “Bill
the Squeezer,” the only other
diner-at-home, had seen Bill emerg-
ing from Brummy’s humpy that
day. “The Soldier” was found
guilty, and, though some proposed
to hang him, and others to cut his
ears off, it was decided to give him
11 lashes with a stockwhip and
hunt him out of camp. Bill took
his gruel well, calmly put on his
shirt again saying: “ What d’ye
think o’ that, boys 1 ” and was
hunted off to Normanton.—M.T.
* * * •
There was a bit of a dust-
storm out on the Never-Never the
other day, and the Tibooburra paper
prints some things about it. One
man was riding a white horse. He
looked down, but couldn’t see the
animal; after half-an-hour or so he
caught sight of its head. That was
the worst experience. Less-accomplished corre-
spondents, however, agree that, though it was in
the afternoon, the darkness was as intense as in
the blackest night.
Ghastly Brisbane (Q.) Workh:
yarn :—“ On a Georgetown route lateß
two teamsters quarrelled in camp. One
drove on in advance of the ether and
burned the grass for miles before him.’
Dear Boubti n,- -Travelling
down from Bairnsdale to Cunninghame
(Vic.), the other day, we had on board
a shearer (full of whisky) and a black-
fellow and his gin. The shearer started
to use lurid language, and damned the
boat, crew, and passengers with a great
damn. The blackfellow walked up to
the man of wool, tapped him on the
shoulder, and spake thus: “Sir, it is
most ungentleman to use such prepos-
terous language in the presence of a
lady.” Whereupon the shearer man,
unused to the Lake Tyers mission class
of black, however familiar with the
“gib it tixpence ” or garden-variety,
muttered, “ Well, I’m blowed ! ” and
collapsed utterly.—M.
* * * *
In a one-horse township in Tas.
(writes a Bulletin correspondent) lives
a youth named Quin who can build
anything from a toy windmill to a mail-
coach. When not much more than a
child he made several wind-machines,
wheel-barrows, &c., with no help, no
tuition, and no tools save his pocket-
knife and an axe. Recently I saw a
four-wheeled buggy he had constructed
—iron-work, wheels, tires pole, springs
and body complete, and his tools were
the knife, dull axe, an old pair of tongs,
and a hammer. His parents, despite
many offers of help, refused to appren-
tice him ; and now lie is 17, and wast-
ing his life scrub-cutting for cocky
farmers.
Snake-stories are frequent just now. Melb.
papers tell of a snake entering a bird-cage at
Horsham in quest of a light lunch. Whilst the
proprietor of the cage was looking for a stick, the
snake secured and swallowed the canary, and then
could not escape between the bars of the cage
because of the lump of undigested bird in its
interior. When the present writer first met that
story the bird was a cockatoo. The owner
killed the imprisoned snake, hastily cut it open,
and the bird popped out, ejaculating : “ That was
a hot shop ! ”
* * » *
“ Dead Finish ” : Jtte “ Summer, A Wail
of the West,” in a recent issue, let me say that
Mr. Luftig’s entomology isn’t as reliable as his
The late Madame JULIETTE HENRY.
Photo., Freeman.
versification. The West is already staggering
under such a multitude of deserved curses, that
perhaps an extra gratuitous one won’t break its
back ; still, in the interests of truth, I should like
to point out that when the grass is “ withered and
yellow and sere ” the insect plague is at a mini-
mum. In fact, if you offered 10s. a head for sand-
flies you couldn’t get one at such a time. They
only appear after rain, when the grass is young
and green, and don’t last more than a week, but
during that week —Holy Moses 1
Dear B., —Be “Wanderer’s” inquiry : the
lunar rainbow is a not-uncommon phenomenon in
high northern latitudes. I have seen it about
half-a-dozen times—on one occasion it was so vivid
as to produce a just-discernible secondary bow.
The appearance is always white.—M.
Miss CLARE MANIFTELD (“Sweet Lavenderat
Sydney Criterion),
Photo., Falk.
Unlike brother Panton, of Melbourne,
Licensing-Magistrate Johnson, of Sydney, is not
inclined to encourage the Australian wine-in-
dustry. At the central quarterly licensing meet-
ing, a few days ago, two applications for new
native wine-licenses came before him. The police
objected on the ground that the applicants sold
fruit and confectionery on the premises specified,
and for that purpose kept open on Sundays. They
explained, however, that in many such cases
licenses had already been granted, but in others
refused, and until the matter was finally settled
they intended to formally object. The bench,
having intimated its determination to grant such
licenses to restaurants only, Mr. Crick, for one of
the applicants, pointed out that there was no force
in the objection lodged since the applicants were
legally entitled to do that to which the police took
exception. If the applicants in any way broke
the law they would be dealt with. As a matter
of fact, these native wine-licenses gave little
trouble, and he could not recall one prosecution
from that source. It was absurd to object to
confectioners and fruiterers and yet grant these
licenses to restaurants which not only kept, open on
Sundays but, in some cases, all night as well.
Such objections were contrary to the spirit of the
Act which was passed to encourage people to
drink Australian wine and give every facility for
its sale. The magistrates refused one application
and the other was withdrawn. Mr. Crick in-
formed beak Johnson that the matter would
crop up again when he would test the validity of
the objection.
The End of the World
May be near or it. may not, but while there are
no reasonable grounds for apprehending the “ end
of the world ” is near, it is liable to eome, prema-
turely, to many who do not listen to nature’s voice
of reasoning and promptly check any approaching
symptoms of liver or kidney disease. How this
can effectually be done may be judged by the fol-
lowing statement, which is one of thousands of a
similiar nature: Shepparton, Vic., Oct. 23rd,
1897 : “ About five years ago I was suffering from
kidney and liver complaint. I had the advice of
three doctors, with no relief. I was advised to
try Warner’s Safe Cure. I did so, and in a very
short time I was completely cured. I have been
in splendid health ever since.
[Mrs.) Annie O’Shea.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of o]>ol in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
HEAVY GOLD SHIPMENT.
The incoming English mail steamer brings one
million Guinea Gold Cigarettes shipped by
Thomas Ogden, Liverpool.
Observe, then, what a magnificent surplus The
Mutual could have exhibited to-day, had an
illiberal policy been pursued in relation to the
assured —a surplus exceeding that of any other
office by more than 150 per cent. But, fortunately,
the Company preferred to sacrifice a mere useless
and vainglorious display to the solid interests of
the policy-holders. Who shall say that, in taking
this course, the Mutual Life of'New York has
not chosen the better part? and that, in so doing,
it has not well earned the high reputation which
it has attained in every part of the world as “ the
Policy-holders’ C 0.,” “ the Co. which does the most
good ? ” The intelligent reader will not allow him-
self to be misled by the parading of sums of no
use to the present generation, and in excels of
any possible needs of the generations to con e.*
VERY year the girls gave Papa a Xmas present, and as the
J poor dear always has to pay for it himself, it is rather
anxious work selecting it—he is so terribly particular, you know.
As the procession approached the verandah, his unconcern was
far too well maintained to be genuine, and when we discovered
that he was pretending to read the Argus upside down in the
dark, we were convinced that we could not have made a better
choice than an up-to-date BEESTON HUMBER with DUNLOP
TYRES.
UJk
k
IJ
£j
1 N<~
/r///y££ T
&
since mother came back from the Jubilee she has not
_J let us forgot who she saw at court. She got to know that
Royalty have a preference for “Singer” Cycles, and when she
learnt that 1 mice Ranji, the cricket king, also rides a “Singer ”
that eettled it. She must have a “ Singer ” with Dunlop Tyre’s
WeH, on Christmas morning, dear papa in his very best manner—
his Buckingham Palace manner ” we call it-awaited her arrival
at the foot of the stairs, and the ceremony was gone through with
great credit to all concerned, including James, who, dressed in his
best clothes, held the machine to his unconcealed satisfaction.
WE were in the music-room singing carols when the door
opened and mamma advanced up the room leading two
lovely bikes. “ What’s the old lady doing with two new jiggers? ”
said George, “ bet you a thousand to three they are for Flo and
Cis.” And so they were ; two new “ Swifts No. 1,” just like yours
I adore “Swifts,” don’t you? They always make you look so
comfortable. George is always teasing me about my old bike
(bone-shaker, he calls it), but he can’t say a word now. And just
think of it; we shall be able to go the Gymkhana.
( By the way, the A.C.A. have issued a dear little book called
Cycling for Ladies,” which they send post free to anyone who
wants one. You ought to get it, because it gives some splendid
tips to beginners about saddles and Dunlop Tyres, and all that
sort of thing.
Christmas in Australia with th© h©o3iiig*t©ns...
Taken from a letter written by Miss Wheelington to her cousin in England. Illustrated by the Special Artist of the
AUSTBAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
Elizatoetli-street, Meltoournp. * *
391 George-street, Sydney. *
Depots at Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Warrnambool, Charters Towers, Christchurch Dunedin, Wellington, Launceston, Rockhampton
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stumped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by . past or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
John H. (B.) : No. The Bulletin is a maga-
zine now, and will lay to its book M.T. : Will you
swear that that sketch and the idea thereof are original ?
.... U-no : Held for illustration A.T.W. : Dr. Angel
Money, Maoquarie-st., Sydney, is the medico in question.
J. Carr : Please send address D. : Don’t let your
harlequin dream again Jones : What do you mean
when you say that The Bulletin is “ piratical, as usual ” ?
The Bulletin pays for all it prints—when the writers
have energy enough to supply an account, and an
address to send the money to. If they are too
lazy or haughty to do this, The Bulletin lets ’em rip
—unless a genius happens along, when it at once proceeds
to chase him with coin E.R.B. : We have sat in one
chair for just 18 years, and have never yet found a man
who had the cheek to add “Esq.” to the name on his
stamped-and-addressed envelope write anything that was
worth more than the curse we immediately gave him
E.A.P. (Birmingham) : The Bulletin writes “ employ 6”
to save wear and tear of the other “ e.” And it writes
“ vigneron ” instead of “ vintner ” because a vigneron is a
man who grows grapes, and a vintner is a man who sells
wine J.F.D. : Can’t say .... Tom Gayndah : Say one
city electorate with 2000 voters. Three men like Barton,
Wise, and Reid run each other close. Barton gets in with
800 votes. Country electorate, 2000 voters. Smith
is unopposed because he owns the whole place. Then
you propose that Smith shall have 2} times as much
voting power in the House as Barton. Rats! J.W. :
Heavy, soured essay We don’t print essays Cumbo :
Wart yarn declined Send something thrilling about
abscesses Goongarrey : It trembled one instant in the
balance, and— requiescat,! ..B.E. : Names and dates wanted
for such items ... Dargo : A nice, quiet piece of work.
Will print Longford : Your long letter amounted to a
request for matrimonial advice, and we told you to find
and marry somebody named Jessie. And now you want
to know why. Any man incapable of at once perceiving
the advantages of marrying a woman named Jessie ought
to commit suicide, not matrimony E.M.L. : Wouldn’t
advise you to take it. The condition of Tas. press-
workers, literary and mechanical, is on the whole inex-
pressibly abject . .. W.A. (Temora): Thanks; one amen-
able A.D. : The Lucknow co. got its strike-’
from Bendigo, not from Ballarat Kelpie : Won’t do
A.E.B. asks address of Geo. Harwood, actor .... Idle! (or
words to that effect) : The prose poem is a mixture of
yawn and stage-earthquake. Other prose poem is a mix-
ture of cow-moo and idiocy .. . Deadbroke : Can't see rele-
vancy K. : You’ve relied on your memory for likeness
between “ His Natural Life ” and “ Les Mis6rab!es ’’—and
got it all wrong Orchid : You’re way behind the times ;
Dyson’s book of verses published months aeo —price ss. 6d.
from this office H.W.F.: Received ... Mason : Thanks.
.....Nowa: Right ..... Alone: Too merely quotation
Kumarroo: Will use Long Shandy: Worthless
H.J.M. : Lizard item received .L. Blanch : Not up
Corsair : Presently B.E. : Ditto .... G.C.F. : Can’t say
at present; may write J.E.W. :No tracts need apply.
„ E.S.S. : Bit too long and rough—good ideas
G.W.B. : Well-intentioned, but hardly printable
J.A.M. : See picture, page 10, Jan. 22 ' Pompom : One
used..... Modest : You see this paper’s full of short pars,
—fights with 4oz. gloves, as it were, and you straightway
deal lumbering blows with vour fists in a full flour-sack
On your own head he the flour G.P.B. : Sonnet no
merit .. . Marrick : You miss by miles ... O.S.D. : Kind
of laughing-jackass poem minus the laugh .. H.F. : You
miss the point. Bulletin doesn’t sav two-columns or less
is best short-story space : it says that that' length is best
for its space, and is quite enough to get good results
m— given 1h ■ artist.. E.S.S. : “Barmy” not up
Hermes: Please call Quiet Sam : Too mechanical
J.O.H. : You seem to be cursing about something
E.L. : Don’t care for “ Wind.” ... .W.C.B. : Dull
R.M. : You see, the superfine people are always croaking
because there’s so much blood in Bulletin verse (they
don’t know how much we' keep out). So we print the
first verse of your first composition to show how the un-
DICKY’S FIRST SIGHT OF THE SEA.
DICKY (with faint remembrance of Tannleebooya
Creek at flood-time) : “She's pretty 'igh up,
ain’t she, dad? Spot that cocky’s backyard.”
assisted imagination of young Australia warbles seven
times in ten :
In an Australian Glade.
The scene—a wild Australian glade, awaj r on the Mudgee
line,
Surrounded with oak, blue gum, and Australian turpen-
tine ;
A young man kneeling on the ground, his face blanched
white with fear—
As he bent and anxiously gazed at one whose end was
drawing near.
Was it an awful reality, or only a hideous dream—
Had he caused the life blood of his friend to flow in a
crimson stream—
Was it his own careless hand that had laid his comrade
low,
Had he fired the reckless shot that had caused the blood
to flow —
Alas ! it was too true he had shot his old comrade ;
Whilst shooting one early morn in that Australian glade.
And now we’ll print the second verse on its own demerits,
and not because it’s typical
The dawn had broken in the East, a clear bright morn in
May ;
And to him it was to be a well-remembered day.
But the heaviest sorrow that pressed upon his mind—
Was the knowledge his slain was an Atheist and to meet
God unresigned.
And Oh ! what anguish that thought brought, and he
prayed to be forgiven— v
For sending one so unprepared to meet the God of
Heaven :
Oh God ! if by future striving I earn a place with Thee ;
Will Thou let me grant it to my slain in eternity?
All the brightness of the morn seemed turned to evening
shade:
To him who prayed so earnestly in that Australian glade.
That will do for once, thanks .... F.W. : Messrs. Laurence
and M'tachlan, solicitors, George-street, Sydney
Jimmy : Suggestions mostly too suggestive Ray, A.S.:
Unsuitable Chester : The early English cricket ■< rs in
Australia were not half as good as a Stoddart team. They
only appear better by r Australian recollections of
them .... Mando : Pleas -fop writing of every mummer
and politician as “ Mist, . 00-and-so. The public man
who can’t ever stand without his Mister deserves ne\er to
be mentioned .... G. Perifano-B. : Don’t remember if......
Waipiro : Good suggestion Goorook : Not merit
enough for space W.M.F. : -Not up Steel Penn:
Not the lion, only his skin W G.B. : G. s"i>-rfluous
this time.... W'nda : Not up ... John F. : Bulletin's
“ a shy, thin-bearded our.” All right; and you’re a
bald, hairy bull-dog with nine smells .... Lance : Abomin-
ate poems with explanatory foot-notes W< <, :
Basket duly acknowledged them ... Yang A. : Poin. jo
small for preliminary preachment Alice M. : Poor
batch A.R : Mean man not mean enough.. ...
E. B. Jen. : “Can inebriates be cured?” The Bulletin
dunno ; but what it does know is that no nostrum—run
for purely commercial purposes—is ever likely to do the
trick. Where science fails, empiricism can’t hope to
succeed Narran : You are simply dishing up the old
geographical mistake that everybody has heard. The
Condamine is the real head of the Darling Herbert
E. R. (Queensland) : No use to us. And whether you are
13 or 94 makes no difference in the quality Harold
O’H. : Criticism mostly based on gross ignorance ...
A.G. : No man who hands round a visiting-card with a
huge red blossom on the corner and his name in big fancy
gilt type really represents The Bulletin. The people
who really write for The Bulletin never say anything
about it. They are too ashamed ...Australian: “
the district Government architect, a window of which
faces the main street.” A window of what?
L.M.D. : Returned two ... G.C.R. (N.T.): Uninteresting.
... 8.E..: At what hour, and where, did that Bondi
bather dip? If, for example, it was in the centre of the
beach at mid-day, he should be taught better E.F.C. :
The frequent “Sing hey!” takes us —maybe because of
its vague horsey flavor. Think it’s a good sweep-omen?
... D’Arc.v : Unrelieved horror A.J.V. : Unusable
J.T.M. : Neither Suffield nor any one else is called on to
prove his innocence, Point is : it is clearly shown he was
never proven guilty ; hence he is unjustly imprisoned,
and is entitled to an enquiry under the law expressly
provided to deal with such cases—cases in which “ any
doubt or question arises” as to a prisoner’s guilt
Corr. : Thanks. There’s a medium, however, between
haste and delay ; and the Durrant case was scandalously
protracted encouraging similar crimes. When punish-
ment ceases to be sure and speedy its deterrent effect on
other possible criminals is nil W.L. : Pooh! Would
you have us draw him white ? He’s shown black because
he is black, more or less ; not because blackness is dis-
creditable N.B. : Valueless Walker: What a very
dull person von must be . Angus : Yes, isn’t it? Spec-
tacle of those politicians lying back and unbosoming to
greasy “interviewers” reminds us of the way the big
monkey at the Zoo stretches himself to let the lit tle mon-
key hunt his vermin. He and they have just the same
self-satisfied air and there are other analogies
D.H. (P., V.): Sketch unsuitable. Note posted R.H. :
(1) Drunken man and girl story. (2) Because it would
irritate people to see the same initials recurring all over
the paper Mendocino : Bulletin didn’t reject your
yarn “ because you were not willing to let it be printed
gratis.” Bulletin doesn’t want gratis matter. Yarn was
rejected because if was washy rot Biker : Sketches un-
available. .Burrabogie : Sorry can’t use F.C.O. : Hope
the girl’s better than the verses, anyway Spokeshave :
We are weary of lies about liars. Send us a mendacity of
veracity Wallaroo: None usable J.F.O. : Cash-
grabbing yarn antique. It used to be told long ago of
the late Mr. Shepherd Smith, general manager of B.
N.S.W., arid was probably hoary even then Barcoo :
Tobacco-cure already recommended by Bulletin corres-
pondent C.R.J. : “ Last Trip” hardly vigor enough. .
Cranmore : WVhave a poet’s skull over our desk, so don’t
add us to your list of editors L. Lindo : Neat work;
sorry not strong enough S.E.O’B. : “ Charity ” too
flimsy. Day,” will consider.
“SURPLUS.”
The term “ surplus ” is applied, in life insurance
affairs, to the balance, ascertained periodically,
between the assets and the liabilities. Out of this
balance or surplus, distributions of profits are
made to the policy-holders entitled to participate;
due provision being made in the valuation for the
rights of future participants. The natural ten-
dency of distribution is to diminish the surplus
for the moment; but in the case of a prosperous
company, the decrease is speedily more than
covered by accessions of profit from various
sources. It is clear, however, that the more
liberal the periodical distributions of profits, the
more gradual will be the growth of the surplus.
Conversely, if a life insurance company withho ds
from its policy-holders the full benefit of the pro-
portion of profits immediately available, and
prefers to accumulate in the interest of future
participants, it follows that the surplus will in-
crease more rapidly in proportion. It requires
but a moment’s consideration, however, to per-
ceive that it is easy to keep in hand more than
the future will require under any possible circum-
stances ; and, when that course is followed, in-
justice to present participants is inevitable.
Now, The Mutual Life of New York, while
careful to make abundant reserves for future
bonuses, has always been equally careful to dis-
tribute to its policy-holders the full immediate
benefits which they ai'e entitled to claim. The
Company has never sacrificed the interests of
policy-holders entitled to immediate participation,
to the formation of an imposing but empirical
surplus, never likely to be required even in the
remotest future. The surplus shown by The
Mutual Life at the end of 1890 was .£0,105,444.
It is a steadily increasing surplus, which, need-
less to say, is more than ample for all the
demands for which it has been created.
But, supposing the Company had, throughout
its history, acted on the principle which
has been adopted in, at least, one prominent
instance —of reserving a large proportion of the
surplus at every distribution, and, in addition,
reducing the surrender-values allowed for discon-
tinued policies, what does the reader suppose
would have been the amount of The Mutual’s
surplus in 1896 ? Not six millions, but upwards of
11/f millions sterling ! This is not guesswork. The
figures are based upon the official report issued by
the Insurance Department of the State of New
York, which gives annually the exact record of
every company doing business in that State.
Since its organisation, The Mutual Life has paid
in bonuses and surrender values to its policy-holders
<£44,445,244, which is more than twice the amount
paid for similar items by the next largest company.


Mr. M'MILLAN was strongly of opinion \\&pr/lr
that this matter ought to be absolutely left ’ —'
to the individual states. The less any Go-
vernment interfered, except, perhaps, in
the capacity of policeman, in trade disputes
the better
Tkivl Suffuse
~//lP
7 f Aei /° d S ezha/e^
JUr- fMtlaM
FED. DELEGA TJ2S
rfnct remcu-ka/jly
Vlre/l fed de ley cite j M
7Aejh ate-
~too. y
I E M P E P N P IV C E-
LEC TUPxF-
JO H M 1/AIL
VI C 1 u i», t i • ■ •
A I - -1
*>f ill • ti\*• l’ivniii'i> throe (Sir
•Joorgo Tumor. Mr Kingston, and Sit
-loin) I'orrosti voted for Mr Higgiti:-
conciliation and arbitration proposal
and two (Mr Reid and Sir Edward Brad
dan) against
if l’iC ci,(- 1 f] 'i ri X '
ST *
Jemheranet Vale ~ f —/ ,
' - /{e rne Ti-, e ' 'urfitlky
destroys -y/ie •_ hue
Jae b ricc('e_ 7=> z / ■ ' x /-
/ <7O/z . a/J7t o/ 77 077 Q
0./a (k o o<,/~ for/AA Te ?7if, e/a ?? ce
"
i lot- Jrfan.-Zbo \
AeVSeoer
come a yet S/z .•>
//eat/e 7Z A'?!ours {
-Jfecu* y/ie. Lir-o t-s C. //q
'mouSA.oti/'e cx cof>y A/%
ban<7/uet' speech
% ' • > A, / V
* v $ p>o&netr‘.
T MULLING ACCIDENT
'¥o
THE GOVERNOR
OVERBOARD IN THE BAY. .
ills Excellency seemed a long
time coming up —he must have been imder
water for 20 seconds—so to make as certain
as was possible of a rescue, I threw off my
loose clothes, and got ready to dive. Just
then, as we were all getting more and more
anxious, up he came. I grabbed him by
! the arm, and held him ."
SIR HENRY WRIXON .> VIEWS.
Sir Henry Wrixon, IU.E.C., observed
tiiat -the effect of the present educational
system of Victoria was to encourage in the
youth of the colony an ambition “to v, eat* 1 a
black coat and to drive a quill pen,’' instead
of going on the land or engaging in some
productive industry.
//// f/tyj LdMa.
7 > ot/-ty'oh. ~the Lcnicl . J d-UTi 11 o f
Toivt'/t See/n s Ao me V/iata.
7o7uc/< Coo. Aetke/n 770
Coa.lT cz/~ all . "
/Ib> \\ /\
Over 'con-i /;t o~ ,
y
tfea.t~!
C(7rO M/t
t/onor /S *»•
7)/Val~c <?
Judy<L. ho „
■Sir John Madden uums the Federal-Con-
.-ention against conjuring up difficulties
winch, he says, under federation may never
have to be encountered He suggests that the
eolomos take each other for better orVorse
trusting as man and wife must do in the
federation of domestic life to overcome
dilfccjilties as they arise.
MOSTLY MELBOURNE.


JOUR DAILY BRASSEY.
The staircase broke away from the yacht,
and His Excellency disappeared feet first
into the sea, followed by Jessop. Although
His Excellency and Jessop are good swim-
mers, the situation was one of extreme
danger, as in the bustle of the moment no
steps could be taken to keep the two vessels
apart. If they had come together there
was a great risk of jamming either of the
two men between them Fortunately, the
boats remained apart sufficiently long
to allow Jessop to make his reappear-
ance first and His Excellency some 4 V.
few moments after. 'l\ Ajr
(7 // (A qO
i the ATTEMPTED “CORNER”'
/ LN WHEAT,
LONDON. Saturday.— Mr. Letter the Chi
tX eT°t WaS . reeeatly reported $
and t( > Have bou-ln betSooo
10 non mu i . 5.000,000 and f
, ////// j^\
It was reported at the monthly meeting of the
East Sydney Ministers' Association yesterday,
that the opening of the Zoological Gardens on
Sundays had considerably affected the attend-
ance of children at the Sunday schools.
IoKO pftASSY [ 7?z a ? 1
Wa/\r- arte/ 3ft Zutf<sr/jcf ) '//a^
fc'ou 7cc6<> />s-ece<X<?9Ce
oC //{/• >r<?
3fs ?a fiifs / "
/ 7 7 y%/'7Zr<K7/rrsn£'
V*s S?c/3s. s /Zft, fsccZtej*
7<?asy //“/<r (fastZ Zp~s/f 4e £e7ec/eo<
S*’/s'Ssy " I^bL
\\ 'fy/'So/t
rou/irf a/'f'rt/bfy
I Jf* c)'*7-"2>farZp
ISpZt/Wd'. /frs*c/~
\/&r/7F /fi? MfttaZ I
•cflSKday I
/MJ I
Stts/of/irfed' / I
"Me -fafr/efav- '/ , f
u*uM */ 7/ /s
M*fe6/y<f : I
/f&ArrfS
fjuFs tde >L_ ft
Our XmJ&kMFJ s
~ Syc/ 2> t.
iMO ii
as a rule / h^irZ
as Z /r/a/- "Zat-sy " fss 5 /j/J
*/
1
S ' NXV Me ed-i/j?? frljiy c/atTy ' j
lOvosz /fach/tfs jy<2i/s anj 4 */ /{f'~<s4/>u&er£c/ ,
/ 6/u7 v TSztZ y/A/te Stgy .
ALL OVER THE SHOP.


Hired from Tea garden to Teapot.
CEYLON TEA.
CAPTAIN FERGUSON, P.S. to HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR, writes as follows :
“ I beg to inform you that the sample packet of Nirvana Tea yon were good enough to send
me was prepared for His Excellency, and the Tea seemed to be of excellent quality.
Mr. C. R. BLACKETT, Govt. Analyst of Victoria, says, September 21st, ’97:
“ I have analysed the Nirvana Tea, and am able to affirm that it is of Eirst-class Quality.
Rich in extract, it is of pleasant aroma and flavour, and is absolutely pure. .
Dr. J. F. ELLIOTT (Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney), says:—
“ This is to certify that I have examined several Samples of Nirvana Tea taken from stock.
lam satisfied that it is an unusually fine, pure Ceylon Tea, consisting of young leaves It has
a very pleasant aroma, is rich in extractive, and contains little tanm or astringent matter
Owing to its being packed in lead at Colombo, its freshness is preserved, and it is a pleasure to
recommend such a high-class tea.”
CEYLON TEA is put up in Lead in Colombo
in order that it rnay reach the public in the ori-
ginal packets, pure, fresh, untampered with.
On sale by all Grocers, and Wholesale at the
Sydney Agency, 56 Margaret-street, where, by
writing, any person unable to get supplied
locally can obtain a free sample, pamphlet, and
price list. /
HA.LF-YEA.RLY REPORT
—OF —
Tb€ Coei}fi)ercial Baokios Conjpaoy
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED .
p re »„W to the Shareho.ders at a. M H °”"' *“*•
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance-sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of the Bank on the
after d.dooth, e reh*,.n cogent Mila „d
accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying note tax, and providing for la d
and income taxes and bad and doubtful debts, amounts to .. • • " " " '' ‘ ‘ ’
Out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations
To the payment of a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum
To Balance, being undivided Profit
1 1
£40,000
15,407
£55,407 1 1
During the half-year Branches have been established at Finley, Lockhart, and Nymagee in this colony, and at
Geraldton and Ingham in the colony of Queensland.
The Dividend, free of Income-tax, is now payable. EDWARD KNOX, Chairman.
Liabilities ai?d Assets
(Including London Branch to 31st December, by Gable).
Dr.
To Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation
Deposits and other liabilities ..
Profit and Loss Account ..
£2,010,000 0 0
410,617 0 0
577,960 8 0
9,699,943 9 10
61,253 12 8
£12,765,774 10 6
By Coin and bullion
in hand .. .. £1,999,092 9 5
Cash at banker’s .. 215,768 10 4
Government securi-
ties 1,009,499 0 0
Queensland Govern-
ment notes .. 48,103 0 0
Remittances in tran-
sit .. .. . ■ 472,353 12 7
Notes and hills of
other hanks .. 33,300 13 9
Bills discounted and all debts due to
the haul*
Bank premises, furniture, &c.
£3,778,717 6 1
8,583,772 4 5
403,285 0 0
£12,765,774 10 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
£5,846 11 7
To Rebate on current bills . .
Dividend account for payment of a
dividend for past half-year at the rate
of 8 per cent, per annum
Balance of undivided profit carried to
next half-year .. .. ..
40,000 0 0
15,407 1 1
£61,253 12 8
By amount undivided from last half-year £15,256 19 5
Profit for half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1897 45,996 13 3
£61,253 12 8
RESERVE FUND.
1897 —December 31st, £1,010,000
0 0
EDWARD KNOX, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
W. R. SAYERS, Acting Accountant.
Sydney, 12th January, 1898.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances, and counted the coin in the Head
Office of the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have compared the returns of the Lranches, and
have found the same as specified in the foregoing balance-sheet. j de V LAMB l
E. S. CAPE [Auditors.
The following resolutions were carried unanimously, . , , ■ , , , , . ...
<< That the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated among
“That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager, and Officers of the
Bank for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the Man r
In moving the adoption of the Report, the Chairman, Mr. Edward Knox, said .
“ The Balance-sheet we to-day have the pleasure to present shows a considerable increase in the business of the
Bank, combined with an exceptionally strong position, and will, I feel sure, be considered by the Shareholders as
h ,'? The feature is the large increase in Government Securities, which at this time last year stood at
£305 000, and now amount to £1,009,000. It is a coincidence that the amount is within a few hundred pounds of the
Reserve Fund, which stands at £1,010,000, but it is a coincidence only, for the Board do not consider it a wise policy
to earmark any of the assets of the Bank as held specially for the purpose of a Reserve rund. ’ .
“ Comparing the present Balance-sheet with that of June last, you will find that our deposits have increased by
£209,000, our note circulation by £76,000, and our bills in circulation by £218,000 ; while, on the other side, our liquid
assets, consisting of coin, cash balances, and Government Securities, have increased from £3,301,000 to <B,OOO.
Our advances and other investments have increased from £8,496,000 to £8,583,000, and the gross total from £12,-61,0 )0
to £l2 765 000, showing increased activity in our business, which on all points has been well maintained. Ins is lie
more satisfactory seeing that the effects of the drought have resulted in shortages of some of the most important
exports of the colony. ~ T . ,
“ The prospect of an abundant harvest, which some months since appeared almost assured, has, L regret to say,
not been realised in some districts, owing to a deficient rainfall. It is, however, estimated that sufficient wheat will
have been harvested to render foreign importations unnecessary for the present year. A deficient wool clip and a re-
duction in our flocks and her Is caused by the drought are also serious drawbacks, but the recuperative powers of the
colony are such that two or three good seasons would overcome these.”
Ask fo
WHITE
heather
WHISKY.
Qavid greliam | £o.
. . HAVE OPENED THEIE . <
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
—h —
—SOitiogS
For the Coining Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Free
by post.
Vickerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Cellular ClotJaing.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address.
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets).
Missing Friends.
CROW.— Wanted to know the whereabouts of
PATRICK CROW, last heard of in Cook-
town, Queensland. By writing to his cousin, John
Crow, South Hillend, Southland, N.Z., he will
hear of something to his advantage. Information
thankfully received and acknowledged.
[THE FINEST TONIC
FERBRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
FERBRAVAIS
most effective in restoring J
the vitality of the blood, |
and enabling the consti-f
LUtion o resist climatic ']
influences. J
Invaluable in all cases oVI
anaemia. Influenza ana |
general dc-bilit .
Highly recommended for i
we >k and debilitated chil (I
dren '»
LANCi-T •• A beautiful and interesting preparation.''
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. “ It has all
the good effects of iron without producing consti-
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
blacken the teeth.
Sold by Chemists all the world over.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
feet. It has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
Confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
“The Last of Six.”
PRICE Is. ; per Post, Is. 3d.
m
THE WORLDS GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
XJnitod Typewriter «8z Supplies Co.,
§§
m
m
m
m
SYDNEY—II 4 Pitt Street.’
MELBOURNE— 362 Collins Street.
PERTH —71 Barrack Street.
BRISBANE— Webster & 00.
ADELAIDE— Reeves & 00.
LAUNCESTON— Hedley Button.
Has No Ribbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper. London School Board has over 100 in Use.
Send for particulars of Free Trial.
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED.
; v TENTH HALE-YEARLY REPORT,
To be submitted to the Shareholders at the GENERAL MEETING, to be held at Noon on TUESDAY, the
Ist FEBRUARY, 1898.
The Board of Management submit their Tenth Report to the Shareholders of the Bank together with the
Balance-Sheet for the half-year ending 31st December, 1897, duly certified by the Auditors in the forms prescribed by
the Companies Act„ ■„ c ..„ Q(7Q Q Q
Balance of Undivided Profit on 30th June, 1897 .. .. •• •• oo’foo <■ i
Net Profit for the past half-year ... ... ... .» .. • • •• o i
Together ..
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows:
To Dividend on Preference Shares at 5 per cent, per annum
To Balance carried forward to next half-year ..
.. i 09,107 15 4
.. £10,419 0 0
.. 58,688 15 4
£69,107 15 4
The Board has announced a further release of one-fifth of all remaining deferred deposit receipts to be made on
15th April. .
A branch of the Bank was opened at Terang during the half-year.
The Dividend on preference shares will be payable in Melbourne on and after the 2nd February, and at tne
branches and in London on receipt of advices. . . ~ , ,„ , , ~ .
The transfer-books of the Company will be closed from the 19th mst. to the Ist J Cliabman
J. D. LAW, General Manager
The Bank of Victoria Limited, Melbourne, 20th January, 1898.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE BANK OF VICTOBJA LIMITED,
For the Half-Year ending 31st December, 1897
(Including London Branch to 29th November, 1897).
S. D.
£ S. D.
Dr.
To Proprietors’ Capital,
viz. :
41,676 preference shares
paid in cash to ±'lo..
240,000 ordinary shares
paid up to £2 10s.
per share
Calls on 240,000 ordi-
nary shares at £2105.,
£600,000 ; inst a 1-
ments not yet due,
£60,000 ; calls in ar-
rear, £62,489 2s. lid.
= £122,489 2s. lid.;
calls paid in advance,
£16,495 = £105,994 2s.
lid. Amount of calls
actually paid in cash
£
600,000 0 0
494,005 17 1
416,760 0 0
Less 25,720 shares for-
. feited
1,094,005 17 1
72,834 3 8
1,021,171 13
6
1,437,931 13 5
To Profit and Loss
To Notes in Circulation .. ..
To Bills in Circulation
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest
Bearing interest .. :
To other Deposits and Interest accrued—
Rebate on bills current and other
moneys—
Not bearing interest 1,414,147 10 8
Bearing interest .. .. .. ■. 3,400,612 10 1
To Balances due to other Banks .. .. 109,578 13 11
To Contingent Liabilities, as per contra 109,914 1 0
£7,455,083 1 7
69,107 15 4
135,989 0 0
458,577 2 5
14,462 10 2
304,762 4 7
CR, & s. D. £ 8. D
By Coined Gold and Silver
and other coined metal.. 879,801 7 0
By Gold and Silver in bul-
lion and bar .. 100,267 0 6
By Cash at Bankers’ .. 44,043 2 3
By Government, Munici-
pal, and other public
Stocks and Funds, and
other debentures .. 218,640 0 0
By Bills and Remittances
in transitu .. .. 329,513 17 7
By Notes and Bills of
other Banks . .. 100,513 16 11
By Balances due from
other Banks .. .. 34,791 0 8
By Stamps 1,976 16 10
1,709,547 1 9
By Real Estate, consisting of Bank Pre-
mises, at cost to Bank 239,304 8 4
By other Real Estate, at cost to Bank,
lest £29,501 2s. sd. written off .. .. 231,522 2 10
By Shares in other Companies .. .. 4,211 13 2
By Advances, exclusive of provision for
bad or doubtful debts .. .. • • 4,691,188 1 1
By Bills of Exchange and Promissory
Notes discounted, not included above,
exclusive of provision for bad or doubt-
ful debts ... 469,395 13 5
By Liabilities of Customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra 109,914 1 »
£7,455,083 1 '
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Current Expenses—Head Office and
sixty-one branches and one sub-branch £34,030 17 3
To Bank Note Tax 1,272 10 10
To Balance .. .. .. .. .. 69,107 15 4
£104,411 9 5
Which the Directors propose to
apportion as follows
To Dividend on Preference Shares at 5
per cent, per annum £10,419 0 0
To Balance carried forward to next half-
year .. ~ ~ .. .. .. 58,683 15 4
£69,107 15 4
By Balance from 30th June, 1807..
By Gross Profits for the half-year endii
31st December, 1897, alter deduelii
all interest paid or due to custcmei
and rehating hills current, and pr
viding for bad and doubtful debts
By Balance


66
DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
COLA ACUMINATA.
WHAT MR. WM MARTIN, the
AMERICAN CYCLIST, says about
FISHER & CO.’S “FAMOUS
KOLA HUT TONIC.”
KOLA NUT TONIC increases the Expansive
power of the chest, makes the Breathing
deeper and more vigorous. Chest-expansion is a
measure of the general strength.
m
To
Cj>
“ Melbourne,
.m “ 24th September, 1897.
To MESSRS. FISHER & CO.
“ Gentlemen, —
I have much pleasure in testifying to the
, '!T^ erfc i oS of . y° v,r FAMOUS KOLA
4 OJN IC. I attribute my phenomenal suc-
cess in Australia as a cyclist to the use of it. The
staying powers it possesses have been well illus-
trated in some of the races I have won, and I still
continue to drink it.—Yours, &c.,
„ “W. MARTIN.
American Cyclist.
PISHJER’S TONIC
—IS THE—
(greatest PicJn-me-up and Appetiser
IN THE WORLD.
It makes you EAT, and makes you STRONG.
TAKE A LITTLE EVERY MORNING, and
your Liver and Kidneys will always be healthy.
ALL HOTELS, with Sodawater or Lemonade,
, . , Glass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
Yuf° r ’f, nd hav « no Other than, FISHER and
‘7: Also at all Chemists’ and Storekeepers’.
ASK A POLICEMAN —No ! No > ASK
YOUR GROCER FOR A BOTTLE.
PHARMACY, 337 George-st.
(Nearly opposite General Post Office),
SYDNEY.
Messrs. Elliott Bros.
WPST F. H. Faulding & Co.
vrn™™V , RALIA L Me ssrs. F. H. Faulding & Co. ;
\ ICTOBIA, Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co.
TK> YOU SHAVE?
THEN TRY the
Thistle Razor.
This RAZOR is the most perfectly ground and tem-
f’nl m’n'h' 1 offered to tne public. Every RAZOR is
avrn 1L V • 1,1 per 4* fc w order ’ as ifc is SET and
SHAVED with in my (SALOON before being sent out.
L 6 i’i "', , ' l 'V| k Ha . nd . le > 10s - i Pair in. case, 20s. ; Ivory
Handle, i2s. 6d. ; pair in case, 255. BENGAL RAZORS
' S - d< !" T 1 10s ‘ 6<l Combination Razor
STROPS. Razors set and returned by post, Is. each. All
throughout the colonies from ANDREW
McGEE, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
v'Llfi
m
tsawiai
p . N B >« tOND
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
m
&
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS CREAT VALUE IN KEEPING THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“ an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT
SALT,’ I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
m for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty Bv
the use of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT ’ he now ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH ■ he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to’use
it ; about six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its use pro bono publico I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK.-I remain, yours faith*
fully, J. W. Neil.”— (From the late Rev. J. W. Neil, Holy Trinity Church, North Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach. —“After suffering for nearly
two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO’S ‘ FRUIT
SALT,’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now I am RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years
—Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.” *
The effect of ENO’S * FRUIT SALT ’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. -Examine each Bottle , and see CAPSULE is marked ENO'S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’
Without it, you have been imposed on by a WOE THLESS imitation. Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
u
WARRANTED
Finest Hand-made BRIARS.
" t ■ s. „ -. :
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA.
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
ending December 31, 1897,
and March 31, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
IN PRIZES GIVEN FUFF
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Competitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “Premier”
Bicycles ~, ... ... v&lue 1)94 qaal
6 Lady or Gentleman’s Rolled Gold Watches „ £4 4 S
In o’x * ** Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 2s ”
30 Sets of Carvers ” f®’ ”
Cloth Bound Books ... ” £|oo ”
OUT SOAP/
hrC . W//y DOES
..AWOMAN
LOOK old "'
SOOA/£ft Tff AN
NOIIHOJ JOl fIUIaNK
FuH particulars Rules, &c., in circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or can
be obtained by application to BURGESS BROS., HOBART.
■ _ - McKenzie & co.. Launceston.
The Smelting- 1)0. of Australia
(LIMITED).
m
:
•Hi
■
IS
: :
US*
Cold, Silver, [ea
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF .
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake lllawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
STTTPHTTRTr A APm f vi va^ S^ ING ’ ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING
muie !f f C ACID MANUF ACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING etc
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorahl/.
Coa/’c ”!] vf I)licGt , of tbe S° ,lt hern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
descr Sii P ’ C ,ke ;> and * h l xe8 ’ thus « Co. to pay the highest prices for ores 3
aescriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on uf/reetnent of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director ,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
FRINGES,
rf&tural Curly, from 3/fe each.
PLATTS and TAILS,
20in. lone, 5/6, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, y?> per oz.
We are the eheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. Wigzfcfl,*
110 William Street
rorner of Palmer-street.
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
_ Send stamps for full Price List
Prompt attention give:a to Country OrcSors^
POWER WITHOUT GAS OR STEAM
THE
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(land or marine)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from to 200 H. P.
No Engineer required.
Explosions Impossible
Always Beady for Use
We have one of these Engines running at our prem -
ises, where full particulars can he had on application
INSPECTION INVITED.
P. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
87 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
:
HOWARD’S for Musical Instruments of every
description, cash,&o. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal,
Jones, &c., cash, terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver-
plated, cash, terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for
colonies, cash or easy terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices,
. for cash or on easiest terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, com-
plete) from 12s. 6d., cash or terms. W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Accordeons, 1000 to select from
all kinds and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra!
HOWARD’S Banjos, from 12s. 6d. to 12gs., all
makes, cash or terms. Queen-st-., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Mouth Organs tone), from fid.
to 1 giiinea.,great variety, Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S Brass and Nickel Whistles. 1000
in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourine,
__ Black, &c., great variety. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD’S American Organs, for cash or on
terms. Large stock landing. Woollahra.
HO WARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, 3s. lid. to
2D., best German make. Quee'n-st., W’li'ra.
HOWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to3o
guineas, cash or terms. Queen-st., W’h’ra.
HOWARD 5 Double Bass, three or four string
machine head, cash or terms. Woollahra."
HOWARD’S Supplies Country Residents with
Poods on easy terms, lists free. Queen-st.
HOWARD S Elutes and Piccolos, in endless
variety, from 6d. to 23gs. ; cash or terms.
1-4 OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American,
. * « -trench, and German ; terms. Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Saxhorns or E Elat Tenors, brass
and silver ; terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD’S Baritones, brass and silver-plated :
cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TT OWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass
J I and silver ; cash, &c. Queen-st., Woolahra.
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
and CHEAPEST ’ and most
JaIYLISH Clothing m Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
fV
]
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished,
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, £3 3 To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very good patterns, 12 6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Riding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25/-.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 39/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
~?, n -? t 'V Shirts from 2/H- Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs.
2/-. 2/H, 3/3. Warm Travelling Rugs,
13/6. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order from any part of Australia, {riving ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with perfect safety,
tor it Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
" e nave built-up opr immense business by being tho-
roughly STRAIGHTFORWARD WITH our CUSTOMERS
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
rj 'h° l, S h pur Premises have been Destroyed by
Tire, business will he carried on as usual at 14 and 16
RUSSELL ST., and 234 FLINDERS ST
P£
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
SD. PER 1000.
33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,


Mens Sana in Corpore Sano.
And especially WOMENS.
Fair England gives us CRICKET;
Auld Scotia gives us GOLF;
Australia gives us BILLY TEA,
By which we play ’em both.
If “Cornstalks,” then, would “hold their
own ! ”
Their every rival beat !!!
Let them “ train ” upon GRANUMA,
“The finest of the wheat.”
If Sweethearts, Wives and Mothers,
A vigorous race would see !
Make your Grocer stock GRANUMA
And THE FAMOUS BILLY TEA !
—From “Bards of the Wood Blocks."
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4 FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
iar Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Waltar Bradlky St Co., 324 George-st.
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
out*
Smoke
Chief
POLITICAL
POINTS
The population of S.A. increased last year
by 3291, and that of Maoriland by 14,894.
New reading—for Australia to-day : Let
me attend the frames of a nation and I care not
who makes its laws.
The eternal J. P. T. Caulfield is announced
as an opponent of Crick for West Macquarie.
Blather versus Brains. ‘
The Bulletin won’t be surprised if, in the
long run, Copeland, and not Slattery, opposes
Reid for King Division.
From straws that are blowing about, it
seems plain that John Norton is out after George
Black’s scalp for Gipps division at N.S. W. general
election.
Old “ Whitehorse ” Stevenson is among
the resurrected N.S.W. politicians. When mem-
ber for the Wollombi, he was popularly supposed
to sleep on the mat of the Roads Department.
Whispered that Pilcher, Q.C., now in
London, has an eye upon N.S.W. Agent-general-
ship. The cold and pallid Pilcher divides his time
between London society and Sydney law courts.
R. D. Meagher; of Dean notoriety, has
thoughts of opposing Protectionist Kelly for “the
Tweed,” next election. He will find the “Kelly
gang ” a hard lot to beat, and will only split the
votes for ah outsider.
Queensland possesses 2600 miles of rail-
way, costing, in round numbers, 18 millions. Thus
she boasts 27ft. of rail to every man, woman and
child within her borders as against 10ft. in N.S.W.
—a rate unparalleled in any other dependency.
Soon after N.S.W. Leg. Assembly meets
some democratic member should move that at
the dissolution all members’ free passes shall go
back to the Railway Commissioners in order that
all candidates may stand on a common footing.
Proposed in Adelaide to legislate in favor
of compulsory service by youths between 14 and
18 years, in military cadet corps, for the double
purpose of giving young fellows something definite
to do, and of building up an effective reserve force.
If reports are true,
the public will hear a
good deal more of the
late Carruthers-Norton
libel action when N.S.
Wales Assembly meets
again.
ANTICIPATED!
"Mother sez could yer lend ’er the baby, coz she
wants ter go out sellin’ matches?”
“ An’ then tell yer mother she’s too late, coz I lent
her to Mrs. Wagg to go out beggin’ with.”
A hint to whom it may concern. No
notoriously remorseless usurer has the remotest
earthly chance of election to N.S.W. Parliament.
Any person of this sort who ventures on to the
hustings may expect to be greeted with dead cats.
It is recorded that when Premier Reid
met at Melbourne the Sydney express-train which
had so many misfortunes en route, he remarked to
Lands Minister Carruthers that there “ must have
been a Jonah on board.” There’s many a true
word, &c.
In the last two years the Westralian
Govt, has sold 2709 lots of “town, suburban, and
rural lands,” the area aggregating 78,121 acres,
while in conditional purchases, homestead leases,
homestead farms, and goldfields selections another
555,414 acres have gone.
At N.S.W. anniversary regatta-luncheon,
Gov. Hampden was mildly utopian over the hope
that there would never be any rivalry between
Britain and Germany but such a commercial emu-
lation as would benefit both. “Rats!” First
act, price-cutting ; second act, throat-cutting.
The Laborists hardly
gained a great viotory at
East Adelaide, one of
their strongest centres.
The Tory nominee,
beaten by 212 votes, was
away in M.L., and did
not even address the
electors. The election,
remarks The Bulletin’s
correspondent, proves
that internal squabbles
have done the Labor
cause much harm during
the last twelve months.
A general - election just
now in S.A. might mean
a Labor disaster.
The Age and its
weekly satellite, the
Leader, continue to nag
at Turner for his eco-
nomy, and urge further
loans from London in
order to encourage in-
vestment, assist trade,
enliven industry, circu-
late money, and ‘ restore
prosperity” generally.
Turner is praised in a
patronising way for' liis
well-meant moderation in
having lived within his
means so far, but he is
given to understand that
“ the time has arrived.”
Victoria, it appears, will
be justified in borrowing
now because she has not
borrowed for a long time,
which goes to show that
there should be a limit to
all things, even well-do-
ing, and that it is not
well to be too righteous
for fear one should get a
moral big head, and be
inordinately perked up.
Evidently it is D. Syme’s
opinion that Victoria
should go a-borrowing in
London in order to show
that she doesn’t want to
appear any better than
her neighbors.
Cabled that Carington defends the Seddon
Govt, legislation from attacks made by ex-Gov.
Onslow. This and similar exertions on “ Bob’s ”
part, and the gossipy prophecies of certain
N.S.W. officials, show that the Mount Rennie
lord still has his eye on the Federal Governor-
Generalship. '
Cabled that the French Premier refuses to
produce the confession of guilt stated to have been
made by Capt. Dreyfus. In this matter, it would
really seem the French authorities are much in
the position occupied by Parkes when, in N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly, he bed about, and refused to pro-
due-, the maniac O’Farrell’s confession.
A Federal Convention poem, published in
Melb. ’Erald, makes a painfully-humorous appeal
to Australian national sentiment:
But are we not one people after all —
Australians—howsoe’er each state we call ?
When New South Wales exclaims : “ Hurrah, M’Leod 1”
Is our Victoria less of Noble proud ?
A while ago N.S.W. Premier Reid said that
the general-election was to be fought on thequestion
of Council-reform. Now he vaguely suggests that
Council-reform and the fiscal question should be
“ removed from the turmoil of a general-election ”
and decided by the Referendum. In that case,
what is the general-election to be fought about ?
The beginning of the end of George Black,
N.S.W. Labor M.P., has apparently arrived.
“ The Workers,” The Bulletin reads, “ say that
it ill accords with democratic equality for Black
to be dashing about with a buggy and horse,
which are kept at Parliament House stables.”
This is printed in a paper run by a man who ap-
parently hopes to jump Black’s seat.
The alleged statement of Labor-member
Hughes that Lyne, when he was a member of the
N.S.W. Govt., did nothing but “ securely line his
own pockets,” is one of the few calumnies aimed
at that luckless politician which won’t hold water.
Lyne’s poverty is, and has long been, so notorious,
that it is tolerably good evidence that he never
made more than a bare living out of politics.
They have a tired, perfunctory way of
doing things at the Federal Convention. For in-
stance, by way of throwing light on the debt
problem, Premier Turner planked down a state-
ment of the amounts owing by the different pro-
vinces at June 1896—19 months ago. Which is
about as useful as if the return were made up to
June 1872, or up to the time of Captain Cook.
The one-time potent cry, “ One man one
billet,” is being got ready for its revenge at the
coming N.S.W. elections. Lists of members who
made the cry a gospel are being prepared, in
which some names will figure as possessors of half-
a-dozen paid billets. The cry in its political sense
may have been silly at the start, but it now
threatens to knock silly most of its old champions.
If “Tom” Slattery really wants to get
back to Parliament why not go back to his old
love ? Kenneth Mackay could be made a field-
marshal, or lent to England in her hour of trouble.
Nagle Ryan is dead, and they no longer serve
rum-and-milk in a bucket at the homestead, but if
Tom went up to Booroowa on St. Patrick’s Day,
and the election was held soon after, he’d go in
flying.
Thirty-three years ago ex-Premier Patrick
Jennings spoke and wrote in favor of a customs
union between the various divisions of Australia.
He then propounded and advocated a plan of
Federation which, called only a customs union,
would have effectually prevented any province
from raising a barrier against the trade or inter-
OUT FIRST BALL.
HE: “In a mixed company you can always tell a married couple, because
the wife is sure to contradict the husband."
HIS WIFE : “ Nonsense, William!”
HE ( triumphantly): “There you are!”
course of the others. Had his advocacy succeeded
the rest of Federation would probably have arrived
long ago.
According to N.S.W. Minister Carruthers,
if the Darling, Lachlan, Murray, &c., are put
under Federal control, the value of land along
them will depreciate 50 per cent. Yet the land
and the water will be there just the same, and the
water will belong to the Government and the land
to the people who make the Government—just as
they do now. What docs the ignorant, parochial
Carruthers suppose will happen to the land and
the water ?
The N.S.W. Premier now explains that he
wants to postpone the Federal vote until all inte-
rest has died out, in order that the people in the
country districts may have time “ to gain a clear
idea of the question from reading and from public
discussion.” Considering that the question has
now been discussed almost; continuously for seven
years, how much clearer an idea does Reid sup-
pose they are likely to get by a few weeks’ more
discussion ?
The sauerkraut must have got into the
noddle of Consul-General Kempermann when, at
the Sydney German national kick-up the other
day, he referred to William the Unspeakable as
having “ established such a flourishing state of
affairs as had not existed in the Empire since the
30 Years’ War.” It’s William who does all the
flourishing, though ; the people do the grunting—
under a burden they’re not likely to carry very
much longer.
Alderman Penny proposes to oppose M‘El-
hone for Fitzroy at N.S.W. general election.
Penny isn’t wanted in Parliament. It is bad
enough that such nonentities should be aldermen.
Alderman, like attorney,-is in N.S.W. a Parlia-
mentary synonym for cheeky commonplace. Why
on earth Penny ever came to be called Penny
while there was such a word in the language as
farthing is a mystery that will only be solved
when Woolloomooloo Bay gives up its dead.
Horace Tozer has been recently doing the
Backblocks and thinking out loud for the public
benefit thusly : “Nearly all the country is occu-
pied by people who live out of Queensland. . . .
In no instance did we find owners of property
living on stations we visited. . . . They were
nearly all residing in N.S.W., Victoria, or South
Australia, while the stations were run by a resi-
dent manager and a few men. ...” Banana-
land is the most absentee-ridden province in
Australasia.
H. : “ Gladstone is copiously ante-obited.
From an Imperial viewpoint, the unity of Greater
Britain has been completely squashed, through
the incompetence of English statesmen. Impos-
sible, at this time of day, to begin work which
ought to have been continuous all through Vic-
toria’s reign. When the boy is grown-up it’s no
good thinking what you ought to have done for
him as a child. Miserable little Englanders, in
the Imperialist view, were Palmerston, Peel,
Cobden, Gladstone.
Noticed by keen-eyed Bananalanders that
Tomjoe Byrnes spent nearly all his recent vaca-
tion spell enjoying the hospitality of the cursed
Sassenach—while ould Ireland barely saw the tip
of his nose. And this is how he orates in Bris-
bane: “ I have stood in old England and taken a
pride in seeing her splendor and wealth —and in
meeting her people and sharing her hospitality.”
No allusion, of course, to the amount of splendor
and wealth coming from the grinding of over-
taxed, rack-rented Ireland.
The proposal of Convention - delegate
Glynn (S. A.) that the Commonwealth might take
over the railways with or without the consent of
the States made old Simon Fraser, of Victoria,
boil over in senile rage. “It would be intoler-
able,” shrieked Simon, “if the internal develop-
ment of a State were submitted to discussion by
the Federal Parliament.” For that matter, it is
quite as intolerable that the internal railway de-
velopment of a county should be submitted to dis-
cussion by the State Parliament, yet that happens
every day.
In 1896 the average number of applica-
tions to Sydney Benevolent Asylum for relief was
1011 weekly, and the Asylum authorities described
it as the worst year they had ever known. In
1897 things had grown so much worse that the
weekly applications averaged 1196, which is very
rough on the jolly-and-fat policy. But the report
mentioned that the second half of ’97, though
worse than any previous year, wasn’t quite so
awful as the first half, and the Sydney Freetrade
papers at once published, in large letters, De-
crease of Poverty.”
Apropos of the Freetrade party s constant
assertion that poverty has diminished in N.S.W.
under the jolly-and-fat policy, The Bulletin
offers the following cheerful figures, which can be
found on page 749 of Coghlan’s “ Wealth and
Progress of N.S.W.” (They only go up to the
end of 1896, unfortunately.) At the end of 1894
there were 6025 paupers dependent on the State in
N.S.W., or 48 out of every 10,000 inhabitants. At
the end of 1896 there were 6998 paupers, or 54 out
of every 10,000 inhabitants-the highest propor-
tion on record. - Good old Jojlyandfatt
Tom Slattery, the Protectionist Sydney
lawyer who proposes to run against Reid at next
election, reckons that Melbourne is a dead cer-
tainty for the Federal capital. If the idea is to
have the capital conveniently accessible to an
enemy, so that he can grab the Treasury and the
military head-quarters and the head offices of the
banks, and chase the Groveriiment into the bush, at
the very beginning of trouble, there are points
about Melbourne. Also, if Slattery is looking for
a flat place in a far corner of Australia, and a
muddy river, and wants to dump the seat of
Government right up against Fitzgibbon’s poetry,
Melbourne is full of points.
“ Softgoods ” Sargood has returned from
abroad, and has favored Melb. papers with his
views of the engineers’' strike. The' strike, he
says, will prove a blessing in disguise :
The effect of it will be, and has been, to induce manu-
facturers to try what they can do with unskilled hands,
and I feel sure the ultimate result will be the wider
adoption of the American system of using machines
supervised by unskilled hands. This must in the long run
tend to materially reduce the cost of production.
This is the boldest and straightest declaration of
the gospel of Fatmania up to date. To “materi-
ally reduce the cost of production ” is the highest
and most glorious endeavor of the Sargoods, whose
idea of the millennium is a state in which the
masses are abolished, and nothing remains but the
capitalist and his self-acting engines—the god and
the machine.
The Political Labor League of N.S.W. has
resolved that the Labor-party shall go to the coun-
try at the general election on four main issues :
The abolition of the Legislative Council, a State
bank, old-age pensions, and local government.
They are all good so far as they go, but they don’t
go anything like far enough. Federation, which,
at the moment, is as big an issue as all four put
together, isn’t even mentioned, yet N.S. W. is des-
perately in need of some party that will nail its
party banner to the mast on this question., And
ipparently even the Labor-party hasn’t the
GRAHAM BERRY (sketched at first day's sitting
of Convention).
courage to demand the most urgent and the most
difficult local reform of all—the abolition of bor-
rowing, so that N.S.W. shall live honestly on its
own income instead of being a 3-per-cent, Lazarus
begging at the back-door of Bull. Certainly
neither of the other parties seems at all likely to
advocate it either.


Vfi/
sysr*
ft I rtvv (I
mi
• •
Over this grand and glorious New
South Wales, ladies are wearing my
BP-TB-TfiE-tITEST
Boots and Shoes.
What’s the reason? Because they’re
good. None ban give you better.
See them. If you live in the country
drop us a line, and we’ll get there
all right.
JOHN HUNTER-The Boot Kin.
of Australia!
City Boot Palace, George & Market Streets, Sydney.
Branches all over the City, in the Suburbs and Country Towns in N.S.W. and Queensland.
<s>
r.
O'
%
. . Nothing is of More Importance than the Quality of your TOILET SOAP. In the Nursery
t ’rT I 7, rem r ni^ e , r ‘ s * h ? de)ioate sensitiveness of her baby’s pretty pink skin, and uses
IVLIINtvVA. Why should adults be less wise in regard to themselves? MINERVA SOAP
maintains the natural texture of the skin, and, because of its rare medicinal properties acts as
an antidote for stubborn prickly heat and itchings and chafings of all kinds. Of a peculiar
healthy aroma, which lasts right to the end, it is an elegant-looking article, and is, morever the
greatest cleansing soap in the market.
Mr W. A. DIXON, Registered Analytical and Consulting Chemist, Laboratory, 97 Pitt-
street, Sydney, says “ I have analysed several samples of Minerva Soap, and have to report
that it is a superfatted, milled Soap, impregnated with soothing and antiseptic medicaments. It
made of the Purest Materials, and is Absolutely Neutral —that is, it does not contain
any free alkali such as is found in cheap soaps, and which, whilst it promotes the formation of a
lather, rendea-sthe skin hard and dry. For this reason Minerva Soap may be used with safety
on the most delicate skin. It contains a very low percentage of water, and, therefore a likdi
percentage of actual soap—higher than any other I have examined.
(Signed)
!U
E. 1.5., F.C.S.
V SOAP is on sale by Messrs. PATTINSON & CO. at their Ten Branches and
1,7 a MTNERVT n v™'i W?leS 5 nnf fche Dealers throughout Australia.
MINERVA SALVENA is an infallible internal remedy for Scrofula, Scurvy, Sores,
Cancerous Ulcers, Eruptions of the Skin, and all other Blood and Skin Diseases. It is free from
all deleterious ingredients.
rotihSS5 R p-f‘ 0I T n™ E n? is an , efficacious preparation for Sores, Burns, Scalds, Abrasions,
Insects &c ’ Ulcei ' S ’ Cha PP ed Hands, Cuts, Wounds, Chilblains, Bites of Poisonous
If your Chemist fails to stock MINERVA, send direct to any of Company’s Australian
Depots, as follows Sydney 56 Margaret-st. ; Melbourne, 231 Elizabeth-st. ; Adelaide 98
Curne-st. ; Brisbane, 3 Darragh’s Buildings, Queen-st., or Messrs. Taylor, Colledge & Co. ’
THEY RE SATISFIED NOW
GOT MINERVA
SOAP.
System is the Life-Blood of Business.”
The [jational Cash Register
the
KEY
saves
.
Pressure
on the
Brain I
• IS A .
MONEY : SAVER
IN ANY
RETAIL STORE or HOTEL.
Prices - - £5 to £6B,
For Cash, or on Easy Monthly Payments.
We will Buy SECOND-HAND NATIONAL CASH
REGIS TER IILLS, or will take them as part
payment for New Pattern Registers.
Write for Catalogue, or call at
Head Office: 393 George Street, Sydney.
W. A. LING-HAM,
General Manager for Australasia.
PlODEfll) JIRUCtES.
Cures Performed that Rival
those of 1800 years ago.
Consumption, Cancer, Rheumatism, Para-
lysis, and other diseases, CURED in a
short and seemingly miraculous way.
The MODERN MECCA to which the
Sick of the Country go. Facts that will
live in history for ages !
GREAT EXCITEMENT
IN MELBOURNE.
, Merit, like murder, always “ will out.” Mere
assertion never proves anything. Only practical
demonstration of claims to distinction can con-
vince the public mind. The brain of man is the
harbinger of doubt. It accepts nothing that can-
not and is not supported by proof—proof founded
on truth, walled about, domed and turreted with
facts. Facts are the offsprings of development
and development is the material and legitimate
progeny of doubt. Doubts lead to investigation
investigation to discovery, and discovery en-
lightens the mind, expands the intellect, and
brings man into closer affinity with nature.
Ihings that are commonplace enough to us at the
present age would have, less than a century ago,
subjected the projector or discoverer to imprison-
ment and torture, and perhaps death. The dis-
coverer of the earth’s rotundity and the propa-
gators of the fact groaned and suffered beneath
the rack of ignorance and superstition, and were
put to cruel and ignominious deaths. When
Herschell first swept the horoscope of Heaven
with his wonderful telescope, and proclaimed the
existence of the stellar world, the million of glit-
tering spheres whirling in space, compared with
some of which our earth is but a tiny speck, an
avalanche of malice and manevolence was hurled
against his devoted head. So on down through
the whole realm of natural science, until within a
few decades, every new discovery, every fresh
revelation of fixed natural law, was met with a
tidal wave of credulity and doubt. That word
impossible” has stood a colossal barrier on the
highway of ■“ Acceptance and Belief.” It took
ages to beat it down, but thanks to modern ed nea-
t’ ol1 * which has ungyved the hand and unfettered
the brain of man, that monarch of nature, and
permits him to go on untrammeled, solving her
great problems and interpreting her wondrous
laws.
To-day there is passing in review before our
eyes such a panorama of recent discoveries in the
world of natural phenomena and other branches
of science that we stand convulsed and amazed,
but it must be patent to all who have given the
subject attention that the advancement made in
the medical field eclipses all others, and towers
like a white shaft to the clouds above and beyond
conception.
The Polypathic system in the treatment of
chronic disease is undoubtedly the most advanced
of all medical science, and if one were to judge bj
the the vast throng that may be seen daily at their
offices in their magnificent institute, 84 Collins-
street, Melbourne, it would- seem that half the
population of the city were clamoring for their
services.
The success attending this new system is almost
miraculous, but. it .is’in accordance with natural
and applied science, and wins its constant vic-
tories over disease because of the true following
out of that which natural ability and the highest
developments of Medical Science has shown to be
sure and true. All sufferers are welcome to the
of the POLYPATHIC
of 84 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE. Wm. HENRY GAZE, M.D.,
• L-R-O.P. Lond., M.R.C.S. Eng.,
is Physician in charge.
Those who cannot call personally, can
write.. All communications are strictly con-
fidential, and an opinion will be given in all
cases by return mail where the consultation
fee of 10s. is enclosed.
More capital invested, more physicians
employed, more cures made by the Poly-
patiiic System, than by any other similar
Institution or body of Physicians in the
world.*
2s/ A NOVELTY!
- AIL KINDS OP
SYNTHETIC SCENTS
Three in elegant ease
Outvie every effort for the production of
.. natural perfumes.
|X _p
a Obtainable of Chemists, S?
K, Stores, Perfumers, ic 5
or direct from
Street A
-V
't'
■Us:
C3>
Vi'S
old S-q
IP
uJ
c/3
HARPED
CP
y
Y
N
off
*'£tors
A £5OOO
Guarantee.
The firms from
whom we obtain
our Rubber sup-
ply are under a bond to forfeit this amount to us
in the event of their not supplying us with the
Best Rubber procurable, and the cancellation of
all our orders and contracts, should any of the
Rubber supplied prove in any way defective.
IQP Tyres
m
IDE THE HOST HEUHEE.
First in 1888.
Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. ltd.,
486 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Swanston-street, Melbourne ; Franklin-street, Adelaide ;
King-street, Perth ; and Litchlield-street. Christchurch, N.Z.
Rev. Chas. Strong, speaking from prac-
tical experience, as founder of the local Australian
iu’ * re ßrets to say that free churches in
Melbourne are at a discount, and religion is under
a shadow.’’ When parsons talk in this doleful
?!^ In one I s reni hided of Beaconsfield’s remark :
Every wise man has a religion, but no wise man
states what it is.” Parsons are not vvise.
The N.S.W. volunteer forces (writes a
Bulletin correspondent) have been asking for
leave to pitch their tents at the Easter encamp-
ment a couple of miles distant from those of the
Permanent and partially-paid forces. These latter
and especially the Eancers and Mounted Rifles*
are noted—continues this libellous scribe—for the
open manner in which they annex any of the
gaudy accoutrements of the volunteer to which
they take a fancy, and experience teaches the
aforesaid volunteer that there is safety only in
Canon Pennefather, an Anglican dignitary
of Portsmouth, Eng., has created a big row by pro-
hibiting the marriage of a divorced man. The
mandate did not issue until the wedding-party
turned up at the church, and there was a tremen-
dous scene. The bridegroom now threatens the
Canon with the law.
The present summer,is the third consecu-
tive summer of intense drought in Victoria, and,
with the Gippsland bush-fires thrown in, it is
reckoned' the. most disastrous season for agricul-
turists and pastoralists in the last 35 years.
• A M.L. paper sadly records the fact that
“at Queenstown so little regard was paid to the
visit of Viscount Hampden that His Excellency
had to carry his own portmanteau from the
” If so, the chances are that the easy-going
. thoroughly enjoyed the novelty of the
situation.


Banking, Public Companies, Sec.
Money to Lend.
FIIKTIIIIIC It A TBS.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James’ School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery :
6d. per month for every <£l to .£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over .£2O
3d. per month for every pound over .£5O
£looand over—Special Low Kates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Richard Jones, Esq.;
T. A. DIBBS, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
E. S. Cape, Esq., J. de V. Lamb.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager; T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B.Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin-Lane.
Directors: —Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G.; Henry
Grant, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Business Announcements.
Elliot/t’s
INVESTORS’ 6UIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
( Registered ).
Typboio
(registered)
FOR
Typhoid Fever.
Fislier & Co’s
TYPNOIN.
This is the only known Remedy and Preventive
TYPHOID FEVER.
Used for HUNDREDS OF YEARS by the
NATIVES OF INDIA.
One Drop taken night and morning is a Sure
Preventive against this deadly disease. Pive
Drops taken three or four times a day is a Certain
Cure, and has the wonderful properties of cutting
the duration of the disease to Five Days. It
reduces temperature, and destroys the evil effects
arising from badly-drained ground.
All countries infected with any form of FEVER
will find TYPHOIN unparalleled in its action
to destroy Fever Germs.
To be obtained of all Chemists and Storekeepers,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Manufactured Only by
Fisher & Company, Ma chlmsts! ns
337 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Mascotte
TOBACCO.
$e e T+(AT
yod get
it
*; ■
'
,!e Agents—S. HOFFNUNG Ss CO., Brisbane.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, <Jb Agency
Company, Limited .
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
list'd in the Company’s business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Plienls, 31st December. 1897 £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Es p, C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
E<q., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department —Mr. L. L
Barker in charge.
JAME« BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
IPHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. t’4,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up £1,708,093 12 9
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. . 41,906 7 3
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders .. .. .. 750,000 0 0
——— ‘2,805,78C
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir VV. A. Zeal, K.0.M.G.,
M.L.0.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: W. H.
Tuokett. Esq.; Andrew Burns, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addison; Actiig Manager: G. V. Shillinglaw; Acting
Accountant: W. G. Swell. South Australia (Adelaide),
with Branch u s throughout South Australi i. Local Direc-
tor: John Bagot, Esq., J.P. ; Manager: J. G. Jennings;
Acting Mating'r: T. A. Edmeades. New South Walks
(Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill. Local Director:
Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L. A. Manager: George Turnbull.
Western Australia (Perth), with Branches throughout
Western Australia. I.ccal Directors: A. R. Waylen,
Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H. Amherst, M.L.C.
Manager: H. R. England. London Office: 123 Bishop,
gate-street Within, E.C. Manager :A. W. Cunningham.
The royal bank of Queensland
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ~ £385,875
RESERVE LIABILITY .. ... 246,050
RESERVE FUND .. .. 35,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
-Til E
Queensland Rational gank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 456,973 0 3
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,116,619.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcoek, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Office: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc. ; purchases and advances on Gold ; dis-
counts commercial paper : makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 04 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
-THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital . . £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,074,801 10s.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L. A. ;
George Mean s, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. S r Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Win. Turner, John M‘Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M‘Cuteheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London O/jice: 1 Bishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadetihall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket., Gosford 'with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TbiS Conjpaoy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital . . .£500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st. , Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
Cable Address—lJiEMSElL.
Code— Mousing & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 2*7, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarice & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS.
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stooks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
W ARRN AMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, February 5, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 12, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 12,2 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Leura, Saturday, Feb. 12, 2 p.m.
Connects with S.S. Buninyong
leaving Melbourne Wednesday,
February 16.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 5, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, Feb. 8, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 12, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, Feb. 6, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Feb. 12, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST Clilt It ENT FAKES TO ALL TOUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
MESSAGERIES_ MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
AND
—VIA—
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
DESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN M C CREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists,
Melbourne Ore Testing Technical OheHlistS,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
VMember Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716. f^^lboOri)^.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street, London E.C.
J Af>
A/\,
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PI RIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Friday, February 4.
S.S. Allinya (from Sydney)
Tuesday, February 8.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
YASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Marloo(from Melbourne)
Friday, February 4.
S.S. Alling-a (from Sydney)
Tuesday, February 8.
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
February 10.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Adelaide, Wednesday,
February 9.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., 1 /td. , Agents,
(SBridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The al Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
* (Jailing at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELA WNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker & Do’s tine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
Canadian-Australian Royal Mail Line
—TO—
WELLINGTON (N.Z.), FIJI, VANCOUVER
HONOLULU, CANADA,
UNITED STATES, and EUROPE,
In connection with the famous
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.
Thenceforward Monthly.
Passengers Booked Through at Lowest Bates.
Railway Maps, Guide Books, and other information,
apply
HUDDART, PARKER & CO. Ltd.,
Offices : 63 Pitt-street, Sydney. Managing Agents.
A. U- S. N. Goy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNgVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH— D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare —London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare —London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS & CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via ALBANY, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Steamer.
Barbaro’sa
*P. Regent
Luitpold
Gera
Stuttgart
Weimar
Karlsruhe
Leave
Com
Sydney,
Tons
mander
Noon.
10769 A. Richter
6592 H. Walter...
6319 VV. Meissel
5349 Kohlenbec.k
5318 F. Meuk
5347 Bardelehen
Leave
Mel-
bourne.
Leave
Ade-
laide.
23 March 1 March 5
I - 1
Mar. 23 March 29 April 2
April 20 April 26 April 30
May 18 May 24 May 28
June 15 June 21 June 25
July I3|Jul.v 19 July 23
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Go’s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages front
Europe, America, etc.,can be prepaid in thecolonies. ’The
S.S. P.R. Luitpold and following steamers will call at
Fremantle instead of Albany. J. MERGEI.L, General
Agent, Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-st., Sydney.


WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
“e^Famed^ioS 0 WU * ‘“ d eS «* d “" J ' h “™' is th « **• »<><>" *•
A. Soyer’s Baking Powder.
616 6d ‘ j,’ e . r T V'- I* makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOULS KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6,' for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WashiOgtoi) M.SoGI &Co.,m’sp.s.,
158, 160, and 268 Pitt-street, Sydney;
Cliurch-street, -Parramatta.
AND AT
ADAMS’S MARBLE BAR, SYDNEY.
%
1
1
One of the Most Beautiful
Architectural Sights
to be seen in Australia.
The
Finest Paintings!
The Most
Handsome Decorations!
Th* Most
Superb Carvings!
Passive and Elegant Marble
Columns, etc.
WM. J. ADAMS,
Tel. 728. Manager.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
or PIANOS in
Tbe Fii)?st ai)d Largest JVJOSic WarcljoGS*
IKT
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO <£3s
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NKNOLSOH & CO.’s,
George Street,
SYDIXT EY.
«5 v
H
i&im
m
af SR
HI
r ■
m
mw%
: T
gal's sM doe
sn< ~
rr\aK? ttyst" JjiaA? 7 " &
Remington
Typewriter.
•• • •
STOTT & HO ARE,
Sole Importers.
•• • •
426 COLLIN S-ST.,
MELBOURNE.
moore st.,
SYDNEY.
GRENFELL ST.,
ADELAIDE.
barrack st.,
PERTH.
sP' »
CORNETS
F. BESSON & CO.’S
Celebrated “Prototype” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY
Musical
PRICE LIST ON
” C °™ pensating Piston Cornets, as per Illustr’n. L'A 7s 6d
Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES
Late PHILIP p. SAMUEL & CO.
227 Lit. Collins-st.,
Melbourne.—
agent FOR F. BESSON 4 CO. THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIAN
Colonies.
Cedstead and Woven Wire Mattress Combined.
Made with extra strong, double rolled sides, and our No. 3 Heavy, Close, Double Woven Wire
Mattress attached to each Bedstead by a new Patented Method, which dispenses with the use of loose
clips and shaky joints. Made to tighten at the head end. Any size Bedstead can be set up in two
minutes. No tools required to fix them. .
. 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 6in.
h rench, lin. posts, very strong ... ... ... 25/- 27/- 28/- 30/-
Half-Tester, lin. posts, do. do. .. ... ... 30/- 32/6 35/- 37/6
SPUING WOVEN WERE MATTRESSES.
No. 0, The Alert, close woven single wires
No. 1, The Sydney, wide woven double wires ...
No. la, Extra close woven double wires
No. 2, The Perfection, close woven, with 11 bands
No. 3, The Trusty, close w’oven, with 14 bands
No. 7, Holding Stretcher, double wires...
fOR CLUBS, HOTELS,
BARRACKS,
SCHOOLS.
HOSPITALS & OTHER
INSTITUTIONS.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS
MAKE A SPECIALITY OF MANUFACTURING
Purified, Healthy Bedding, and Superior Woven Wire Spring
Mattresses
which give satisfaction, and that is the kind you want!
ALL n r E ASK.
Try us for your Bedsteads, Bedding, Kitchen, Dining
and Bedroom Furniture, Austrian and American Chairsj
Java Kapok, Horsehair, Feathers, &c., &c.
Country STOREKEEPERS and DEALERS.—Now is
the time to Replenish your Stock. Do not hesitate,
but Call and See, or Write for our New Wholesale
Catalogue, with Designs and Prices. If you want
with r AKfT QTAOE-a * J' ■ , to buy m the CHEAPEST MARKET, WE ARE READY
„™ ( E STOCKS to give you just the kind of value to draw Trade to your Stores, and letting your Customers
Cher/aud • LC w the . I ? atter ove r with you. When Goods are Cheap, buy freely. Ours are always
„ Saleable, population must increase. Do not delay until you see signs of getting busy. Begin now by
on t d Cil y Zt° rd r h YOU ar . e „ someb ody S customer ; why not ours ? We have been established more than 30 years
rWnhu me -ii P t- ° ch ?fge of Ann. No failures, nothing but continued and steady progress. The above facts are
certainly evidence of merit and fair dealings.
John Lawler & Sons,
608, 610, 612 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
BULK STORES and STEAM FACTORIES—No. 4, 6, 8, and 10, UNION LANE.
Telephome, 66. Established 1860.
4
;
BOOK OF JNATUKE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
WITH MORE THAN FIFTY ENGRAVINGS.
PRICE, 3/6; POST FREE, 4/-.
A FULL DESCRIPTION OF THIS REMARKABLE
WORK WILL BE SENT POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS ON APPLICATION.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is ?d ’
The Nqtorious Mole Flanders, by De Foe,'complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French is- bv
post Is 3d. > > j
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream of Love and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post. j
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
The Serpent Tempted Her. : A Confession, Is 3d
posted. My Uncle Barbassou’s Harem, post free Is 6d.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
~ TI !F Wo , RKS op Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s-post free.
Ovid s Art of Love, Is 9d post free.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
mg all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is : post
free Is od. Maria Monk, Is (id ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
. T {' e Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SEND STAMP FOR OUR
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
CJJaea'p Book
16 PARK STREET,
Depot,
SYDNEY.
IRO-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulags.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery!.
ik
m
i)
S&gfiL*
mm
m
m
V.M:
mi
L
, :
kwi
•SSSsfc
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES,
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives ,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
&0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Also Representative for the
NOTICE TO
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
THIS JASHIONABLE PASTIME is now within the reach of all
as we supply the most PERFECT INSTRUMENTS with fn ’
Mechanism, at prices to suit everybody. The Latest are—
VICTOR MAGAZINE POCKET CAMERA for Plates •
takes pictures 2* x lj; fitted with two View Finders Time
and Instantaneous Shutter. Price,2ls. ; parcel posted. *
TJie - 5 v- a £wm-Lens HAND CAMERA, with a full
stantaneous Shutter. Price 70s p„ ,Jii Xln \ e In -
is. Bd., other Colonies, 3s 2d! Parcel post ’ N - s -W-
-HARRINGTON’S “Amateur ” DeveloDins-nnrt •
Outfit, suitable for any Camera Prating
»KY*PiATEs e ‘ ffftSST: * *•» °‘heVbotal e fS;
R tor^O?“x.”pS C S t fis. P *2 rt «d'.*? ol !,L‘
EYE,” per packet ldoz., 2s ’ 3d ‘ 1 for HAWK-
Directions with each Camera. Weffmi"int o » n
failure if our simple instructions are carried out. haSerS gainst
A
Snap
Shot.
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD,
See Our Advertisement on Society d>aye. RB;ET » SYDI JE'F.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
•• . EIEKCHANTS,


Our New BLACK BIRD Models
are to hand, and contain many
improvements which cannot be
found in other cycles at double
the price. We are the Manufac-
turers direct, which makes this
possible. Why purchase from
middlemen and dealers, paying several profits on your goods,
when you can purchase from the direct Factory Branch, with
direct guarantee ?
RED BIRD,
RUBY RIM , AND
BLACK BIRD
Cycles
ARE MANUFACTURED, SOLD, AND GUARANTEED by
The Goold Bicycle Co. Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 64 King-st., Sydney.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE ; EDWARD ST., BRISBANE ; and at ADELAIDE, WELLINGTON (N.Z.)
Factories : Brantford, Canada.
HUMBER CYCLES (America)
reduced.
OB
Cl Cl
41
;*
nd
(SC
JO
“ These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at our Beeston Works, and are of the MOST APPROVED AMERICAN DESIGN. The Workmanship and Materials are of the Highest Quality, and we give the
SAME GUARANTEE as with the BEESTON MACHINES."
COUNTRY AGENTS WANTED.
The AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., 45 York-street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The physical strength of Clem Hill was very
apparent in his hard hitting and fast running last Satur-
day. after he had put in fonr-and-a-half hours at
the wickets with the temperature at from 100 to 107 in
the shade. And the Englishmen—they also did a lot of
good hard work under difficulties.
* * • *
The behaviour of the “shilling part” of young
Australia during the first day of the Melb. test match was
worth remembering. Up to lunch-time the youthful
observers sat silent and depressed. The luncheon interval
gave them an opportunity to cultivate a “ nasty ” feeling
on the subject of international cricket, hue they still
hoped for an improvement in Australia’s prospects.
When play was resumed, another wicket fell (six for 58),
and Trott’s dismissal took all the heart out of them pro.
tern. For the next half-hour they jeered considerably at
the game in general, and the English side of it. in par-
ticular. After the 100 went up they continued to pass
remarks and make “merry” over incidents. The score
got to 200, and the crowd got its tail up again. Great
enthusiasm at the beating of the English bowling by Hill
and Trumble. Finally, the crowd went away, chuckling
that “ Australia hadn’t done so blanky had after all.”
When the Australians at Adelaide sent six
Englishmen back to the pavilion with 17 runs to their six
names it. was the bowling that did it. Not had luck, not
over anxiety on the part of men fighting against ti emend-
ous odds, but simply the wonderful Australian bowling
that did it. When six Australians, batting with the luck
of the toss in their favor for the third time in succession,
were put away for 24 runs, it was the “ unduly-watered ”
wicket, or an inexplicable “ rot,” or “one of those things
there is no accounting for in fact, anything but the
bowling and fielding that did it. The Australians onlv
show their true form when the Britishers are getting
miserably beaten. If they happen to get out before
they can get “set,” as frequently happens to the
visitors, they don’t show their true form. Hill’s
magnificent score was true forui—just what might have
been expected. A good performance hy any visitor who
has been catting much below his English average is
treated as a great surprise.
Does it ever occur to local cricket writers that
no Australian batsman has finished a season in England
with a remarkable average? The English top-notohers,
on their native heath, invariably cut bigger figures than
the best of visiting Australians, yet a Maclaren at, ’Ome
doesn’t equal his doings abroad. The Englishmen’s
averages in Australia are expected to go higher than they
go in England, likewise with Our Boys. Five of the
previous English visiting team—Brown, Ward, Stoddart,
Maclaren and Peel—played up to this expectation
in the test-matches, and thereby won the ruhber
for their side. Only one man, Brockwell, was a
pronounced failure, judged by his English average.
This time there have been only two reasonable or notable
successes, Maclaren and Ranji, whilst Druce, Wainwright,
Stoddart, Hearne, Mason and Briggs have been failures
in eieven-a-side matches. Six of the Englishmen have
batted below their “ form,” in fact, and four of these
being new-chums it looks as though Stoddart, with all
his experience, hasn’t arrived at an understanding of the
difference between cricket conditions in the two coun-
tries. He can’t pick batsmen who will be certain to take
kindly to the hard Australian wickets.
* * • #
If the Australians are true “ sports ” they
ought to bring a national libel-action against their daily
press. Melb. ’Erald, of Saturday, expressed local cricket,
feeling as follows: “Heavy hanks of thundery-looking
clouds were rolling up from the south-west, and the
Au tralians were praying for night first, and rain after-
wards—that is, if they could manage to make a decent
stand during the afternoon.” Also, the ’Erald, with
charming candor, said : " No doubt the news of the
downfall of the Australian batsmen interfered to some
extent with the attendance in the afternoon.”
» • • •
When the Englishmen only put up 174 against
the Australians’ 323, and had to follow on, it was sweet to
think of the depression of the alleged lion at the other end
of the cable. There are a good many Australians who
want test-matches won \hiefly in order to spoil J Bull’s
insufferable boast, that at cricket and everything else he
can whop creation. And when the last of the English
trickled out on Monday there were pleasant hopes that
the eternal British braggart would be taken down.
The English second innings was a better
attempt—with every Stoddartian man-jack doing all he
knew to avert disaster ; and when The Bulletin stopped
for this week, the score stood at five for 174. The con-
sistent Maclaren was out for 49 ; the tolerably consistent
Ranji was ditto for 55 ; and the English idea that the
match might be pulled out of the fire looked as yellow as
a seasick ghost in the last stage of jaundice.
• » * •
An Australian medical in London writes to
The Bulletin : “Tripe without onions is the stuff served
up by the local pressmen—excepting Daily Mail George
Bull,' late of Sydney Star— re the cricket matches, and
the blowing after the first test would turn all the meat in
a brine barrel. For goodness sake hire two Queensland
mosquitos to sting Ranji moribund, give Storer the sandy
blight, and have Maclaren kidnapped hy a tribe of
bunyips, or kill a dozen sheep and inject the liquefied
pluck into our batsmen and howlers. The stay-at-home
Britisher ignores defeat but remembers victory, and
Australia will never get another loan if the increasing
contempt for its people is not nipped here. What are the
Sydney trams, Melbourne Yarra. and Adelaide churches
for if not to get rid of obstructionists? But Stoddart’s
team in a crushing battery, feed 'em on poisoned rabbits,
or dress ’em in Geelong tweed, hut somehow and anyhow
win a match.” Since the above was written it has been;
done —two times at least.
• • * • •
Ranjitsinhji owed his batting failure in tbe first
innings to his inordinate tendency to chatter. “ There is.
one Australian bowler troubles me more than all the
others, and that’s Trutnble,” said Kumar Shri in conver-
sation. So when the dusky man walked jauntily out
Trott whipped off Jones and put on Trutnble. The oracle
worked, and says he can never sufficiently thank Ranji.
for the valuable tip.
> • • •
The question is how many runs would Maclaren,
Ranjitsinhji, and Drime he likely to make against the
English bowling on hard Australian wickets ?
* • • *
Ranjitsinhji, complaining of the barracking of
the crowd in Adelaide, mentioned that he had postponed
an operation to play in the match. What a difference
between Ranji and Stoddart. When surrounded by a
mob of pressmen, in Adelaide, Ranji talked b.v the yard,
but Stoddart simply said, “ I’m very disappointed, but I
wish to sa.v t*>at I have never played on a better wicket
in Australia.”
• * • •
Ranjitsinjhi, writing on one of his innings in
Sydney, affected modesty by saying “ 1 contributed a
useful 112.” What adjective does Ranji modestly use to
define his six in the Adelaide test-match? Probably before
R. gets that desired word out, anoi her finger will be dis-
located.
» * • *
Ranjitsinhji, interviewed, picks Darling as the
finest batsman in Australia, and much ahead of Hill. But
what is the “finest” batsman—the largest scorer at the
end of the season, or the fastest scorer, or the one who
makes a good average in the most attractive style? And
what is the most attractive style ?
• • • *
The Englishmen began to cry out for Bobby
Peel in Adelaide. “If we only had Bobby here!” they
ejaculated, when Australia had 3 3 up for two wickets on
the first day. “ Well, I guess you’ve got time to cable
and have him here for the tail-end !” interjected an Aus-
tralian barracker. There is no doubt the English bowling
is very plain. Hearne is the only man who can keep the
runs down.
* • • •
After the first test-match in Sydney, Trott and
Trmnble were very sanguine ; they both told Sheridan,
“ We will beat them for certain in Melbourne and Ade-
laide.”
• * • *
Giffen, it would seem, fell in badly in attempt-
ing to coerce the Australian cricket authorities. Darling,
Hill, and others will each receive a much bigger total than
Giffen s required £l5O. They, in fact, receive all travel-
ling exes., 12s. a day for hotel bill, and £5 per week all
through the season.
• * * »
F. S. Pictet, of the Tas. v. Vic. cricket-team,
who got an arm-fracture through slipping in the recent
match, is now fully convinced of the folly of wearing
smooth-soled tennis-shoes instead of spiked cricket boots.
• * * *
Quite a number of people were actually glad on
Saturday week when Alick Bannerman— that is to say,
Alick M‘Kenzie—was tub out after making six runs (in-
cluding a fourer) in 36 minutes. He ought to take ad-
vantage of his height. If Sid. Gregory were as tall as
M’Kenzie he would make about 250 runs an hour.
* • * *
“ Why call Stoddart’s team of cricketers the
‘ English ’ Eleven ? ” somebody asks. They are so-called,
The Bulletin supposes, because all of them, including
Ranji, are taken from English county teams. The same
rule is followed in Australia, Percy M’Donnell, in his
time, was a Victorian, a Waler, and a Queenslander by
turns.
* * • «
Briggs taught Maclaren the game of cricket.
Perhaps Mac. still clings to the old belief that little Johnny
is a wonderful bowler on any sort of pitch.
* * * *
Harkness, the present Mayor of Bendigo (Vie.)
a Cornishman and a big iron-founder at Golden .Square, is
running the civio show on temperance principles, as of
yore. The gloom of his festive occasions suggests that
his name ought to be Darkness. T’other day, when
Stoddart, Ranji, Richardson & Co. were victims to the
Mayor’s hospitality, a few remarks concerning the in-
human cruelty of soft tack for exhausted cricketers were
exchanged across the table bv at least two of the noil-
teetotal visitors. At the finish Maclaren, Druce and
several others adjourned to the corner pub. and drank to
the speedy reformation of his worship in whisky and soda.
* • * •"
The very acme of meanness and pettifogging
was reached by th* Sydney Cricket Ground people on the
last day of the interprovineial, when they charged the
handful of people who turned up to see the Victorians
make 27 runs threepence apiece.
• * * •
The Glebe barrackers had a terrible time on
Saturday last, when Mackenzie and Truniper, playing for
Paddington against Glebe, made 147 and 120 respectively,
both not out.
• • * •
The crowd is not a bad judge of cricket, and its
howling at Tom Garrett simply means that it considers
the veteran lags superfluous. Garrett’s judgment as a
captain is getting to be on a par with his fielding, arid,
taking one consideration with another, it looks as if he
should proceed to give the young men a show. He has
resigned from the selection committee of his province.
A sensible decision, if he means to continue in active ser-
vice.
* * * *
Cricketer Ernest Jones umpired in Melbourne
lately for an interprovineial drummers’ match. The
mercury was 107° in the shade, and Jonah made him-
self immensely popular by stopping the game every 15
minutes for drinks !
* • * *
Dear Bulletin, —Will your scribe who com-
ments on the “ awful importance” of a successful bats-
man returning to the pavilion chokefull of vanity, tell us
how a man who has scored 100 or over should behave in
the face of an admiring multitude? Does he know what
it feels like to have to walk a hundred yards under the
eyes of 30,000 people, and to the accompaniment of
thunders of applause? Under such circs, the more
modest a man really is the more theatrical he is likely to
appear. The party who conies through placidly and with
dignity is almost certain to be a very berg of cold con-
ceit. It takes a tremendous amount of egotism to make
a man appear “ natural ” in the face of acknowledged
success.—Yours, S.
• • * •
If some of M Kibbin’s slow bowls are not
throws, what is throwing? The swarthy N.S. Waler
appears to get his “ questionable deliveries ” winked at
for the simple reason that- they are “ tripe” in compari-
son with his really over-arm work.
• * * «
Mr. Hordern’s English 22-footer importation,
Bronzewing V, was tried in Sydney Harbor on Anniver-
sary Day, and again on Saturday last. Her suit of sails;
is a picture—nothing like it has ever shown before in Port
Jackson, but, as a racing boat, she is completely out-
classed by the local article. There is something wrong
with her bow, as she throws the water up like a mud-
punt ; and if she may he taken as a fair specimen of the
'22-footer from the other side, Mr. Hordern may be
thanked for the opportunity given Australia of proving
its superiority in live-ballast boat-sailing. Mr. Hordern
has now given Joe Donnelly an order for a 22-footer, a
big contingency to he added to the price if she downs the
champion Effie ; which looks much as if he is already
■quite satisfied about the Britisher's chances.
* * » *
What a strange whim of Mr. Sam. Hordern to
name all his boats the Bronzewing! His latest British
importation is called Bronzewing V.
• • * «
At the recent N.S.W. Rowing Association
meeting a proposal was brought forward to send a N.S.W.
eight-oar crew to England, the mover speaking in suc'i a
confident tone that it looked much as if he had the matter
of expense up his sleeve. There were many speakers
•completely carried away in favor of the notion until Mr.
Horniman brought them to earth again by inquiring,
“ Whv send our crew to the other side of the world for a
licking, when they could get it just as easily across the
Victorian border ?” This was a poser, and the meeting
decided to refer the mat ter to a committee, with the hope
of fixing up with ihe other provinces an amateur definition
which would hold water at Henley.
* • • *
The Commotion mare, Mischief, whohas several
times run moderately in big events, appears to be im-
proving steadily of late. More unlikely things than Mis-
chief for next Melb. Cup ; or she may figure as a heroine
at the V.R.C. autumn meeting.
» * » *
Old Dondi rather astonished his people, the
other Saturday, by winning a two-mile steeplechase at
Caulfield in Sn'iin. 59sec. The veteran hadn’t won a stake
since his “top-weight” days-not for three and a half
years, in fact—but with the comparative luxury of list,
on his back he took the lead when called upon and
romped home. Whernside in the same race at 12st. 101 b.
ran like a non-stayer at the finish, and perhaps he lacks
stamina, as a weight-carrier, big as he is. The Millers
have never seemed to reckon Whernside a stout horse.
* * » •
Newhaven, with Bst. 81b., is regarded here as
simply “chucked in ” for the Epsom City and Suburban
handicap, but rumor hath it that he is to be reserved for
Ascot Cup.
* * • *
N.S.W. looks like playing a very good hand in
approaching Newmarket. Amiable is actually first favor-
ite, whilst Loch Marie, The Tola, Adoration, Syerla, Pre-
caution, Spectator, and Wenlock will also well represent
the mother province. Precaution is a veritable flyer.
* » * *
With high-handed authority the Executive at
Randwick last week again dropped’down on those eccen-
tric individuals known in racing vernacular as “ lick-
tackers.” Doubtless these gentry do upset wily owners’
calculations, but there is nothing illegal in their actions,
whereas all the ready-money betting that goes on in the
Paddock is distinctly illegal, lkey Mo and co., however,
bring in a good revenue to the A.J.C., while the
“tacker” only weighs in his modest ten bob—hence the
different tactics adopted.
9 * * *
Premier Kingston missed a chance last session,
when his Gaming Act went through, to appropriate, say,
5 per cent, of official totalisator receipts for the public
revenue. S.A. racing clubs now enjoy a complete
monopoly, and the new act will increase the year’s tote
receipts for S.A. by at least t'lo,ooo. A 5 per cent, tax
on gross takings would net several thousands a year to
the treasury. Already Premier Turner pricks his ears—
as witness his Charities Bill of last year.
* • * »
S.A. Govt, makes a final stab at local book-
makers by framing regulations making it a condition of
racing-club licenses that tote-agents shall be excluded
from racecourses. Some of the hookies threaten law if
ejected, and it is certainly doubtful if the regulations are
not ultra vires.
• * * *
“Daimio after his miserable failure in the
Southern Counties Handicap Steeple at Lingfield is,”
writes The Bulletins London correspond, nt, “looked
upon as a rank dead ’un by the critics. He debuted on
the same course ; but when stable-backed at 4 to 6,
carrying 12st. 71b. in a field with four third-raters, he
was fourth to a bad third, the winner, Rathcarne,
list. 101 b., 4 to 1, twelve lengths ahead of second. Daimio
fenced beautifully, and in a thoroughly English mannah,
hut hadn’t enough speed to straighten his tail. Halfway
he led, but never saw the remaining twelve furlongs,
though a selling-plater finished behind him. Escott was
up, and it looked a genuine trial.”
* • • »
In again losing the A.N. A. Wheel Race—if he
did lose it by a hair’s-breadth \V. J. C. Elliott struck his
usual ill-luck on the track. When he went out for the
final he had backed himself for £BOO, his firm had laid
him £lOO to 0, and the first prize was £220 —£1120 in all.
Yet, after riding a singularly good race, and winning, in
the opinion of such judges as Fletcher, Barden, Ken
Lewis, Jim Carpenter, J. Williams (the N.S.W. handicap-
per), and Lenne (the Vic. handicappeij, the decision went
to L. M. Jackson. Jackson hung on to Elliott’s wheel the
whole last lap, and it was therefore dollars to doughi uts
that Jackson would win in the finish of the sprint—
so great is the advantage to the man who hangs second.
The bookmakers were festive over the decision. One who
would have been hard hit called upon Elliott afterwards
and thanked him for riding a black machine. Said the
bookie: “Jackson’s wheel caught the Judge’s eye first,
not because it was in front but because it is a white one;
yours is black.” Elliott, by the way, being 32 years old,
is one of the best advertisements going in favor of the
wheel. Certainly no youngster could look fresher than
he did the dav of the race.
* * * •
Fifty per cent, of the crowd that saw the finish
for the A. N. A. Wheel Race thought Elliott had won by
six inches at least. Elliott thought likewise, seemingly.
The most surprised man at the A.N.A. meeting
was Porta when he rode around the track after winning
the First Class Handicap, and didn’t get' the ghost of an
ovation.
L. M. Jackson narrowly escaped trouble in the
third semi-final by rushing to the front when the bell
rang. A couple of seconds later one of the men imme-
diately behind him came violently to grief and brought
seven others down with him. Only the four placed men
stood tip, and Jackson followed up his luck—which cer-
tainly uas luck, rather than judgment—by winning the
coveted £2lO in the final.
• * * »
The March meeting of N.S.W. League of Wheel-
men is to be held on the Agricultural Ground, the meet-
ings on the Cricket Ground having proved a loss to the
League, owinsf to the heavy charges of the Ground people.
The Cricket Ground loses its rival as regards surround-
ings, but, so far as the track proper is concerned for
bicycles, the greater width of the Agricultural Ground
makes it better for big handicaps. For multicycles, the
Cricket Ground s higher banking makes it more suitable,
but paced races and record-breaking are not loved by the
crowd. What it likes to see is a ding-dong finish in the
straight. Record-breaking can be done just as well on a
quiet afternoon, in the presence of the officials and the
representatives of the machine being advertised.
» • • «
Bilmartin’s departure for ’Murka makes a cer-
tain perjury case, pending in Adelaide this month, very
interesting. Bill, when in Adelaide, was paragraphed in
the Advertiser as one of the participants in a prize-
tight, in which William was alleged to have been badly
knocked out. Martin went for the ’Tiser for libel
damages and got a verdict, the chief witness against him
being committed for trial for perjury. With the Plugger
away, the case probably collapses.
» * • *
The close of the New York six-days’-cycle-race
was a sickening spectacle—some of the riders grinning
and muttering in sheer temporary insanity, some falling
from their machines asleep, and being dragged off the
track for a short rest, and Miller—the eventual winner—
was perfectly unable to stand, though still able to go
pretty strong when lifted on to his Wheel agaiu. His
distance was over 2088 miles.
* * • *
The last batch of ’Murkan cycling papers to
hand in Sydney indicates how awful the slump in the
bicycle-boom must be. One journal, the BiCYCLtNG
World, which used to contain 120 pages, and more than
two-thirds of those advts., is now cut down to 24 pages.
• * * •
At the inquest upon the boxer Croot, killed re-
cently at London National Sporting Club, Sir George
Chetwynd testified that, “except for science,” the fatal
set-to was “ most disappointing.” And yet the fashion-
able ring-patrons keep up the pretence that it’s science
they want, and not gore.
* * * *
At Hamilton, N.S.W., some 2000 people wit-.,
nessed the match between Virgo and W. Oughton for the
Northern District championship of that much-neglected
game, handball. The game was splendidly contested.
Virgo winning by two points. The stakes were £4O, and
a lot of money changed hands over the event.
• * * •
A foolish Austrian, one Sigmund Bachmann, is
just now travelling from Sydney to Adelaide, or vice
versa, in pursuance of a trip “round the world’’for a
wager. He had backed himself not to speak a word of
English during his journey, and to he back at his starting
point within two years of his leaving it. The Bulletin
feels sorry for Sigmund. These apparently idiotic wagers
are seldom as stupid as they 100k —not on the layer’s side
of the wager. Whil.-t Sigmund is pushing his hike in
foreign parts, the other fellow is probably in pursuit of
Siggy’s girl, or working some equally attractive game.
Beware of the man who taunts you into stopping away
for two years.
* • * *
Even a Camen cigarette ad vt. button may be a
great educational medium. Previous to the epidemic of
buttons with their portraits of Stoddart’s eleven, there
were not a dozen men in Melbourne who knew that “the
Prince” (0 r lesshiin !) is Kumar Shri Ranjitsinhji. And
now even o y knows it. Information of that sort is
worth a buuon.*
♦
Piles and How to Core them without opera-
tion —a pamphlet describing the new discovery,
“ Camialin.” Bent free to any colony on applica-
tion to the “ Cannalin ” Depdt for Australasia,
257 George-street, Sydney.*
For man or woman, for the healthy or the
invalid, for those who work and for those who
sleep, for those who like it, and for those who
take it medicinally, there is no better drink than
White Heather Whisky. To old and young in
any climate, ar.d at any season of the year, it will
do all the good that a real pure whisky can do —
and that is a good deal.*
Melb. Age has some fine points after all.
On the dispute occurring re the sailing of the
Bulimba, both Age and Argus pointed out that
permission had been duly obtained for the vessel
to sail on the Sunday ; but the Age sent, a re-
porter to interview the men, and from them jt was
learnt that the “permission for Sunday-sailing”
is getting quite a common occurrence, the Bulimba
having worked the game four times in Melbourne
and twice in Sydney in three months. But the
Argus had no word of all this.
“ The indifferent harvest in the Riverine,
N.S.W. district, has considerably raised the price
of chaff, corn and hay,” writes 6 x 8 to The Bulle-
tin. “Many carriers can’t afford to feed their
horses ; and a piteous spectacle just now is a team
of horses turned out on scanty grass for the first
time after a hard day’s work. With heads raised,
an anxious look in their faces, and ears pricked
attentively, the poor animals stand in a heap all
night near the waggon—waiting vainly for the
accustomed ‘ cub-cub ’ invitation to the feeding-
boxes. ”
HOW YOUNG AUSTRALIA FEELS ABOUT IT.
Oh, list to the lay of Australia,
Oh, list to her triumphing trill,
Concerning the way that her failure
Was stopped hy the genius of Hill—
Clem. Hill!
Here’s a hip ! hip ! hurrah ! for your skill.
The trustworthy Trott with his penny
For the option with Stoddart had vied,
And, not for the first time by many,
Had made the way clear for his side.
For the first of the fun they were let in,
But, oh ! for the chance that they got;
Things very soon showed there had set in
A most undeniable “ rot.”
Oh, sad was the tale of that scoring :
Soon after the play had begun
Two batsmen were duck-eggs deploring,
M’Leod was no louder than 1.
Young Gregory, chancing to miss it,
V\ as bowled hy a yorker for nought,
And Iredale, brief in his visit,
By Storer was prettily caught.
My brothers, Australia was crumpling
Like leaves in the breath of a flame,
’Twas all Broken Hill to a dumplirur
That England would crush us with shame.
But Hill faced the task that they set him,
And, proof against every shot,
With Trumble to aid and abet him,
Soon stopped that unfortunate “ rot.”
Some folks may have built up our nation ;
What matter! at cricket they're nil.
But Australia knows, with elation,
’Twas saved by a party named Hill—
Clem Hill !
Here’s a hip! hip! hurrah! for your skill.
ZEF.


How to Select a Good Bicycle
Is an Important Question.
At our Depots we will be glad to show you why
T . h . e Massey=Harris Cycle
Is the One to Choose, or you can get our Catalogue directs
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
ESTiBT.ISHED
1847.
Australasian Branch: 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
BRANCH DEPOTS: 2!H Bourke Street. Melbourne: 385 Georee Street Sydney
Queen street, Brisbane; Crawford Street. Dunedin.
Interestrnp Illustrated Catatopve Posted Free upon Application.
From the Pall Mall Gazette we learn
that “ only the best houses have any matured
Scotch whisky left.” If this statement is correct,
«m? not „ at all surprising that Sir John Powers’
Three. Swallow ” whiskey has caught on in Aus-
tralia ; it really is a seven-year-old genuine malt
spirit.*
Even if China is partitioned peaceably,
Australians should be careful to support British
industries-. R. Bell and Co., London, are the old-
est manufacturers in the world of wax vpstas.
Compare quality and contents of boxes with other
brands, and you will insist on “Bell’s” being
supplied.*
Some changes will, it is said, occur shortly
in the Argus.staff. Mr. Haddon retires from the
editorial chair to take the late Gowen Evans’
P lace >n the proprietary. Howard Willoughby,
' as re^usp d the editorship, and it
mr> • „t a^en > so goes the story, either by
Bra,'ns Cunningham-late chief of staff—or
.Uavid Watterston, editor of the Australasian.
“In N.S.W. Riverina district drought is
still supreme,’ writes a Bulletin correspondent.
Away from the all-butdry Murrumbidgee
water has grown terribly scarce. Not eight miles
from the river a shilling was paid recently for a
bucket-full ! In the (long-dry) Old Man Creek
country aid is denied from below as well as above.
Many settlers there are boring and sinking wells,
but in nearly every case, and at all depths,
only salt-water is struck. Fancy striking, sur-
rounded by bleating, parched sheep and cattle,
in a drought-struck land, at a depth of 60ft., a
flow of beautifuHy clear water—and then finding
it absolutely undrinkable by man or beast! ”
Greville Turner, Ltd., are fully supplied
with all sizes of the Rambler and Greville bicycles.
Many of the former are fitted with the new
feather spring for saddles, which reduces vibration
to a minimum. The change gear is worth inspec-
tion. ihis invention gives the rider the power of
propelling with either a high or low gear at will,
and without stoppage of the machine. By special
arrangement with the English Dunlop Co., G.T.
Ltd. will convert any rims and tyres into West-
wood and Dunlop at a small cost.*
N.S. W. Agricultural Society holds its Syd-
ney show from 6th to I2th April. The Society’s
schedule is devoted in every page of its 150 pages
to the agriculturist’s interest; so that the lady
who wins the high jump first prize, without break-
ing her neck, receives .£l5, whilst the non-beauti-
ful and unenergetic first prize potato secures <£s
tor looking merely succulent; also, the lady who
wins third jumping prize gets .£3 35., while the
deep-uddered sow of any age in milk, with litter
of pigs, receives a first prize of £2 for looking
beastly useful and pleasant in her pen with her
family Apart from these malodorous compari-
sons, the Society, on the whole, promises to boom.
±or the people who are born tired it has erected a
new grand stiffid, and this, together with the new
terraces, will enable 20,000 more people than for-
merly to view the ring contests. For those who
were born thirsty, the Society has renovated and
increased the refreshment booths, while the official
stand, with the press-box, will have accommoda-
tion for a, great number of full bottles on ice. The
w V? e p xhibit will please prince, epicure, or bishop
the Dean of Sydney, by the way, raised up his
voice in wrath because of the concerts—Good
Tnclay nights concerts will be strictly sacred—
and I hursday s, Saturday’s and Monday’s night
concerts will be promenade concerts—so perfor-
mers under De Groen. 1
TbeStiffieldCas?.
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING FULL
A* EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OF SCENE of
alleged Outrage. Price Sixpence.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
- 214 George-st., Sydney.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
K3T Send for Price List. !£&
The Sydney Carriage M’n’fg Co.,
__ „ MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Y °^ ERI^ 6E Man ’ f ’ g - Co is the cheapest and best
pjace to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotations
teoJLVworkmer 1^68 ’ BroUghams ’ &c ” Re P aired
Government Notices.
Department of Mines and Agriculture,
Sydney, 17th January, 1898.
for SALE... six diamond drills.
THE PROPERTY OF THE GOVERNMENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Price ß £3O0 hydraUliC feer! ’ ca P ab,e ot boring 600 ft. ;
DRILL, positive feed, attached to smoke-box end
if bcgler, capable of boring 1500 ft. Price, £6OO.
Pricfl £3? RILL ’ poS ' tive feed > ca P aWe of boring 750 ft.
te«° Prfc RI £ R 7S POSit ' Ve feeCl ’ P ros P ectin g drill, quite
No. 9 DRILL, positive feed, “ Little Champion ” Ma-
chine, capable of boring 800 ft. Price, £450.
No - 10 DRILL, positive feed, “Challenge” Machine,
capable of boring 1500 ft. Price, £SSO.
For further particulars as to inventory of goods &c
accompanying each Drill, apply to W. H.' J. SLEE, Chief
Inspector of Mines, Department of Mines, Svdnev, New
south Wales '
Ba-64.
SYDNEY SMITH,
Secretary for Mines and Agriculture.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
UJolf American High ]frt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. i3T Everything fancy but the price.
English American pples
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-clats Makers.
SANSPAREtL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEAR WELL
{}
MACK TAN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
quadrant
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET , SIDNEY.
Greville Turner Ltd.,
37 Market-street, SYDNEY:
Corso, MANLY;
Agents for... Telephone 2854.
Ranjbkr ai?d (aretfilk
BICYCLES.
REPAIRS and ACCESSORIES of All Kinds.
TIRES. —We convert into DUNLOP or
G. & J. at LESS COST than the Public
can buy same.
Call and Inspect, or send for Catalogues, and
you will not regret it.
MANLY.—Cycling Taught. Machines Let
Cut on Hire. Repairs.
Hotels.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ Til 13 tItUMUM,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“KII s' Kina-street toffee Palace.” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor ... GEO. W. ELLIS.
fill
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMROLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
the grand central
OPPOSITE g.RO-
the GRAND CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.p.n..
BOOMS
OB BOARD
AT OPTION.
H E STOYE,
Wanagbr.
SYDNEY, N.S,W.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
W E are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machfnes that are absolutely reliable and fully
tip-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
BBT Agent for “ Naumann ” and “ Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
“Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Go-Lightly Kind).
Manuf. by the Ames k Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy ani ,
Duplicate parts always in stock. lIVI rt ri IA L.
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia:
J. F. MCDERMOTT,
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
PROSPECTUS
OF TIIB
palmer j{iver gold (Dining (Jo.
(Limited) ,
Maytown, Queensland.
To be registered under The Companies’ Acts 1863 to 1893.
Capital £12,500.
Divided into 50,000 Shares of ss. each. Of these
Shares it is intended that 10,000 shall be
deemed fully paid-up, which shall be the
consideration paid to the vendors hereinafter
mentioned.
Provisional Directors :
J. K. C ANNAN, (Chairman)
JOHN REID, Esq.
THOMAS MORROW, Esq,
T. J. MOONEY, Esq.
JOSHUA BAILEY, Esq.
J. N. ROBINSON, Esq.
L. CUSACK, Esq.
J. H. THOMPSON, Esq.
D. H. GUILFOYLE, Esq.
CHAS. REESE, Esq.
UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
Solicitor :
3. NICOL ROBINSON.
Secretary :
J. B. BRADFORD (pro. tem.).
Temporary Office : 21 Queen, Street, Brisbane.
NIS COMPANY is being formed for the purpose of pur-
chasing the Property and Assets of the Don Explora-
tion Syndicate Limited upon the terms as set out in an
agreement dated and executed by
* .u for the Vendors, and by as Trustee
for the new Company, and thereafter of working the same
for the benefit of the new Company.
The Assets consist— (a) a Leasehold Property comprising
10 acres : (b) a Leasehold Property comprising 5 acres,
situated on the Queen of the North Reef, on far-famed
Palmer River Gold Field, North Qeensland ; (c) a Block
Claim of 5 acres ; (d) a Leasehold of 4 acres on the reef
formerly known as the Captain Cook on the same field,
being really a continuation of the Queen of the North
line.
Note.— c and d have not yet been formally granted, but
1898 ex^)ec *' ®*at. they will be obtained early in January,
It is needless to remind the public of the phenomenal
richness of the Palmer goldfield, but it may not be super-
fluous to quote the following extracts from the published
reports of R. L. Jack, Esq., F.G.S., F.R.G.S., Government
Geologist:—
Notes on the Palmer as a Beefing District.
“The Palmer Gold Field occurs in strata which are un-
doubtedly a continuation of those of the Hodgkinson It
has so far, been chiefly an alluvial field, having yielded
?LI £5,000,000 worth of gold since its discovery in
1873. The reefs have never had a fair trial, although
many of them more than deserve it. In the early days,
when alluvial gold was plentiful, and flour sold for 2s. 6d.
per lb., and horse-shoe nails for their weight in gold it
was natural that nobody would ever turn aside to look' at
a reef.”
THE QUEEN.
“From the surface to a depth varying from 220 to 270
feet, 7082 tons of stone have been taken, yielding 15 1670 z
of gold—over 2oz. per ton—and yet the mine has been
idle since 1887, except for desultory workings which never
touched the deep ground, which has been standing under
water.
Mines of the above class, and with a similar history
abound m the neighbourhood of Maytown. Nothing that
was not quite abnormally rich could possibly pay in the
old days, and besides there was a general belief among
the miners that the mundic stone below the water-level
would not carry gold, or if it did it could not be profitably
extracted. No reef that did not show coarse gold on
being smashed up with a hummer was judged worthy of
a second thought. Many valuable reefs probably remain
to be discovered.”
“Another valuable mine, the Recompense, was dis-
covered only on Christmas Day, 1895, by one of two
brothers who stayed at home because he was too hard up
to go to a cricket-match at the Laura. There was only a
thin vein at the surface showing a little gold. It has
since opened up well down to 100 ft. A crushing of 6 tons
from the first 22ft. of the shaft gave lloz. 9dwt. 13gr. per
. A Party of miners have recently been employed recover-
ing the tailing-s from the Queen of the North,' which gave
them a return of 18dwts. per ton, showing that, by the
employment of the latest gold-saving appliances, the re-
turns are confidently expected to reach not less than 3oz
per ton on average crushings.
It is estimated that the quantity of water in the mine
will always be sufficient to keep the machinery going at
all times and seasons. & *
The Vendors have sufficient faith in the mine to require
no cash payments, but are fully satisfied to take 10 000
fully paid up shares in full payment of their interests ’
This Y enable the Directors to devote the whole of
the Contributing Capital to the devolopment of the pro-
perty, although it is expected that only a small portion
will be required to be called up. 1
At the present time some permanent work is being pro-
ceeded with. A main shaft, 13ft. by 4ft. 4in. has been
started, and it is expected to strike the reef at 300 ft. from
the surface. It will be of sufficient dimensions to enable
the work to be pushed ahead with vigor.
.o-iorm e ®rtmated cost of sinking the main shaft 300 ft. is
fon^\ whlch .'" c l ud “ timbering, wages, &c., leaving over
£BOOO to provide for the necessary crushing and pumpino-
machinery. The purchase of a powerful and complete
plant in working order is now under consideration of the
Directors.
Fortnightly reports on the mine since July, 1897 to
date, containing information too voluminous for a Pro-
spectus, can be inspected by intending shareholders at
the offices of the Company.
The Provisional Directors reserve the right to declare
rte Company formed and floated with a less number than
50,000 shares.
Applications for Shares can be made in Brisbane to the
Secretary, the Solicitor to the Company, or any of the
Provisional Directors, from whom all information may be
obtained. - y e
Certified returns of crushings of some of the Palmer
River Gold Mining Company’s Mines are in possession of
the Directors, and speak for themselves. They can be in
spected at the Office by intending Shareholders A litho
graph of some of the working of the mines on the Queen
of the North Line is appended. u
Of the 50,000 Shares 10,000 will be deemed fully paid-up
and be handed over as the consideration paid to the Vem
dors. The balance of 40,000 is now offered to the public
fid ™ lC «n a lab, lt / ss 'Per Shares is attached, payable
nnd P it r on A PP} lc ation> <3d. per Share on Allotment
A Fbriri of Application is appended.
December. 1897.
—THE-
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar Krone.
in tlie SOUTHERN
HJtiKlii. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is Ruch
an article as JOSEPHSON ’S OINTMENT purely
tne prod action of thecolony, com posed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you'
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, 1 have tried your Oint-
ment for Ilies, and have found much relief from
dispo are libert y use this if you feel
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herat,t> Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
orvnu 11 5J irerl by using this Ointment.
SOLE EYES, or Sandy Blight.— There is
n .° T t ;;'"l known to man eoual to JOSEPIISONS
AUSIRALIAN OINTMENT.
How’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
How’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
Por General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
Ihe action of dandelion, more especially upon
trie o ver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half trie quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Biood and Giver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them mo<t
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
tried. Yours faithfully, HUNKY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1836.
Baron Berzilins’
Buchn Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
These Bitters I recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chrome
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; arid it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D.The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in cases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.-8888-I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting
lion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows
l l a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
teking two or three glasses of ROW’S
SEE ANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
1 hope others suffering from the same complainb
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed)
G. HTCWTCTT,
“ 213 Pitt-sfcreet.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU'LL DO
DUTLRS than any cough medicine tried before.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a dav
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
nuaJ.'lUwnß iiUTHffm rnwHmri nrrlSag.A^.-^g%r
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to at
delicate persons. Young Lai.iks can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s onlv a
pure tonic. Try it. J
Teetotallers will find this newly.invented
TON!C answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will sati-fv
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
passed ° f drmk ' A 8 anfci * febrile > s unsur-
-p nwS Tl<^ N ;T Wh en ca " for these ask for
KUVV and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
Syduey.


Jb>
I
4&3Z
vv
Picking up
Knowledge
is easy enough if you look for it in
the right place. This is the right
place to learn just what to do for that
debilitating condition which warm
weather always brings. Do you want
to be cured of that languid feeling,
get back your appetite, sleep soundly,
and feel like a new being?
Ayer's
Sarsaparilla
will do it. It has done it for thou-
sands. It will do it for you. Try it.
PREPARED BY
OR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World’s Chief Expositions.
Ayer’s Pills CURE CONSTIPATION.
Ladies. -Cali and
see our CHRAP
A CHINKS,from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc. ' ——
S. ROWLEY & CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
A BOON to SYDNEY.
©
VVE
b
FOUR
U° S T LZ£ S
o
Centennial Insect pouider.
Will kill Mosquitos, Fleas, Bedbugs, Ants, Cock-
roaches, and all other kind of Vermin. Ask your
Grocer or Chemist for it, and be not put off with
any other kind. CENTENNIAL is the Best. It
can also be procured from all wholesalers—Elliott
linos., S. Hofknung & Co., Washington H.
Soui,, Australian Drug Co., and by all Whole-
sale Grocers.
BAXTER MEG. CO. LIMITED, 62 Queens-
land Offices, Bridge-street, Sydney.
?eafQ€SS
AND HEAD
NOISES
Wilson’s Common
nse Ear Drums
Relived
.elieve all conditions of Deafness
nd Head Noises, where medical
kill fails. The only Scientific
ilirad Sound Conductor. Safe to
rear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
±teooiuinehueu uy physicians. Write for book—Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
Not many years ago a N.S.W. country
alderman, who was pervading Sydney with, his
cheque-book peeping ostentatiously from his
breast-pocket, fell in with an acquaintance, who
suggested to him that, in order to let people know
who he was, he should have some cards printed.
So they hied them to a printery, and the
a ! derman selected a huge card with a big
sunflower in the corner, and gave instruc-
tions for the printing. Having received
the cards, he sought the office of the Even-
ing News, of which he was a country cor-
respondent. “Sam Bennett in?” he airily
inquired. (The proprietor, old Sam Bennett, had
been dead three years) “Ah, well; when he
comes in, just give him this, will you? What s
the matter with it? ” He took the card back, and
read, “ Alderman Dash, Press underneath.” The
whole batch presented the same misunderstanding
of his instructions to put “Press” beneath his
name.
“ Anomalies and Curiosities of Medicine,”
by G. M. Gould and W. M. Pyle, of IT.S.A.,
records some cases which would be unbelievable
unless the standing of the authors is taken into
account. It tells how children have become
mothers at eight, nine, and ten years old. Also,
how women 60, 70, 90 and—ye gods! —and 103
have done the same. Likewise, it tells of a dame
of 52 who had twins, and of another of 62 who
was blessed with triplets The book also records
how in ’72 Mrs. Timothy Bradlee, of Trumbull
County, Ohio, gave birth to eight children at
once. She had only been married six years, and
had already produced two pairs of twins. She
herself was a triplet, and her father and mother
were of twin births, and one of her grandmothers
had given the world five pairs of twins. A lot of
morals seem to hang about this.
JELP. : “ The applicant for a selection out
West (N.S.W.) isn’t always the most keen-witted
of men, and in the intricacies of Lands Dept,
forms and verbiage is liable to come to grief.
When, for instance, he applies for his selection he
is summoned to a Land Board meeting, but is in-
formed that in his absence the board may proceed
to deal with the case. And as he lives a hundred
miles or so from the board-town, and, moreover,
has some starving sheep to cut mulga for, or some
thirsty bullocks to travel to water, he frequently
concludes to let the board ‘deal.’ Generally the
board adjourns the matter and issues another
summons, similarly worded ; and again (probably
having the same cattle still on hand) he concludes
once more to let them 1 deal ’in his absence. By
this time the board is satisfied that the poor devil
is a shuffling dummy, or tank-grabber, or some-
thing equally objectionable, and surprises him
with a notice that owing to his non-appearance
his deposit and survey-fee (amounting often to
,£3O or £4O) have been forfeited, and the applica-
tion recommended for refusal. After that there
is the usual political appeal to the Minister,
I whereas the whole matter might be made simple
if the misleading notice were somehow amended.”
tSSfisi
Dffl
GO TO HELL-
IUOLANI) for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. (ill.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
i/ratis.
Freta. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Before Starting
M
ft
m
BUY A BOTTLE OF
Fisher & Co’s
Famous Kola Nut Tonic.
A Sure Remedy for Sea-sickness.
pT Makes you EAT and makes you STRONG.
Ask your Chemist; Ask your Grocer; Ask your Hotel
for a Bottle.
2a. 6d. and 4s. 6cL. ALL COLONIES
Also at the
Pharmacy, 337 George Street,
SYDNEY.
burglars baffled badly.
SECRECY. SECURITY.
DTDermott’s Burglar Alarm.
EFFICIENCY. ECONOMY.
FW the WORKING MODELS at our Offices. Prices quoted for Installation to any extent
06 at any address. Telephone No. 1674.
The McDermott Burglar Alarm Coy.,
Castlereagh-st. (opp. Australia Hotel), Sydney.
OGDEN’S
GUINEA'
GOLD
CIGARETTES.
STREET ARAB:
" 1 say, Bill! there’s no mistake
about these, they’re OGDEN'S !"
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
THE
* Plum ’
PiO
Plum
(7 ENTLEMEISi who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to g’ve our celebrated Pin™
71 Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, »c
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having bad them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. TEe guarantee edeh Razor for Two Years.
•p • | Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco 1 eat tier case, 21s.
Price |gj n „] e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle* - in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
BY ROYAL WARRAKTT of to “ THE QUEEN.”
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE ”
Schweppes
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
SCHWEPPE.
SODAWATER, &c.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
FOOD for
INFANTS
*
#
Benger’s Food is sold by
Elliott Bros., Ltd., and The Australian
Drug Co,'' Sydney; and by leading Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
AND
THE AGED.


V •
m
Herr Bassmussen, Celebrated, Herbalist.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OP THE
lifeline Herbal Hemedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL
VER WRITES AS FOLLOWS
OBSER-
Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a eommonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the; prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE CURE
is found in taking the
Alfaline Herbal
Remedies.
«w>
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging- to
Business,
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home —and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. _ This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th- Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills, which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING per box; posted, Is. 6a.
health &
Happiness-
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which keeps
them i ndoors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of !
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
r f
$
shine, they espy •~-7l
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen's Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S Medical Page.
.Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches —well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER KELT BETTER in their lives.
rm
WM
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALFAIiINB
Blood Fills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
“HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? — Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many waya; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfaline
Fat-Reducing- Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE; packets, 6s.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cufcsd,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twite fl-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Bassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
it
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassiuussen’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every little
disappointment or tiifD,
their complexion sutter-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassmussen’s Alfaline Vitality Pills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
How to Obtain Free Book.
d®" When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FREE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies can only be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist orpatent-
medioine seller whatever. He has no agents.
Cl,
v
c
n
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN'S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed arid permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. Tin Se prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BL< OD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, anti therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent.
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet, sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoulest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free. ’
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills -For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 12s„ and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder-Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful f >r Beautifying the Complexion
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney.'
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne— lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane— l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade ;
Adelaide —ls 4 Rundle Street ;
N.Z.— 9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A.:
Perth —Hay Street ;
Coolgardie— Bailey Street ;
Kalgoorlie —Hannan Street ;
Premantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR TREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ssihj:
30IAQV
m- address YOUR LETTERS to
‘HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of big Intercolonial
Branches ; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street*
Sycaney.
Or simply address your
“PROPRIETOR, Box
SYDNEY.”
Letters thusforprivacy sake—
-208, General Post Office,
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY, WITHOUT J-AIL.


rjIHE UNIVERSITY OF ADELAIDE.
THE
Elder Conservatorium of Music.
The Conservatorium will be OPENED in March
next, and the courses of instruction will embrace
the following subjects :
Pianoforte, Singing, Organ, Harp,
Violin, Violoncello,
Harmony and Musical Composition,
Sight Singing and Musical Dictation,
History of Music,
Ensemble Playing (chamber music),
Concerted Music (vocal and instrumental),
Other Orchestral Instruments,
Orchestral Playing.
Diplomas in Music will be granted to successful
students. „ ... ,
FOUR FREE SCHOLARSHIPS will be
offered for competition—Two being reserved for
South Australia; two being open to all students
in Australasia.
Provisional syllabus may be had on application
to the principal music-sellers. Full particulars on
application to
CHAS. R. HODGE,
Registrar.
A SILVER WATCH
G-IVEKT AWAY.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s) to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE :
S*C*E*S T* F’D'R’T’ON.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct that
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped
and addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if
you have won a watch. ...
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
EXTRACT FROM LETTER RECEIVED.
“ I have received the watch and chain per terms of the
advertisement, and in perfect order, and the quality of
which gives me more than satisfaction. —Yours, &c.,
Mrs. W. M'CARTHY, South Broken Hill."
Address —THE MANAGER
The English, V/atch and Jewellery Company,
No. 9 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS (2nd FLOOR)
PITT STREET, SYDNEY ;
TJLLA^
'ABSOLUTLY ;
JHE^ESIy
Tfttr Contain
"PfAHOSOIOJ
PfAXO DVETS
roau. overs
Lists
¥
Amusements.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Management of Dan Barry.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, at 8 o’clock) TO-NIGHT
Dan Barry's Dramatic Company
In Charles Reade’s Thrilling Drama, depicting all the
horrors of prison life, entitled,
IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
&r~ change of bill every Saturday.
Just Note the Prices—2s., Is., and SIXPENCE.
JJRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers:
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSOROYE.
Wilson Barrett Season. Wilson Barrett Season.
BRILLIANT AND EMPHATIC SUCCESS OF
BE3ST-MY-CHBEE.
NOTICE. —BEN-MY-CHREE can be played for a limited
number of nights only; to be followed by The Silver King.
Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’. Day Tickets at Bentwitch’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS! LAST EIGHT NIGHTS 1
The grand, gorgeous, spectacular, comic pantomime,
Tbe Babes io the Wood.
Interpreted by a Great Burlesque Company.
Plan, Nicholson’s. IS? - PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
fjl I V O L I
£• RITE R lON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
FAREWELL WEEK IN AUSTRALIA.
FRANK THORNTON.
TO-NIGHT and FRIDAY,
THE STRANGE ADVENTURES of Miss BROWN
NEXT SATURDAY (February 5) Brief Revival,
USKE-A-IMC A..
Prices as Usual. .. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Manager, L. J. LOHR.
Lyceum theatre, Sydney.
Under the direction of Messrs. J. and C. MacMahon.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
The management announce that, owing to a contract
previously entered into for the production of another
play on Saturday, February 6, the immensely popular
performance of _ ___
Worß and Wages
will be repeated but’ for TWO NIGHTS MORE ONLY.
THE UNIQUE LYCEUM TARIFF 2s, Is, and 6d.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co’s.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Great English Tenor,
Mr. PRilip KTewtonry.
Enormous reception nightly of
Mr. Anstin. Rndd.
Last FOUR NIGHTS of
O Tlie Kellinoea O
TUESDAY NEXT, February 8, First Appearance in
Sydney of the
3 Hegelmanns 3*
OPEHA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee & Mah. Director— Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
Of the Three
HBGr E:X-2StdCA.3XT3XrS.
The acknowledged champion Flying Trapeze Artists and
Athletes of the world.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
JOSEPH— THE WALDRONS —ETTIE
Supported by the entire strength of our Double Co.
•is 6d, 2s. Is, and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, melrourne.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS!
dick WHITTINGTON-
MAGGIE MOORE supported by Mr. H. R. ROBERTS.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Actin" Managers—For Miss Maggie Moore and Mr. H.
R Roberts, Mr Percy Ward ; for Messrs. Holloway and
Anderson, Mr. Jas. Hendy.
Tho New NOISELESS KEROSENE GAS
STOVE,
Jupiter.”
A wonderful Stove.
Converts kerosene into
gas and burns silently.
It has all the latest im-
provements. With its
cooking apparatus it
will ROAST, BAKE,
BOIL with one flame.
Price, 12/6 each. By
post 1/6 extra.
"Jupiter” burner
fitted to any stove.
“ Primus” Stoves, 9/6
Send for catalogues.
BRAND T BROS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
B. J. & D. CURRAN,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
rjpHE
LAST OF SIX: TALES
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
OF
PRICE Is. per Post, Is. 3d.
Geo. Rotoertaon WSb Co.,
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Si Retail Booksellers Si Stationers.
new books by every mail.
Plain Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-bast eti. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English A Colonial Celebrities
SOMETHING NEW
UNDER THE SUN.
The
LATEST
-™ ST CURE
And
GREATEST
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Bruises, Cuts, etc.
Post Free ... ... 2s. Bottle.
The DON CASH TRADING- 00.,
206-214 Johnston-street, Collingwood,
MELBOURNE, Vic.
Our 1898 Registered Novelty “ Bird Brooch.
Surpassing the old style of Twin Swallows for Strength and Durability.
9ct. Gold,
15s.
15ct. Gold,
20s.
POST
FREE.
rr/'-r
Gf S -Alliance
/registered
CLOSED
OPEN
15ct. Gold,
■with
Rondella
Bead
in centre
of
chain,
225. 6d.
POST FREE.
I Gold Lucky Wish-Bone
(Merry Thought) Brooch.
With Amethyst or Garnet Shamrock,
pearl centre, 20/- each.
Plain, large size ... 7/6 each.
„ small size ... 6/-each.
Pearl Set all round 20/- each.
Tusk Links.
Silver-mounted, 4 6 pair.
Gold-mounted, 13,6 pair.
Gold 2-Bar Brooch.
With Amethyst and Chain Pendant,
13 6 each.
With Bell and Chain Pendant, 12,6 each.
18c. Half Hoop.
6 Fine Diamonds, £7los.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 45, -, 50/-, 60/-
Solid Plain Plat.
9-carat, 17 6, 20'-, 25/-
15-carat. 35 '-, 40/-, 45/-
Silver, 5/-
RICHLY CHASED.
9-carat, 17 6, 20'-, 25/-
15-carat, 35/-,-40/-, 45/-
Silver, 4/-, 5/-
Wild Boar’s Tusk Brooches.
Silver-Mounted ... 4 6 each.
Gold-Mounted ... 13,6 „
Hall-Marked Gold Brooch.
Bar with Bow, Pearl Set Bird, Amethyst and
Bead Pendant.
UNAPPROACHABLE VALUE, £1 Each.
Hundreds of other Novel Designs
—in—
RINGS, LINKS, BROOCHES, Ac.
18c. Band Ring.
1 Fine Diamond, 40/-, 60/-,
100/-.
Ruby or Sapphire, 30/-,
45/-, 60/-. Opal or Pearl,
25/-, 40/-, 50/-.
plain Band Ring.
9-carat, 12/6,15/-, 20/-
15-earat, 20, -, 22 6, 27 6
18-carat, 21/-, 25 -, 30 -
With any name, 1/- extra.
9-ct., 22/- pr. 15-ct., 37/6 pr
Silver, 4/6 pr. 6 pattern s
NOTE Our Only Australian Address-
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
HUD’S Marvellous MIR RESTORER
e
2*
o/z
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
Bead the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial:
An Australian lady, now residing in England, says : “Truly, Mr. Holland, my hair
is a walking advertisement for your Hair Restorer. It gives me pleasure to recommend it
everywhere I go. All my friends who are using it through my recommendation speak most
highly of its wonderful hair-producing properties. It is so pleasant to use too. And it
keeps the he&d free from scurf.”
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “ Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle—3s., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. Gd.—9d. extra for postage.
I]. HOLLA Nl), Hair Specialist,
±. 193 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Great Dental
Divorce Case.
n
yv
A
4
ITEMS FROM THE EVIDENCE:
Did you suggest to R ds that he should take
some Kola Nut Tonic?
Witness : I may have ; I think he was taking it
at the time. I think that is in answer to a tele-
gram from him saying he could not come up that
night. (Laughter.)
Another Witness.
Have you had a drink to-day?
Witness : Nothing but a glass of water.
W 1: Perhaps some Kola Nut Tonic *
(Laughter.)
Witness: Yes.
Do you find it good for you? .
Witness: Yes, it is fine and strengthening.
(Laughter.) _ _
The Foreman of the Jury asked the witness
several questions about the size and architecture
of the petitioner’s house at Strathfield.
FISHER and CO.,
Manufacturers and Proprietors of the Famous
Kola Nut Tonic
Which makes you Eat and makes you Strong, beg to
intimate that 'in addition to the present form of their
Tonic, which is a Bitter One, they have placed on the
Market the same Tonic with all its virtues and pro-
perties in a
SWEET FORM.
This will be known and distinguished by the name
“ALOK”
(REGISTERED).
Waiter: What can I serve you with, sir?
Customer: “Oh! my favorite reviver—
“ ALOK,” with a little soda water.
ASK your CHEMIST, ASK your GROCER,
7 ASK your HOTELKEEPER
FOR
£C
A L O K.”
Mighty “ ALOK ” is a Mighty TONIC.
This Form of our Famous KOLA NUT TONIC
is exceedingly
Palatable and Strengthening.
You are conscipns of its BITTERNESS, but
can barely discern it.
IT GOES DOWN LIKE MOTHER’S MILK.
If You Do Not Specially Order
“ALOK,”
THE TONIC WILL BE SUPPLIED AS
HITHERTO—
IN ITS BITTER FORM.
IN EVERY HOTEL and REFRESHMENT
ROOM,
WITH SODA WATER,
‘MOK’ 6d per GtJSS.
2s. 6a. & 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
—ASK FOR-
V
“ALOK
(REGISTERED).
MIGHTY" ALOK.”
PHARMACY:
537 George Street
(NEARLY OPPOSITE G.P. OFFICE),
SYDNEY-
-5*
In the Morning—
Before going to Fisher and Co.’s for KOLA
NUT TONIC.


Stocktaking Closing-Out Sale
—AT—
FIHHEV ISLCS $ CO.’S
IS NOW ON.
G.OODS in EVERY DEPARTMENT are
SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCED for this
CLE \ JUNG-OUT SALE.
ORDa/.iS should be sent EARLY, with a care-
ful description of requirements, naming prices
wished to be paid, and enclosing REMITTANCE
TO COVER AMOUNT.
Any Change over, after executing Orders, will
be at once refunded, and COUNTRY CUS-
TOMTCRS may rely upon getting the benefit of
all reductions, and goods nearest in price to those
mentioned.
DRAPERY GOODS of the value of £2 and
upwards that can go by Parcels Post, with the ex-
ception of certain heavy or bulky low-priced lines,
are sent by us to any Parcel Post Office in the
Colony, POSTAGE FREE.
Goods arc thus Delivered to all pjarts of the Colony
AT BRISBANE CLOSING-OUT PRICES.
During Closing-Out Sale it is often useless to order from
Samples. When once lines are sold, they cannot be re-
placed. In sending samples, therefore, a first, second,
and third choice should be made in each instance, and, in
the event of all being sold, authority should be given for
us to substitute the nearest. In substituting goods, our
best judgment would be used in selecting the nearest, both
as regards pattern and price.
Make Post Office Orders, Postal Notes, Bank Drafts, and
Cheques payable to
FINNEY ISLES & CO., BRISBANE.
in
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of - all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Feckham, London, England.
TTAIKhEiISSKItS AM* lVHdll KRRB
To the Trade.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR; comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Best quality English Clubbed Hair, in alarge
variety of shades ; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignqlle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tones’
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
varieiv of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mir ors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles’
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumeiy, Shaving Soap. Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies Fringes a speciality; best manufacture,
newest design, 10s. 6d. ; wire foundation from
4s. 6d. Fringes made from own pattern of hair
and design, 10s. 6d. Best English Hair Tails
from ss. 6d. to 425. each. Wigs, ScalDets, &c.
Complete dressings made to order at lowest
quotations.
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 A 682 George Street, Sydney.
&
id
Vquu Life. OU That SuPJETTobacco !
SMOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY,
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
MARCELLA CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
MULES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, bj
L Price Warung ; Is. 3d. posted.
Private Hassard, of the Gordon High-
landers, had no less than three close shaves in the
charge up the Dargai Pass. One bullet carried
away his haversack buckle, another pierced the
haversack itself, smashed a Kropp razor, passed
through Hassard's kilt, and wounded a man
behind him in the leg ; and another struck his
ammunition-pouch and knocked him down. Not
the Fatal Three that time, at all events.
APENTA.
The best Natural Aperient Water, for con-
tinuous use by the constipated, the gouty, and
the obese.
“Its composition is constant.”—Lancet.
Sole exporters: The Apollinaris Co. Ltd., 4
Stratford Place, London, W.*
From the Age Death Jingle column :
In memory of John .
We will not murmur, will not ask of heaven the reason
why
The young, the good, the honorable, like John, are
called to die.
Inserted by his loving daughter.
A daughter who addresses her father, alive or
dead, by his front name, is very lacking ,in
respect. Perhaps distance lends familiarity.
Byron’s “ Prisoner of Chillon,” Bonivard,
has gone into nothingness. The alleged confinee
■was said to have been chained for years to a pillar,
round which he walked till his footprints wore
tracks in the stone floor. During 1897 the foot-
prints, over which sentimentals used to gloat and
weep, mysteriously disappeared. As footprints
are hard to steal, Deputy Vuillet asked the Govt,
in his place in the Swiss Diet, where they had
gone to. Thereon uprose Councillor of State
Vecquerat, and hardfacedly explained that there
never had been any genuine tracks of Bonivard,
but that, as the sentimental public demanded
footprints, the Govt, had duly provided them and
renewed them every year, but that by an over-
sight the repairs were forgotten last year. Will-
iam Tell has fallen away into a myth. Rousseau’s
grave has no one in it. Gladstone has been proved
by Andrew Lang to be a sun-myth. And now
Bonivard shares the fate of Mrs. Harris —“ which
I don t believe there's no such pusson.”
Dr. Roger Williams, of London, points out
that cancer is steadily spreading. Recent statis-
tics show that deaths therefrom have more than
quadrupled between ’BO and ’96. Williams also
shows that this increase in the cancer death-rate
is accompanied by a lessened number of deaths
from tubercular diseases. From a study of family
histories, it seems to him probable that good
hygienic conditions preserve individuals from
phthisis only to allow them or their descendants
to become cancerous. He also states the queer
paradox that “augmentation of the cancer-rate
indicates good sanitary conditions.” The exist-
ence of “ cancer houses ” and “ cancer areas ” has
been absolutely proved, the cancer areas being
chiefly in low-lying valleys, especially where the
livers overflow their banks. That cancer is an
infectious disease has been practically provi d,
though not yet accurately demonstrated, and the
diminution of deaths from tuberculosis where
cancer increases tends to confirm the contention.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It! drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
Habitue : “ Melb. Public Library trustees
have given up in despair the attempt to keep any
soap in their lavatory—such is the invincible love
of cleanliness amid the poor Yarra-bankers. An
official was planted in a cupboard near the wash-
ing-basins, and had his eye glued to a gimlet-hole
for a few hours. At last he pounced on the
banker clutching his beloved soap and starting off
for Brander’s Ferry. Instead of encouraging the
poor chap in the desire to keep a few of his 150
million pores open, beak Panton gave him the
cruel wash enforced at M‘Gee’s Hotel, Melb.
Gaol. Still the soap keeps going.”
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
I’ll Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins!
Posted (under cover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. f
Price, 10s. Cd.
Sole Agents :
A
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st.. Sydney
TANGLEFOOT
1
K
Tanglefoot
American
Sticky-
Fly Paper
CHEAPEST,
CLEANEST,
NEATEST, and
MOST EFFECTIVE
Fly - Catcher.
0. & W. THUM CO.,
MICH., U.S.A.,
M’f’t’rs.
Sold Everywhere.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
ME
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life." So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Deaii &r, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured Of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufterers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
mTr C S e ™^ ever ' Send addressed envelope to Mr
WILBEIi KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Yic.
Wanted.
A FORTUNE TO BE MADE
. WANTED AT ONCE, in every locality, an
intelligent person to act as our Agent. No special
knowledge required, and without interfering with
present occupation. An excellent opportunity for
a capable young man or lady.—Address, Morse
Manufacturing Company, 3, Red Lion Court,
London. E.C. ’
N
—DESTROYS—
Every species of Insect
In all Stages of Metamorphosis.
For the House, Conservatory
and Garden-
Destroys Aphis and Other
Garden Pests.
Preserves Furs, &c.,
Moth.
from
Rids Dogs, Oats, and Fowls of
*." Parasites-
harmless to animal life.
CAUTION- —Beware of Imitations.
KRUSE’S is the ORIGINAL and
GENUINE. Ask for KRUSE’S.
I
a PMRoT j
slB RfIH&X
SWoTiviiwi
jo ifeVfrag
3? SalcDSwsnfD
SawnoM Sniv&<J£
MELBOURNE.
fflocffi?
POST FREE v'E—
Watches-Clocks-Jewellery- Birthday*
Weddii\lg z CHristeisliivlc Presents
iyjneWmaaN i 75 5 i 77- Elizabeth 5 t *
OPPOSITE C:P.O.
MELBOURNE.
•Rodlalla Cheese
The Finest in the market. Our Regis-
tered Brand is on every Cheese.
|-godalla Bacon
Corn-Fed and Mild Cure.
[Qocialla Ua,m.s
In Get-Up and Quality are equal to the
best English.
CAUTION.—It having come to the knowledge of
the Bodalla Company that certain persons are selling
other Colonial Cheese, under the name of BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all Cheese sold as
BODALLA
BEARS THE BRAND OF THE COMPANY
JOHN SHEARWIN,
Wholes alb Agent,
889 SUSSEX STREET, STONE V.
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind Mill s.
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outiats
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.,
Sydney. _
DEAF
mj
The New Patent
> SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter oif
how long standing. Arethesame
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
I
•\n<> LI NS, 7s 6d, 12s 6d,
v 22s 6d, 30s, 37s 6d,
| 455, 60s, 90s, and 105 s;
I Violin Strings, “Golden
Strad,” 2s 6d per set;
Mandolins, 245, 365, 455,
545, 755, 90s, 1355; Auto-
harps, 12s 6d, 21s, 255, 355;
Aceordeons, 7s, 9s, 13s,
17s, 18s, 25s and 30s: Cor-
nets, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s. “0s ana UOs; Banjos, best., 63s and 90s;
Zither Banjos 'ss and 90s; Concertinas (the best in the
world), ss, 7s 6d, 9s, 11s, 17s, and 25s ; Boomerang Mouth
Organs, 2s 6d ; Albert’s New Vamping Card, learned in
five minutes, Is 6d. Cash, or Is. ivechly. Our prices
are only about half others’ charges. Send for our New
Illustrated Catalogue.
J. ALBERT & SON. 118 King-st., Sydney.
COUGHS, COLDS onlhe CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much imprSyed.
After taking two bottles the cough and night s\y eats-left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cured me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man.— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS.; REMEM-
BER, wie give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely What we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
U pUR a iFIER BL ° OD SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE FIYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of fhe BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R- RAFF AN, Proprietor,
■ 55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes IVledicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, arid in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NcnfoCiS Weakness .
AND
Ccrebro-Spioal Diseases,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
winch has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GTBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist then)
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, '
PROPRIETOR., Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney
Please mention this paper when writing.
Tales of the convict system
Price, One Shilling; per Post, Is. 3d.


7
Pink Pills for Pale People
Effects Cures in cases regarded as HOPELESS by Hospitals and Medical Men.
they cure
Anaemia, Indigestion, Sick Headache,
Locomotor Ataxia, That Played-out Feeling,
General Debility, etc., etc.
Read the following True Report of Cures effected :
Doing a Day’s Washing.
HARDSHIPS MET WITH IN COLD
WEATHER.
HANDS IN HOT WATER, THEN IN COLD.
GETTING HEATED, THEN GOING OUT
OF DOORS IN ALL SORTS OF
WEATHER.
COUGHS COLDS, AND RHEUMATISM
the inevitable results.
In this inclement weather, when so many are
suffering from colds, coughs, and rheumatism, the
story of Mrs. Mary Brown, of 71 Simmons-street,
Enmore, will be read with devouring interest.
When a reporter called at this lady s resi-
dence, he found her busily engaged at the wash-
tub, what she called doing a day s washing.
It was indeed difficult to believe by the amount
•vT
rtf “ elbow grease ” she laid into her labors that
this interesting personage had lately been in-
formed by medical men that hers was a case which
would probably develop into chronic rheumatism.
“ I have called, Mrs. Brown,” said the reporter,
“to ascertain the truth of the rumour that has
reached me of your having recently suffered from
a severe attack of rheumatism.”
“ It is quite true, but I am now happy to relate
that I feel as well as ever I did. I have been
suffering on and off from rheumatism for the last
five years, and the slightest change in the weather
used to give me most awful twinges. It chiefly
affected my arms, and I can assure you, sir, that
it took me all my time to do my hair. As to lift-
ing this tub, that was a matter of sheer impossi-
bility. If it had not been for some of my friends
I could never have got through my household
duties. This complaint appeared to affect my
entire'system, and as to the money I have spent
in doctors’ advice and so-called remedies, why it
makes me positively disgusted to think of. I
began to think that if my sufferings continued life
was not worth living. I remember one day, as I
was sitting by the fire, and endeavouring to em-
ploy my mind by reading the Evening News,
that an advertisement caught my eye headed Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People cures Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, &c.’ Now, having wasted so
much money already, I was at first loath to try any
more advertised medicines, but I thought in for a
penny in for a pound, so I invested in three boxes
of this specific. ” -
“ I hope you were careful to ask tor UT.
Williams’ Pink Pills ? ” . .
“I took particular notice to do that, fori had
read of so many worthless imitations that I was
careful to ask for, and obtain, the genuine article.
“We think it highly probable, Mrs. Brown,
that before long some of the compounders of these
worthless imitations will be spending time in
seclusion, with the accompanying eccentricities of
diet, official garb, and escort.” .
“ And, indeed, it would only serve them right.
BroWn (my husband) laughed at me when I told
him I was going in for a course of Dr. Williams
Pink Pills, and said, ‘ Oh, you are going to chuck
away some more money, are you?’ ”
“ I said. ‘ Yes, I am,’ and right glad am I that
I ran the risk of ‘chucking away some more
money ’ for.l am happy to tell you that they have
done me all the good in the world. Talk about
the new woman ! Why, I feel now a brand new
woman, and my husband only this morning said
to me, ‘Well, old girl if you were off-color a
few weeks ago, you certainly look the pink of
perfection now. I suppose it is your Pink Pills
that have done it.’ And so it is. Not only have
T lost mv rheumatic pains, but my appetite has
returned, and I can now enjoy my food. In_ fact,
my appetite is so good that Brown says I will eat
him out of house and home.
“How many boxes have you taken, Mrs.
Br “lhave had seven boxes in all, and I have so
much belief in them that I intend always to keep
a box by me, and I shall recommend them to all
tv friends. You are quite at liberty to publish
this statement, as I believe in giving credit to
"SSw ta withdrew, and refected. «
hewalkeS? slowly away that here at least was
another case in which the many virtues of this
marvellous preparations had been exhaustively and
conclusively illustrated.
♦
Indigestion—lts Ravages and
Cure.
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS TO
THE FORE.
(From the Peak-hill Times).
Mr. F. Carr has been a resident of the town
of Peak-hill for a period of nine years. For the
greater portion of that time he followed the oc-
cupation of a miner, until he met with a dyna-
mite accident whilst working in the Carrington
Mine. He was a strong, active man, able to do
a day’s work without feeling the least fatigue
whatever. After he had recovered from the
effects of the explosion he tried to follow his pre-
vious occupation, but found that it was impos-
sible, and so he was forced to seek some other
means of earning a living, and, trying many differ-
ent callings, finally took up that of night watch-
man, at which he has been constantly engaged for
the last couple of years. He says: “ About eight
months ago I became subject to severe pains
and loss of appetite, and feeling as though it
were a trouble to move. These pains increased
in such a way that I found myself complaining to
my friends and acquaintances, who were _of
opinion that indigestion was the cause. I tried
first one medicine, then another, until I believe
I had pretty well sampled all the chemicals in
the drug-shop. But these were of no avail; the
drugs went, but the pains increased and became
so bad that I was commencing to think there
was no hope of even relief, and that I should
soon know the ‘ grand secret. ’ I could not fol-
low my occupation, and was forced to give in.
I had noticed in the Peakhill Times on several
occasions accounts of wonderful cures effected
by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, so I determined to
try them, and mentioned my intention to a few
who came to see me, and they informed me of
others in town whom they had benefited, al-
though not suffering exactly the same as myself.
This information encouraged me, and I felt a bit
brighter, as there seemed a ray of hope left yet.
I can assure you I did not allow much time to
elapse before I dispatched a messenger to the
chemist’s, and procured a box. I took these
o©
4
6
r
V
regularly, and in nine or ten days there was no
possible doubt whatever but that they were doing
me good. I was commencing to look for my
meals before the meal hour would arrive, and
able to get out of bed and lounge around the
house. I continued taking the pills, and as soon
as one box was empty I’d get another, and in the
course of a few weeks I was able to walk up town.
Besides the return of strength and desire for
nourishment, I was very much pleased to find
that the pains had nearly all gone. But I was
doomed to further misery and disappointment, as
in a little while my feet began to swell, which
gradually increased until they seemed ready to
burst. The swelling extended up the leg nearly
as far as the knee. My walking about was again
stopped, and to all appearances I was going to
pass through another time of suffering. 1 his
was probably due to my having taken too much
exercise, after being so long invalided. However
I continued with Dr. Williams Pink Tills, and
by the time I had completed the third box the
swelling started going down, and did so quickly.
From that out my recovery was certain, and it was
not many weeks before I took up my occupation
as ‘guardian of the town during the hours ot
sleep,’ and I am happy to say that I am as good
and as strong a man as I ever was in ray hie,
thanks to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and I strongly
recommend them to any person who may be suf-
fering from inward complaints, and are in search
of a genuine medicine. —F. CARR. ’
A Bloodless Girl's Trials.
(From the Pbahran Telegrahh, Vic.)
Hearing of a remarkable cure effected by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, our reporter
called on Miss M. Warne, of 68 Tivoli-road, South
Yarra, Melbourne, and, in answer to his ques-
“Oh, yes; Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People cured me. Don’t I look cured ? ”
“Well,” he replied, “you don’t seem to have
much the matter with you. You look the picture
of health.” T
She smiled. “Well, three years ago I was
simply dying. I had doctors and doctors, as all
my blood was turning to water, and I grew thin-
ner and thinner every day. My friends at Heath-
cote were very anxious about me.”
“You were suffering then,” he said, from
anaemia ? ” l ....
“ Yes, that was what the doctors said it was ;
but they could not cure it.”
“ Well? ”
“ It happened that my elder sister heard of the
virtues of the Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People, and I thought I would just try them.
“ And you did ? ”
“Yes, with the result you see.”
M A most charming result, truly,” he thought.
“ They acted like a charm, and now, though 1
am always busy, I never was so strong or happy
in my life. They are the only medicine that ever
did me any good.”
“Wonderful,” he thought. Sceptic, you are
convinced. Thus he reasoned, and thanked
Miss Warne for her interview, and was about to
withdraw when she said :
“Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are at the present
time doing the same thing for my younger sister
as they did for me. In a short time she too will
be cured!”
“I sincerely trust so,” he replied, as he pre-
pared to take his departure, and knowing that
time at that moment was valuable to both Miss
Warne and himself, thanked her for the informa-
tion imparted, and hurried back to his office.
Tortuous, Raking Rheumatism
YIELDS TO DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS
FOR PALE PEOPLE.
It would be difficult to conceive a more tho-
roughly typical son of the soil than Mr. Samuel
Coe, of Strathpine, about 14 miles from Brisbane.
Yet that man was, in the early part of May
last, bent double with pain, racked night and day
with the tortures of Sciatica ; he could not walk,
he could not ride, and life was to him a veritable
burden. He had been a sufferer for a year, and
it seemed to him that there was no hope on this
side of the grave, when he read of and tried Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. To that medicine Mr. Coe
unhesitatingly ascribes the credit of the change
effected in his condition. Hearing of his case, a
reporter journeyed out to Strathpine to hear from
his own lips the story which he very gladly and
- cry thankfully tells to others. When met by the
reporter Mr. Coe was riding a useful-looking bay
horse, sitting him comfortably and presenting no
appearance of ever having been an invalid.
o
“I called, Mr. Coe,” the reporter said, “to
gather from you some personal confirmation ot
your letter to the proprietors of Dr. Williams
Pink Pills for Pale People.”
“ Well,” was the reply, “ I am sure I am very
glad to do that. Every word in the letter is cor-
re ' W ould like to ask you for some details,” said
the reporter, “ of the history of your case.’’
Mr Coe then went on to describe his first attack
of Sciatica, but first of all dismounted from his
horse and stood by the roadside in leisurely style
with the reins thrown loosely over his arm 1
was in Sandgate with a load,” he said, m May,
1896, and all of a sudden something came over me
which I thought was a paralytic stroke. 1 was
sea reelv able to move. A neighbor stopped me
and asked me to help him with a bale but I told
him I had a paralytic stroke and could not do so.
I got home and was very bad. I was bent double;
could not walk as far as that tree (indicating
a tree about a dozen yards away) if you
gave me a million pounds ; could not mount
a horse or sit on one, and had no sleep.
I went to doctors (naming three prominent
Brisbane physicians and two at Sandgate) but got
no relief. Some of them wanted me to go to the
hospital, but. held out.no hope of being able to help
me. The disease made an old man of me. 1
dragged along for about twelve months not only
with pains down my hips and legs but all up my
back. In May last I read of Dr. Williams Pills,
and obtained a box. The first box gave me relief.
I felt the blood shooting in a warm stream through
the affected parts, and before I had taken many
boxes I was out of pain and able to go about my
business.
Lest his case should be taken as singular, Mr.
Ooe said “ There are others at Strathpine who
have been cured with these pills, and no doubt
they would give you their experiences. At any
rate you can ask any of them about my case.
They can all tell you of the great change there is
in me.” _ , ,
It is little wonder that Mr. Coe looks upon the
Pink Pills medicine as something to be warmly
commended.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
A SAFEGUARD AGAINST HEADACHES.
“ * Merrylands,’ Barradine Creek,
“ Via Narrabri and Pilliga.
“ To the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
“ Queen’s-place, Sydney.
“Sir,—l have
much pleasure in
ordering another
box of your won-
derful Pink Pills.
I can safely say
they are a wonder-
ful medicine; from
the use of them I
have derived great
benefit. I have
already had two
boxes of your Pink
Pills, and I am
now ordering a
third; but I can
already testify as to the good your Pink Pills have
done me. The first box I received in the summer
months, during which time I suffer extremely
from headaches, etc. Last summer I enjoyed
splendid health, being never troubled with either
pain or ache. _
“ I heartily recommend them to all sufferers as
being a really good medicine. .Enclosed find
2s. 9d. in stamps for another box of Pink: Pills.
“You can make whatever use you think nt oi
this testimony.
“ To " c, “Sjza&h forkest.”
+
Pale and Sallow Faces.
DIZZINESS, SHORTNESS OF BREATH,
HEART PALPITATION, &c.
This world is full of suffering and unhappiness.
In every walk of life may be seen young girls,
pale, sallow, and nerveless, the victims of troubles
peculiar to their sex, from which they suffer in
silence, and with the mistaken notion that there is
no help for them. Their lives are mademnserable
by headaches, dizziness, palpitation of the heart,
shortness of breath on the slightest exertion ; an
indisposition for either work or pleasure, and
frequently a feeling that life is
burden scarcelv worth preserving. To all such
we say take hope; there is a cure for your trouble,
and it is within your power to be
rosy-checked, and happy. Dr- Williai
PILLS FOR PALE PEOPLE will restore your
lost color, correct your irregularities, and bring
back health and happiness. In .proof! of this
assertion read the above testimonies from those
who have suffered and found renewed health
through this marvellous medicine.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have a remarkable
efficacy in curing diseases arising from impover-
ished condition of the blood or an impairment of
the nervous system such as rheumatism, neuralgia,
partial paralysis, locomotor ataxia, i bt. Vitus
dance, nervous headache, nervous prostration and
the tired feeling therefrom, and the after effects of
la grippe, influenza, and severe colds, de-
pending on humors in the blood such as scrofula
chronic erysipelas, &c. Dr. Williams’ Pink PiUs
give a healthy glow to pale and sallow complexions
and are a specific for the troubles pceuiiar to the
female system, and in the case of men y ,
a radical cure in a.l cases arising from
worry, over-work, or excesses of any nature.
J r>r Williams’ Pmk
D* WILLIAMS’
INK
ILLS
FOR
LE
(Fae-simile of only genuine ■package.)
Pills are sold only in
boxes bearing the firm s
trade-mark and wrap-
per (printed in redink).
They are never sold in
bulk, or by the dozen
or hundred, and any
dealer who offers sub-
stitutes in this form is
trying to defraud, and
should be avoided.
These pills are not a
purgative. They are
genuine only with the
full name, Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People, and are
sold by all chemists
and by Dr. Williams’
Medicine Company,
Sydney, who will for-
ward (post paid) on
receipt of stamps or
post order, one box for
2s. 9d., or half-dozen
for 15s. 3d. They are unrivalled as a tome tor
both sexes.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
“F.C.” to The Bulletin :
Re your remarks as to the composition of Bourke Land
Board Court: what about Wentworth? One member is
a big general storekeeper, with the largest hawking-boat
on the Darling. For the cwt. he sells to a homestead
lessee, he sells a ton to the squatter. The other member
is a coachbuilder, and, of course, cookies can’t buy £5O
buggies. I have nothing to say against the honor of
either, but their position is most anomalous ; and, while
human nature is what it is, the cookies will always feel
doubtful in a case of dispute with a squatter. Who is re-
sponsible for such appointments ?
nXTewman & Snelaon,
. . Thb Governor’s Chemists . .
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have eclipsed all Other Headache Remedies with their
New Specific. Safe, sure and speedy. 10 doses by post, 1/1.
A 016 BOOM.
MARK
€V€Ry LAPY KNOWS WNAT IT
FOy’S
FAIR.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Freali.
Cooling. Sparkling.
VELTEN LAGER.
THE NEW ERENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
zm
Blwi
(TlSlHlNliCdOtfa
asre
Bi iaabd sbvbioJP
A New Shipment of
Nickel-Plated and Bronze
Poker machines,
At Reduced Prices !
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
Home Rule Tobacco Co.,
637-639 George Street,
- Sydney.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
THE MOST DEEICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORI.D.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OK BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF
SUBSTITUTIONS.
Proprietors
tiu.ock &
sold in Bottles, 6d., i/-, mid each,
GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
CO., KENT and EIVERPOOE STREETS, SEDNEV
"Single Again!"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The second bell had just rung. A babel
oi voices and reiterated good-byes. A quarter-
master doing his best to speed the stream of de-
parting friends who blocked the gangway as they
leaned back to grasp again the outstretched hands,
or look once more upon the faces that strained
towards them from the hurricane deck. One
woman still lingered as the crowd pressed past.'
She put her hand in its shabby cotton glove on her
companion’s arm. Her figure was small and
shrunken. Her white face was turned to his,
with anxious eyes, the blue of which looked as if it
had been washed pale with tears. The handsome,
dark eyes above her did not look into hers. They
had a restless, half-furtive look, as they wandered
over passengers and deck and dull, grey river—
with lashes half-closed on the too-full, puffy under-
lids.
“Remember,” the woman was saying, “it’s all
sewn into your belt. I wish it were more, for I
worked hard for it, Tom, and —and—oh, Tom,
you’ll not forget your promise ? ”
“Forget, not I.” He took her hand from his
arm. “Look here, little woman,” he said. He
drew back his coat and showed a scrap of blue
ribbon pinned on to his vest. “ That’s what I’ve
done, just to show whether I mean to forget.”
Her face brightened into a faint smile, but the
look of fear and distrust had become too habitual
to ever quite leave it. “ Once you are there, you
will be free from temptation,” she said, more hope-
fully. “Then, with your cleverness, you are sure
to succeed. You will conquer the old habit and
come home,”—her voice broke —“oh, Tom! it
will be a real home then. There will be no dread”
—the tears ran down her cheeks; she caught his
hand in hers. “Swear to me,” she said, “that
you will never give in, that you will fight against
this curse, and that you will not come back until
you have conquered.
“ I will never come back till I have retrieved
myself. I swore it long ago—so don’t be afraid.
I am not going to make you miserable any more.”
He bent his head to kiss her, and as he watched
her hurry away there were tears in his eyes, and
his weak, easy-tempered mouth was set in a firmer
line.
He saw her watching him from the wharf, as
the huge ship swung heavily round and slowly
moved ahead, but he did not see her form
straighten and her soft eyes brighten, nor hear
the deep breath that filled her lungs as at last she
turned away with a new-born elasticity in her
seep. The dusk of an autumn evening was already
closing in. . A grey mist enveloped the city, and
the unsightly sheds and rough piles of the wharves
loomed through it. The steamer made a smooth
track on the murky river; the wet mist became a
drizzle, and dripped from the man’s hat. He
shivered, and instinctively his hand went to his
pocket. It was empty. A sudden breeze stirred
the flap of a sail and sent a shower of moisture
over him. His eyes were still watery and his
mouth quivered. His fingers felt for the belt
beneath his coat and closed on it eagerly. But
the next moment he withdrew his hand sharply.
“No, damn it! ” he said, half-aloud, “not her
money.” He leaned again on the bulwark.
The electric-light was beginning to flash from
the port-holes and sparkle on the water. The wet
of the rail soaked through his sleeves. He
shivered again—then felt in another pocket, and
stood tip straight as he heard the clink of small
?° ins ‘ With trembling haste his hand clutched
quick footste P 3 he stumbled dovvn
,
t>. , , , , , , , ,
Burton was awakened at last from what
seemed to him a long and hideous nightmare,
The sweat from his agony was still damp on his
brow > and even y et he felt an awful terror that
the nightmare might return. He was very weak,
and when he trembled his trestle-mattress swayed
beneath him. All was quiet now, after an eternity
of hideous shapes that had wriggled and crawled
U P the Slde of the tent, and stretched long swaying
necks down towards him from the roof with hiss-
mouths, and tongues that shot out at him till
be shrieked in his vain struggle to escape,
But now, at last, he was at rest. Thank God
for that peace and quiet. A whiff of tobacco-
smoke crossed his face, and he turned his head to
see a man leaning back in a chair and watching
b ' m - .
Doctor,” he said, Ive been in hell.’
“Yes, my friend,” said the doctor, dryly, “and
you’ve tried to take some of the rest of us there
Look here, Burton,” he went on, leaning
over > “ what’s the use of your stopping here ? I’ve
pulled you through this time, as I have several
fcimes before ; but what’s the good of it?”
“ I swear ” began Burton.
“ Bah ! ” interrupted the other, “ I’ve heard
that before. It’s the loneliness that’s doing it. Go
ba °k to your wife, and get her to help you. Mix
with other people and work at your profession;
you’ve got one, you say. Why on earth did you
come here at all ? ”
“was the wife. She knew it was a prohibi-
tion-settlement—prohibition, with a sly-grog shop
round every corner ! She thought I would be
cured when awa y frOIU temptation. How can I
go back to her, doctor, and tell her her scheme
was a failure? Why, man!” he cried, “it was
her savings that brought me here. .How can I
break her heart ? She says she can’t live if I don’t
Ive heard them say that before, sighed the
doctor, “ and yet they do live, God help them ! ”
Burton covered his face with his hands. “ Her
savings,” he muttered with a sob in his voice,
“ that she scraped and starved for. My God !
what a blackguard I have been ! ”
And the doctor said nothing,
* * * *
All on board the steamer Oriflamme were
in a state of excitement. They would touch at
Southampton in half an hour, and at South-
ampton would be letters and friends. A young
subaltern, home from India on his first leave,
was already straining his sight to pierce the dark-
ness, and his eyes were dim. The band struck up
“Home, Sweet Home,” and at the first notes he
spun round on his heel, and, catching a girl’s
hand, waltzed madly down the deck. Other
couples followed with shouts and laughter. An
impromptu concert was in full swing in the bows,
and an occasional strain of comic song rose above
the clamor of voices in the intervals of the dances.
“Hullo, there’s Burton loose again!” shouted
one of the singers. “ Come along and give us a
song, old fellow.”
“Shut up, Harry,” muttered a companion, “ we
don’t want that drunken brute ! ”
“Oh, he’s all right,” rejoined the Other— “ the
captain’s stopped his Come on, Burton :
what’s it to be?” Burton took the proffered
banjo, and his fingers, shaking on the strings,
gave a quaver to the vamped accompaniment.
His flaming eyes and fever-hot face measured the
worth of the captain’s mandate. His excite-
ment increased as all joined in roaring the vulgar
refrain. “Oh, when I was single, my pockets
would jingle—l’d like to be single again. My
wife she died—-oh then ! oh then ! ”
A shout interrupted him. The pilot was on
board with the letters. And, as the rest rushed
to the saloon, Burton rose slowly. His excite-
ment had died away, and, as he shambled along
the deck, his face was white and his eyes were
dull. A horrible depression was stealing over him,
and he trembled as he grasped the. companion-rail
and stumbled towards his cabin in search of his
only comfort.
“Parcel for you, Mr. Burton!” called out a
steward. It was a newspaper; he tore off the
wrapper as he went, and in his cabin he turned
the paper round in his hand, wondering in a
stupid kind of way who had sent it. “No letter
from Mary. Funny thing, that. She must have
heard I’m coming.”
He shook his head foolishly, then an eager look
came to his face, and he hastily fastened his
oabin-door. His hand shook as he dragged a
brandy-bottle, three-parts full, from its hiding
place.
“ Poor Mary! ” he said presently, half aloud,
“ Can’t go home to her like this. Must reform
first.” He unfolded the newspaper. “When
I’ve finished this bottle, I won’t touch another
drop—never ! ” Then, as he raised the bottle
for another gulp, his eye caught a paragraph
heavily marked with ink. The lines danced before
him, but he could read the headings. “ Shocking
occurrence.” “No apparent reason.” “Ver-
dict, suicide while temporarily insane.” And
lower down he read his own name. “It was es-
pecially sad,” said the scribe, “as her husband
was expected shortly home from Australia.”
The paper fell from his hand. He clutched the
side of his berth, then fell back against the bulk-
head, his fingers twisted in the coverlet. Over-
head, the passengers tramped to and fro. A boy
was still excitedly continuing the song. “My
wife she died —oh then! oh then ! ” shouted the
half-cracked voice. Burton grasped the brandy-
bottle and held it to his trembling lips. “My
wife she died, and I laughed till I cried ”
The bottle fell with a crash, the man began to
laugh. It was a terrible laugh ; for, once he had
begun, he could not stop. He laughed till he was
bent double—laughed till the tears rained down
his cheeks, and sobbing breaths tore his chest;
and when a loud knocking sounded on the door
he only laughed the more. Then the sobs came
quicker and shook his whole frame, till he fell
forward on the floor.
The young subaltern passed down the alley-way,
whistling cheerily. He had a letter from _ his
mother in his hand, and he held his head high.
He ceased his whistling as he saw a steward trying
to enter a cabin, and stood listening for a moment
to the hideous sounds on the other side.
“ Poor beggar,” he said sympathetically, as he
passed on. “ Got ’em again ! ”
MAMCOSE.
For Sale by Tender.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She had a somewhat negleoted and weather-
worn appearance, when I first saw her, as of a
property that had been “up” for a considerable
while before —but had been withdrawn, the ten-
ders not reaching the reserve price. She had
refused the dentist and the chemist before I oanie.
Then she straightened her cap and called on me.
I had just begun practice as a doctor of medicine,
the only unmarried one in the district. The
others, fortunately for themselves, had taken the
precaution of entering into partnership before they
came to the river.
My predecessor had had the utmost difficulty in
extricating himself and departing solitary, and, as
I learned from different sources since (in confi-
dence, of course), was engaged to at least half the
women of the township before he left; the other
half being either already married or engaged else-
where. lam not naturally egotistic, and. if I
were, it certainly was not very flattering for a
building so long in the market to turn her atten-
tions to me.
I asked her to be seated and she sank languidly
into an easy chair, the easiest one in the room—
my consulting-room at Mrs. Horton’s house, where
I lodged.
“ I feel so faint, doctor” —and she tenderly em-
braced the region of her heart. I enquired
further into the symptoms.
“Palpitation of the heart, doctor; palpitation of
the heart; and I feel so faint,” she repeated, with
her gaze directed carpetwards and her eyebrows
bent to resemble two new moons.
I wrote out a prescription and gave it to her.
She lingered.
“Change of air,” I said, “is what you need
now more than anything. Take a trip to Forster
—pleasant little village, sea air good, sea bathing
good. Take my advice, and go.”
She went, but only as many a boomerang has
gone; for, having completed the tour to Forster
and back, she was in my consulting-room next
day. And she is there now, waiting for me to
write out another prescription.
ALICE M'KINNON.


v
D ISOI.II
=4 DIJNLOP
d IRISH’.Hi*SSV^“
f= DUWLOP
DUNI
SI
i
©
W T was a very easy matter to decide on George’s Christmas
JL present. You remember how he used to rail against cycles,
and declared he would never ride one until they could beat a horse
over a mile. Well, as soon as Stocks beat that wonderful horse’s
record for a mile —I forget its name—by nearly a second, he has
been crazy about records, and Stocks, and pacing, and all that
kind of thing. He was simply delighted with the Dunlop Racer
we gave him, and went into hard training immediately. I know
he will never rest until he holds all Australian records on Dunlop
Tyres.
He says now he has got a “ DUNLOP ” he can soon wipe out
Barden. I hope he will, don’t you ?
MAMMA was very anxious about the girls’bikes, which wer
only ordered by telegram the day before. You see she could
not make up her mind which is really the best make of machine for-
growing girls, and it was not until she saw our dear old Doctor that
she made up her mind to send to the A.C.A. for “ Ariels.” It was
a pretty close thing ; for if the A.C.A. manager had not got them
taken on the second division of the mail train, as-passengers’lug-
gage, Stella, Maud and Lalla would have had no Xmas presents.
They (the bikes, I mean) arrived some time after midnight,
looking very neat and business-like in their Croin-a-boo covers with
initials, Dunlop Tyres and all, when George declares there was an
interesting exhibition of curiosity on the stairs.
o
ON Christinas night George organised a monster cycle meet.ng
in the ballroom for children on Midget Cycles. The track,
35 laps to the mile, was marked out in great style, and the meeting
conducted under the patronage of the League. Quite the piece de
resistance was an attempt on record by Master Michael Zimmerman
Stocks Cordang Wheelington, paced by the “Wheelington Quint,’
with wind shields, etc.
This is George’s account: —“ This sterling rider got away to a
capital start, and caught his pace at the piano turn. On passing
the gasworks, M.Z.S.C. W. was two-fifths of a second outside record,
and it was not until passing the stairs that records began to go.
From this point a new set of figures wtjre' established, and keeping
well inside record, this marvellous young rider reeled off the half-
mile in 1.35 2-5, world’s record for this class of machine. Mr. Colman
Pembroke Wheelington held the Waterbury. M.Z.S.C.W., of
course, rode Dunlop Tyres.”
“Christinas in Australia with the Wheeling'tons” . . .
Taken from a letter written by Miss Wheelington to her cousin in England. Illustrated by the Special Artist of the
AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
139-141 ESlizatoetli-street, Melbourne;
391 George-street, Sydney.
Tepots at Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Warrnambool, Charters Towers, Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington, Launceston, Rockhampton.
The Dog as is Down.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was rusty and crusty and bluff—so they say,
He was sparin’ o’ speech—lie was gruff in his way;
In church or in chapel he never put nose,
He’d a hand for a friend and a fist for his foes ;
He was short at his hymns, he was long at his beer,
And his language was lurid and curious and queer.
A cantank rous old card ! ” was the verdict on
Brown,
But he alius stood up for the Dog as was Down !
His morals were varied and scant was his creed,
And the life he had led was a caution indeed—
He’d been hunted by traps, and he’d hunted the
whale ;
He’d been sometimes in clover and sometimes in
gaol.
In a fury o’ frizz through his hat came his hair ;
I hrough his pants came his knees—but it wasn’t
with prayer ;
And when trouble was ragin’ he rose, did old
Brown,
bared his big arm for the Dog as was Down.
V I don’t care a hang for the Right or the Wrong,
But give men a show,” was the tune of his song ;
“ The man as is up can take care of himself,
Or his friends ’ll do’t for him as long as he’s pelf ;
But I never could laugh when the cowards would
howl
To see a chap fall, though the fall was a foul :
It makes my blood boil just to hear’em,” said
Brown,
“And I’m bound to sail in for the Dog as is
Down.”
He carried, did Brown, all his principles through,
And the Devil had share in his sympathies, too ;
“ A good ’un to fight was the Devil,” he’d say,
“ And he never would creep or would crawl in his
day ;
As a stoker he couldn’t be beaten and—well,
There was very much need for His Nibs and his
Hell,
For what would you do with a cargo,” said.
Brown,
“ Of cusses who kick at a Dog when he’s Down ? ”
And this was the Lamp for the race he had run,
His Law and his Prophets all rolled into one:
“ Them folks who are always a-gassing o’ God,
Their ‘ Love o’ the Lord ’ is the fear of His Rod;
But I fancy He’ll drive me the bargains I’ve
driven,
And He’ll measure my dues by the measure I’ve
given,
For I guess He’s a Man in his way,” said old
Brown,
“ And He won’t bh too hard on a Dog as is
Down!”
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Norfolk Island.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pitcairners, missionaries, and niggers ; a
couple of new settlers, a Chief Magistrate, five
square miles of fertile soil, and the best climate in
the world, make up the sum of Norfolk Island.
The Chief Magistrate is so called because he is the
only magistrate. The island owns no comparative
terms ; everything is'superlative, even hospitality.
The casual and infrequent stranger has the best of
everything put before him, and the islander who
is honored by his visit will give him tea to drink
three times daily—himself, perhaps, only tasting
the soothing beverage once a month.
* • * »
The funny things about the island are the
duties. There is a ruinous duty on nearly every-
thing a civilised palate requires, and as there is no
money on the island the native taste remains
uncivilised. A pound of tea lasts a family for
about a month. The leaves are often boiled over
a dozen times, and when finally discarded are as
white and light as down. As for drink, not an in-
digenous soul on the island has ever smeltany. The
Chief Magistrate seems about the only person who
pays duty on wines or spirits—unless—well, it
would be interesting to have a glance at the Cus-
toms returns for the missionary-station.
* * » *
Woman holds a peculiar position on the
island. She is the intellectual superior of the
native man, who is usually a big, blundering
fellow ; and she wears the trousers, metaphorically
but effectively. When she marries, she makes
her husband live with her own family for the first
year, and the great mother-in-law sovereignship
quenches for ever in that time any boss-instincts
the male might otherwise own. At the end of the
year the husband is usually broken in, and the
young couple then live together.
* * * *
Once the magistrate was rung up at
midnight.
“ What the devil do you want, sir ? ”
The man broke into wild weeping. Men often
weep at Norfolk Island.
“If you please, sir, I’ve been living this last
year at my mother-in-law’s house, and two days
ago my baby was born, and to-night my mother-
in-law fought with me, and my wife took her part,
and they beat me, and turned me out of the
house! ”
Here the recital was interrupted by a loud
wail from a bundle under the man’s arm. The
magistrate was bewildered.
“And do you mean to say, sir, that the un-
natural mother has actually turned her child out,
too ? ”
“No—boo-hoo,” sobbed the man, “ t waited till
my wife and my mother-in-law were asleep, and
then I crept back —boo-hoo, boo-hoo—and stole my
baby—boo-hoo-hoo ! ”
“Well, well!” said the magistrate, interested,
but perplexed.
“ Well, if you please, sir, I took my baby to my
own mother, but she won’t keep it for me.”
(Women are a close borough in Norfolk.)
“Well, what do you want me to do ? ” growled
the magistrate, who commenced to think the
infant was to be plastered on him.
“Please, sir, I want you to give me an order on
my wife and my mother-in-law, to command them
to deliver to me the feeding-bottle, and I can
keep the baby myself ! ”
• » • *
The island has only three mails a year.
One would judge from this that it was far enough
from the world to be removed from sin, especially
as women rule, and the place is teetotal; but—
sad to say—the principal pleasures of some of the
people are larceny and lying. Yet the thieves are
shrewd. They only steal in families, thus the
thefts are always condoned, and never come to
court. One man had about £5O worth of corn,
wire, and potatoes stolen from him. The thief
was his son, aged 18. Confession showed that the
culprit was badly in love with a girl other side the
island, aged 14. He stole the potatoes as a love-
offering (here is the subject for an epic, ye gods !).
With the corn he hired an animal the islanders
call a horse, to take his love out riding on; and
the wire he sold to his uncle for a wedding-ring !
From some points of view, the incident was
typical.
AMROSE PRATT.
The Nigger-Kicker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS making back north from Wilson’s, on the
Gascoigne. Wilson’s was a good enough show for
the chaps that found it, but the crowd that came
after got little or nothing. I was one of “the
crowd.” There had been plenty rain that year,
and the country looked lovely. Grass hid the
ground everywhere—long grass that rustled
against the stirrup-irons, and sometimes half hid
the pack-bags in front. Crossing a claypan, or
riding by a creek-bed, great sheets of water flashed
and sparkled in the sunlight. Birds were every-
where fluttering and chattering, while the bull-
frogs sang seconds in constant chorus from pool
and waterhole. About noon I met a W.A. pro-
cession. A dozen niggers fastened together by a
long chain, the chain looped and fastened round
each man’s neck, and the loose end held by a
native tracker. They were all stark naked ; the
iron glistened dully on their black skins. It was
120 in the shade.
The sun was pretty low down when I reached a
sheep camp. It consisted of a big bough shed,
with a 6 x 8 tent in one corner ; also, a well, sheep-
yards, and blacks’ “mias.” The nigger-boss came
out as I rode up—a big, stout man in pyjamas,
with a loud voice and a wonderful flow of lan-
guage. ' He welcomed me cordially, grabbed a
young gin by the back of the neck, and kicked
her outside, and then sat down for a chat.
“Making back to Pilbarra? Yes, there are lots
of chaps up and down this track now. I had two
here only three weeks ago. Met the trooper to-
day ? By ! times are different now. He’s
been out two months and only got a dozen. I
remember the time when he could get 30 or 40 in
a fortnight. The ‘traps’ were coining money
then. How ? Why, they get eighteenpence a
day for each nigger—tucker allowance, you know,
but they feed ’em on kangaroo. You think that
chain must burn them? Well, perhaps. Good
enough for them, anyhow.”
Soon he began to cut a damper up into tiny
blocks, on each piece placing a bit of meat yet
smaller. Then he lifted a small billy of tea off
the fire, poured it into a bucket, and filled up the
bucket with water. Into this mixture he put two
spoonfuls of sugar. “ The blacks are very fond of
sugar,” he observed gravely. “Oh, you may
laugh, but they are. Go to hell for it, they would.
Here, you! ” and for five minutes hia
language became unprintable.
He w'as calling the blacks to tea. They came
crowding up, some with shirts on, some with no-
thing—men, women, and children. He cursed all
the time he. was giving the rations out; sometimes
when a nigger was slow in coming he would
chuck bread and meat at his head. One old grey-
bearded black was the last to come; he looked
frightened. The nigger-kicker leaned back and
snatched his stockwhip from the wall. “Here,
you ! Why don’t you come to your
feed ? ” The whip curled round the man’s shoul-
ders. He came forward, whining a little, like a
beaten dog ; snatched up his allowance, and
cleared. “ That’s a useless skunk, anyhow. The
boss and me ran down four the other day, but he
stuck to the young ones and sent that old fool out
to me ; I’m d—d if I keep him, though ; I’ll get
rid of him, somehow.”
Next morning, as I was saddling up, he came
down with two niggers, all riding. “ That skunk
got away this morning,” he shouted, “ but we’ll
get him before dinner ” ; and the three cantered
off.
About ten o’clock I was crossing a cork-tree
flat when I heard -a, shot and then a shout coming
from a belt of. mulga on the right. I rode over.
Lying on the ground was the old man of the
night before. "His hand grasped a long slender
wooden spear ; on his temple was a red-blotch,
from which a few drops of blood were trickling.
Looking down at him were two blacks- and my
friend the nigger-boss. He looked up and grinned:
“ Had to do it; self-defence, you know,” he said,
cheerfully. “Good little gun that—what, are
you off? Well, so long. Grand weather, ain’t
it?”
NOMAD.
Rockhampton (Q.) People’s -Newseaper—
which rarely has an issue without half-a-dozen or
more pars, snipped from The Bulletin ; some
acknowledged to “ Exchange,” and some doctored
a little and passed off as original—the other day
went for this disreputable paper—by name —in a
rousing leader. This reminds that, as a rule,
whenever a reptile contemporary slates this d.p.,
it does it with much publicity, and when it
scissors the unobtrusive par. it says vaguely
that it collared it from “a contemporary”
or an “exchange,” which kinder takes the
rough edge off the scissors. The newspaper-
man with a conscience usually acknowledges his
debt ; the man with no conscience steals, and is
ready to lie about it; and the man with a little bit
of conscience doesn’t acknowledge and doesn’t lie,
but compromises. The man who runs the Peo-
ple’s Newspaper has, evidently, a little bit of
conscience, but not much ; which is why honest
London Freethinker of Dec. 19 reprints a Bul-
letin par. and credits to the occasionally-honest
People’s Newspaper—not knowing any better.
The P.N. man is advertised as a freethinker, too
—probably because it’s so mighty free with other
fellows’ thinker.
Gentlemen,—Have you sent us a trial-
order for one of our 455. suits yet? If not, why
not ? They are equal to anything turned out in
N.S.W. at twice the sum. Write for samples of
the Tweeds, Serges, or Sergerettes we make them
of. Textures to suit all climates. Four of the
best cutters procurable employed. Hordern
Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only),
Sydney. Suits sent (by post) to anywhere in
Australasia.


Bonnington’s Sarsaparilla, 2/6
ATI T^- T ¥ ICAND BLOOD PURIFIER. Removes
ooies, I an pies, and Skin Eruptions.
Bonnington’s Liver Tonic, 2/6
fnd E oSteff'He™“ A S C y 2’J; KIDMY COMPL AINTS. Simulate,
POKER MACHINES.
NO EXTORTIONATE PRICES. WE GIVE VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY.
PURCHASE FROM US AND SAVE YOUR CASH.
CIGARS
ROP3? IN THE SLO
mitlfl);li!l|iHlit!il!TlMlmm!l!lllllliJll[|||||iiuiiim
AGENT for the following
Also,
SEND FOR OUR PRICE LIST OF CIGARS.
Best Value in New South Wales.
Obtain your SUPPLIES from
Mick Simmons,
The Leading Tobacco Merchant,
DIRECT IMPORTER OF TOBACCO, CIGARS,
AND
TOBACCONISTS’ FANCY GOODS.
Cutlery, Brush ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Fancy
Leather Goods. Also, every description of Hairdressers’
Sundries.
Sole Agent for: Milo Cork-tipped Cigarettes
Trades’ Union Vestas, The Victory Hairdress-
ing Chair.
TOBACCOS
—AND—
CIGARS:
PHEASANT, NATIVE ROSE, CAN’T
BEBEAI, THREE EIGHTS, BULLY, LEGER,
A 1 CURLS, TRADES’ TJNION, DERBY,
WILLIAMS.
MADRINA ROTHSCHILDS, VIOLETA, LA
EL MUNDO (Heavy Weights), HIGH
LIFE (F. De Mendoza), SANTIAGO, HANSA
ALPINA MANILA, &0., &<L
Tobacconists supplied thro ghout from £lO to £5OOO. Saloons
furnished from £lO to £lOO. Cash or Time-Payment.
.'L. ■ ' \
Jf. Goods to any part of Australia on receipt of remittance. The Trade supplied
cheapei and be.ter than any other Wholesale. Establishment in the colony.
mum *
Tobacco Merchant & Importer*
HITMARKET, SYDNEY.
BOUT
Readers of this paper shoufd
I ’ know that to effectually cure
1 Gout the great thing to do is to
eliminate from the system the
uric acid, which is the cause
of the malady, and nothing
does this so effectually as
I, Bishop’s Citrate of Lithia. All
■ doctors prescribe it. Of all
Chemists in two sizes. A Book-
let on Gout sent post free on
application.
Inventors and Sole Matters—
ALFRED BISHOP, Ltd.,
48, SPELMAN ST., LONDON, E.
CURED
or Extract,
BEST.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eficalt/ptas Oil
BUY THE
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Oonnell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
r*" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
T-l OLLOW AY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
JL E There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines hare not jeen
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is atonoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., Londog. J-yY" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence =£l per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
■ ■ l .
: ••
HOTEL,
Pitt and Hunter Streets. SYDNEY.
CENTRALLY SITUATED.
Terms :
J From 10s. per Day, and
1 £2 16s. per Week.
A. L. Peacock, Manager.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND.
should note that the
- Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
Or. FOX, Proprietor.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
By ‘‘PRICE WARUNG.”
- i ■■ ■ ■ -in,.,-., 44444aaa44a4a
??
PRICH Is. ... ... per Post, Is. 3d.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
S
F o s^: hOUS a £ d Ner ™us Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
„ ij es s» -t ulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
i”?? cm ° at ’ Lo f of A PP etit e Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
WTTT ptvv Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
25!; IV -?^ LIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
GOTNi aTabOX ” °“ e B ° K ° f those Pms , and the y wUI h® acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
o k ® m& gic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
ular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousmg with the Rosbisud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
e acts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
vous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have tUe Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world . Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECEAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is l£d, and 2s 9d each
1 /
*»*•»
2=*
l\v
\%oo/C i
QUITE NATURALLY.
Mother: *• W 1 at became of the railroad I gave you at Christmas?’*
Tom : It wut into liquidation ! ”
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
SAUCE.
Agents: Messrs. VIEGOE, SOR, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY
BoQQiQgtoo’S
IRISH MOSS
or COLDS (recent or chronic),
rvu + n 1• ■ T 1 Of Voice, bore Lungs, Asthma, Tickling of the
Throat, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and all similar complaints. '
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦• »♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦!
Boi)oiogtoi)’S Pills.
wlSSlSlteX. id ul™' fM mmmam ’ I,ldi S estion ’
Is. a Box.


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
GRIEPENDOTLPFS
1
TESTIMONIAL.
Maidon (Victoria), 2lst September, 1896.
I have much pleasure in stating that the South
German Gold Mining Com pang has Used Griefen-
dorff’s “ KEPRG” to paint the inside of our
Cyanide Vats'to save the timber from absorbing the
cyanide and gold liquor. We ave pleased to state
that we found it admirably suited for that purpose,
and can safely recommend it to others.
W. B. GRAY,
Managing Director' South German G.M. Co., Maidon.
ALSO useful to Squatters for COATING
Waters Tanks; Electricians and Chemical
firms for COATING Acid Tanks, and all users of
Casks and Wooden vessels. In 5 and 10 gallon
drums, from all wholesale druggists.
Send for Circular to Agents,
ALFEEV LA WHENCE & CO.,
527 COLLirrs Street, MELBOURNE.
The Manufacturers of IGLECTKO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
SPOONS & FORKS}
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS. J
A CHOICE SELECTION
—OF—
LATEST NOVELTIES ALWAYS ON VIEW.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE SHOW-ROOMS.
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
©3 York Street, SYDKTBY
Collins
Street, UfcfI:3ESX J .IESOXm.IxrE3.
PQnjpiQg Eog">€ v.on)paoy.
(Australasian Branch.)
Brotliers,
(Australasian Branch.)
Glarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK-
A.ff©ncies
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South. Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SGAREE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AII CKLAND;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
TT in-
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
• CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more);
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The Company sells only the very Best Artioles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)—92 King Street and 23 Royal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ;one of the BEST IN THE \\ ORLD.
IHO I IMI TOTHE ■■ HEAD OFFICE," ,5 HARBOUR STREET-TIIEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION. „
Agents Everywhere. ' 1 *
IMPROVED 6ft. FRUE CONCENTRATOR
(with NEW “LIP FLANGE” BELT)
Is distinctly the leading machine of this class,
and there are probably more “ Frues” sold to-
day than all other vanners put together. Users
are cautioned against being led into purchasing
machines which are represented by unscrupulous
dealers as being ‘ just as good as the Frue.’
There are worthless imitations in the market.
Genuine Frue Yanners are now adk fitted with
“ lip flange ” belts, and are only obtainable from
the undersigned, or their lawful and authorised agents.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY,
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers.
PRICES AND CATALOGUES FREE ON APPLICATION.
THE - - ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR r ff t ™ STITCH
ALE SINHER SEWING MACHINES. IJIIiAIiA k) 11E AH
Batho’s Baking Powdep _
-
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
& Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore steel locks, wxth
cartridge machines and dleaners complete. Usual price 110 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete. ,
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete. .... H Uh all the latest inrorove-
-4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly
ments unequal for quality, with cartridge maehinesandcleaners complete. Usual price t 21, complete.
Rlpumel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90, Send for trade IllustuLtedl rice
supply 25 per cent, cheaper tLn any- other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES
up to date, £7, £B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,’
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. - 345 Bourke-st„ Melbourne:
Steam Engines,
Horizontal and Vertical*
of the most Approved Designs
and highest workmanship, from
1 horse-power.
Every Description of Engineers’ Hand & Machine
Tools in Stock.
All kinds of Engine & Boiler Fittings, Machine & Mill Supplies.
Write for particulars and prices. All enquiries promptly and intelligently replied to.
