

MeE WAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. BEAVER STOUT.
HI FRY’S MALTED COCOA
G-XJA.RAKTXEED PTJB.B COCOik A.KTD EXTRACT OF MALT.
B. Q. WATKINS & GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOE—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE & C
m
urns*
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGES! SYDNEY.
Modern Timber-cutting Machinery.
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR OF LOGS.
TJp-to-X>ate Flour ]kEilliug Mraclainery, Engines «■"- Boilers,' Steel Windmillß.
Mills Erected and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
soiit on application
to
William Fleming,
(Jhrrr !<<■<■ Slrert,
SYDNKY.
■ - ■
Over 2200 Hydro-Extractors Sold and at work
- v "y
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON. BATTLE & C° as ntt street, SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
T’S
i i
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Got
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED.
Testimonials and full particulars.
Is, Sugar,
Send for
ft> r Colonial-made
A.nd see tliat you
Net
it.
SStfis®
m
PROOF
EYji
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given tor Large Orders.
ILysaght Bros. & Co., I^td.
Offices Blight Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works Chiswick, Parr . matt a River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET,' BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
p,OE
PROOF
OW EX
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISHT.
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating', Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
HOBART.
”
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
.
a//,
oo
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWiCMSc SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
Highest A.wards wherever BachihitedL.
VANDYCK
CIGARS
• A
■/u>m/tGKwr
•SMOX£
®P 8
Is
The Bulletin
Vol 19.— N0. 973.1
[Sattmlay, October 8, 1898.
at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Imp
mm-
TRY APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
- 0 GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. CUZCO.
Carey’s Mary St. John (new edition), 3s 6d, post 4s ;
Walsh’s Secret History Oxford Movement, 4s, post 4s 6d ;
Scott’s Renunciation of Helen, ‘2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 5d ;
Jerome’s Second Thoughts of an Idle Fellow, 3s 6d, post
4s ; Scott’s At Friendly Point, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 5d ;
Marryatt’s (Florence) Ana-el of Pity, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post
5d ; Prince Bismarck (Statesmen Series), 2s 6d, post
2s XOd ; Dean Swift’s Prose Works, vol. 3,3 s 6d, post 4s ;
D’Esterre-Keeling’s Queen Serf, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 4s ;
Klickman’s How to Behave, Is and Is 6d, post 3d ; Shel-
don’s In His Steps, 3s 6d, post 4s ; Sir H. Lawrence
(Rulers of India), 3s 6d, post 4s ; Croker’s Beyond the
Pale, 3s 6d, post 4s ; Dawe s Voyage of Pulu-way, 2s 6d
and 3s 6d, post 6d.
Just received : ■
1200 MILES ON THE RIVER MURRAY,
B.y A. S. Murray,
With fac-simile illustration in Colors by the Author.
Oblong gilt edges, cloth 425.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.’S COLONIAL
LIBRARY.
Cr., Wrapper, 2s 6d, post 3s ; Cloth, 3s 6d, post 4s.
ABISHAG THE SHUNAMITE,
A Tale of the Days of Solomon, King of Israel, and
Sesonchis, King of Egypt.
By Francis Myers (“ Telemachus”).
Just Published :
A HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL CYANIDE
OPERATIONS.
By Wm. 11. Gaze, M.D., F.R.S. Cr. Bvo. 7s 6d, post Bs.
THE HUIA’S HOMELAND, AND OTHER VERSES,
by Roslyn, ss, post 5s 6d.
Now ready :
THE AUSTRALIAN FRUIT GARDEN:
A Practical Manual, by J. S. Heron.
Is, post free, Is 2d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Books by Post.
The Bulletin Book Exchange.
Send stamps of any Australasian province,
or postal notes, or postal order, to “The
Bulletin,” 214 George-street, Sydney, and
books will be forwarded by return mail
POST FREE at prices given.
BOOKS WORTH BUYING.
Pictures of War, by Stephen Crane. Paper,
35.; cloth, 4s. This includes “The Red Badge
of Courage” and “ The Little Regiment and
Other Stories ” work more brilliant than
Kipling’s.
The Open Boat and Other Stories, by
Stephen Crane. Paper, 35.; cloth, 4s. This
is the author’s last book, and some of the
stories are masterpieces.
The Dead Leman and Other Stories
from the French. Boards, 2s. 6d. Excellent
short stories, admirably translated.
The Triumph of Death, by Gabriele
D’Annunzio. Paper, 3s. This is the most
powerful and interesting novel published for
years. Vide Red Page notice.
Way-Back People far from book stores may
order any book desired by sending pub-
lisher’s price and postage (which may be
calculated at 2d. in the shilling). Infor-
mation as to price, &c., sent for a 2d.
stamp. Address The Bulletin Book
Exchange, 214 George St., Sydney.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
, George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
NOTICE TO
Cameo Smokers.
CAMEO CIGARETTES CAN BE OBTAINED AS FOLLOWS:—
In Cardboard Boxes of Ten in a Box.
Flat Tins of Ten in a Tin.
Round Tins of Fifty.
Ask for Cameo Cigarettes.
THE RED PAGE.
A Wish.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some take no heed of any future day
But kiss Time’s hand while wearing yet his bonds,
Dreaming their young full-blooded life away
Among Life’s lotus-ponds.
And some there are who gird them shield and
sword,
War dawn and noon, fight the red sunset down
To fall when night falls, with the same reward
Death’s dark-hued cypress crown.
Ah ! when Death’s hand our own warm hand hath
ta’en
Down the dark aisles his sceptre rules supreme,
God grant the fighters leave to fight again
And let the dreamers dream !
W.H.O.
Arthur A. D. Bayldon writes.
I have just read Harrison’s article on English
Erose style in The Nineteenth Century. Some of
is remarks are excellent, some foolish. He is too
diffuse and modestly vain. He seems to think a
literary style cannot be acquired. How about
Southey ? He was such an incorrigible dunce as a
prose-writer at school that he determined to make
a special study of style ; and he worked diligently,
and acquired an aptitude for expression that won
Macaulay’s good opinion. Not that Macaulay’s
opinion about the higher touches of style is worth
much, but it has weight with the many. And I
dare say others besides Southey have gained some
distinction by similar methods. I will run over a
few stylists and knock them off. Harrison’s list
can be easily extended—he does not mention Haz-
litt, Lang, Saintsbury, Hawthorne, Irving, Boling-
broke, Hunt, Symonds, Newman—all of them
stylists. ,
* * * *
Among moderns, Lang stands pre-eminently
first as a master of Saxon. His style is not so
sensitive as Stevenson’s, another Saxon, but it is
more manly. Everyone praises Ruskin, and fools
try to imitate him. At its best, his style has a
wild flash, and is filled with the multitudinous
voices of the sea. But it is very often hysterical
and fibreless: Symonds’s style is scholarly, ornate,
and chiefly fails through its self-consciousness.
Newman’s is chaste and beautifully dear and soft-
sounding, like the far-off chime of village church
bells at sunset. ’Tis trrie it sounds thin after the
deep-chested harmony of Landor. Macaulay’s is
mechanical and latinised, and contains everything
for a literary hack. It is the kettle-drum of the
orchestra. Some great writers have a wretched
style. Scott and Dickens are unbearable. Glad-
stone’s is as bad as a lawyer’s.
* * * *
Style is either creative or critical. Despite her
success as a novelist Mrs. Humphrey Ward’s is
keenly critical. On the other hand, though,
critic Saintsbury’s is creative, The presiding in-
fluence of the creative is genius f Of the critical,
talent. Sometimes talent is superior to genius as
Arnold is to Longfellow. One touches the reason,
the other the emotions. One cuts like a razor-
blade to the heart of a subject ; the other blazes
along with pomp and power. Hazlitt argued
poets were bad prose writers. This is true in
many instances. Swinburne cannot write prose.
Wordsworth was a lumberer, Byron a “ slogger,”
Coleridge a stump-orator. On the other hand,
Keats wrote an artless prose that reminds you of
Shakespeare’s. And Shelley swept the whole
gamut of the instrument. And what sunshine
and mirth and the singing of happy syllables we
Set in Hunt! Sometimes a writer has a brain-
itch. As a poet Emerson drags you along lines
that jolt and words that jar. As a proser he
sharpened his periods to javelin point, but could
not switch on his paragraphs. What was the
hitch?
* • * *
Many books have been written on style. We are
cautioned against putting adverbs in the wrong
place. We are given rules to work by, errors to
avoid ; to much of which I reply—Mullock! An
adverb in the wrong place oft brings out a fine
shade of meaning, swells the music, and adds a
charm to the style. We are thoughtfully advised
never to use a long word if a short one will do ;
that Saxon phrase is more effective than any other.
To which I reply—Pish ! Just do nothing of the
sort. Use that word—be it of ten syllables or of
one—the most expressive of your thought, of your
impression, of your emotion. A number of short,
curt words stepping on each other’s heel is as tan-
talising as the raps of a door-knocker. Get to
know the different styles of the masters, and digest
them; and if you have anything to communicate,
write as you feel—that is the best advice. There
is not a great stylist who has not broken the laws
of the grammarian times ■without number, and
will do it again when they clog him. A good
style is the reflex of the writer’s mood. And
never be afraid of using the same word a dozen
times in the same sentence if by so doing you can
catch your reader’s attention. This is rank
heresy in the schools. It is rarely a college man
can write at all. His mind is crammed with
obsoletes. Judges and doctors and solicitors, and
all that fry, don’t know good English when they
see it. The best prosers gained nothing of their
style from college but its blemishes. And shun
such verbiage-mongers as Ingersoll, and men of
his kidney. They are ever seeking something
new, some striking phrase, some “fine” passage,
something tobring down the claps of the gallery.
Never quote if you can help it, nor parade your
knowledge of a foreign language which any fool
oa,n learn ; it’s a sure sign you are superficial and
Wish to presume on your bastard knowledge.
There is a peculiarity about style that has never
been noticed. It’s the reflex of the inner mam,.
If a man writes a fierce impetuous prose, and
brings down the whip on your haunches, he is
probably a bashful, patient, amiable sort of a crea-
ture in his daily life. Ruskin is a notable example.
If his style is grave, and recognises the classical
canons, you may be sure he is an irritable despot
at home. Landor illustrates it. And so Nature
works out her compensations.
* * * *
Perhaps the plainest, and yet the most difficult
to imitate, is Thackeray's style. There is no-spurt
or rocket-glare; it simply glides lucidly along.
Its deadly antithesis is Marie Corelli’s—the worst
style imaginable. It’s a clotted heap, subject to
spasmodic eruptions. Words are piled on words,
phrases on phrases, sentences on sentences, all sig-
nitymg nothing. Then comes an explosion of
imagery ; and then we are blown about like straws
in a whirlwind of abstractions. And yet she sells !
* » • *
There is only one Australian proser that strikes
me as a stylist—Nicholson, author of “Halek.”
Its prose recalls the prose of the school of Queen
Ann : clear and steady and full of a sweet word
music. It’s like a fine translation of an ancient
Hebrew. It’s monotonously smooth; not dintec
enough. But we cannot have everything. The
purling brooklet has an audience as well as the
organ-voiced Pacific. And as it is with the harps
and dulcimers of Nature so is it with the stylists—
each has his own particular note in the sterna!
harmony.
D. Mac Coll writes in Bond. Saturday Review
In Memoriam Edward Burne-Jones ”
We must do reverence and say farewell to
another of the great spirits of our time. The
painter, who for his generation ventured genius on
the great art, the imaging and making Ins own of
the mythologies of the race, has been snatched
away; and the exquisite brain and hands, busy
till yesterday, are a little heap of dust.
* » * *
If there are times when the Kingdom of Heaven
suffers violence and must be taken by storm, there
are constantly such moments for the arts ; for they
must be revivified by frequent invasions and
assaults from without. The waters of imagination
recede and leave one of them stranded, and must
be let in again from some neglected and unlikely
source. Painting with us, fifty years ago, was in
this perilous state, become a kind of painting-
mongering, a production of insignificant illustra-
tions and “family landscapes.” The spirit was
moving elsewhere, and the painters had not so
much as heard of it. The poetry of letters, with a
new passion of vision in Keats and Tennyson, had
welled up abundantly, but painting lay dry. At
such a moment innocent violence was called for to
break the degraded moulds to bring in the re-
covered spirit with an amateur’s daring: to take
up the instrument fingered and thrummed by
sleepy tradesmen, ’to startle it with a new song
telling of desire and the glory of the earth.
♦ * ♦
Rossetti was the poet who worked this miracle,
and his pupil was born into a world well prepared
for him. His shy spirit might, unhelped, never
have essayed to bridge the gulf, but the confident
prince and tyrant of the arts was there before
him ; the air was all eager and attentive under the
magic voice of Ruskin, and his generous hand was
ready to help. There was, therefore, no struggle
or time wasted in beating about, the painter had
to begin later in life than was convenient the
training for his craft, but the past of his mind was
clear; he began in a shielded, secret world, and
remained to the end of his days untroubled by
what might be doing outside. Thus, hardly
knowing perhaps in his ardour how much he
escaped and ignored, he attacked, as the most
natural thing in the world, the painting of mytho-
logy. Here his instinct surely led him to what
must ever remain the supreme province of paint-
ing. The example of letters sophisticates not a
little in this matter the view of many modem pain-
ters. The emotional advantages to a prose writer
of the modem setting or the historical setting are
countless ; for a painter of dramatic subjects the
disadvantages are enormous; the reason being the
poverty of his art in the means of narrative
exposition. If he invents a modern story, he must
spend all his ingenuity in explaining the incident.
How much better to take those situations known
to all, whose before and after are present to the
mind, enriched already by a hundred commen-
taries, and upon that text to write his own inter-
pretation. Delivery from the Dragon, the
Mother’s worship and the wondering hope of wise
old men about the birth of a new child, the Beggar
Maid enthroned, the Days standing on the glassy
firmament, with the new-created clans of birds and
fishes, of clouds and human creatures in their
hands—these, not novelettes, are the subjects for
the painter who essays the more complex ranges of
his art, sweeping as they do into one focus a hun-
dred stories.
» » * *
But if an inspiration of dramatic and lyric
poetry was thus carried back into painting, the
criticism of another art was also brought to bear—
that of architecture, the idea of a more comprehen-
sive design, of painting that should make its goal
not the bibelot, but the decoration of wall spaces.
Beside Burne-Jones was William Morris, in whom
a fine bullying enei’gy was so oddly mated with a
feminine taste in art, but who had the dream of an
architecture enriched, as in Gothic times, by
legend and poetry. The architect was missing in
the group, but in the painter’s work the architect’s,
designer’s impulse was vividly present in structure
and repetition of parts, in exercises of the art of
numbers, such as the “Golden Stair,” like a fern
with its fronds turning upon itself, in his passion
for the intrigue of line, for everything that coils
and tangles, in water and smoke and flame.
• * i * •
In how wistful a temper did those two powers of
his art, the poet’s and the musical, apply them-
selves to reimagining the legends ! He came, it is
said, of those shy peoples who linger on the hills
and margins of our country ; if theirs by blood, he
was doubly theirs by spirit, and the contagion of
poetry ; only not theirs in the sustained labor and
power he dedicated to an imagery that tells of
the passion for beauty and of discouragement
before life. To dream of the triumph of battle,
but to set forth defeated when the trumpet sounds;
to be filled with the sweetness of love, but to
lament over its forfeit before its age has come;
to remain spellbound outside the lists; to go to
sleep as others to business and adventure ; to have
chambers ready for sorrows as. for the most
honoured guests, meeting them on their way lest
they should mistake the road ; to flatter Death—
these were the impulses of his birth as a poet, and
the harder he strove to cast his art in the heroic
mould the more certainly they betrayed them-
selves. He was like a merman, who should strive
to nurture the changeling children of his thought
upon the earth, sending them to court, to camp,
to service; but wherever they dwell the springs
come up brackish, seaweed grows in their gardens,
and everything they say and hear is confused with
a sound of waves.
* • » •
But to this temper how beautiful the world
may be! If the fields are greener to the eyes
of the condemned, to those pilgrims and haunters
of earth, never at home in it, “transported
for life ” from some other star, self-sentenced
to defeat and death, flowers, the visit of spring,
gentle faces are like a reprieve. Oblivions the
length of a bird’s song, pities the breadth of
a tree’s shadow, stations among the desperate
hills where' mirrors are framed in forget-me-not,
bowers defended by impenetrable tangles of the
rose, shutting in histories full of sleep—these are
the hiding-places, and the Evening Star the de-
liverer, passing over “hilltop, treetop, headland,”
with release for the cities sprinkled beneath her
feet, and the cool drifting of her robes.
* * * *
, How all this imagery will appear to new genera-
tions it is not we who can say, though two periods
of unjust depreciation may be thought to have
paid its debt to mortality. For each band of
youth there is some wizard who opens the gates of
the dream-world, and ybuth itself, its desires, the
spirit’s fashion of the moment conspire to make the
vision glorious. After, when the mood changes and
another spell is cast, these conspiring forces fall
away, the art is judged, and the fashion is judged.
To many who were boys twenty years ago,
he whose wand has just b een broken was the
magician; he showed us what our eyes were long-
ing for. We may have become more critical since,
we may have worshipped, with reason, many an
art unknown to us then or not understood, but
that experience is not repeated twice. Who is the
opener of the gate for the boys in this year of
grace? Only themselves can tell. I wish them
such a moment as was ours when we saw “The
Days of Creation,” “The Mirror of Venus,” the
“Beguiling of Merlin,” all that secret world of
imagination suddenly disclosed; and I cannot
think that the day will ever come when “Medea,”
“ Hypsiphile, ” the lady in the “Chess Players,”
the Sleepers in the ‘ ‘ Garden Court, ” ‘ ‘ Psyche, ” or
she who,
“like a dreary spright,
Cald by strong charmes out of eternall night,
Had Deathes own ymage figurd in her face, ”
will fail to have their votaries. The fountains of
Padua and Florence will never run dry, and the
garden they watered in the north will be visited.
• ——
“Gilaomi”: Re Mr. Kevin’s sohool libraries.
If the one in my locality is a fair sample you have been
grossly misinformed. It is stupidly goody-goody—“ Lon-
don Sunday School Society” and “The Religious Tract
Society ” being the principal imprints on first leaves.
There are 23 books from these publishers ; 8 of travel and
adventure, 16 of fiction of a higher kind, 2 of history,
and 10 others. Several of the religious works are aggres-
sively Protestant, as this extract shows : “ From Luther’s
life we learn to be strong in faith ... to resist the
errors, superstition and idolatry of Rome,” &c. There
are many other passages of same import, and it was
pointed out by the teacher that these books were hardly
the thing for allegedly unsectarian schools (fancy R.O.
children compelled to attend schools where books of this
tone are kept for general use !) The departmental reply
was that the libraries were “ not under the supervision of
the Dept.” Andpeople wonder why the R.C’s build schools
of their own ! Also, the question of ownership of these
libraries seems unsettled. Whose are they ? One teacher,
on removal, took the best of the library with him. The
incoming teacher reported the books as missing to the
Dept., and got the reply sent regarding the sectarian
nature of the books.
She-O-ik: Bar steeplechase, I fancy, is a good-
old-days game also nowadays unheard of. It is de-
fined at p. 3 of ‘Something to his Advantage,’ edited
by Richmond Thatcher (Sydney, 1875)—“ The majo-
rity are bound for Nanangie, as soon as their cheques
are spent ; in short, they are being ' lambed down,’
and could not be in better hands, for as a financial
shearer ‘lrish Bill ’ had not his equal in the Gulf country.
A lull in the proceedings causes that worthy to ask if
they are getting tired, an enquiry which is accented, as
it was intended, as a sort of reflection upon their steadfast
adherence to a game they have improvised, and meets
with an indignant denial and an order to ‘stick ’em up
again.’ The game in which they are engaged is marvel-
lous in its simplicity, and the facility with which any one
with money can join in it. In consists merely in sticking
half-a-dozen bottles of rum at intervals along the floor,
and the company jumping in quick succession over them
till one is knocked down, when the delinquent is called
upon to pay for the lot, and generally kicks the others
till their contents bedew the floor of the shanty. A fool
ish game, you will -ay ; but what, will you have? What
game of life is sensible? Jn what element, of satisfaction
does ‘bar steeplechase ’ (the name given to the pastime
in question) fall short of other amusements at which the
world plays? . . . Yes ; in the famous ‘ Pursuit of Plea-
sure,’ Noel Patou did wrong to leave out bar steeplechase
and the bottles of rum.”
A Sigh.
It is nothing but a rose I gave her, —
Nothing but a rose
Any wind might rob of half its savour,
Any wind that blows.
When she took it from my trembling fingers
With a hand as chill, —
Ah, the flying touch upon them lingers,
Stays, and thrills them still!
Withered, faded, pressed between the pages,
Crumpled fold on fold,—
Once it lay upon her breast, and ages
Cannot make it old !
H. P. SPOFFORD.


■ ■
0
ft
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
—WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
* \m I 2
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.—A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
committing- himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for nearly all the walks of
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, the experience of 20,000 men
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly endorsed the treatment of
n
which has restored then, to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
but it is . .... , «.
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
ar.d, if you have any of
which has made both
WALLACE.
them, vou require the remarkable treatment
fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
3
' jj
In the Laboratory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock ?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch?
Do your hands tremble?
Do you feel shaky?
Can you walk without halting?
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary?
Does your head swim?
N er vous_Debility.
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are'you losing flesh?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired ?
Have you no manly vigor ?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating ?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has the brightness left your eyes
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
ptco
All Trams stop at the Door .
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to that unique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
If
P »rWorK
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
m
u
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
RcSctM at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages,
letterpress, 75 engravings, 10 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Fanner m fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs. ;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, <6l.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYD3WEY.
Plitsc mention this Paper ivhen writing.'] Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
I
iiS7
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young- Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely -.—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which yon will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribis Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
EREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Box 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring VIGOR and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Fee, £l which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for IVFAKNFSS, DEBIIjITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, fanner —in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Coliins-street, MELBOURNE.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TRADE
mm
MARK.
This successful and highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Kicord,
Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything iiii herto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
in a remai ka dy slim l time, oilen a lew days only,
removes an discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections, the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
for impurity ut the blond, scurvy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dly symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruinof health. This preparation purifies
thewholesystem through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates’every p isonous n atter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for mo \o.us exhaustion, waste nt vitality,harassing
dreams, ami all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess, residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses surprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION
is sold by all
the principal
Chemists am! Meivnants throughout the World.
Price in England 2/0 & 4/6. In ordering, state
w hich of the three numbers is required,and observe
ah ve Trade Mark, which is a iac-simile of word
“ Therafiqh ” as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for ThrrapiON—FELTON-. GKTMWADE & Co., and KOCKE, TOMPSITT & C®.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD &' CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
rATROPHY in Men%
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit, Marita! Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed. 6 stamps. Address—
. J. HJNTON-WILLIS, A
pk Cor. Bourke <fc Liverpool bts., Melbourne.
VARiCO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffer;".; from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read / Treatise describing .. Causes, Symptoms,
F arid Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Si am os Addrbss—
Wm. LAITSSTOU, M.8.C.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
OH, MY BACK!
“IT FAINS IF I BEND OVER.”
“IT FAINS IN THE MORNING.”
“IT FAINS AT NIGHT.”
“I AM TIRED ALL THE TIME.”
A WEAK BACK is a very aggravating complaint. H
makes life miserable, and thousands would be cured
if they know how. Plasters give only temporary relief, if
any at all. Drugs are often worse than useless.
DR. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT
is the proper remedy for all such distressing complaints.
It warms the back and kidneys with a gentle glow, gives
the muscles an elastic feeling, and cures permanently
You will never need another plaster if you will try it.
itar Our “ Book No. 2” gives price-list and full'particu-
lars. Call or send 2d. in stamps. It will be sent in plain,
sealed envelope by return post. Rupture.— If Ruptuied,
send also for “Pamphlet No. 1.” Address: MAGNETIC
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or
W. 11. SOUL & CO., 158 Pitt-st... SYDNEY.
PRICE Is.; . . per Post Is. 3d.


:
.. Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
Melbourne C. November 1.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me __ Shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne 0. November 1.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me . Shares in the above.
Name_ __
Address : __
Melbourne 0. 100,000 at 5.
SPECIAL CONSULTATION.
To be Drawn at 10 a.m. on the Day of the Race
Clients will kindly Note this when applying for tickets.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me .Shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Price Reducers
friends of the family’
-AND-
Up-date Merchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
ATKINSON'S
EAU
DE
COLOGNE
THE FINEST ENGLISH MAKE.
More Fragrant; More Lasting;
and very mueh more refreshing
than all others.
USE ATKINSON’S ONLY.
AND BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Only genuine with “White Rose” Trade Mark.
Of all Dealers & of the Manufacturers —
J. & lE. Limited,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to he in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends. —Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’S €(i)brocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering: injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU OET
Row’S €n>brocatioi).
mam
s j\r\'\ rwv y\/w >
0-0 TO HELL-
-IGOEAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagci),
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
_ _ | Established 1849.
IVCistraliaQ p ro yid«nt Society.
n TheAWWUB every YEAR.
Hon. Sir J. P. AmM&ttajtg .WA&
Annual Income .. .. •• Sjurtwfn tmd a-Half Millions Storlins
Accumulated Funds .. •• F large reserves) amounted to £445,235, yielding
Th. CASH BONUS tor the <»S toST.™* IKoOO-
Head Oifioe: B 7 UPltt-sttre®*- Sydoey.
ham i?.PAN S F.r, rotary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 165.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Blackboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 80/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
aST Send for Price List.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
r
Bent-Shalt Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
IT HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light -Vehicles, send particulars. Quota Don
by return post. Carnages, Broughwns &e.. Repaired oy
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
io e hous“XuldTwithout W fbtttle°rf Sreatestlfall Australian remedies.
RoSe’S Celebrated Eye Lotioij-
lids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, &c.
SOLD BY AT.Ti CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
xxr TIP,WARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
SOLE PBOPBIETOB :
H. A. ROSE, Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
List of Testimonials Supplied on Application.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
ENO’S‘FRUIT SALT’
£ Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
m.
*
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
■with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX. SCARLET FEYER, PYEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet feve r py* mia , erysipelas measles
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Enos Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot
overestimated.” — A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEYERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARYELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. U. ENO, Eta.,
at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Telephone, 26 KOGARAH—connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On tub Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Hall will accommodate 500 persons.
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only
also, snlendid Stabling Accommodation.
Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot. Salt
one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating ;
TERMS MODERATE.
Plum
ZOJIFIG
THE
‘ Plum’
GWNTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rimrs like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, » e know the
*vnetkind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them m use for a number
of Vears, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each, Razor .for Two Years.
of years, J The .. pi um ” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake._
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Price 1 Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITTKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY"
LOOK A.T OUR PRICES I
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Backboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8 18. 6.
and Harness at lowest possible prices. CvHtiav
Mot Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co^ Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send for Our Illustrated. Catalogue.
A Sextet of Sonnets.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Akaroa Heads.
Oh, what a solitude is all around !
The hermit sea, the splintered cliff that falls
In altars on eternal pedestals,
That make the wilderness a holy ground ;
Yet surely do I hear an ancient sound,
Barbaric worship in these massy walls,
Souls bared to heaven where now the sea-mew
calls,
Wild rapture where is now a death profound.
Oh, may my spirit never fail to soar
Far from the foamy fabric of the brine,
And all the shallow coil that cumbers life;
Lest I be like this desolated shore,
For ever fretted, and for ever strife,
A soul whose altars are no more divine!
M.L.
HUBERT CHUROH.
To My Love.
“ Paint me,” you said, “ a poem ; give to me
A breathing thought that I may keep to kiss ! ”
While that low laugh that aye a mandate is
Nestled upon your lips. Call memory
To that fair moment when you heard my plea,
And in the tumult of my arms’ warm bliss,
You, like a broken flower crushed amiss,
Thrilled into frenzied life exultantly,
And all your body pulsed with love’s desire J
Can I in words that perfect hour rehearse,
Or write the vehemence of veins on fire ?
My lips would only kiss —and you require
From all my heart’s rich hoard one pallid verse—
The heap of ashes left on passion’s pyre !
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Greeting.
Round what foul brood did thy dank folds en-
twine —
In what mirk feculent burrow underground,
Thou loathly reptile whose black coils up-wound
Of lurking treacherous cunning were the sign
For all who would avoid thee ? Wherefore pine
For human serfhood ? Surely thou wert crowned
'Mid vipers, ere thy hissing spirit found
And squirmed into that woman’s shell of thine.
Squat is thy body now, though hedged with steel —
Not lithe and graceful ; and thy shameless eyes’
Defiant looks all trustful ess destroy ;
No love but love of self thy soul may feel;
Spite drags the lips that droop with weight of
lies ;
Thy laughter is flat blasphemy of joy.
N.S.W.
J. LE GAY BRERETON.
Of My Lady.
Not here, dear heart, I praise your form or face,
Your smiles’ allurement or your eyes’ soft light;
Not here I sing with lover-like delight
Of your mind’s beauty or your body’s grace.
These precious things I love, yet in them trace
Only slight indications of your bright
Wise woman-soul, the treasure infinite
Which lights me through this ashen earth a space.
And this I know ; if my unworthy feet,
All bruised and mired by earth-ways weakly
trod,
Pass to the Presence; and if eternal Love
Shall bid me choose the gift to me most sweet;
Thus will I pray: “The greatest still, Lord
God-
Give me my wife, and I have Heaven enough! ”
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Venus before her Mirror.
Let me but look upon that form ; I ask
No more —no more but just to stand at gaze
Before that mirrored loveliness always;
But can I love it, knowing ’tis a mask
That hides the inner foulness ? Yet men bask
In that great tender smile, and ever raise
Arms that implore, and gloating eyes that praise;
To dare or die for me their lightest task !
What foolishness is this ? Do I not scorn
Those paltry virtues of a race decayed ?
Am I not still the Queen ? Shall this meek maid
Mary dethrone me ? Long ere she was born
I ruled the world, aye, and shall rule in lust
When these poor creeds have crumbled into dust I
Q.
E.A.
Disillusioned.
A group of sad-eyed zealots, we began—
Exalted faith our dominating note—
With soaring aspiration to promote
The Universal Brotherhood of Man.
But 10, ere far had sailed our Argos boat,
Laden with golden principles, the fan
Of dastard discord blew its blighting ban,
And each man tried to clutch his fellow’s throat!
Yea, grand the large, mouth-filling phrases sound,
But cankering cant lies often at their core.
Better no principles than such as burst
Like bubbles when they touch the solid ground.
Give me the true friend’s hand-shake more and
more,
For Universal I have ceased to thirst.
D. BOUVERIE.


BAKING
POWDER.
Guaranteed -
free from alum
Washington H.Soul & C° Pitt St, Sydney.
AND SOLD BY ALL GROCERS & STOREKEEPERS .
■ft
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
KATES : 12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. s Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
th^‘ f » saving of T-iOths in carriage charges on The
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
•'Mr
r;r f„?4 u &i d £or your >«**
Agents. E. RICH & CO. O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-s't., Melb.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Adelaide.
Messrs. Ross and Jack, 10 Custom
Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
House
Ul)\A DON SPA WATER
“ls universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
GAR
ALE
Tattersall’s Hotel and Cafe,
SYDNEY,
throZhW p a ® llffi T* Bl , ook of New B «iMings running
s reet' onT'^T 8 ' ee^ (opposite New Markets) to Pitt
hundJdT , Th«utre); and iocated Within a
Crite.il fw Ma i est y’ s - the Palace, and the
i theatres, and three minutes from G.P.O.
Electric Light throughout; Telegraph Office; Telephone 728.
ne?s r or f olllle for p Vi t ito f Famili es, whcthe r °n husi-
or pleasure. Perfect attention throughout day and night
TARIFF: - - Bs. per Day upwards.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
Painless Dentistry.
THE ....
[ondoi Dental
Institute,
Dr. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASHER, Dentists,
fy Modern, Dentistry in nil' its Dranches
Degitiinately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
utchiyh
PRIETO
ISTILLEH
C.OMPAM
EDINBURG
Trade \l l c;K/ l( (
Mark
tern
: EDINBURGH. ouc«
, r„.C MJ/'rwJlH
Drink
Ploderately.
(( Tak e a little Whisky
for the stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “D.0.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
gjass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
‘D.O.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L.’
Coolg*ardie
International Mining
and Industrial
Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
For Schedule and particulars, apply G-. WILLIAMS, Secretary, Coolgardie, W.A
SYDNEY
LAGER
BIER
brewed by
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld.,
Moore Park, Sydney,
IS
a healthful, delicious Lager.
Light, Sparkling, Stimulating.
In Bottles and on Draught at all Hotels.
The Ideal Summer Drink: drawn through Ice.
Prices and particulars from
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld., Moore Park, Sydney.
► ' w
I! 11*111
' s
1
- - *
" ;r' \ 'll '
:
.. $ ■ .
m
m
¥
it
s. <«**kss
ssSaKJftss ■“ t 1"
-~v
w"
* *
N-r
(ttOKEBS OFy^usTRALIA


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 973,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1898.
Pricte, 60.
JACK WANT TAKES HIS PLEASURES SADLY.
“Mr. Want at Adelaide.-Contrary to his original intention, Mr. J. H. Want Q.C., Will not proceed to Albany as a passenger by the P. and O. liner Himalaya, which arrived
at Largs Bay early on Thursday morning. 'I will stop in Adelaide as long as I can, 'he remarked to a reporter of the Adelaide ADVERTISER on board the vessel. 'I don't know how
soon I may have to get back,' he stated, as he scanned that morning's newspaper and read the telegram concerning the political situation in New South Walles."-DAILY PAPER.
King Cabbage-Tree will soon have to do his fishing at Circular Quay, as above.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australiuns. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bui lei in
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Go.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
rcr Annum ... ... , ... ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly. .. ... ... ... Übb
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order , Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week fur a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea «. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects,, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preset-cation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulleti n original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to he re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — B. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street , Capetown. Also in the Transvaal : -F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape 'Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith <fc Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Leoulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and AT nor Hand.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except (Queensland) is now
Ml, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Giving to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— lp?. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1898.
Concerning Clause 122.
Big John Forrest having refused for the
some dozenth time to consider the demand
of Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie for fair repre-
sentation in the Sandgropers’ Parliament,
rumors of another separation movement come
from the land of camels and red dust. Cool-
gardie has one member for 2080 electors,
and East Coolgardie one for 1486 ; while the
electorates of Ashburton, Grey, the two
Kimberleys, Gascoyne, the two Murchisons,
Irwin, Greenough, Roebourne and Yalgoo
have 11 members among them for only 1338
electors all told ! The goldfields complain
bitterly about this huge anomaly, and several
times they have had bad dreams about
making an effort to separate and form a pro-
vince of their own. For various reasons,
however, very little energy was put into the
movement. The new province would be
practically all desert and dust. It wouldn’t
have within its bounds a sufficient
known fresh - water supply to keep one
big city going. It could hardly even
grow its own irrigated flower for its button-
hole, let alone its own wheat and potatoes.
And if its goldfields gave out, as they may
some day, no reasonable person would stay
in such a place, and the male population
would be liable to get down so low that the
whole of it wouldn’t make a Ministry and an
Opposition. Besides, if John Bull under-
stood the situation (which he probably
wouldn’t), it would be impossible to get up
the inevitable debt. A province which could
abscond bodily isn’t a sufficiently permanent
creditor.
* » * *
A new idea is therefore mooted on the
goldfields. It is to persuade the British
Government to shift the eastern boundary of
Westralia eight degrees westward, and thus
lift Coolgardie, Kalgoorlie, Norseman, Dun-
das, and Esperance Bay, also the Hampton
Plains land-grab, and most of the salt lakes.
and the great Victoria Desert, and Gibson’s
Desert, and much other sand, right out of
Westralia and into South Australia. If this
could be done, the goldfields would remove
out of the most Tory-governed and into the
most Democratic province of Australia. They
would get their handy Esperance Bay rail-
way, instead of having to pay some hundreds
of miles of extra railway carriage in order to
keep the boom going at Perth, where the
Forrest gang has much property. They
would also, probably, get a railway to
Adelaide just as soon as S.A. could borrow
the money. They would get fair Parlia-
mentary representation, and would find
themselves in a land where provisions are
cheaper and the tariff not absolutely insane.
Likewise, they would have a picturesque
vengeance on big John Forrest, whose 300
miles of iron pipes, bought for the Cool-
gardie water scheme, would be left on his
hands unless some friendly arrangement
could, be arrived at. Under a special clause
in the Westralian constitution the British
Government reserves to itself absolute power
to readjust the boundaries of W.A. The
Colonial Boundaries Act, of later date, seems
to reverse this provision, but whether the
Act overrides the Constitution or not is none
too clear.
* * * *
Coming just now, this agitation is a valu-
able essay on that especially insane clause,
No. 122 of the Convention Bill, and on the
amendment by which Premier George Reid,
of New South Wales, proposes to make it
still more insane than it already is. Said
clause No. 122 begins as follows :
The Parliament of the Commonwealth may, with the
consent of the Parliament of a State, increase, diminish,
or otherwise alter the limits of the State.
This clause is to cancel and override the
Colonial Boundaries Act, and its purport is
to make it a boiler-metal proviso that no
district can obtain separation from the State
to which it belongs, no matter for how good
a cause, except with the consent of the Par-
liament of that State. The escape-valve in
the boiler is clause 127, which provides
that the Constitution can be amended by the
assent of both Federal Houses of Parliament,
of a majority of the people, and of a majority
of the States. Therefore if one State so shame-
fully misused the power given to it as
to bring the Commonwealth to the verge of
civil war—or perhaps over the verge —the
others could combine to abrogate the clause,
and thus give the Federal Parliament power to
interfere. But Premier Reid proposes to
pile a ton of ballast on the escape-valve by
an amendment providing that clause 122
shall be absolutely incapable of amendment
(apparently it isn’t to be amended even if all
the provinces consent), and that the proviso
making the consent of a State Parliament
necessary before Separation can be granted
is to be absolutely impregnable.
* * * *
The present clause would be sufficiently
cranky, and Reid’s proposed amend-
ment would be even more foqlish, if they
provided that the assent of a majority of the
people would be required before Separation
could be conceded, for the only case where
Separation can be really required is where a
minority in outlying districts is oppressed or
neglected in the interests of a majority in
and around the capital. But when the
matter is to be decided by a majority of
the Parliament things will be incalculably
worse. Assuming Premier Reid’s amend-
ment to be carried, the situation in Westralia
—the province which represents one-third
of the whole continent—would be exactly
this : The goldfields districts, however
much they are misgoverned by an agricul-
tural government of old Sandgropers at
Perth, can’t get separation, except with the
consent of both Houses of the Sandgropers’
Parliament. Even if they come, as they
easily may, to constitute two - thirds of
the population of Westralia, they won’t have
a majority in that Parliament or anything
like one ; because the Parliament gives one
representative to 2030 mining electors at
Coolgardie and eleven to 1338 electors in the
thinly-peopled agricultural districts. It is
not the vote of the people, but that of the
Parliament which is to decide the matter,
and the old Sandgroper, by artful legisla-
tion, has secured the Parliament.
* » * *
The only legal remedy the majority could
have would be to get the representation re-
adjusted so as to give them the Parliamen-
tary power to which they are fairly entitled.
And they can’t get that without the consent
of the hayseed minority in the Legislature.
And the small minority which returns eleven
members to Parliament can simply tell the
great majority which returns one member
that it will see it dead first." It can supply
that answer by 11 votes to 1, and if it knew
that the majority wanted fair representation
to enable it to pass a Separation Act, it
almost certainly would do so. The Federal
Parliament will have carefully divested
itself of all right to interfere in the cause of
justice ; and if the majority tries the only
remedy left—insurrection—the Federal
troops will be almost bound to interfere on
behalf of law and order—the law made by
the minority which deprives the majority of
its vote.
* * * *
A somewhat similar situation is preparing
in Queensland. There a Tory minority
is on top, and it keeps on top by ap-
pointing Tory magistrates to revise the
rolls, and strike off the name of every
democratic voter who can be identified
as such. In view of these things The Bul-
letin recommends that Clause 122, instead
of being made more stringent, as Premier
Reid demands, and handed down to posterity
as a fetter which can only be removed by
revolution, be abolished altogether. Or, if
it isn’t abolished, that, at the very least, it
be made to read that Separation shall be
granted wherever a majority of the adult
population of any province (not merely of
the State Legislature or of the voters
on a faked electoral roll) desires it, and
that the vote shall be taken by Federal
officers, as a guarantee that the hostile
party in office won’t cook the returns.
But it would be vastly wiser to leave the
Federal Parliament with absolute power to
make any readjustments that may be neces-
sary. So long as all the country is Australia
and all its people are Australians, the loca-
tion of any provincial boundary is of as
little consequence as the location of a
cockie’s slab fence—always provided the
people immediately adjacent to it on each
side are satisfied ; they being the people to
whom boundaries are most important.
Nothing else matters. The provincial theory
is that it is necessary, from patriotic mo-
tives, and despite quarrels, and sacrifices
and heart-burnings, and waste of money,
and many other things besides, to keep a
blue streak on one particular place on the
map, when there is the same nation, and the
same Australia, and the same language and
hopes and aspirations, and the same Federal
Government, on each side of the streak, and
the streak is nothing but a streak at the best.
The reason of this is that “ we ” have to up-
hold the honor and interests of “ our ’’ pro-
vince, whichever it may be. The Bulletin
hereby moves, as an amendment, that all the
separate provinces, in their separate pro-
vincial capacity, and all their separate
interests and honor, should be damned
together, as far as it can be done, and that
the honor and interests of Australia be the
one subject for consideration.
Disarmament.
It was highly interesting, though not at all
astonishing, to hear, as the world did a few
weeks ago, that the Autocrat of Russia desired
to make arrangements for a general disarma-
ment. He proposed, in effect, that Europe
should (wholly or in great part) throw up the
sponge ; should disband its big armies, and
shut up its huge cannon factories, and let its
great fortresses moulder awhile, and stop
spending many hundred millions a year on
preparations for heaving things at its own com-
ponent parts ; and, all matters considered, it
was not surprising that such a proposal should
come from such a quarter. It was also only to
be expected that peace and snuffle societies of
all sorts should drink much weak tea and
assimilate much crumpet over thesuggestion,and
talk of it as a great step towards the abolition
of war, and wave a dubious cotton handker-
chief in celebration. The weak-tea-and-crum-
pet society, when it fixes its spectacled,
watery eye on a new idea, generally makes
mistakes like that. And now the news arrives
(if the cable isn’t badly mistaken) that the
Czar has changed his mind and doesn’t mean it
at all. Considering the direction in which his
interests lie, that is certainly surprising. If
there is any potentate in Europe who should
desire a universal disarmament the Czar is dis-
tinctly that potentate. And if he goes back on
his proposal just when there is a chance of
Europe taking a favorable view of it, the
natural assumption is that he is throwing away
the greatest opportunity he ever had.
* * * *
Of course, disarmament w'ould not mean the
abandonment of war. That is where the peace
societies of all sorts make their great mistake.
If Europe did disarm, the probability is that
wars would be far more numerous and longer
and more sanguinary than they are now. Since
the bloated armaments reached their highest
state of development the great European States
haven’t fought at all. There are a good many
reasons why they shouldn’t. It takes all their
loose change to keep the military machine
up in peace time, and there is little or
nothing left for the extra cost of war. The
scientific character of modern weapons makes
a campaign almost too expensive to be thought
of ; when a big gun costs ,£l2O a shot, and a
very moderate campaign runs to £1,000,000 a
day in ordinary expenses, the situation grows
serious. No State really w'ants to have the
fortress that cost £5,000,000 or so laid in ruins,
or to go and bombard the other fellow’s
£5,000,000 fortress at £l2O a shot. It was a
comparatively cheap thing a century ago to
send out wooden ships at £20,000 or so apiece
to pound each other with cheap iron guns, but
now' two ironclads can charge each other with
the ram and send between them about
£1,400,000 to the bottom inside six minutes.
The £700,000 battle-ship is a beautiful thing
to look at, but fora comparatively poor country
it is a shuddersome idea to risk so much money
in one mad scrimmage. And now it takes
years to train a soldier to a perfect knowledge
of scientific warfare. The raw recruits that
could be hustled in at an emergency to fill the
gaps in the ranks would be little use, for the
war would be finished before they began to be
effective. Therefore every country has to con-
sider this situation when it goes to war:
It has a great fighLing machine which it has
taken years to perfect. It has to stake the
issue of the campaign on that machine as it is ;
there will probably be no time for repairs. The
first great land battle will probably so wreck
one machine or another that the result will be
virtually decided, and, after that, the losing
party has nothing to do but make a death-
struggle in order to secure the best terms ob-
tainable, and then to cede a few provinces and
pay a bill which will keep its nose to the grind-
stone for the next five centuries. It takes an
appalling amount of cash and nerve, or a very
bad form of luuacy, to face war nowadays.
But, supposing the European nations dis-
armed, and did it so thoroughly that each was
left with only a strong police force; that the fort-
resses were allowed to crumble, and the muni-
tions to run out, and the old military discipline
was forgotten, and there weren’t enough rifles
in all Europe to arm 300,000 men. To begin
with, the nations would grow rich for a while
by saving many hundreds of millions per annum.
They would grow richer by the industry of
the 3J millions of men now standing about in
uniform. They would grow' so rich presently,
and war would become so cheap, that any nation
could afford a rousing campaign almost any
time. If they disarmed absolutely and com-
pletely, then, instead of France sending
1,000,000 trained men to argue over Alsace-
Lorraine with the same number of trained Ger-
mans, both crowds armed with immensely ex-
pensive weapons—it could send the same
number of untrained men to argue with clubs
against the corresponding untrained German.
And, as clubs are cheap, and it would have a lot
more money to buy the clubs with through the
saving of training expenses, it could afford to
argue out the Alsace-Lorraine question a great
deal oftener than it does now. Also, it could
keep on arguing much longer—as long, in fact,
as there were any men left; for a new soldier
of the disarmament pattern could be made in a
day, provided the supply of timber for clubs
didn’t give out. Among purely European states,
the one which would gain most would undoubt-
edly be Russia. It has more than twice as
many men—and good men at that—as any of
its neighbors, and the only reason why it can’t
squash all Central Europe is lack of corn and
lack of science. If war became cheap and its
scientific aspect got back to first principles,
then it would be mainly a question of numbers
and grit, and the Russian would be on top.
Therefore, the Czar—if he is the kind of Czar
who knows when to come in out of the wet—
should be all for a general disbandment of the
bloated arrays and a return to first principles.
* * * *
Probably, the one real obstacle to the accept-
ance of the Czar’s alleged idea would be Great
Britain. The British empire is bounded every-
where by droves of heathen with whom it
would be impossible to argue intelligibly on the
subject. If they did disarm, many of them
would remain about as dangerous as they are
now, for their weapons are of a kind which can
be replaced at short notice. And, besides, they
are mostly disarmed already, so far as the
European idea would go, and even in that state
they make trouble enough. Britain keeps them
under by science and discipline, and to
disarm would mean to abandon science and
discipline in a great degree. Then the heathen
would promptly make himself a new spear, and
cut a fresh arrow, and wade in after the old
fashion, but under circumstances where his
weight of numbers would get a better show
than heretofore. Naturally the. result would-
be trouble for the nation which has so many
frontiers to defend. And not only would war
become so cheap as to be within the reach of
even the poorest State, and become frequent
through its cheapness, but it would also become
more sanguinary than it is now. The man
with a gun at a half-mile range often hits
nobody ; the man with a home-made pike at
close quarters must be a shockiugly bad shot if
he doesn’t prod somebody. Also, he is close
and handy to give his enemy an extra prod
when he is down, and thus make sure of him.
In the old days, when the primitive warrior
plugged his foe by. hand, battles were vastly
more destructive to life than they are now, and
it was quite common for the defeated party to
leave half its force on the field. It is not
so much actual loss of men which gener-
ally settles the matter nowadays, as the
disorganisation of the fighting machine, and
the capture of the expensive apparatus, and
the giving out of the ammunition, and the slid-
ing of the whole order of things into chaos. Para-
guay, in its death-struggle with Brazil and
Argentina in 1864-70, fought its war out until
it collapsed through absolute -want of men—it
left practically all the able-bodied manhood of
the country on the battle-field. That was a
war of mob armies and raw levies—to all
intents and purposes it and the U.S. Civil War
were the last campaigns fought by white men
under anything like the proposed disarmament
conditions.
* * * *
Of course, there are overwhelming reasons in
favor of disarmament. It would save an incred-
ible amount of money, and enrich Europe by the
industry of 3J million able-bodied men who are
now wasted. Also, it would abolish, or
nearly so, an implement which does even
more to suppress the democrat at home than the
enemy abroad. But there is no reason why
a misguided Y.M.C.A. should wave the crum-
pet of deluded congratulation over the matter.
It wouldn’t abolish war. It would make it
cheaper, and, in consequence, probably more
frequent. Also, it would make it last longer.
If the two halves of the American dis-United
States had started their campaign in ’6l with a
perfectly-disciplined army of 500,000 men apiece,
one of the two elaborate fighting-machines
would have wrecked the other in a huge battle
or two, and all would have been over ; the
loser might have hustled 2,000,000 of raw levies
to the front to fill the gaps, but the other fel-
low’s fighting-machine would have blown them
away almost before they got in line. The Para-
guayan w'ar lasted seven years and nearly des-
troyed a nation, simply because each stubborn
new brown man who came to the call of the in-
sane Dictator Lopez was just as good as the
old dead brown man whose place he filled, and
the other party was in the same situation.
There was no fine military organisation on
either side that could be wrecked at one great
blow—only a cheap gun and a long knife
and unlimited grit. But disarmament would
at least give the world a lot more fun
for its money, and enable it to afford a war
much oftener. And it would shift the
balance of power a good deal by reducing the
weight of the comparatively small, scientifi-
cally-educated nations and increasing that of
the primitive races that have little science,
which would be a highly-interesting experiment
to watch from a safe distance. And it would
localise wars, for a mob army is difficult to
move long distances. And it would save a vast
amount of cash as well.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Potato Young and Pumpkin Smith.
In the matter of the Hastings and Macleay
(N.S.W.) election, Minister Young has got up
and denied all the matters that he wasn’t
accused of, and shed much whine over the base
injustice of the charges that weren’t made. Also,
he said that the things that weren’t said about
him were utterly false. About the things that
were said he was quite silent, and, as to the
charges that were made, he didn’t even speak
about them ; he carefully shirked the lot. What
Minister Young wailed over and over again in
different keys was that he never, never, never
promised any works to the Hastings and Macleay
electorate as an inducement to vote for dull,
Pumpkin Smith, and if anybody could point to
the works that Young promised, Young was
prepared to eat his hat in expiation. Nobody
ever accused Young of promising to grant the
electorate any works- as the direct price of
Smith’s election. What he assured the
people of most persistently was that Smith—
his Pumpkin Smith—would get them works if
elected, and thatBARTON wouldn’t. And Premier
Reid, in a letter openly published in Sydney
Telegraph, also assured the Hastings electors
that they ought to vote for Smith as a good
man to get them works or to “ attend to local
requirements.” Now Young and Reid together
are the men who give public works—they give
them to the people out of the people’s own
money. If the people want works they apply
to Reid and Young either directly or through
their member. There is never the slightest
doubt about the works being asked for, but they
are only supposed to be granted if they are
fairly necessary and look like a proper expendi-
ture of public money. If they look like a
proper expenditure Reid and Young are sup-
posed to grant them just the same, whether
Barton or Pumpkin Smith is the member, and
no matter in what form they are applied for.
So it all comes to this : Smith couldn’t get the
people of the Hastings and Macleay any more
works than Barton unless Reid and Young
were so utterly base and corrupt as to make
the works the price of Smith’s election.
And when Reid and Young—but mainly
Young persistently recommended Smith
as a man who would get the district
more public works than Barton, it either
meant that Young, as the man who dispenses
such things, would give Smith more public
works than he would give Barton, or else it is
a fair thing to ask Young what it did mean.
Young’s statement that he didn’t promise to
get the district any public works is as irrele-
vant as if he said that he wasn’t Columbus ; all
he said (and he said it and also hinted it and
implied it in all sorts of ways) was, not that
Young’s department would give the district
concessions if it elected Smith, but that Smith
(who supported the Ministry) was the sort of
man who would get concessions (from Young’s
department), while Barton (who didn’t sup-
port the Ministry) wasn’t. And if Young
knew in advance that Smith (who supported
the Government) was the sort of man who
would get public cash from Young’s depart-
ment, Then that also implied that Youisg knew
that his department was the sort of depart-
ment that would grant public cash to Smith.
But Young didn’t promise any works himself,
and his assurance about that is quite needless.
So is Neild’s proposal to appoint a committee
(on which Young’s party was to have a
strong majority) to consider whether Young
did the thing he wasn’t accused of, or not. And
the final decision that the Young-Reid Govern-
ment should appoint a Royal Commission to
consider whether Young was or was not guilty
of the charge that wasn’t made is equally beside
the question. There is no matter of fact or
law to be inquired into. Unless Young pro-
poses to deny the accuracy of all the reports
which represented him as perpetually recom-
mending Smith for his ability in getting “ local
requirements ” attended to, it is merely a
question whether Young’s employer, Parlia-
ment, feels satisfied with its any
longer.
♦ V
Victoria, the Marriage Paradise !
The consequences of Victorian Full Court’s
decision in the Simons divorce are far-reach-
ing. It will probably cover the following
cases : the case of the wife who refuses her
husband his “ marital rights ” on account of her
disinclination to bear children at all ; to bear
children to him because she dislikes him,
whether she loves another or not ; to bear
children because he or she suffers from a here-
ditarily-transmissible disease ; to bear children
because frequent childbearing affects her health
or tends to spoil her appearance ; to bear chil-
dren frequently because it conflicts with her
reading of the moral aspects of the Malthusian
law of population ; or to bear children fre-
quently because she thinks he is not able to sup-
port them; and the case of the husband who, for
similar reasons, deems it right not to procreate
children. It is difficult to see how the court
could have arrived at any other conclusion
while the marriage status is based as it is at
present in English law. The singular thing is
that the point has never been expressly de-
cided before in England, seeing that, though
desertion is not a ground for divorce there, it
has always been a ground for judicial separa-
tion. The difficulties will arise not so much
from the decision itself as in the administra-
tion of the law based on it in the divorce-courts.
To prevent abuse of it, more stringent rules
as to collusion will probably have to be
framed, unless, as might very properly per-
haps be done, the collusion doctrine is
repealed altogether. The collusion doctrine
is simply a standing invitation to wholesale
perjury of a not very reprehensible type.
In a land of unlimited divorce it’s just as well
that the thing should be made as comfortable
as possible to both parties. Hitherto one had
to submit to habitual cruelty, or to aggravated
assaults, or to habitual neglect of domestic
duties, or to send one’s husband or wife to gaol
for two or three years, or to submit to be
shared in harem-fashion, or to be the com-
panion of a habitual drunkard for the regula-
tion period, or to submit to the necessity of
cooking one s own meals, or of eating the hash-
house’s concoctions for upwards of three
years, in order to part company legally
with one’s partner. Justice demanded an
easier method, and Vic. Full Court has
parodied Gilbert and Sullivan to find
it. Desertion for three years and upwards
can now be managed without the incon-
venience of literal desertion at all. All you
have to do is to lock your bedroom-door while
the servants are at home, and tell your husband
or wife through the keyhole, but loud enough
for the servants to hear, that you aren’t tak-
ing any company ; keep this up at reasonable
intervals for three years, and, without any of
the jarrings of d.t.’s, hashhouse, taking in
washing, double establishments, gaol, or the
like, the thing is done, and the decree nisi in
its frame. Why, it’s easier than the long-
sighed-for ineompatibility-of-temper method,
and should prove a decided relaxation in the
ordinary monotony of married life. Of course
there must be collusion, but what Judge
bothers about collusion nowadays unless it is
obtrusively and foolishly thrust under his nose !
♦
To the Vic. Democracy.
Apropos of the Victorian Council’s scornful re-
jection of the Woman Suffrage and One-man-
one-vote Bills, Melbourne Age takes a cheer-
less pot-shot at the skull of the Democracy
with the news that “ under the Vic. Constitu-
tion the Leg. Council is absolutely impreg-
nable”—therefore there is nothing for it but to
endure that angry mass of fat and live in hope.
It is this patient acquiescence which keeps the
House of 48 Earth-Stealers on top. Of course
there is no way provided in the Constitution by
which the Council can be shifted —but there
are ways outside of it. A moderate-sized in-
surrection would do it—but perhaps that would
be too wildly original. It could be done if the
progressive leaders of Victoria would set
themselves to work up a big Democratic League
for the purpose, and the biggest paper in Vic-
toria would put all its weight into the move-
ment. It would want ,£50,000 or more to work
on, but that could surely be raised. Then it
would have to find about 30 qualified Liberal
candidates, or, if there weren’t enough, to make
some by fixing them up with dummy pro-
perty qualifications. The test of each
candidate should be his solemn oath to
vote straight for a Reform Bill making the
Council a paid body elected by the whole
province as one constituency, under manhood
suffrage, with no property qualification for
members ; and each candidate should leave his
resignation in the hands of the League as
security. The candidates once found the block
vote of the League could put them in easily—
the electors are democratic enough, though they
have got the tired feeling badly. Or the Coun-
cil Reform Bill, above described, might be
passed through the present Council if there was
a big enough bribe attached—say a clause to
the effect that Victoria, in regretfully parting
with its present Councillors, gave each £lOOO
a year in recognition of his great and disin-
terested services. It would be only £48,000 a
year even at first, and many of the Councillors
are unhealthy and wouldn’t stay in the pension
list long. Moreover, their removal would make
it possible to pass a new land-tax law which
would yield three times £48,000. Another
promising wile would be a Council Reform Bill
providing a salary of £3OO a year for Coun-
cillors, and making the present M.’s.L.C.
nominees till death, resignation, insolvency, or
disqualification through absence for a whole
session, or through aoceptance of a State
contract or salaried State billet. But all
vacancies to be filled by election on a
manhood-suffrage basis, with no property-quali-
fication for members. The present M.’sL.C.
are life members in effect, so making them so
in name wouldn’t render things any worse.
And they are mostly old —death and other
things would remove them pretty fast, and when
they were gone there would be no more like
them. Victoria has to shift its 48 Rich Land-
lords, either by an expensive and elaborate
political propaganda, or by buying them out.
They are mostly hard men with a full appreci-
ation of the beauty of Cash, if offered judi-
ciously. And it would pay to buy them out.
“The Liberty of the Subject.”
The illogicalness of a woman in hysterics is
great, but the illogicalness and stupidity
of a politician (especially in Westralia) is
greater than a range of mountains and more in-
comprehensible than the vast Australian adjec-
tive. The other day the Sandgropers’ Parlia-
ment had a Health Bill before it, and the
Attorney-General, incited thereto by Vosper,
of the Tangled Mane, who owns beneath his
one shock of hair about 90 per cent, of the
brains of the House, moved the following very
sensible clause :
No person shall sell any patent or proprietary medicine,
drug 1 , or compound, of which a sample has not been
analysed by the Government analyst, and without the
copy of a certificate by the Government analyst being an-
nexed to the bottle, box, or package in which the medi-
cine, drug, or compound is coniained, stating the com-
ponent parts of the same according to the sample, under
a penalty not exceeding £2O. •
That looks simple enough bo bore into the very
humblest intellect. It provides that anybody
can sell his patent medicine as freely as he likes,
only it must be accompanied by an official ex-
planation on the label, so that the buyer will
know exactly what is in it. If it is an honest
compound the official analysis on the label will
help the sale. If the seller declares it is a rare
and infallible specific for Addison’s disease or
phthisis, and charges Bs. 9d. a bottle for it, and
murders people for Bs. 9d. by inducing them
to pin their faith to his nostrum and neglect
other treatment till they are past cure—well,
the compulsory affixment to his bottle of an
official statement that the contents are weak
cold tea and beer and peppermint is very mild
treatment. But the stupidest Parliament in
the Seven Provinces viewed the clause with
dark suspicion. Mitchell, M. L. A., got up and
said that a man should be allowed to use any
remedy he liked. Alex. Forrest said, indig-
nantly, that if a man wanted a certain patent
medicine he should be allowed to have it.
Wallace said that it would “create mono-
poly.” Another man said that he “saw no
reason why anybody shouldn’t be allowed to
take any medicine he pleased.” Hardly one
dolt in the whole crowd could be made to
understand that merely putting on the label an
official statement of the nature of the contents
wouldn’t prevent any man taking as much or as
many patent medicines as he wanted to, and
that analysis and monopoly had no possible
relation. But what killed Voseer’s idea
was the explanation by the prize ass of
the crowd, Wood, M.L.A., that to analyse
patent medicines is “a direct interference
with the liberty of the subject.” Which
of course it is—it interferes with the liberty of
the vendor to swindle the sick and dying by sell-
ing them a pennyworth of camomile water for
half-a-guinea as an infallible remedy for some-
thing, and it interferes with the buyer’s liberty
to be defrauded thereby. Which is quite as
horrible as depriving the burglar of liberty to
burgle, and the public of its inalienable right to
have its goods stolen in the night. When the
Sandgropers’ Assembly heard that the analysis
of patent medicines would interfere with the
liberty of the subject it rejected the idea on the
instant.
Shirking 1 the Difficulty.
One mistake about as big as a good-sized Alp
sticks conspicuously out of Premier Richard
Seddon’s Old-Age Pension scheme. Old-Age
Pensions are urgently needed —that much is
certain. The pension idea should be a part of
every Democratic policy—that also is certain.
Also, among these provinces Maoriland is just
the one with grit enough to lead the way, and
Seddon is just the man to be on deck at the
time. Also Seddon’s scheme, despite its re-
strictions, is at least a fair beginning ; about as
fair a beginning, probably, as money-considera-
tions will allow. It provides a pension of £lB
a-year for people over 65 with a decent charac-
ter and 20 years’ residence to their credit, and
the estimated cost, to begin with, will be £90,000
or £lOO,OOO a year. But the scheme altogether
shirks the question of raising the money. In-
stead- of being accompanied with plans and
specifications for finding an extra £lOO,OOO a
year, it is simply provided that the cash is to
come out of the Consolidated Revenue. Just
now the revenue can show a balance of £lOO,OOO
a year over ordinary 'expenditure, but it is
all wanted for public works —in fact, it isn’t
nearly sufficient for public works, and the old
loan-floating distemper is starting again as a con-
sequence. If the money that now goes into the
Public Works Fund goes in Old-Age Pensions
instead, then more of the public works will be
paid out of loans instead. And if it was put the
other way—if the surplus went in public works
as at present, and the Old-Age Pensions were
paid out of loans—it would be exactly the same
thing though it might not sound so well. If
the Government which grants Old-Age Pen-
sions doesn’t also find the money to pay them
with, it is simply taking the glory and leaving
the hard work to posterity. The finding of the
money is the middle and both ends of the Old-
Age Pension problem, and, if that isn’t done,
there is very little done.
The Sydney police prosecution of the Coupon
co. seems to have been based on the false as-
sumption that goods purchased with the
coupons are “ prizes ” in the lottery sense of
the term. Why “prizes”? Certain retail
traders offer their customers a discount on
cash purchasers, the dis. being granted in
coupons. Customers get it on the understand-
ing that they will “take it out” in other
goods at the Coupon co.’s shop. The coupon
system is quite an old device which has been
tried in many places and found effective—for a
time. It comes and goes. There can be no
enduring charm in it. If every shop were
to adopt the system the world would soon
get overloaded with fancy goods such as the
Coupon shop supplies, and if the Coupon
shop were to furnish necessaries, as well
as opera-glasses, &c., then the shops that sup-
ply the same goods in an ordinary way would
have nothing to do with the company. At a
casual glance the coupon, or “gift,” scheme of
business looks capable of wide extension, but
in practice it is bound to break down eventu-
ally. All the drapers in Sydney, for instance,
might agree to support a coupon co. which
confined itself to the tea-trade— i.e., the bits of
paper given as discount on every sixpenny dra-
pery-purchase would be exchangeable for tea
only. The all-round increase in the drapers’ cash
trade would not be very considerable. Pre-
sently a principal drapery shop, doirg one of
the biggest cash businesses, would break away
from the arrangement and start its own “coupon
tea ’’-shopou thepremises, supplying better value
tea than the co. could afford to give. Then other
big drapers would set up a competition until
the co. failed for lack of support, whereupon
the competing drapers would agree to cease the
tea struggle and stick to their drapery trades
as in the beginning. Or, more probably, one of
the big houses would upset the coupon system
by underselling its rivals, and showing to cus-
tomers that they could get more than the value
of “ tea ” discount in the extra value of the
drapery goods on which no coupon was allowed.
The tea-trade, by the way, was the first to
take up the coupon system and will be the last
to drop it. Nevertheless the large tea-dealers
have expanded their businesses without
troubling their heads about coupons, whilst
hundreds of “ tea-gift ” shops have sprung up,
flourished awhile, and faded away.
The M.L. Police Report has at last seen light.
It is a huge document, but of little value.
Ted Taylor, the prohibitionist and social
purist from Christchurch, was the man upon
whose specific charges the Commission was
appointed. He charged the police with im-
morality, insobriety and with resorting to
political influence, and named his men. He
also blew the religious horn, on the ground that
Catholics had received an undue number of
appointments. Also one sergeant had a prohi-
bition order out against him ; and so on. After
collecting 1300 pages of fearful stuff the Com-
mission found that the Catholics weren’t
specially conspicuous in the force, and the
sergeant was twelve months out of the force
before he took to whisky. The accusations of
immorality were mostly withdrawn. The
Maoriland police department is undermanned,
underpaid, under-officered, and very badly gone
to pieces through general mismanagement.
But the wild teetotaller and social gimlet man
always wants to prove that somebody keeps a
harem and has eight illegitimate children and
suffers regularly from snakes. Tea Taylor
wasted about <£6ooo of public money in tracking
imaginary Flossies to the Maoriland copman’s
back door, and left the real grievance preLty
much alone. The grievance that has no Flossie
in it doesn’t appeal to the Cold Tea under-
standing.
-<*> —
One of the loudest yells in Adelaide against
State fire insurance is that the business isn’t
big enough to make it worth while. Yet the
private offices collect about £52,000 a year in
premiums in S.A. ; a few years ago they col-
lected .£70,000, but expenses were high through
too many offices trying to live on the business,
and rates were high to cover expenses, and
many people left off' insuring on account of the
high rates, and business diminished. Anyhow,
if Adelaide, for instance, adopts compulsory
State insurance the premium - income will
largely increase, because places not now insured
will be covered under the new system. And if
the State, with no commission to pay, and only
one city office and staff' to live on the business,
instead of about a dozen, couldn’t make the
business answer even on the present £52,000
premium income, what do the private offices live
on? There were 16 of them last year with head
offices in Australia and Tasmania, and 12 of the
16 had a premium income not nearly approach-
ing £52,000, while seven didn’t even reach
£20,000. And some of these had to keep up
expensive establishments in three or four pro-
vinces to raise even this miserable little income.
4.
Vic. Assembly inserted a minimum-wage clause
in the Maffra Beet Sugar Co.’s Bill, but the
48 Rich Landlords threw it out. It was again
inserted by the Assembly, and again rejected
by the Council, and then, at Premier Turner’s
invitation, the Assembly caved in for the usual
reason—“ so as not to jeopardise the passing of
the Bill.” Vic. Council practically always wins
for the same reason ; the Assembly doesn’t
want to “jeopardise the Bill.” But if the
Assembly the People’s Chamber —is ever
going to be anything more than a slave dragged
at the chariot wheels of the House of Property
it will have to insist on its Democratic ideas
every time, and either make the Council cave
in or else make it take the responsibility of
throwing out every measure—until the com-
plete stoppage of business wakes the people up.
Vic. Assembly should have re-inserted its
minimum-wage clause and sent it back to the
Council 70 times over, if need be, till the Coun-
cil either passed it or took the direct responsi-
bility of rejection. The Assembly’s efforts to
keep the peace with the Council are a mistake.
What it wants is war—gory war—to arouse the
people to an understanding of its House of
Bricks and Mortar.
♦
“ J.H.P.” to The Bulletin
Rougemont’s magazine-booming taradiddles ought to
make Australians who pretend to culture and an interest
in scientific and historical research a little uneasy. A half-
educated charlatan can tell the most absurd stories of
aboriginal customs and of Far-North and Centralian
fauna, and, in our ignorance, we are unable to prove him
a “cram.” We can’t supplant his fictions and put the truth
in their place ; we can’t tell the world what is at our back-
door. Foreign Governments and institutions have done
more than our own to find out, too. At this moment Dr.
Eylmann, a German scientist, is plodding away in the
heart of the continent. Even the University of little
Christiania had its Dr. Dahl in the Northern Territory
two or three years ago ; and Dr. Lumiiolz, of the same
place, had preceded him. There is a marvellous store of
information to be had, much of it of the sort,
too, that a big crowd relishes —books in the run-
ning niggers, sermons in their spears, and good
copy in everything. Wherefore some great Aus-
tralian daily, which fills its pages with shallow stuff
concerning cyclists’rides through Asiaand elsewhere, might
do worse than equip a couple of scientific busbmen
(surely there are two to be had), and commission them
for a three years’ fossick. And if the experiment
answered—well, there is more than one area which would
repay such investigation; But the time is flying. Already,
owing to association with whites (mostly those whites
to whom an aborigine is a blanky nigger, to be belted if
the aborigine doesn’t happen to be a plump young she),
the young men turn their backs upon tribal customs,
and are not admitted to the final initiation : and so they
remain ignorant of the sacred tribal learning. And then
the spirits take the old men; and they in their turn take
with them much that, even if it isn’t pearls and rubies
when measured by the standards of the shop and Ex-
change, is at least worth a lot to those who now and then
like to drop those standards down the nearest sewer-shaft.
+
Cooke, of the Victorian House of 48 Landlords :
Neither a man nor a woman has a right to vote ; it is a
question of what is best for the country. . . . Matters
should be left where they are till the women threaten a
revolution unless they get a vote, and then it should be
granted as a matter of expediency, not of political justice.
This is a pretty straight hint that neither man-
hood nor womanhood suffrage nor Council
reform will be obtained from the 48 Land-
lords until they are driven to it by terror
(or perhaps paid for granting it), and as
Cooke suggests revolution, perhaps it would
be a good thing to take him at his word and
fetch the revolution along. Cooke, for one, ad-
mits that he doesn’t care about justice but will
yield to save his carcase, so the endangerment
of Cooke’s carcase is evidently necessary and
advisable. But revolutions get out of hand
sometimes, and now and then a Fat Man is
taken with a brick in the stomach just while he
is in the act of yielding, because he was too
dull to recognise the exact moment when the
country’s patience gave out.
Here is a seaman’s grievance, as set forth to
The Bulletin by “ Malle ” :
Was speaking on a northern trading boat to one of the
crew, and remarked that fares had dropped since I last
travelled. “ It’s all right,” he said, “ for you people to
save a few shillings on your fares, but how about us ?
Directly opposition starts, down come our wages, and up
go our hours. We used to have an hour or two at home,
but now we arrive in the morning and often go out again
same night. There is hardly ever time to put her in the
dock while she’s got a decent waddle left in her. Why,
we’ve been upon our feet 50 hours on end sometimes.
And those northern cockies, what do they care? They
get their bit o’ cane in and sit down and watch it grow,
and wait for the company to come along and cut it for
’em. There’s no legitimate trade on the rivers, it’s all
tick, tick ; sometimes a man goes up from Sydney, goin'
to play the devil with a cash trade, but you can see King-
street writ on his back-door from the start. Damn the
competition and cheap fares, I say.”
In a small N.S.W. equity suit, Moss v.
Moss, Justice A. H. Simpson, no less titan IK
counsel and 13 solicitors are engaged.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS.
Increase in Assets during 1897
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1897
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897
£49,349,231
4,187,992
10,508,995
1,513,749
198,159,549
7,513,284
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq ML A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.:
Hon. CHAS. K MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
©eneeal Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. B’ABCY IRYINE, F. 8.5., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DEINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, 40.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and ‘‘Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Simplest—Most Durable—Best
tights
[RUNNING
m
m
S3KQHOVH -X
Votf l '**
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-, Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Royal “ Sporting Life.”
Her Majesty’s “ La Poupee ”
Lyceum “ The Flight for Life.”
Tivoli Kickards Co.
Criterion “ The Dangers of London.”
Palace Dante, the Conjuror.
Alhambra Wilson and St. John’s Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Under the Red Robe.”
Tiieatre Royal “ Spns of the Sea.”
Bmou “ The Dovecot.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Rev. Geo. Walters’ unspeakable drama
lasted one short week at Sydney Lyceum, and
then it went to its own place, which, if it is the
place that such a drama most calls for, is unpub-
lishable and over 90,000 in the shade. “ A Flight
for Life,” which succeeded it, is a change greatly
for the better. The new outbreak is well-staged
and well-played, and the usually weary F. Scuda-
more has for once built a rather clever plot with
at least one totally fresh idea in it. Said idea is so
fresh that it alone should ensure the “Flight for
Life ” a respectable run. It is the only drama
The Bulletin remembers wherein the hero, being
unjustly suspected of murder, bolts on the instant.
The regulation idea is for him to pound on his
stomach like the pure and spotless gorilla, and say
that he relies on British justice, and that Provi-
dence will not allow the innocent to suffer, and
a jury of his countrymen will clear his character,
or some such cheap moral dictionary. The present
hero, finding the dead body left on his hands, re-
marks instead that he isn’t too sure about Provi-
dence, and that the average jury is a great fool,
and that he will come back when he has
evidence to clear himself, and not sooner. Then
he stoushes the policeman, gathers his best
girl (who is also suspected) under his arm,
and strikes out for Central Africa. He gets along
part of the way disguised as a policeman and pro-
fessing to be in pursuit of himself, and the rest by
lying, or shooting, or driving his boot into the
chest of whoever gets into the road, but he is
quite solid in his determination not to stay and
take any British justice. And his friend, the
comic curate, does likewise. The curate’s small
trouble is that the girl whom the villain seduced
handed him her unlawful baby and went away.
He was too conscientious to throw the infant over
a fence, so all the elderly pussy-cats of his con-
gregation set him down as its father, and he is
cast out of his parish. He ought also to spank
his chest and say that he will face his accusers
and clear his character, but he doesn’t. He dis-
gustedly takes up his infant, and leaves his
character behind, and goes to Africa also.
* • * •
Then the seduced girl in this quite un-
usual drama, instead of drifting round in tears
about her lost honor, or drowning herself, or
becoming a mendicant and having the bone thrown
to her on the mat, puts on her prettiest clothes,
and takes a billet as barmaid, and is quite happy
and respectable. She doesn’t even come back
on a snowy night to die on her father’s doorstep,
or call in at a graveyard and faint on her
mother’s tomb. In fact, everything, including
certain adventures in Africa, in which the hero
routs an army of niggers by means of a flying-
machine, is more or less unexpected. Barring a
painful savage and a feeble policeman, the co. does
its duty very well. Miss Helen Burdett is a streak
of loveliness in the character of the heroine, and
Misses Ada Woodhill and Alice May are two more
streaks. Circumstances force the latter to disguise
herself as a boy, and three sailors partly undress
her for a bath before she can explain her identity
and stop a very interesting insult. Harry Diver,
for the first time since The Bulletin knew him,
makes a reasonable success as the good man of the
story ; also Bert Bailey, Harcourt, and Fitz-
gerald give the tale a kindly lift in various places.
Bailey, who wears the soft hat of a blameless theo-
logical life till he is blighted by having the infant
handed to him, is rather an interesting character.
An ineffective invalid is so promptly strangled in
Act I. that he hasn’t time to become a burden.
News arrives once that he is having a fit, but
happily he does it behind the scenes.
** * *
A dramatic spec, whose days promise to
be few and much blown upon by the cold wind of
affliction, lifted the curtain last Saturday at Syd-
ney Criterion. John Cosgrove, Johnston Weir
and Miss Inez Bensusan are three bright spots
in a hungry desert of cast, and two or three
other people leave some greenness in the wilder-
ness, but a considerable part of the company is
plain desert without even a small bottle-tree on
the far horizon. Cosgrove puts much vigor into
the part of the hero, and Miss Bensusan, who
appears for the first time as a middle-aged lady of
horrible character, makes that lady far the best
feature in the production, and earns a large fresh
laurel all her own. The heroine, on the other
hand, is wooden and woesome ; also her voice
is flat and her hat is unspeakable. The play has
some possibilities about it under better circum-
stances. Miss Bensusan’s scapegrace son is in
trouble at the beginning through his secret
marriage to an adventuress; but when his wife
proves to be a short costermonger girl with a
bunch ©f hair on her forehead, and a frowsy dresss,
and a huge sixpenny hat flying loose over one eye,
all the possibility goes out of the business. Es-
specially so as her father is a burglar with a
short pipe, and her brother a hairy murderer
attired in a black eye and a Bill Bikes eap. These
people heap themselves on top of Cosgrove and
carry him by night over the back fence of their
“crib” in a low part of London, and leave him on
the railway line. There is beautiful sylvan scenery
on the railway line, the kind one would naturally
find just across Bill Sikes’s back fence. And
there in the dead of night the express comes along,
and as the man who finds Cosgrove can’t unfasten
him, and has no signal light, he waves a very small
pocket-handkerchief in the dead of night, and the
express at once comes in and stops dead. Evi-
dently it was only ten yards off when the rescuer
hung out his handkerchief, and was a very tame
express indeed.
• • • •
An alleged phonograph, however, calls for
the loudest sniff of scorn. Cosgrove having been
disinherited for marrying the wooden girl, goes off
to some land not particularised to make his for-
tune, and his friend Johnston Weir brings back a
message which the ’graph delivers in a gruff voice
that seems to have lost its false teeth. Later on
Miss Bensusan lays a plot for the ruin of Cos-
grove’s bride (who gets a long spell in gaol) and the
phonograph, which was listening, repeats her
remarks afterwards in the proper quarter. It
repeats them in the same gruff tone with the same
blast blowing through its missing teeth—therefore
the audience gets a dark suspicion that the
same man is speaking each time. The ’graph
isn’t a weapon to be taken seriously when it
cries out through its funnel in the good cause of
justice. The short girl improves greatly as the
drama proceeds, but just when she is beginning to
develop into a pleasant character she suddenly
relapses, for no discoverable reason, into the old
frock, and the coster accent, and the insulting
sixpenny hat, and spoils the illusion. There are
patches of good dialogue in the “Dangers of Lon-
don,” most of them contributed by the two
burglars, and some humor and not much plot;
and a certain steamer isn’t at all bad. With a
better co. and better management, and a phono-
graph that had a less obtrusive cold on its chest, it
might come to something. But the present phono-
graph wants to be booted right over the tank.
** * *
The Doll opera at Her Majesty’s is alive
and well, though its fourth week is nearly over.
Probably the fact that Sydney has been so long
without opera makes it take its Doll in a more
cordial spirit than might otherwise be expected, or
possibly the wooden charmer is making way en-
tirely on her own merits. This paper isn’t quite
certain, but the cash results are the same either
way.
*& m *
No change is due at Sydney Royal for
some considerable time yet. The little wooden
horse which carries the last remnant of Baker’s
fortunes runs for his life like a little wooden hero
every night, and comes in by several lengths. As
for the Jewish-looking youth who strangles Miss
Watson, after hearing her perfidy through the
keyhole, the mystery of his fate remains unex-
plained. Miss Watson strangles very success-
fully ; she is of a lithe and sinuous build, and she
writhes in a realistic, serpentine fashion when the
Jewish youth gets her throat in both hands, and
finally coils up on the floor in a kind of boneless
abandon which suggests that she is really dead.
The complete straightness of the dramatic dead
too often spoils the illusion.
** * *
The old, forgotten Alhambra, down in the
remote wastes of Brickfield Hill, Sydney, re-
opened on Saturday after an almost unbroken
silence of years. W. J. Wilson and Percy St.
John are lessees. The theory is that at the far
end of George-street there is a population that
wants to get to the city theatres, but knows it is
no use trying because it would drink its eighteen-
pence by the way ; and that this population can be
profitably reached by bringing the bones and the
tambourine-nigger and the interlocutor to its door.
The new venture commenced with large houses, at
all events, and looks at present like bringing
wealth to a deserving management. A very
respectable co., including John Coleman, of the
never-to-be-forgotten Scarecrow Dance (that per-
formance which suggests the canter of a hanged
curate in poor circumstances), is in possession, and
the scenery is put on with a liberal hand.
** * *
Dante, conjuror, magician, wonder-worker
and miscellaneous wizard, opens at Sydney Palace
Theatre on Saturday under the management of
L. J. Lohr.
** * *
Albert Bellman and Lottie Moore have
returned to the Tivoli, the latter being favorably
remembered as the brown-haired vision with the
green shoes who used to turn a somersault in a
pantomime. The charming Ada Reeve has also
joined Rickards’ show, but, though she can somer-
sault likewise, the great heart of Sydney is true to
the two green feet that flew over the brown head
in those pleasant bygone days. Biondi remains,
too, and is becoming more different people every
day, and the disagreements which arise between
the different people who are all Biondi grow excit-
ing. Some day that combustible Italian, when he
has seen himself through the window making love
to himself disguised as his own wife, will burst in
before the other two of him have had time to get
away, and w ill do both of him an injury.
* « as *
At Melb. Bijou, the good humor of
“Jane,” plus the charm of popular prices, didn’t
excite a rush for seats, and, on Saturday, they
revived “The Little Minister,” with variations
from the original cast. Melbourne seems to be
“qff ” the Bijou, otherwise the quaint Scotch play
might have prospered exceedingly this time, for it
emits the smaller stage, and is, in a measure, all
the better for being more quietly aeted here than
at the Princess’s. Lesly Thomson—he was im-
ported to play the name-part, but fell a victim to
sciatica as soon as he came to hand —is now chasing
Babbie for the first time. Cecil Ward took a
bold, melodramatic stand, and was an essentially
heroic shepherd of the auld kirk flock, whereas
Lesly Thomson is a mere boy in appearance—
an odd-looking little fellow, very unassertive, and
quite true to the character as it shapes in Barry’s
book. Cecil Ward was an effective stage-lover.
The new Meenister is a simple suggestion of the
verdant Rev. Gavin Dishart, and he puts a differ-
ent complexion on the play. Some parts of it look
weaker, whilst others look stronger, than before.
Take him altogether, Lesly Thomson has a
nationalising influence on the play; the fine
old whusky elders of the kirk are in line
with him, and, although he is very much
gone at the knees, The Bulletin will put it
down to the sciatica and expect his unlucky limbs
to improve. Other changes in the cast are satis-
factory. Walner Gregory, who made a painful
impression as the Captain, is now posing as the
old Earl, and W.G.’s commanding pose and big
elderly voice (which would pass for Wilson Bar-
rett’s in the dark) fill the billet nicely.
* * #
The last week of Pattie Browne’s short
season will be probably devoted to “The Dove-
cot, ” a recent London comedy adapted from the
French by Charles Brookfield.
* * *- »
The scenery and costumes in “ Under the
Red Robe ” give a high tone to that vague, un-
certain narrative, and audiences at Melbourne
Princess’s are quite as numerous as could be ex-
pected. The play, apart from the fittings, doesn’t
improve on acquaintance. It is a gaudy adapta-
tion of a light story. There was not much character-
drawing in the novel, and there is no reality
about the principals in the drama. Julius'
-Knight introduces himself as a person to be
shuddered at. He swaggers into a “two-up
school” and the other gamblers remark, “Ha!
the Black Death ! ” after which he runs his sword
into a dissatisfied juggins and is sentenced by
Cardinal Richelieu to become a private detective.
When the audience next see Julius he is adding
burglary to his private detective business, and
from time to time he gives vent to remorse, by way
of endeavouring to explain why the heroine fell in
With him at first sight. But the dull baritone
‘ O Gods ” of the Black Death gentleman don’t
explain his success with the fair sex. To people
who haven’t read the book the play is a puzzle.
They never get an idea as to the purpose of
the insurrection which is about to be promoted
by the wooden husband. This useless rebel ap-
pears to have plotted away all his property, bar a
parcel of diamonds, and when the diamonds are
found to be missing from the place whence Julius
Knight prigged them, the wooden young man’s
sister states that the Honor of the Family is lost !
Julius, who was hiding behind a panel all the
time, produces the Honor of the Family from his
pocket, and the maiden having previously cursed
him for the mean private detective that he is, falls
at his feet and asks forgiveness, instead of asking
him what he meant by stealing the bag of Family
Honor from a secret drawer in a secret cupboard.
The one quite satisfactory performance is
George Majeroni’s Cion, but the drama is slow to
proclaim Cion’s dumbness, therefore the general
public regard his gesticulations as low-comedy
business, and his shrieks of agony in the back-
ground don’t command much more sympathy than
the sufferings of the Xmas pantaloon at the point
of a red-hot poker. Miss Ferrar and Julius Knight
are to blame in this matter. They speak of Cion’s
dumbness, but they don’t drive the point home.
Their elocution begins to pall upon the ear; it is
so mannered and mechanical. The Bulletin
would pass further remarks upon the two mono-
tonous voices aforesaid if they were not less irrita-
ting than W. F. Hawtry and Gaston Mervale.
** * *
At Melb. Royal the new serio-comic
spectacle is pretty freely patronised, especially in
the gallery, where the small boys take out their
sixpen’orth in warbling the chorus to “ Sons of the
Sea. ” Manager Charles Maurice sings the verses
with much Franco-German expression, but his top-
note needs assistance and that’s where the gallery
comes in. Left to himself frisky Maurice
would sound rather out of keeping with
the song’s sentiment; for he can’t bark like “boys
of the Bull-dog Br-reed that made Old Hingland’s
fame.” Nevertheless his foreign enthusiasm is in-
fectious, and his circus manner of bounding off
the stage between the verses is an entertainment
in itself. The Bell Ballet and the volcanic erup-
tion of-fireworks have improved with practice,
also the original Lord Glenarvon took ill on Satur-
day and another lord filled his place and shone by
comparison. There are places where shines by
comparison are almost inevitable.
s}f * *• *
The Poluskis are re-appearing at the
Opera House for 12 nights only, and the liver of
the dyspeptic infidel who writes this paragraph
will get shaken up violently during their stay.
The two Poluskis are many degrees brighter and
more various than any other two men in the
variety line, as far as Australia knows. Their
mixed performance yields fifteen different
sorts of laughs, and two or three of the choicest
brands are beneficial alike to the mind, the stum-
mick, and the soul. How rarely does one’s im-
mortal spirit find anything to roar at in a music-
hall “turn” which concludes with acrobatics!
Next Saturday a couple of new ladies, Nellie
Wilson and Ethel Yorke, will arrive at the Opera
House; also Ajax, the puttiest and contortion-
ablest person on earth, is to appear shortly.
For “ Poverty Point ” see page 28.
“ T.D.” : Said that, as one among many
duties, N.S.W. Registrar-General Long, who
suicided the other day, had to sign an average of
1000 documents a day—3l3,ooo a year ! A care-
ful and conscientious man would have to read
through all these papers, and allowing a half
minute to each, this moiety of his duties would
take up eight hours a day. But the wonder is
that Parry Bong, with a splendid private bank-
balance, should have troubled himself over a Govt,
billet at all.
Marriage Laws.
Public scandals connected with the perform-
ance of the marriage ceremony are compelling
Victoria, as from time to time they compel the
other provinces, to potter with its Marriage
Act. One would have thought that marriage
was an institution old enough to have had its
legal formulas permanently settled long ere
now. Yet every year reveals abuses which
create new ones, and, owing to the defective
ecclesiastico-civil legislation that is in fashion
in English-speaking communities, the loosely-
conducted matrimonial agency, the disfrocked
hitcher-on, the marriage-brocage contract, the
marriage-trap, the drunk’s ceremony without
ceremony, the carelessly - compiled marriage-
register, and so forth, luxuriate all over Aus-
tralia.
* * » *
There is no doubt that, while the State
deems it its duty to insist that couples are pro-
perly hitched, it is also its duty to provide
simple and uniform methods for the operation,
and that can only be done when the control of
the marriage ceremony is entirely within its
own hands. At present in Australia it allows
the Church to do part of the State’s duty, and,
to a great extent, trusts to luck that the
Church does that part properly.
* • * *
An imperium in imperio is always dangerous
when the Church is the imperium, and it is
nothing short of marvellous that British com-
munities, usually so jealous of Church interfer-
ence, should have allowed its intrusion in
marriage so long, especially when one remem-
bers that most of the most church-ridden States
of Europe have succeeded in preventing Church
interference in this particular matter. The
State cannot allow the Church to celebrate
binding civil marriages without recognising
Church officers as being for this purpose State
officers. And certainly this recognition is not
a desirable one—for the State. The Victorian
experience, resulting in the present attempt at
improvement, goes to show that serious abuses
must grow when the State recognises as civil
officers irresponsible people over whose choice
it has no control and whom it cannot dismiss at
pleasure.
* * * *
The plain way out of the difficulty is to enact
that, as long as a ceremony is held essential to
marriage, the ceremony must be performed and
the contract entered into in the presence of a
civil official, and in a civil form of words.
• m * *
Such a law, recognising marriage in the
only way it should be recognised by the State,
as a civil institution, can offend nobody ; for
there is no reason whatever against the parties
interested having, in addition, whatever ecclesi-
astical or other ceremony their consciences
approve, performed before or after the civil and
legally-binding ceremony. This method works
well in Austria and in Italy, countries in which
the ecclesiastical element would be sufficiently
strong to cause the repeal of the law if grave
objection were found against it.
* * * »
The person before whom the contract is
entered into would be a civil official, appointed
and removable by the State, with hours of duty
regulated with regard both to decency and
convenience, and would not be allowed to turn
his office into a mart or a house of assignation.
He would besides be in duty bound to accu-
rately register the marriages, and would thus
do away with the uncertainty and confusion so
often now resulting from the haphazard and
trusting-to-memory entries of perhaps half-
discarded pastors.
• * * *
It is to be hoped that, even if the provincial
legislatures do not dare to brave the clergy in
this matter, it will be one of the very first
things dealt with by the Federal Parliament
under the powers given it in marriage matters.
Curious that the last legislative work of
Q. Premier Byrnes—head of a long Govt. —was an
attempt to pass a democratic enactment—Work-
man’s Lien Bill.
Felicitous juxtaposition of two items in
Sydney D.T.
Mount Vesuvius is again in a state of dangerous
activity.
The Emperor William of Germany says that the Euro-
pean peoples now live in serious times, and revolutionary
designs will have to be forcibly combated.
Grainger, S.A.’s political Ishmael, of whom
the Moonta miners ought to be getting rather
tired, made an attempt to maintain his some-sort
of reputation as a financial critic by a slashing
attack on the State Fire Insurance Bill. Grain-
ger’s argument was that foreign insurance co.’s
only succeeded (most of them don’t succeed) by
spreading their risks over a large area—they put
only one small egg in each basket. Which was
answered beforehand by M. Twain—“ Put your
eggs in one basket, and watch it!” When a man
gets scared about having too much hen-fruit in one
basket he puts some in another. And very often
that other basket straightway goes over.


SUNLIGHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
BLEACHING POWDER,
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, 1
36/38%
/itharfre,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hv. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Curme-st., Adel.; Queen-st., Brisk.
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
ME It CM A N TS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(C/O S. HOFFNUNG & 00., SYDNEY)
—bttyer op—
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires the Rough.
Oh Invitation mil Fisit any Oe nv Field.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.S.W. revenue for September, 1898 (£691,240),
is £10,173 better than that for September, 1897. For the
three months now concluded of the financial year, the
revenue (12,226,146) is £110,973 ahead of that for the cor-
responding quarter of 1897. So far, the expenditure
(£2,248,695) is £22,549 larger than the revenue. As for
the loan expenditure, it still swells amazingly. For the
quarter, £501,348 of borrowed money has been spent, fully
half of it on unproductive works, which should be paid
out of revenue, as compared with £367,522 for the cor-
responding quarter of 1897 1 If this rate of expenditure is
kept up, the year ending June, 1899, will be celebrated by
the biggest riot of borrowed money that N.S.W.
has heard of since 1892 —the year when Dibbs
tried to slacken off the borrowing frenzy, and to
persuade N.S.W. not to charge quite all the culverts and
the wooden bridges and wharves to posterity.
y * * *
Tasmania’s revenue for September was =£68,745,
an increase of £1457 on the figures for September, 1897.
Nine months of the financial year have passed, and the
State receipts of the Isle of Sleep-a-Lot are,£61,175 ahead
of the figures for the corresponding period of last year.
At the same time, it begins to look as if the rise had
nearly spent itself, for the time at least. Tasmania’s best
record was in ’9l, when the revenue reached £883,199.
Then it fell so suddenly that in 1894 it was only £696,795.
For the present year the long-bearded Fysh reckons to
beat even the 1891 record with a revenue of £913,275.
This is assuming an increase of £68,000 over ’97, and with
£61,175 already to the good, and three months to run, he
may get there.
» * * »
Victoria’s revenue for July, August, and Sep-
tember is £1,684,281, being an increase of £100,332 on the
receipts for the same three months of 1897. And as the
proposed new borrowing boom hasn’t started yet, the
increase is not the result of any fictitious state of pro-
sperity created by the pouring of loan moneys into the
country—the fictitious boom isn’t quite due yet. Vic-
toria, like Tasmania, doesn’t publish monthly statements
of expenditure, so that no comparison can be made under
this heading ; in this respect Turner might do well to
follow the wise example of N.S.W. and Queensland. Also,
now that the revenue begins to show a large improve-
ment, it would be a good time to pass a law making com-
pulsory an annual payment of £200,000 or £250,000 in
reduction of the deficit. Nobody doubts that Turner will
toil vigorously at the reduction of the deficit so long as he
keeps office, but if he goes out of office Duncan the
Boomer has the reversion of his billet, and old Boom Dun-
can requires to be strictly tied up to make him go even
reasonably straight.
* * * *
South Australia collected <£562,361 as the
quarter’s revenue to 30th J me, 1898, as compared with
£558,326 for the corresponding quarter of last year—an
increase of £4085. This looks as if the luck of the most
drought-stricken province in Australia had begun to turn
at last. The awfulness of S.A.’s bad fortune in the last
five dry years is shown below :
1893 1898
Wheat—area (ac.).... 1,732,711 1,522,668 dec. 210,043
Wheat—yield (bush.) 13,618,062 4,014,852 dec. 9,603,210
Barley—yield (bush.) 205,577 162,065 dec. 43,512
Potatoes —yield (tons) 22,958 9,308 dec. 13,650
Horses (No.) 187,666 164,820 dec. 22,846
Cattle (No.) 423,602 274,255 dec. 149,347
Sheep (No.) 7,267,642 5,032,541 dec. 2,235,101
Pigs (No.) 86,418 46,894 dec. 39,524
Even in these circumstances the Kingston Government has
contrived to make ends meet —on paper, at all events—for
three years out of five.
• • • *
Westralian revenue for September (<£218,389)
was £21,746 less than that for September, 1897. The talk
now is of a shortage of £500,000 as compared with the
Treasurer’s estimate. The six provinces pan out as fol-
lows for the quarter as compared with the same quarter
of 1897 :
New South Wales —Increase .. .. £110,973
Victoria „ .. ... 100,332
Queensland ~ .. .. 52,116
Tasmania ~ .. ... 9,382
South Australia ~ .. .. 4,035
Westralia Decrease.. .. 64,118
* * * *
Maoriland Opposition professes to be dreadfully
grieved in the stomach over the alleged fact (which no
one seems to have heard of before) that the London Stock
Exchange refused last July to admit a proposed Maori-
land conversion loan of £2,700,000 among its list of quoted
securities. It doesn’t appear to be absolutely certain yet
that the painful event ever happened, but, supposing it
did, the Tory party considers that the credit of. the pro-
vince has been dragged in the dust—something after the
manner of a drunk being taken to the lock-up along a dry
road. This necessity for keeping on terms of favorable
grovel with the London Stock Exchange is one of the
inevitable woes of the borrowing system. If one of the
Seven Provinces would absolutely swear off borrowing,
and disrespectfully cast off the London Stock Exchange
for ever, it would be a pleasant change. Then, when its
loans fell due and it couldn’t pay the principal, it could
simply give every holder 3 per cent, interminable stock,
repayable at the State’s option, for his expired securities,
and save all the usual flotation expenses, by telling him to
take them or leave them. It might be a trifle high-handed,
but it would be reasonably honest, anyhow ; and, if the
London Stock Exchange felt so bad as to refuse a quota-
tion for the new consolidated 3 per cent, debt, and thereby
damaged the province’s credit, the province need not
mind, it having resolved to ask for no more credit. Also,
if the Stock Exchange’s action ran down the price of the
securities, it would be so much the better for the province
when it started to buy them in and extinguish them.
* * * •
Premier Turner’s proposal for the conversion
of the Victorian public debt is plain and choke-full of
common sense. He doesn’t propose any large conversion
scheme at all, having decided that the reduction in inter-
est wouldn’t be worth the extra principal that the bond-
holder would want; he merely asks a general authority to
replace the 4 and 5 per cent, loans as they become due, or
nearly due, with a uniform 3 per cent, stock. During the
next five years 9J millions of high-priced loans fall due,
and by renewing at 3 per cent. Turner expects to save
the province £120,000 per annum interest. At least part
of the saving is to go towards a sinking fund —if Parlia-
ment has sense enough to see the value of the pro-
posal. Probably it was the experience of Maoriland
which convinced Turner that large loan conversions
don’t pay. That province, when interest dropped
to 4 per cent., decided that it had about reached bottom,
so it induced the holders of £19,724,000 of miscellaneous
high-priced State securities, with various terms to run, to
exchange them for £21,325,000 of 4 per cent, stock ; and,
in addition to giving the holders £1,600,000 more debt as
an inducement to convert, it fixed the new loan till 1929.
It saved a good deal of interest by the deal, but now it
finds that if it had left the matter alone, and paid the old
6 or 6 per cent, till the old loans expired, it could have
converted them at 3£, or perhaps even 3, per cent., and
saved more interest in the end without adding £1,600,000
to the principal. Then interest got down to 3£ per cent.,
and Maoriland started another conversion operation. It
exchanged about £6,000,000 of old securities for 3£ per
cent, stock, and gave the holders nearly £500,000 extra
stock as an inducement, and also fixed the 3£ per cent,
rate till 1940. Now interest is down to about 3 per cent.,
and this second transaction also looks like a hideously bad
bargain. The State that goes making big loan-conversion
deals with the London financiers generally finds it has
been playing dice with the devil.
* * * *
The Australian Alliance Assurance Co. (Mel-
bourne) finished up a bad year on 31st August, 1898. The
fire, marine, and fidelity-guarantee departments ended
with a loss of £14,792, and, on top of this, a dividend of 6
per cent, on nominal capital, or 15 per cent, on the
amount originally paid up, is declared, absorbing £7500.
This is done by withdrawing £25,000 from reserve. Just
at this same disastrous period, it has occurred to the
management that it has never made any proper provision
for the depreciation of its assets since the boom time, and
another £lO,OOO is appropriated for this purpose, reducing
the reserve from £llO,OOO to £75,000. Six years ago, the
Australian Alliance had a paid-up capital of £50,000, and
£200,000 reserve, but it transferred £75,000 of the reserve
to capital account, and wrote off £15,000 on account of an
unlucky transaction with the deceased Federal Bank.
The recent proceedings of the Australian Alliance have
been as follows :
Prnfita Dividend on original
ir roots. ca pital of £50,000.
August, 1892 .. £25,832 40 per cent. £20,000
„ 1893 .. 23,003 „ „ 20,000
„ 1894 17,351 „ „ 20,000
„ 1895 .. 10,011 27J „ 13,750
„ 1896 ... 19,978 30 „ 15,000
„ 1897 ... 15,384 30 „ 15,000
Loss.
August, 1898 .. 14,792 15 „ 7,500
Profits £96,767 Dividends £111,250
While paying these huge dividends out of a declining
business, the Australian Alliance, as already mentioned,
made no adequate provision for losses, and its balance-
sheet simply intimates that £315,000 of assets (three-
fifths of the whole concern) are “ book value,” and £lO,OOO
more are put in at “cost.” Another item of the assets
are “Australasian Insurance co. shares £27,577” (the
whole paid-up capital of the Australasian is £25,000.) The
directors make no definite statement as to the amount of
depreciation; and whether the present appropriation of
£lO,OOO will cover all of them not otherwise provided for,
or whether it will only partly cover them, doesn’t appear.
The Australian Alliance runs a small life-assur-
ance department which is steadily fading away. The
triennial investigation (made on a sound 3£ per cent,
basis) shows a surplus of assets over life liabilities of
£9235. In 1895 no bonus was declared, and despite this
fact the surplus is now £9OOO less than it was three years
ago, so apparently the life department has barely paid its
way. This time also no bonus is declared, and the whole
surplus is carried to suspense-account to provide for de-
preciation. This and the other provision made leave
£20,287 to cover possible losses on £527,000 worth of
assets, and if it isn’t sufficient, as there is no more sur-
plus left in the life department, presumably the share-
holders’ reserve fund must stand the consequences. At
all events it would be much better to write everything
down to present values at once, and let the whole situa-
tion be made clear; the method of leaving inflated values
standing among the assets and a reserve (which may be
sufficient, or more than sufficient, or quite insufficient)
on the other side, is hazy and unsatisfactory. The fact
that the life assurance funds last year yielded only
£3 15s. 4d. per cent, interest on their alleged value cer-
tainly looks as if a very considerable writing down is
much needed. Also, the Australian Alliance has paid
huge dividends quite long enough on the reputation of its
past prosperity. Even a very strong co. can’t afford to
pay away more than its earnings in dividends too often.
* * * m
It is announced that the Southern (Marine)
Insurance Co. of Melbourne has decided to sell out to an
English co.—the British and Foreign. This makes the
fifth Australian insurance co. that has sold out this year.
There were 14 (Maoriland and Tasmanian not counted) at
the beginning of 1898 ; there are now only nine, and Tiie
Bulletin’s idea about State insurance, or else Protection
for the local insurance industry, keeps growing stronger.
The Southern died from the usual cause ; it paid glorious
15 per cent, dividends in the good times, and never
piled up enough reserves to enable it to stand even a
moderate spell of bad ones. So, after an honored and
profitable existence of 34 years, five bad half-years (not
consecutive ones, and only one of them very bad) made it
crumple up. During the last six years it made over
£14,000 profit, and spent over £33,000 in dividends—and
died. If it had accumulated a respectable reserve in its
good days, and invested it in State securities instead of
boom mortgages, the Southern might have been a 10 per
cent, investment for a few centuries yet.
The most remarkable collapse in the insurance
business has been in S.A. Fifteen years ago S.A. had six
fire and marine insurance co’s, with £215,000 capital and
£lBB,OOO reserves, and one mutual life office (the S.A.
Mutual Life, founded in 1880, and just trying to get on
its poor feet with £9BO of accumulated funds). Now the
whole seven have disappeared. Also, three banks have
vanished out of four that S.A. possessed in 1883, so the
great wheat province has established a very good record
of financial smash.
* • • •
The Victorian Permanent Building Society,
another of Melbourne’s huge land speculation concerns,
closed the year to 31st July, 1898, with a loss of £6909.
How the Victorian has been going of late
July, 1893—Loss.. £7,832 I July, 1896—Loss.. £7,439
„ 1894 „ .. 15,809 „ 1897 „ .. 6,946
„ 1895 ~ .. 8,107 I „ 1898 „ .. 6,909
In addition to this the Victorian has written off, in six
years, £10,715 losses on realisation of properties. The
above list comprises trading losses only, arising from ina-
bility to earn even the very humble 21 per cent, interest on
the reconstructed deposits. In fact, the Victorian’s trou-
ble is that it earns practically no interest for its deposi-
tors at all. It has nominally £578,000 worth of assets,
and they produce a sufficient net revenue to cover
working expenses and interest on £BO,OOO bank
overdraft and mortgage. On these figures the
most probable explanation is that the whole lot
are worth something under £200,000 at present
values, in which case the shareholders’ capital of £231,000
is wholly lost, and the institution is only good for some-
thing over 10s. in the £to its other creditors. The Vic-
torian, like a good many other Melbourne companies,
makes no attempt to show the present value of its assets,
or to reveal how it really stands ; but, so far as can be
estimated by the figures supplied, its situation, barring a
revival in property-values, is quite hopeless. And no one
knows whether there will be a revival in property-values.
It all depends on whether present prices are normal or de-
pressed. If a comparison of the municipal valuations of
Sydney and Melbourne with those of British cities of
about the same size means anything, present values are
about normal.
* * • •
Melbourne Permanent Building Society, for the
year ended Ist August, 1898, puts up quite a respeccable
record by showing a profit of £ls23—equal to rather over
17s. percent, per annum on shareholders’ capital-which
brings the reserve-fund up to £3120. Also, it proposes to
pay Od. in the £ to its debenture-holders, in reduction of
liabilities. The recent, troubles of this institution :
August, 1893 —Loss .. £5605 August, 1896 —Profit.. £BB4
„ 1894 „ .. 9860 „ 1897 „ .. 1220
„ 1895 „ .. 508 „ 1898— ~ .. 1523
In 1895, the Melbourne Permanent persuaded its deben-
ture-holders to reduce interest from sto per cent., and
since then it has improved so steadily in a small way that
it seems to have a good prospect of surviving its worries.
* * * *
The London Bank of Australia announces that
it will repay, on Ist January, the first instalment (one-
tenth) of its reconstructed 3 per cent, deposits. This
instalment falls due on Ist July, 1899.
• * • •
Apparently the Victorian land - boom is now
an orphan—at least old O. H. James, the hairy “ father"
thereof, is dead. The circumstances are peculiar.
James went broke for £851,842, and he was crushed
for a dividend of 6Jd. in the £. A further investigation
was proposed, in order to see if any gold had escaped
in the tailings, but, when matters were still in a
rather unfinished state, James’s solicitor turned up to ex-
plain that the old gentleman was fading away, and
“ being one of those men who liked to leave a clean sheet
behind him,” he respectfully applied to have his certificate
handed over without further worry. It was no good ask-
ing a dying man for particulars, and the legal gentleman
thought the document might as well be made out at once.
But the court, after a very large think, postponed the
matter for a fortnight with a view to further information.
Perhaps it had occurred to the court how very foolish it
would look if O. H. James unexpectedly made a complete
recovery soon after the certificate was granted. Or per-
haps it couldn’t see how the certificate could make C. H.
James’s sheet look any cleaner where he was going, so
long as the other 19s. s|d. remained unpaid, and wanted
expert theological advice on the subject. And so poor
old James died uncertificated after all.
« * * *
The Bankers’ Institute in Melbourne is intro-
ducing “ to the trade ” the prospectus of a scheme for
enlarging itself into a Benefit and Assurance Society on
safe lines. The Institute hitherto has been mainly a club,
with a pretty valuable library of banking literature which
possesses few charms for the average member. Under the
new scheme the use of the institute as a club would be but
a minor consideration. The scheme appeals to bank em-
ployes everywhere throughout Australia (they number
6000, at least), by offering them, on easy terms, a means
of providing against the time-honored “ rainy day.” It
doesn’t ask a bigger subscription than the average pocket
can afford, and it is a feasible, business-like scheme, well
deserving support and encouragement from bankers, old
and young. Full particulars are given in the latest issue
of the Bankers’ Magazine, but anyone who wants to be
enthusiastic in the good cause had better communicate at
once with O. H. Davis, the Institute’s secretary.
* • * *
The Brunswick (Melb.) Gas Co. loomed large in
the Wallace family law-case. Old Johnny Wallace, in the
first instance, advanced £40,000 or so on mortgage to the
Brunswick co., and had to take over the business. Wal-
lace has now arranged, or is arranging, the sale of it to a
new co., the new co. to be formed on the strength of a
contract with the Collingwood and Fitzroy Town Coun-
cils. By the terms of said contract the new Brunswick
co. undertakes to supply Fitzroy and Collingwood with
municipal gas at £4O a year less than the Metropolitan
Gas Co.’s tender. The change will entail the disturbance
of 80 miles of footpath. The quality of the Brunswick co.’s
gas is pretty sure to be no better than the Metropolitan
co.’s gas, and the new co. will, perhaps, go to pieces as
the old co. would have gone but for Wallace’s
advance from the Monahan trust funds. In short, the
Fitzroy and Collingwood gas contract is such a very
unwise-looking arrangement that one of the Fitzroy coun-
cillors threw up his billet rather than keep company any
longer with the men who were working for Johnny
Wallace’s scheme. Wherefore the self-retired councillor
is a local hero of the moment. More particularly since it
has become clear that Wallace had urgent reasons for
wishing to get quit of his precious gas co.
» » « *
Sydney Health-Inspector states that in recently
visiting a certain establishment he found the brands of 24
well-known butter-makers on boxes being filled with mar-
garine ; and the manager of Sydney Fresh Food Co.
alleges that he has known margarine to be shipped under
a well-known brand, as butter, to Victoria. In view of
the fact that the Sydney margarine-factories are turning
out about 14 tons of the stuff per week, it is high time for
official investigation as to what becomes of it. Margarine
may be as wholesome as butter, or more so ; but to put it
on the market branded as butter is simply false pretences.
* * * *
Among the jury empannelled in a recent action
under the Employers Liability Act in Vic. County Court
were a mining investor, a manufacturer, a manager, two
importers, two merchants, and three “ gentlemen.” No
wonder that employers and corporations are anxious to
have Supreme Court actions remitted to this court. The
pretence is that such applications are to save cost, but the
constitution of the average jury-panel shows that it is
really to ensure a verdict. And they generally get it, too.
* • * *
The dodging draper, so rampant in Australia, is
in Germany treated like any other obtainer of money
under false pretences. Anybody professing to sell cheap
by reason of “ expiration of lease,” “ removal,” “ retiring
from business,” and so on, is liable to heavy fine in case of
misrepresentation. Also it is penal falsely to profess to sell
at or under “ cost-price.” A great deal of what, with
us, is called “ business,” is, in Continental countries,
ruthlessly relegated by law to the proper category of
“ robbery.”
* * * *
“ J.T.”: The inwardness of N.S.W. railway
administration of freight matters is ungraspable by the
casual consignor. Recently, a Sydneyite wished to con-
sign some machinery from Penrith to Bourke. He found
the freight would be, in even figures, £45 ; but, by con-
signing from Darling Harbor, £4O, while freight from Pen-
rith to Darling Harbor was about £2. He consigned to
D.H., and, without untrucking, re-consigned to Bourke,
and saved £2 ss. Therefore the dept, dragged the stuff
34 miles to Sydney, and 34 miles back, and made the con-
signor a present of £2 ss. for doing it. If the railways
charge £42 15s. (including shunting charges) to carry an
article 537 miles, and £45 (without any shunting) to carry
the same article 469 miles, how much will they charge to
land the mathematician who attempts the solution of the
problem at Oallan Park asylum ?
* » • »
The smelter-hands at Block 14 works, Port
Adelaide, have supplied union organisers with the text
for a mighty, moving sermon. These hands didn’t have
any organisation, and when a notice was issued intimating
that the furnaces would be run with fewer men, they
stared at one another, said “ Blank} ,” and wouldn’t “ go
on shift.” So the whole works were laid idle, part of the
mining and mill staff at Broken Hill was knocked off, and
railway traffic arrangements were upset. Three days
afterwards, when a Labor-member and Trades-hall man
or two had rounded up the crowd and talked to them,
they asked for an interview with the directors and
manager, got it at once (the manager said he had been
waiting for them all the time), explanations were made,
and the workmen went back as satisfied as fellows are
likely to be who realise that they have made asses of
themselves and lost three days’ pay into the bargain.
Now a union is being formed.
* * * •
The 10-head battery at the Beacon Gold Mine,
Bucca Creek, N.S.W., ran continuously for 18 months
without a stop, and has now put through 10,500 tons ore,
and only had one short stoppage for overhaul. This bat-
tery was manufactured and erected by the Austral Otis
Engineering co., of South Melbourne, who are well-
known makers of all kinds of mining and other machin-
ery. They have lately purchased the plant and
stock of the long - established firm of Langlands
Foundry eo., now in liquidation, and, as they
have all the patterns, can supply duplicate parts of any
machines made by Langlands.*
The strike among Block 14’s smelting hands at
Port Adelaide bred uneasiness at Broken Hill, where re-
cent activity on the part of the Mine Managers’ Associa-
tion in calling for wages returns from all departments was
thought to foreshadow a “cut.” But managers deny that
it is anything beyond “ introducing uniformity ’’—though
news as to whether it is a matter of levelling up or down
is awaited with some anxiety.
* * * *
Bendigo’s first placer, Garden Gully United,
paid its 300th div. the other day, bringing the total to
£730,670. Though the stuff now worked rims about
4oz. to the ton,- the best results were got by tribute
co.s in the early seventies ; then the yields were up to9oz.
For years, though, the average was down to 4dwt. The
co. has a shaft down 2500 ft., and much stone has been
broken at 2300 ft.—big, but poor. Present “make” is
above the 1450 ft., and runs anyhow, from an inch or two
to over 4ft.
• *
Gympie’fi little boom is not succeeded by the
usual burst, and this has been accentuated by the tricky
behavior of No. IN. Oriental and Glanmire. Some Q. re-
sults : —N. Smithfield, Gympie, 1368 tons, 9650 z. Phoenix
Golden Pile is making a recovery. No. 1 S. Gt. Eastern,
625 tons, 1300oz.—Is. 3d. div. Charters Towers : Kelly’s
Blocks new reef looks promising—crushing, 250 tons for
6640 z. ; Brilliant and St. George, 1134 tons, 15400 z. ; Day
Dawn P. 0., 330 tons, 4590 z. ; Clark’s Worcester, 151 tons,
2900 z. ; Queen’s Cross, 250 tons, 308 oz.—both of these
weak in a sensitive market. Papuans also in the doldrums
despite favorable reports from the mine. Croydon 5 and
6N. Golden Gate, 143 tons for BQsoz. ; sale to Bull syndi-
cate of No. 1 ditto ditto for £lO,OOO cash said to be com-
pleted.
* * * *
Tindall’s, outside Coolgardie, raised and crushed,
for the half-year to July 31, 1456 tons stone for a yield of
sdwt. 22gr. ; total value of gold, £l5lB 17s. 3d ; total net
expenses (mining, milling, general, and all other charges),
£1460 15s. 2d. At present the average monthly profit,
after paying all expenses, is £6o—and still they are on
under 6dwt. stuff. This ( is the sort of thing that gives
hope that what there is in a field will be got out of it.
• » • *
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
* * • *
Mt. Lyell, during Aug.-Sept, run, treated 14,825
tons ore and, as usual, increased tonnage produces a heavy
decline in average value. Mt. Lyell is singular in this
respect that its low value painfully obtrudes itself in its
early infancy, whereas most other big mines manage
things better. For first two complete half-years the
following averages were maintained :
Copper. Silver. Gold.
30th Sept., 1897 .. 4-699 per cent. 4'090z. -19040 z.
31st Mar., 1898 .. 4'51 „ 3'920z. -185 oz.
How persistent and fatal has been the decline during past
half is shown by following :
Open Cut. No. 4
Copper. Silver. Gold. Copper. Silver. Gold,
per cent. oz. oz. per cent. oz. oz.
April .. 2-54 2-57 T 59 .. B'3l 8’99 ‘077
May .. 3-24 375 169 .. 7-00 8‘22 ’OB3
June .. 312 3’33 143 .. 6'76 8'97 ‘067
July .. 2-41 3-00 113 .. 5’95 13'91 ‘073
Aug. .. 3-01 3-44 160 .. 4'97 2418 -048
Sept. .. 2-78 3-39 149 .. 4 "38 21‘26 -050
Whilst the figures are sufficiently appalling, the most
serious aspect of them can only be appreciated by a demon-
stration as to how important it is that No. 4 Tunnel ore
should maintain high value. The evidences of average
value go to show that No. 4 shute is being rapidly ex-
hausted. During the past four weeks’ campaign, the co.
treated 14,825 tons, being 13,516 from open cut and
1309 from No. 4 Tunnel. The recovered value of the
Sept, run was £37,986 12s. As the co. admits a
practical working and realisation cost ©f 355. per ton
the profit for the period may be stated at £12,042.
The open cut, with its 13,516 tons, contributed £7995 of
the profit, and the 1309 tons from No. 4, £4047. That is
to say 8-89 per cent, being the proportion of No. 4 pro-
duced 33-61 per cent, of the profit, and the other 9111 per
cent, from open cut, 66-.39 per cent. July returns give
even a more startling illustration of the importance of No.
4 tunnel as a factor in profit production. Of 13,672 tons
treated 11,907 came from open cut, and 1765 from No. 4
tunnel. Profit on run, £8516. The 11,907 tons from open
cut produced £3179 profit, and 1765 tons from No. 4,
£5365 ;or No. 4’s 12"91 per cent, of ore gave 63 per cent,
towards the div., whilst the open cut, which, bear in
mind, is the “ witals ” of the mine—the No. 4 tunnel being
merely an incident, and one that is gradually effacing
itself—contributed for its 87-09 per cent, of tonnage only
37 per cent, of the profit.
• * * *
Jaquesßros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
assay ores, and treat samples up to 5 tons, by chlorina-
tion, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet or dry crushed.
Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp Batteries, Roast-
ing and Smelting Furnaces, and General Mining
Machinery.*
* * * •
A diamond-drill at the old Burra (S.A.) copper-
mine, down 800 ft., has been passing through sulphide and
sulphuret. There was always a doubt whether Burra con-
tained a true lode ; these and other recent investigations
support the “ ayes.”
• • • •
Moonta and Wallaroo copper-mines, now held
by one co., still employ 2131 men, though of these a
couple of hundred are smelting Broken Hill sulphides.
Moonta’s outturn for last half was 8898 tons (921 men) ;
Wallaroo, 13,963 tons (760 men). Moonta stuff nowadays
takes a lot of getting, and is generally poor. Together,
the ore yielded 3420 tons smelted copper. Go., which has
just spent £75,000 of loan-money on sulphide-smelting
works, hopes to be helped into regular div.-paying again
by that and the improved copper-market. The recovery
in the latter has been excellent—from £37 in 1889, after
the collapse of the French Copper Syndicate, to £52 at
present.
How the clergy delight to gibe at one
another. A Q. bakblox Methodist parson lately
passed the tick-demarcation line without having
greased his horse as specified by law. Was sum-
moned and fined. Met Father O’Flynn next day,
who thus accosted his spiritual comrade : “ Well,
Mr. you’ve been dodging the devil for the
last five years to my knowledge, and yet you can-
not dodge a common tick-inspector.”
Sugar as food :
Experiments were made during the last German
manoeuvres, on the value of sugar as food. Ten men
were subjected to the sugar diet, while another ten re-
ceived exactly the same rations as the rest of the army.
The men chosen for the special diet were weak corporeally.
According to the official report, the weight of the sugar-
men increased during the manoeuvres more than that of
the men on the ordinary ration. “It was proved that
during long marches the feelings of hunger could be kept
down for a longer time by the use of sugar, that the sugar
people suffered less from thirst than the others, and that
a few pieces of sugar sufficed to still thirst for a consider-
able time. It was also observed that symptoms of ex-
haustion or of sunstroke were quickly overcome by a
small ration of sugar.” The authorities now recommend
that sugar be considered a regular article of soldiers’ food,
and that above all, soldiers on the march should have a
supply of it.


V/
d
c
ORIENT
CLOTNINC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOK
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
Opposite j
SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SOCIETY
The story of the first instance known t©>
The Bulletin of a silent tongue marring a man’s;
domestic peace. A correspondent of this paper-
knows a man in Australia who is deaf-and-dumb,,
never learned any system of sign-language, and!
falls back on mimic-gesture to convey his views of
things. As a rule this has sufficed. Enabled him,,
20 years ago, to woo and win a lady as his wife..
Begat a family. Life was roseate as a toper’s;
hose' until 10 years ago, when his wife, probably-
tired of talking to a man who couldn’t hear her,
went off with' one who could. And now the first
man wants a divorce. Everything is fixed to that,
end but the necessary affidavit. That’s where the
thing jibs. His solicitor has had him in hand for
a month, and has worried himself bald over the-
matter. But he has had to give him up, which
must be heartrending, because tire deaf-and-dumb,
man has coin, and a noble bill of costs is thus
sacrificed. They say that Biondi isn’t a circum-
stance to that attorney since he undertook to,
interpret the affidavit to his client, and that his.
facial muscles have so far mastered his willpower
that his grimaces threaten to burst up his own
marital relations. It is a hard case for both lawyer-
send-client. It is particularly hard for the latter,,
because a pretty girl has consented by aid of
Cupid’s lingo to marry him, when he has cleared
the way.
* * * *
The predominant vanity characteristic of
most criminals frequently, if not generally, leads
to their detection. An Australian “ wanted
A SEARCH FOR THE PICTURESQUE.
ROMANTIC E NGLISHMAN: “Aw! could you—aw—
direct me-aw—to the — aw—Deserted Claim?”
SPAKING SAM : “ The Deserted Claim 'S'trewth!
never even ’card of the darned place! But
you take it from me, the Yellow Dingo’s the
best pub. in the whole township! ”
for what looks, like the very worst form of cold-
blooded murder is a case in point. Some bar-
loafers were vieing with one another in the dis-
play of odd tattoo-marks. The alleged assassin,
who was present, could not resist the temptation
to exhibit his own, though they had been widely
advertised as chiefly identifying him, and was
spotted at once ; now he is in the grip of the
law. One of the most remarkable instances of
this sort occurred in England a good few years
ago. A man named Dench on was wanted for
the murder of a woman. He had got nearly a
day’s start, and the detectives could get no photo-
graph of him. But he was known to bear an ex-
traordinary birth-mark, the minute, but perfect,
profile of a face, quite black, imprinted like a sil-
bouette (pre-natal influence again ?), just under the
clavicle, described as unique by the doctor who
gave the information. After a month’s fruitless
search (the man had shaved off a thick black
beard, completely altering his facial appearance,
it turned out afterwards) a detective one night
chanced to enter a tavern in Hull much frequented
by sailors. The seamen present were discussing
tattooing, and showing a variety of astonishing
designs. As he stood looking on the d. was
tapped on the arm by a solitary sailor who was
sitting by himself near the .door. “Look here,
mister,” said the man, “ I’ve got something
nat’rel, as’ll beat all they chaps can show ’ee.
What d’ye think o’ this for a mark? ” He spread
open his shirt-collar, and there was the nigger’s
head ! In ten minutes he was in the watchhouse.
He was to have shipped the next morning for
Callao, but his vanity hanged him.
* * * *
Taking forgranted thatDeputy-Supt. Webb
obtains the chief appointment, it will be interest-
ing to note whether N.S. W. Public Service Board
will go ’Ome, as usual, for a new officer for Sydney
Fire Brigade. There are several smart “foremen”
in Sydney, whose experience must be fully as valu-
able as that of anyone who can be drawn from
England at the salary. These were overlooked
when Third-officer Spark was selected a year or so
back, and the discontent sown at that time in the
brigade will become a big weed if the local men
with claims to promotion are again shunted in
favor of an outsider —who cannot possibly know
his Sydney from a fireman’s point of view for 18
months or more.
No humorist could possibly be a Christa-
delphian, and, of all pious bores who ever struck
Australia, lecturer Robert Roberts, whose death
is reported from ’.Frisco, was the most wearisome.
Roberts usually faced an audience of less than a
dozen—two bearded and solemn patriarchs, three
withered old ladies with corkscrew curls, and
several disrespectful small boys. Most of the
small boys filed out in disgust when they found
the entertainment to consist solely of talk ; the
others would fidget and scuffle in ' the back seats
until ordered out in a hilarious bunch by the door-
keeper. But the three withered ladies and the
solemn patriarchs nightly sat for two hours and
listened to a rambling discourse about the Beast,
and the Bull, and the Chariot, and the Arma-
geddon, all of which, seemingly, had some bearing
upon an imminent squabble between the Bear and
the Turk. The present scribe was naturally pleased
to learn that the inevitable Bull would' have its
customary horns in Armageddon.
*** . *
The Chinese of Sydney, “ Clistian ” and
pagan alike, recently joined in a subscription to
assist in the erection of a Confucian temple in a
village near Canton, over <£6oo being raised. A
Clistian Chow was spoken to by a missionary
about his inconsistency in supporting with his
substance a heathen temple, but John was equal
to the occasion. “Me love Lord ; when you
buildee church me give two pong. Me only give
joss one pong ! Whaffor you sing out, eh ? ”
* * ♦ *
Most of the news which drifts this way now
from faraway Rue Australia, in Lane’s promised
land of Paraguay, is something about woman.
The problem in Rue Australia is mostly about
woman—or the want of her. There isn’t enough
white female to go round, and marriage with the
local brown female is not considered the right
thing, though the brown female isn’t at all bad-
looking sometimes if she is caught while young.
Lane, who spends most of his time in England
now, sent out one or two small shipments of
female for marriage purposes, but there wasn’t
enough to fill the gap, and, besides, a shocked
committee of inspection sent much of the ship-
ment back on the ground that its morals had been
bad to begin with and had got worse. So a good
part of the time of the Rue Australian is spent in
yearnful gazing at the brown girl over her brown
father’s fence, and in anxious waiting for the
white girl-baby to grow up. The most prosperous
Rue Australian now is a person who left the set-
tlement early and started a drink-shop.
* * * »
Heard the other day in a Northern Court.
His Honor to Ah Cow : “ You speak English ? ”
“No!” “Where do you work?” “Nosavee.”
“ Yes, you do. You only want to let your mate,
the interpreter, earn his 30 shillings. Where do
you work?” “ Alonga garden. Nosavee.” “How
long have you been in the province ? ” “ ’Bout one
year.” (Mournfully). “No savee, Inglis’.”
“ 0.Y.H.” : We have a man up this way
who never takes off his hat at any time. Head
quite bald. T’other day an ingeni-
ous individual sued the “ hat-
ter ” for an obligation of
which defendant had never
heard before, but which he
acknowledged and settled
rather than have to exhi-
bit his bald pate in court.
GENEROUS.
MR. O’HOOLIGAN : “ Why,
Mishtress O’Flaherty, I
kem. to congratulate you
on your wielding. But what
does them widdy’s wades mane?”
MRS. O’ FLAHERTY: “It manes that Oi didn’t
have the manes to wape fer my furst good
man until I kem acrost O’Flaherty. But
Tim do he so ginerous that now I do he able
to show my respiet for Moike, rest his sowl! ”
Adelaide tobacconists and hairdressers are
in arms at the Govt, proposal to bring them
within the Early Closing Act, and piteously com-
plain that they will be ruined. All the same, the
Bill is favored unanimously by the employes, who
allege that they have now to work over 70 hours a
week, the long Saturday afternoons and evenings
being occupied in shaving the working man who
lias knocked off at one o’clock. “I don’t see my
children in daylight except one day in the week,”
writes one of the individuals who drag your hair
off for a consideration, to an Adelaide paper.
Dear Bulletin.—l was in
Melbourne Picture Gallery on the
day the painting of “Chloe” was
hung. The space opposite the
picture was occupied by half-
circles of chairs, and these again
by society dames and baldheads.
One decrepid old gent, shaking
with palsy and mouthing silently
and horribly, was helped up the
gallery to a seat by a fat, ferocious-
looking dowager in blue goggles,
and there he sat trembling and
winking his wicked, watery old
eyes at the innocent naked girl in
front. Close to me at the far side,
beneath “The Brigands,” were
two young parsons, one gloating
over Chloe through a pair of
opera-glasses! Said his friend,
“ Are you not exceeding youah
allowance ? ” The other "relin-
quished the glasses with a sigh.
They were each having five-minute
pops. And all this disgusting
behaviour over the figure of a
fourteen-year-old girl. And by
such sexual wrecks was “ Chloe ”
condemned as “ indecent! ” Ugh!
* * * *
The daily-paper bereavement
notices are getting to have quite a
business-like aspect. Latterly it
has become the correct thing to
incidentally thank Dr. Jones and
Nurse Smith for their kind atten-
tion ; probably, in the near future,
the florist will also have a look-in,
and the undertaker will be special-
ised for his sympathetic demean-
our. Also, what has the grave-
digger done that he should be left
in the cold ?
Harry Furniss has an illustrated article on
Sydney Domain in August Windsor Magazine.
One illustration depicts a haunted house ; a second
eight desperadoes most theatrically stalking a
“ Britisher ” and his best girl ; a third spirited
horses careering across the grass, chased by
mounted stockriders in impossible hats; and a
fourth a tree full of large brown bears. After
this, Cook and Sons will probably institute sum-
mer excursions from ’Ome to the Domain.
» * * *
A question incidentally and dreamily
asked by his Honor in N.S.W. Divorce Court :
“ How many wives may a man have consecutively
under the present N.S. W. Divorce Law ? ”
“Yardstick”: Drapers’ shopmen would
rather serve 20 men than one woman, because,
while men don’t enter a shop unless they really
want to buy, a woman will go in for amusement
and the feeling of superiority due to having a man
waiting upon her. Men are mostly so anxious to
get out that they will take almost anything in
reason, whereas, even when women have got what
they want, they will keep on asking to see more.
The most disagreeable women are the wives of
workingmen who have “risen,” and the hardest
men to deal with are the hen-peeked ; while worse
than either men or women are certain varieties of
parson. They are hard to please, and
their manner is so insufferable that it is
often only fear of the law that saves them
from being flattened out with the carp t-
presser.
Ed. Bulletin. —Re criminal
physiognomy, I know a man in the
Civil Service who was also profes-
sional burglar. He had marked
literary tastes, a wonderfully well-
stored mind, and unexceptionable
manners. Why he was a burglar I
don’t know ; but he was a scientific
criminal, whose skill exempted him
from the risks run by the average
law-breaker. He had been at this
work for three years when the matter
came to my knowledge. Never met a
cooler man. He knew what Napoleon
knew—“ what to do next! ” I can-
not say why he is still a free man,
or how I obtained my information,
but I challenge all-comers to in-
stance an equally surprising
case.—7 x 7.
» * «
Two of our
prominent citizens graced
the “Hariny’s” “peni-
tent-form ” the other
night—one, a butcher
and Irish; the
other, mining-
agentand Scotch.
Meatman testi-
fied to much
experience of
whisky and
women, but
felt a better
man without
them, and de-
clared that if he
had cheated any-
body he would pay
back to the last farth-
ing. The wild-cat artist
confessed to a former perfect
genius for sin of every description,
and declared that if there was any man
present he had defrauded he was willing to sit
down and talk it over 1 Sandy, ye ken, will only
be saved wi’ reasonable precautions.
* * * *
The Christian Endeavorers, seemingly,
have no Orange tinge in their creed. When they
went excursioning to Melbourne the other day
they were specially recommended, by the com-
mittee, to include St. Patrick’s Cathedral among
their places of call, notwithstanding that Holy
Church exhorts the Faithful to steer clear of
heretical tabernacles. Which suggests that the
Endeavorers make soinewhatfor religious socialism,
and are not so sectarian as they look.
* * * *
The recent departure for England of a
certain Governor was not unwelcome to his
Premier. The two could never hit it. Trouble
arose originally through the Minister’s wife being
ignored in connection with a big public function,
and the sore occasioned thereby never healed.
His Ex. as a blunderer in matters of etiquette was
A SEMI-POLITICAL ITEM.
FIRST : “ They're married, of course?”
SECOND: “ Er — well, they've formed a coalition."
quite unparalleled ; some of his mistakes, in fact,
were so absurd and the mischief occasioned there-
by so widespread, that even his own friends pray
that he won’t return.
* * * *
A Melbourne young lady with a large con-
nection in the valueless cheque business lately
made one little rise of by a heroic streak of in-
genuity. She called at a suburban post-office,
which was also a stationer’s shop, and asked for
letters, and the stout sympathetic lady behind the
counter handed her a telegram, which the visitor
had carefully sent ahead as bait. That post-
mistress has only a vague recollection of what
followed, for things went with such a'rush that
they took her breath away. The caller opened
the telegram with a smile on her pretty face ; then
FOR ALICE IN AUGUST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alice sits weeping- in the garden-chair.
A pique—a pout—and all our dear dream-palace
Falls in a rosy ruin : ’tis by malice
Of some sly deity who harbors there !
And as I stand, “ Ah, please to go ! ” the fair
Sentinel lily hears, that bends her chalice
Over the garden-chair and weeping Alice :
Yet going, “ Ah, don’t leave me ! ” thrills the air.
Wondering, I watch a sad cloud hide the sun :
A cloud—a mood—hint for a lover’s part !
I’ll clasp the soft hand by the lily sleeping . .
It clings ! A sudden ray gleams in the dun,
And leaps down gulfs of space to light my heart
Where, in the garden-chair, Alice smiles weeping.
A.G.S.


'IT
A
You
ForGOJTEH
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-st., Melbourne;
11 Pitt-street, Sydney;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane.
she utter' - ! a shrill shriek, “My God, he’s dead ! ”
and fell insensible right on to the postmistress.
The latter couldn’t do less than hold her up, and
drag her into a chair, and pour water or ink or
whatever was handy over her, and fan her with
£1 worth of twopenny stamps. When the pathetic
visitor recovered she explained that it was her
brother who had perished without the slightest
warning. The telegram corroborated the story. Then
she selected a large quantity of black-edged station-
ery suited to her condition, dropping real tears all
over the stock as she did so, and afterwards found
that she had no change. All she had was a cheque
for £3, which her poor dear brother had given
her only the previous day to buy a dress with
(here she again fell insensible on to the postmis-
tress, and was brought round with difficulty),
and which must now be spent on mourning. It
was impossible to have doubts after all this tearful
corroboration, so the postmistress cashed the
cheque without a murmur. And the bereaved
one’s paper came back marked “no account.”
Her bright young countenance turned up in the
dock the other da3% and when she got 12 months
she did exactly the same shriek and fall. But the
court wasn’t taking any cheques.
* * * *
The case of Dr. Orpe«, acquitted, at Auck-
land, of a charge of murder, arising out of an
alleged abortion operation, will be an expensive
muddle for the Maoriland Government. It was a
tangled proceeding from first to last. The girl,
who died, left the usual depositions behind her,
but they were taken by an amateur J.P., called in
at the last moment by another doctor, and the
J.P. didn’t get them in legal form to begin with.
Then they were kept back somehow till Orpen had
left. Orpen, who is old, and frail, and nervous,
claims that he was advised to leave by another
doctor—or scared into leaving, or hustled away
before he had time to collect his ideas. It cost
-£2OOO to capture the old man and bring him back
from California. Then a doctor, who had gone
to England, had to be found and brought out
as a witness. After all this was done, the in-
formality in the depositions suddenly rose up, like
a camel in the early dawn, and confronted every-
body. Finally, it appeared that no one was quite
sure it was an abortion case at all, and everything
faded away in mist, or went to pieces. When the
trial was over, poor old Orpen went down to his
former quarters, to look at the dust which had
accumulated on the ruins of his practice. And
there he probably decided, as a good many other
doctors have done, that when a patient starts by
saying she is an unmarried lady in trouble, about
the best thing to do is to shoot her on the spot.
• * * *
Again the smart identifier ! In the
Strathmerton case, the body found, sewn in a bag,
in a creek, was promptly identified by one Bed-
ford (family “ Recklessness ”?) as that of a man
named Lindsay, whom he knew well; and it was
only when said Lindsay’s brother turned up to
take the body home to his sorrowing widow that
the corpse was found to be 9in. too short ! Lucky
thing that Bedford the Bewildered was identify-
ing a corpse and not a prisoner 1
Journalism—The school of the great ! Syd-
ney D.T. advt: —
TOURNALIST, wanted, to edit country weekly,
** chance engage other work, £2 week.
Apply, by letter, with copies of testimonials.
“ PRESS,” c/o W. W. Pearson,
Bookseller,
5 Macquarie-place.
Two pounds a week—but surely the run of the
pastepot is thrown in.
* * * *
In a Victorian court, the ‘'other day, a
butcher-man was charged with exposing decayed
meat for sale. The meat was placed on view, and
it promptly made a rush for the door and had to
be brought back by the police. Defendant pro-
duced his father as an expert, and the old man
not only gave it as his opinion that the meat was
perfectly wholesome, but offered to eat a sample
of it in public by way of guaranteeing his own
good faith. Probably he didn’t expect to be taken
at his word, but the prosecution sawed off a strip
of the horror, and the ancient ate the gruesome
provender there and then. When he was quite
finished the Bench convicted his butcher-son and
fined him £ 5. If it had convicted him in the
first place, the parent would probably have thrown
his awful hunk of food out of the window, but the
court didn’t want to lose the fun. And, consider-
ing the old man s evidence, the court was quite
right. Every man who gives a certificate of
character to bad meat deserves to eat it —even if
it is dog.
* * * ♦
Hobart municipal dog-catcher t’other day
tried to arrest an alleged stray dog, but a Chow, who
really owned Toby, violently interfered, with an
BOTH TO BE PITIED.
HE: “ I’m so nervous; I always blush when I shouldn't."
SHE: “ Oh, I’m just as bad; I never blush when I should.”
indignant “ Wha’ for?” The dog-catcher wasn’t
going to be bluffed, so proceeded to do his duty,
let the heathen rage as he might. Then John
shed his coat and sailed in. The man with the
noose retaliated, and a willing set-to sprinkled the
pave with gore, and drew a big crowd. An ex-
Judge and an alderman separated the combatants
just in time to save the honor of the Caucasian
race and uphold law and order ; for John was
getting a long way the best of the scrap. N.B. —
The dog got away.
* * » *
“Melb.”: All the meaning is hardly
realised of the St. Patrick’s requiem mass for the
Austrian empress. Is Roman Catholicism the
State religion ? Here we have the Acting-
Governor, representatives of Parliament, the
military and naval forces, the Melb. corporation,
and everybody attending in an official capacity.
Why not a service, rather, at the Anglican cathe-
dral? Well, not a Catholic would have attended,
but all the Protestants were here. Surely it can-
not be credited that the bulk of those who went,
including Dr. Bevan, believed they were solemnly
assisting at a mummery—a mass for the dead in
purgatory.
« * * *
M.L. advfc. :
]\/T ATRIMONIAL.—Gentleman, 26, of noble descent,
-L'-L wishes to marry a rich young Lady.—Write to
“Englishman,” Opitinui P. 0., near Coromandel.
“Simple faith,” according to Tennyson, is more
than Norman blood. Better, though, is a com-
bination. She will supply the “ simple faith ” ;
he will furnish the “Norman blood.”
* * * *
The sanitary officials report that nearly
all the fatal Melbourne cases of measles occurred
in poor-tenement localities. When “God saw
everything that He had made, and behold it was
very good ” the landlord did not exist to squeeze
toll out of his fellow-mortal for the privilege of
enduring an existence in a swamp-built tenement.
Some of the members of Vic. House of Land-
lords receive rentals of 3s. per week for the most
miserable dens conceivable.
» * * *
Gilbert Smith, once well-known in Sydney
as a pressman and as Oriental interpreter,
puts his solemn affidavit to a hair - raising
leprosy tale in Perth (W.A.) Sunday Times.
There is no law in Westralia authorising
the arrest and detention of lepers, and no one
attempts to make such a law ; therefore the
patient, if he likes, wanders about loose till he
dies. Gilbert Smith alleges that he personally
knows of twelve lepers who walk the streets of
Perth:—
Some of the men (all Asiatics) were engaged in various
pursuits —market gardening, laundry work, cooking, and
even (last summer) selling ice-cream. ... I often
meet these lepers. One unfortunate wretch in par-
ticular, hiding his hands in his pockets so that
his wretchedness and misery may not be observed,
the skin drawn tight to his leonine features, show-
ing that only a little longer and the end must come.
To that extent has this miserable creature gone, that he
has cut the toes'off Jhis boots so that he might give relief
to the fast vanishing portions of his feet. His country-
men, out of pity, gave him shelter in sheds and other
outhouses, and his disease keeps him away from the
streets at night, so no policeman can arrest him for vag-
rancy. Sometimes, with the few pence he collects, he
visits hotels and indulges in long beers to drown the
misery which he suffers. Is it possible to imagine how
far these visits to hotels, the occasional feeds at coffee
stalls by this poor leper, have helped to implant in some
poor European the germs of this most awful of all
diseases? Truly, do the Orientals say that|God, when
He sent leprosy to man, was only kind enough to
make it a painless death.
* * * •
An open-air lady photographer is estab-
lished near the pavement in front of Carlton
Gardens, Melb., corner of Nicholson and Victoria
streets. She has a big red sign hung on the rail-
ings, “Portraits finished in two minutes.”
“ Cherub ” : Be loves of
brown man and white woman
—here’s a true yarn: An
Indian colonel had a gover-
ness sent out from England
for his two children ; and, as
the lady turned out to be
rather fast and free, it hap-
pened in course of time that
the colonel, the adjutant, a
major, and a captain were
obliged to hold a solemn
consultation, resulting in
decision to make a “pool”
of a “ monkey ” a-piece as
dowry for the flighty fair
one, on condition she'd marry
a certain color-sergeant, who
was known to have cast
longing eyes upon the for-
bidden fruit. The lady was
agreeable, the wedding came
off all right; and in due—
or rather undue—time the
colonel learned that the C.S.
had been made a father of.
“Haw, Atkins,” he said,
next time he met the C.S.,
“ I believe I have to con-
gratulate you, haw ! ” “No
fear, sir ! ” was the answer.
“ She’s beat the lot of us.
The kid’s a half-caste ! ”
* * •
“ Y.A.” : Suicide comes
very near to manslaughter
sometimes. Friend of mine
was “ tubbing ” in his bed-
room, when he felt a tug
at his sponge, also he heard
a muffled report. Thisseemed
uncanny, so he got up to in-
vestigate. Saw the water
getting low in his tub, and
found it running out through
a hole in the bottom, and,
when he shifted the tub,
he was able to look through
a hole in the floor! The
bullet that had lodged in
the sponge had come from a
Martini by way of the brain-
pan of the senior partner,
whose room was immedi-
ately below, and whose
affairs were afterwards found
in a very “ kronk ” state.
Luck. The other day a young man at Albert
Park (Vic.) took up a revolver from a friend’s
mantleshelf with which to hammer a tack into the
wall. The revolver was loaded, and went off ;
the ball cut a thin gold ring from the man’s little
finger, tore through his trousers, struck on some
silver he had in his pocket, ricochetted and pierced
the toe of his boot. Result: damage to trousers
and boot, and one broken ring. The man did not
suffer to the extent of a pin-prick. Moral: always
carry some money in your pockets.
“B.”: Last
Saturday night
was aroused (in
an E. Sydney
house) from
sleep much
after midnight
by an assault
on the door-
bell. Fearing
an urgent tele-
gram, rushed
to door, only
to find that
the visitor
was the gro-
cer’s man.
This unfortu-
nate is in the
service of one
of the largest
firms in Syd-
ney, and said
he had been
up since 5
a.m. to at-
tend to his
horses, and had
still two orders
to deliver. And
yet the wheeze
goes round that
“the early clos-
ing movement
is defeated
principally by
the women kind
of the working
classes.”
Dear B. —Re impure-drug question. I
happen to know that a dispenser at a very piously-
conducted Australian hospital was “ squared ” by
the leading salesman of a wholesale druggist’s firm
to take inferior brands. The firm would not have
tolerated such a thing for a moment if it had
known, but the employe was going for his bonus
on the profits, whilst the dispenser was supple-
menting his miserable pay.—H.G.
* * * *
Melbourne will hardly know itself when it
gets the new Flinders-street railway-station, at a
cost of <£200,000 or thereabouts. Under the
present arrangement of a main entrance at Prince’s
Bridge (where the booking-office is an open shed)
one may get soaked on a wet day, between the
time of taking the ticket and getting into the
train. For passengers, by most lines, there is no
way of escaping the wet. They may drive up to
the station in a cab, but they are bound to brave
the tempest before finding shelter in a railway
carriage. The terminus at Flinders-street and its
shabby brother at Spencer-street have been the
most marvellous features of Smell bourne ever
since that gaudy city started to build beyond its
means. Fink’s lofty edifice, at the corner of
Flinders and Elizabeth-streets, was a strange satire
on the railway-station directly opposite to it.
* * * *
One noticeable feature re the women’s
vote in S.A. is that the attendance of the fair sex
at the Parliamentary debates is no greater now
than it was before they got the franchise. Legis-
lators, however, pay those who do come far more
attention than they used to do, and they are
always escorting a bevy of women over the House
or buying them afternoon tea. The latter item
must be very expensive to some of the city mem-
bers, who, as a general rule, have very little money
to spare.
*-• • •
Inconsistency is the salt of life.
A woman likes a man just as long as she holds
him in perfect subjugation. When he rebels she
loves him.
Many an old maid wishes she were more re-
spected and less respectable.
We can swallow our scruples, but we taste them
again after they have gone.
The selfishness of the garlic-eater is perceptible
in every word he utters.
Better to be born lucky than rich. True happi-
ness is only for the poor man who wins first prize
in Tatt’s sweep.
Many people take the first step in a downward
career when they start to run up bills.
A still tongue never won fair lady, but a faint
heart makes a wise head in most cases'.
Good living makes bad livers.
He who gets intoxicated with flattery has a
swelled head in the mornihg.
Sins are just what one makes of them.
A fellow who sees himself as he is, always thinks
he is looking at somebody else.
Jealousy makes a man hot and a woman cold.
Money is the root of all —plural voting.
To the married couple who think of taking a
lodger—Three’s company, two’s none.
* * * *
Sydney State-school boy on the mutiny of
the Bounty—“ Just at this moment another rebel
called Christian came on deck, having in his hand
a cutlet, which is a very dangerous weapon ” Not
far out in these tuberculous days.
* * * *
“ Timi ”: In a recent Bulletin par.,
written less than half in earnest, it was stated
that a portion of the city of Auckland stands on
the crust of a great volcanic bubble, and that some
day it may “fall through.” Though the bubble-
story is no doubt a myth, there are circumstances
about the site of Auckland sufficient to cause un-
easiness to the imaginative mind. There are over
80 distinct points of volcanic eruption—extinct, of
course—within a radius of 10 miles of the town,
and the Maori names of some of them—-Rangi-
toto, for instance (meaning “ bloody sky ”) —would
seem to indicate that volcanic activity occurred
within comparatively recent times. Mt. I’ara-
wera, about 140 miles south, and the scene
of the disastrous eruption of ’B6, had no
traditions of previous outbreaks, and was
believed by the Maoris to be so thoroughly
and trustworthily extinct that they interred their
dead chiefs on its summit. Rangitoto, the island
guarding the entrance to the harbor, is therefore
just as likely to resume a career of destructive
activity as to remain quiescent; and, when it does,
the steamer from Sydney four days out will strike
a patch of muddy water —that’s all—and the glad-
NOT UNLESS HE WAS A CRIPPLE.
SHE: “Oh! I've had SUCH a fright. As I was coming through the park I saw a
man, and I did run. ”
THE BRUTE: “ Did you catch him?”
eyed burgesses of the rival city of Wellington wil.
be asking one another into Barry Sullivan’s pub.
on Larnbton Quay, and will be saying with one
accord, “ What did I tell you, now ?”
* * « *
“Malle”: That par. about green peas
recalls a down-south pastoralist who was at a
leading country hotel for dinner. There were a
few early peas on the table, and only one diner
had a dig at them before “Mick” clutched the
dish, which he coolly emptied on his plate with an
explanatory “ Oi’m a whale on grayn pays, gintle-
men.”
* * » $
“ Porthos ” : “ Creeve Roe ” calls woman
an “interesting fact.” Why not “entrancing
fiction ” ?
FAIR PARASITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Her husband? Oh, he died the other day.
She married for his money, and she set
Herself the task to break his heart, they say,
But she is beautiful—and men forget 1
Deep in the shade of a Papuan dell
I chanced upon a flaming- jet of red,
A mighty pillar, hollowed, like the shell
Of some dead tree ; but glowing till it shed
A rosy light into the forest gloom,
A sunny radiance beyond compare.
It was a creeper, flauntingly in bloom,
Surpassingly, unutterably fair.
Unaided it bore up towards the sky ;
The giant stem that felt its first caress
Had disappeared—and when I wondered why,
The breezes seemed to whisper : Murderess !
VIXI!
I have lived and I have loved;
I have waked and I have slept;
I have sung and I have danced ;
I have smiled and I have wept ;•
I have won and wasted treasure ;
I have had my fill of pleasure ;
And all these things were weariness,
And some of them were dreariness ;
And all these things—but two things—
Were emptiness and pain :
And Love —it was the best of them —
And Sleep—worth all the rest of them.
L.S.


A Difference
A
Big
Difference
If you have not worn Callaghan Boots,
\ve shall be pleased if you will call
and see them. Every pair is warranted.
in the shape and finish,
in the quality of leather
are
the distinctive characteristics
that single out
Callaghan Boots.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
895 George-street, Sydney.
An Excellent March.
A rather unique, though very expensive, method
of advertising has been hit upon by the Bile Bean
Manufacturing Co., who have lately issued an ex-
cellent piece of music entitled “The Bile Bean
March.” This production is not, as many might
reasonably suppose, a cheaply-gotten-up, unsightly
piece of music, but is published in a really first-
rate manner. It is printed upon best paper from
clear plates, and is altogether as neat a production
as any piece of four-shilling music on the market.
As to the march itself, suffice to say that it can
hold its own with any we have heard, and is far
superior to a great many. There is a swing and
go to it that is quite entrancing and altogether
peculiar to itself. The Bile Bean Manufacturing
Co. are giving this music away by post, and they
will be only too glad to send a copy to anyone
who will send their name and address to their
head office. The Bile Bean Manufacturing Co.,
39 Pitt-street, Sydney, will find them, and the
only condition is that you mention this paper
when writing, give your full name and address,
and enclose a penny stamp to pay postage.*
CATAPHORESIS
St. James’ Chambers, Kino St-., Sydney
(opp. the Queen’s Statue).
To the Readers of “The Bulletin.
It is with pleasure I inform you that I have
secured a NEWLY-INVENTED PROCESS,
by which Teeth can be prepared for filling without
causing the slightest pain whatever, no matter to
what extent they may be decayed, having already
proved beyond doubt the efficacy of this treatment
on some of our well-known citizens, whose names
can be ascertained if necessary.
That this is an immense boon goes without say-
ing, as by its adoption there is happily no room to
doubt that the Temporary Deadening 1 of Teeth
is possible; and you need not, therefore, be deterred
from having your teeth attended to on the plea of
the pain, which has hitherto been inseparable from
having a tooth filled.
In conclusion, I may add that I do not propose
to charge any extra fee for this treatment.
I have the honor to remain, yours truly,
CHARLES I. HARRIS.
Note.— The various methods adopted for Saving the
Teeth are duly explained in my Little Book, a copv of
which will be sent free of cost upon application.
KbOiE TEAS have N 0
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 4, 1898.
My Deae Myee—
Manly Wild Flower Show wasn’t the expansive
festivity of former years. Time was when the
show was looked forward to for weeks beforehand,
and drapers and milliners used its name for a bait,
as they use Randwick or the Cup. This year one
little hall held everything, and ten minutes put
the whole show away. Cardinal Moran, in a red
frock, rather dulled the colors of the wild flowers
at the opening ceremony last week ; Mrs. Prender-
gast’s pale-green toilette melted more har-
moniously into the background, and Mrs. Toohey,
in periwinkle-blue, was another conspicuous
helper. Canaries and wild flowers were the chief
products. The patience that converts prickly,
unyielding heaths and wooden waratahs into
sheets of flat decoration cannot be too highly com-
mended, but a wild flower show isn’t a kindness to
Australian flora. Our flowers are fairly happy
with a setting of native scrub and a background
of old grey gums, but they refuse to shine in arti-
ficial schemes.
Another churchy wind-raiser was the Gaft
Chantant lately held at St. Mary’s. Everything,
even the bishops themselves, point to the near dis
solution of the church’s dream, but Cafe Chantant
is still a long way from most clerics’ imagination.
Imagine Primitive Methodists branding their bun-
struggles with a name that calls up memories of
gay Paree ! By the way, the Sydney Diocesan
Association gives its annual musical festival at St.
Andrew’s Cathedral, Oct. 20, when all the Angli-
can choirs around the city will lift up their voices
in unison, led on by Montague Younger and Mr.
R. B. Parry.
Mrs. Waterhouse, of Waverley, where shells are
not unknown to fame, has been lending her house
to yet another charity, the Children’s Mission
Home. Shells on the beach are one thing, and
massed together in family parties under glass-
covers are quite another story, and a visit to this
collection is as much a charity to the visitor as t«
the Mission children. The finest group of cowries
in N.S.W. live together in one case. Then there
is the strange Voluta Musica, a little West Indian
shell scored all over with bars of music. Rare
butterflies and island curios are also on view, and
nice boys take you round and explain until you
swell with knowledge.
George Moore, in his new book, “ Evelyn
Innes, ” casts off a few disparaging remarks about
Gounod’s “Faust,” the Faust of the people, and
insinuates that it lives only by its Margaret.
Berlioz’s “Faust,” written as far back as 1866, is
coming up in popular favor, our own Philharmonic
Society giving two admirable renderings of it last
week. Certainly Faust, in the hands of Mr.
Weir, was a young man who might have lived and
died —as any other young man might die —on
lemonade. And Miss Edith King, as Margaret,
didn’t get beyond her brilliant vocalisation. And
the gentleman who sang Mephisto. was encum-
bered with a large, rubicund countenance that
mocked at the epithet “ pale-visaged, ” and a fine,
big voice that ran off the lines at intervals.
But the background of chorus and orchestra was
carefully managed, the instruments playing up
as if they knew they were working for Berlioz, the
master who gave them their first big chance.
“The Ballet of the Sylphs,” with Signor Truda
at the harp, waked all kinds of exquisite airy
phantasms, and the chorus that preceded was a
delicately-balanced matter wherein dreams and fire
and romance mingled fascinatingly. “The Hun-
garian March ” was encored, of course, and another
fine orchestral effect was the “ Will-o’-Wisps ”
minuet, with the orchestra calling up all manner
of ghouls, and gnomes, and night-birds to shriek
in musical vagaries.
More modern in its music was the “Willow
Pattern Plate,” a little operetta by A. C. Goring-
Thomas and W. B. Beattie, of this city. The
Society of Artists’ rooms were turned into a
theatre for one night only last week, and a bulky
crowd struggled for seats, or a bit of wall,
or anything to support them through an amateur
production presented by amateurs. As far as the
operetta went, the amateur element was scarcely
visible. Mr. Beattie’s words snapped happily
round the cleverly-arranged yarn of “ The Willow
Pattern Plate,” and Mr. Goring-Thomas’ slight,
but telling, music meshed the Japanese atmos-
phere into its melodies. Mrs. Fleming, a Willow
Waly who died for love and changed into a white
fowl, was a yum-yummy Jap. study of the right
calibre, but the three six-foot maidens with swan
necks somehow disturbed the symmetry of tbe
Japanese scheme. George Lambert’s brush made
some fine mountain scenery for the background,
and thunder and lightning were laid on with quite
a professional ease.
Mrs. Bland Holt’s ‘‘ at home ” brought another
big crowd to the rooms next day. After all the
“sit-up” parties of the season an afternoon in
Bohemia was as good as a flask of ozone. Miss
Ross, Miss Watson and Miss Fitzmaurice Gill
helped to make things cheerful, all the long hairs
in the city drank tea in unity, and the outer world
revelled in the light of the profession’s smallest
smiles. It was a treat to go to a party where the
hostesses didn’t think they ought to look bored.
Songs and music went on all the afternoon.
Frances Ross, in a highly-becoming toque, gave a
little Scotch recitation, Madame Leon Caron
carolled some of her husband’s music, and numbers
of professional musicians made up the rest of the
programme. Miss Elizabeth Watson, in cloud-
grey and daffodils, looked like a replica of hand-
some Henrietta, and revealed a much more charm-
ing phiz than her stage make-up allows her.
Breezy Mrs. Bland scattered smiles and pro-
Erammes in a floral silk frock, and kissed every-
ody’s babies between whiles. Miss Fitzmaurice
Gill was tailor-clad and a beautiful theatrical
with a carven profile wore wicked magenta with a
calmness anyone might envy.
Hetty Holroyd’s concert on Eight-hours’ Day
was not favored with an overcrowded house.
Eight-hour-holiday makers generally like to finish
up their trip round “our beautiful” with some-
thing “rorty,” and a concert falls a long way
short of the desired animation. Miss Hol-
royd, gowned in white satin and green
flowers, shook glorious shakes into the
echoing hall, and followed Ernani with
the “ Harp that Once.’ But surely a youthful
singer who has not quite arrived at the prima-
donna period might appear a little earlier on the
programme. It’s all very well for European stars
to work up the agony and keep the audience wait-
ing till the concert is half over, but it isn’t an
advisable line for budding pros, to follow. Edgar
Straus, with thin white face and Gottschalk’s
“Romance,” snared the biggest applause of the
evening, and Mr. Burns Walker sang “ Once ”
with just the feeling that the Once genus de-
mands.
That pleasant, precocious little girl, Lady Mar-
garet Villiers, who stunned Sydney society by
hopping gaily round the Vice-regal balls with her
hair in a pig-tail, is going to marry Hon. Walter
Rice, eldest son of Lord Dynevor. The same
Lady Margaret was a nasty pill for the people
who prided themselves oil keeping all the dear old
English conventions, and sent their own rosebuds
off to bed at eight every night. The baffling part
of the matter was that nobody was quite sure
whether Lady J. was merely countenancing a new
custom or whether she reckoned Sydney society
wouldn’t know any better.
Ever since Brenda Gibson went to England,
rumors of matrimonial engagements have been
wafted to Australian shores. Now all reports have
been condensed into the direct statement of her
marriage with a high-class English actor. The
separation of Brenda from the co, set at rest, it is
said, a lot of internal jealousy. Miss Romer
(mother of Bob Brough and of Brenda) used to be
very annoyed at the “fat ” parts being allotted to
her daughter-in-law, Emma Temple, and much
heart-burning on both sides resulted.
Down at the Quay, when the ferry boats come
in, lively doings go on at the doors of our ’buses.
Nowadays many ’buses have their own boy, and
every boy works all he knows to get people into
his vehicle, and to keep them out of any
other. _ Some of them merely crook their first
fingers into your face, and beckon furiously with
yelping invitations, but the really earnest ’bus-boy
will follow you right into Pitt-street, yelling
“’ere’s the ’bus you wants ; puts you down at the
door, and starts ’fore all others !.” I saw an old
lady endure much mental perturbation from three
of these rival parasites the other day. One danced
in front of her and tried to get her out to Waverley;
one caught her by the arm and dragged her towards
Glebe Point; one tugged at her parasol and en-
deavored to lead her by the handle into the wiles
of Waterloo. And she didn’t want a ’bus at all;
was merely trying to get a letter into a pillar-box.
But the ’buses that don’t keep boys are just as
larky. Some of the drivers play little games of their
own ; can’t count, can’t understand what you say
when you pass up sixpence, and ask for fourpence
instead of twopence change. At night they art-
fully prolong these little misunderstandings until
the theatres are reached, and people have to get
out and give up the struggle for their change. In
a crowded ’bus a little confusion is only natural,
but when there is only one passenger inside, and
that one has three fares stopped out of his coin,
and can’t make the driver understand, the con-
fusion assumes the aspect of the good old Heathen
Chinee biz.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ That charity concert in St. Kilda Town Hall
(Monday, Sept. 26th) drew a big audience, thanks
to the comedietta essayed by society amateurs.
The name of this drawing - room drama was
‘ Who’s to win him ? ’ —said ‘him ’ being an eligible
bachelor driven to bay by a quartette of charming
husband-hunters, personated respectively by Mrs.
Vallange, sisters Daisie and Leslie Madden, and
their bosom friend, Miss Eily O’Hara. Mrs. Val-
lange, as the horsey sister with hair coiled low
under a hard-hitter, skirt pinned up in front over
smart riding-boots, and whip in hand to flog her
habit in pauses of conversation, did not look her
best in these severe togs. Like her sisters, the
blooming buxom bride scores heavily in decollet-
age, showing plenty of plump white neck and
arm, or at a Govt. House garden-party, sitting
about in spring-like muslin and flowery hat.
_ “ The Madden girls, as the daughters of a prac-
tising barrister —for such was pa in their growing-
up days—were not brought up from the cradle to
ride, shoot, and hunt like the Countess of Hope-
toun (say) or, to come nearer home, the womankind
of the Cainperdown and Werribee clans. This ac-
counts perhaps for a certain lack of dash and
aplomb, without which a belle does better to leave
sporting cuts and colors alone. All the same, the
Acting - Governor’s girls are gifted charmers
enough. In the course of her stage man-hunt the
married one carolled ‘We’ll all go a-hunting to-
day ’ tunefully as a thrush. Little sister Leslie,
as Minuetta, a light-heeled schemer, tried to bring
down her shy bird by means of a skirt-dance. The
full-flounced skirt of her pink-muslin afternoon-
frock trailed on the ground in accordance with
prevalent methods, but the dancer didn’t hide her
satin shoes under its bushel, any more than her
gauzy under -skirts or filmy nether-frills. Judging
by that song of hers on the gullibility of men,
Eeggy Pryde probably would have pinned her
faith to Minuetta in the matrimonial sweep-
stakes. You remember her recipe for befooling
the soft ’uns: ‘ A nice little face, a neat little
figure, and a dainty bit of lace.’
“Bridegroom Yallange worked hard at a carica-
ture of an elderly lady-killer. Baronet Clarke’s
young step-brother was an inoffensive Squire with
a quiverful of marriageable daughters ; and pretty
Miss Ruby Madden, with pink re vers to her blue-
satin pelisse and blush-roses in her hair, arrived
under the careful escort of Colonel Campbell to
supply the comedietta of music.
“Also, the programme included two gruesome
recitations by girl elocutionists in virginal white.
The first of these parlor tragediennes led off with
‘ Clarence’s Dream. ’ The second followed suit
with a dismal tale of a patriot who, for the sake of
his country, saw his mother, sister, and sweetheart
butchered in cold blood, though a word from him
would have save them. His fiancee died hard too,
reproaching and cursing her young man, who saw
the thing out, and then was led off to the mad-
house.
“Tuesday night (Sept. 27th) conservatorium
students gave a concert in Melb. Town Hall in aid
of Children’s Hospital. Marshall Hall seemed to
jib slightly at the thought of his first plunge, since
the row, into the presence of a possibly disapprov-
ing assembly. Anyway, he was slow to show up
and worked off his preliminary excitement in warm
despatches to any door-keeper who dared to admit
late-comers during the item. One item lasted
20 minutes, and on a squally night that vestibule
is like the cave of winds. When at last the direc-
tor followed his worn, wan nose (he’s much thinner)
on to the platform, he came in for quite an ova-
tion. Even Mr. and Mrs. Acting-Governor pam-
pered him a bit. You see the concert was in
response to Lady Madden’s appeal, so in proof
presumably of gratitude and confidence she
brought along the youngest of her grown-up
daughters in an overall of snowy satin and fur.
Mamma herself was in black with a turquoise
necklet, a throatlet of pearls, and a blue-mounted
osprey in her hair. Janet Lady Clarke was on
view, too, in crisp crepe and speckless cuffs and
collar.
‘ ‘ Most of the girl performers wore white, and
all looked more or less attractive. Belles of the
occasion were winsome Olga Woinarski, bound for
Berlin to carry on her violin training, and Zelma
Wittowski, fiddling gracefully with pink roses in
her high-piled hair. They all smile so sweetly at
their director, these students, and he takes it with
the calmness of a prophet who knows his disciples
would rather have a kick from him than a kiss
from anyone else. Among the fiddlers that night-
a gentleman with curls hanging down his collar
was pointed out as ‘Max Dietrich,’ the subject of
one of those famous poems. People who don’t get
their hair cut regularly always seem to appeal
more strongly to trie artistic nature.
“The ‘"Under the Red Robe’ dressing is just
delightful. In the first scene, gallant after gallant
swaggers into the gaming-house until quite a con-
vincing crowd are on view. And such peacocks as
they are ! White satin small-clothes, laced and
corded with gold, plumed velvet hats, flowing
love-locks. And when their coats come off in pre-
paration for duels, their nainsook shirts are puffed,
shirred, and ruffled like one’s very best white mus-
lin blouses. It’s a mercy men don’t dress like
that nowadays. Matrimonial warfare would
increase a hundredfold if they did. Picture three
people trying to heat their curling-tongs at the
same candle ! And instead of merely darning and
sewing on buttons for hubby, a girl would always
be tacking in fresh tuckers and wristlets, and fix-
ing his back-hair for him, and re-curling his
feathers. She’d have no time to look after her
own things, and would have to settle down into a
drab little hen-bird on pairing-day.
“For that matter, the conjugal curling-tongs
difficulty is, perhaps, commoner nowadays than is
generally supposed. If the Acting-Governor’s
back-hair crimps of its own accord, I’m a booby!
“To return to the stage. Ada Ferrar’s first
appearance is in a sweeping gown of oyster-white
satin with chestnut coiffure of chignon and side
curls. She looks her best when she flings on an
imposing green cloak, lined with cinnamon-brown
and tied with green velvet cords and tassels which
brush her insteps. One red rose in her white satin
corsage, a plumed hat, and she is for the moment
a veritable Queen of Love and Beauty. Mrs.
Maesmore Morris wears a pink redingote over
white satin under-robe brocaded with pink, and a
small white matron’s cap. She looks very lovely,
willowy, golden-haired, and, of course, her features
are faultless. But as yet she’s not too graceful on
the boards. There’s something lolloping and flop-
ping in her gait as if she were due for a good old
loaf and lie-down. Gaston Mervale all in scarlet,
as Richelieu, wears a funny little white lace top-
skirt not under but over the red robe.
“Mrs. Besant had made all arrangements to
come to Australia to lecture on Theosophy early
next year, but wrote by a recent mail that, through
unforeseen circumstances, she would be obliged to
return to London from India, where she is now.
Also —this with reference to some rumors current
in a contrary direction—she appears to be per-
fectly satisfied with Theosophy in every way. The
long illness of her daughter, Mrs. Besant-Scott,
who is located at Melbourne, was probably a factor
in inducing her to come so far, but her intention
was to lecture on Theosophical subjects solely.
While in London, R. S. Smythe called on her, by
her request, to arrange for a second Australian
tour, but, owing to her refusal to lecture on any
but Theosophical subjects, he declined to under-
take the risk, feeling sure that Australia was not
sufficiently interested in Theosophy to make the
tour a financial success.
“Why,” said a lady University student, dis-
cussing a Professor, ‘‘ he actually told me one day
about his relations with his own wife. ” Chorus of
ladies: “Did he? did he? What did he say?
Tell us ! ” “ Oh, he said her knowledge of fugues
was shocking, and her harmony weak, and he said
there could be no true love where there was no
counterpoint. ” “Oh ! ”
Agar Wynne, M.L.C., in Yic. Legislative Coun
oil, when discussing the Women’s Franchise Bill,
said that when he read “The Sorrows of Satan”
he found it was written in such a masculine strain
that he was surprised to learn that the writer was
a woman. He did not know any man who could
write a more masculine work. The intellectual
quality of a legislative body where Marie Corelli
is accepted as a classic is rather hard to charac-
terise. The shrill and blithering Marie as a “ mas-
culine ” writer, too! A few cranky people have
talked of forming an Omar Khayyam Society.
Better make it an Omarie Corellyyam Society, with
Hon. Agar Wynne, M.L.C., as first president.
“Frances Tyrrell Gill (who has mightily im-
proved in her platform manner) had the bad luck
to fall over a box at South Yarra railway-station,
a few nights ago, and the bruised bardess is only
slowly recovering from the shock. She hopes to
be able to give her third lecture, subject, ‘ Women
Writers of the Century,’ on Oct. 6.
, “ The Trinity College warden (Dr. Deeper) pats
himself on the back, in his annual report, re the
students’ Greek play-acting at Melb. Town Hall.
‘ The year has been made specially memorable by
a performance of the “ Alcestis of Euripides.” It
has helped to carry the fame of the college to dis-
tant parts. Some of the leading English journals
have referred to the event in complimentary terms,
one especially noticing as an interesting fact that
this was probably the first occasion when a Uni-
versity college had been able to supply both the
men and women performers in a representation of
the kind from among its own students.’ Dr.
Leeper’s subservience to Bishop Goe and kindred
‘ goody-goodies ’ of the Trin. Col. directorate is
shown in the further interesting fact that he says
nothing about Marshall Hall’s musical adaptation
of ‘Alcestis.’ It were treasonable to mention the
‘ impious ’ author of ‘ Hymns Ancient and Modern ’
who converted the ancient tragedy into a grand
opera.
“A beautiful story of the Gearl of Yarmouth’s
life in Australia has been published by a London
newspaper. His lordship, it seems, came to this
rather dweadful country to make his fortune, but
at first he found it difficult to get to work, owing
to the hospitalities that were pressed upon him.
However, at last, he forced his noble way to the
sultry North, and went in for the cultivation of
mangoes, likewise other fruits of industry. He
used to gather the mangoes with his own fair
hands and pack them himself. Sometimes he was
‘ entirely alone, ’ and then, no doubt, his thoughts
used to wander to dear old Hingland, and the
House of Lords, and all sorts of lofty subjects. He
lived a busy, yet meditative life among the man-
goes until a third attack of fever gave him pause,
and finally persuaded him to transfer his valuable
services back to his native land. It is quite an
affecting story, especially as regards his Australian
struggles to get away from the people who pressed
their attentions upon him. And yet ‘ Yarmouth ’
didn’t wear a very worried appearance at the time
he was flinging his slender legs around the Bijou
stage. As a skirt-dancer, he seemed quite happy,
and there was never a note of sadness in his voice
except when he sang ‘Knocked ’em in the Old
Kent Road.’ He was thought to be enjoying him-
self. Nothing visibly troubled the noble Earl, not
even the Bulletin’s theatrical notice of his first
performance. He skipped into the manager’s
room, saying gleefully, ‘O, I say, oldfellar, doesn’t
this heartless johnnie give it to me.’
“There is much talk among Vic. politicians
about the snub administered by Duncan Gillies to
Acting-Governor Madden at the railway servants’
banquet. The A.-G., wishing to be genial, allowed
his fluent tongue to run away with him. And as
reference had been made to the claims of the rail-
way men against the Government, he expressed
the hope that they would get all they asked for,
and said they deserved even more. Whereupon
Gillies rather nastily said, when he spoke, that it
was easy for some people to ‘ ‘ play to the gallery ”
when they had no responsibility to bear. Turner
said very much the same thing in a nicer fashion,
but folks agree that Chief Justice Madden de-
served the snub. He has not acquired the guber-
natorial way (Hopetoun had it to perfection) of
saying nothing at all gracefully.
"Vours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
CIGARETTE?
□
Ul -
hUJ
z raui
<UlllJ(£
OOQhU.
Address (a. postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Paper.]
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Queensland’s first Premier —Herbert
still lives. Five others of her ex-Premiers are to
the fore, working or resting; five—Byrnes the
last—are dead.
The famous Duffy Land Bill came into
operation September, 1862. Dennistoun Wood,
now of Tas., is the only one of Duffy s colleagues
alive, but Sir Henry Barkly, the Governor of the
day, is still extant.
Sydney University has had seven Chan-
cellors since its foundation in 1851. _ Excluding
the present office-holder, Dr. M‘Laurin, only one
—Dr. Nicholson —survives. The medical baronet
was the second Chancellor.
The speculative Captain Wallington, well
known in Govt. House circles all round Australia,
is seriously tipped for private secretary to the
Gov. General of Federated Australia. Federation
must indeed loom near when the spot on which to
seat Captain Wallington can be descried.
Charles Pinhey, of the Treasury, Sydney,
and later on N.S.W. Registrar-General, but for
some time in England, has been appointed
secretary to the N.S.W. Agent-General in Lon-
don. Pinhey, an able man, is son of the old and
much respected Sydney coroner of that name.
The memorable M‘Sharry (N.S.W.) rail-
way-contract arbitration case closed May 13. The
arbitrator’s award may now see light any day—five
months after close of case. But there were 12,000
typed p.p. to be read. The case began 26th July,
1896, two years and nearly three months ago.
In a hut on the outskirts of the Murchison
(W.A.), the other day, they found the dead body
of “ Count ” O’Regan—an identity of many Aus-
tralian mining camps in their earliest days. The
“Count,” who had never lost the polish acquired
somewhere or other, died as mysteriously as he
had always lived.
Dicken, secretary to Agent-General Tozer
in London, and himself a candidate for the Agency,
was a N. Q’sland P.M. in the early days, and for
some time a goldfields warden. In the latter
capacity he was a terror to the Chinese. His
salary as London secretary is <£7oo, with a Tozer
promise of early increase.
Mr. Rennie (aged 78) may be too old to
continue as N.S.W. Auditor-General; but, if so,
he is certainly too old to take a Public Service
Commissionership. For how could the Board,
presided over by an octogenarian, justify its dis-
missal of the sexagenarians in the service, many
of whom are really in the prime of life ?
Rabbi Davis, in a sermon in Sydney Syna-
gogue, illustrated “the fleeting character of this
earthly existence ” by the demise of ex-legislator
S. A. Joseph, whose funeral had taken place that
day. Yet Mr. Joseph was 74 years of age, was
member for West Sydney 34 years ago, and was
recognised throughout the community as a shrewd
business man for nearly 50 years.
Hori Grey’s principal legatee will probably
prove to be his nieoe, Mrs. Seymour George, who
was long his constant companion. Her husband
was for years a member of M.L. Parliament, but
his sole claim to fame was the ability with which
he acted as chairman of the Parliamentary Re-
freshments Committee. A year or two back he
made a big scoop on Auckland Stock Exchange.
“ Yang Anyut ” : About that Q. Govt.
Geologist (“ B.” 17/9/’9B) whom I knew well in
his pre-Australian days, it is related that so often
did he leave the key of his portmanteau behind
that on one occasion his travelling companion
fastened the key round the geologist’s neck with
a string. At the end of the journey, when dinner
was half over and the man of mines had not
appeared, his friend went to investigate and was
relieved to behold the key still round Skertchly’s
neok. “ Oh, the key’s all right,” said the pebbly
one, “ but why in the name of Geikie didti t you
hang the blessed portmanteau round my neck ?
Then I should have stood a chance of having it
with me now.”
Major De Winton, who has just died in
England, was the author of a recent book,
“Soldiering Fifty Years Ago.” He came to
Hobart Town as Ensign in charge of a convict
guard in 1843. With his regiment (99th) he
served also at Parramatta, Windsor, Newcastle,
Port Macquarie, Brisbane, and Norfolk Island.
In “Fifty Years Ago” he mentions having met a
young attorney’s clerk who had journeyed from
Sydney to the coal city to defend a case, repre-
senting “ Bob ” Nicholls. The commandant was
the presiding justice, and after court invited the
young clerk to mess, a joyous evening being spent.
“ The young clerk was James Martin, afterwards
N.S.W. Chief Justice.”
Editor Bulletin. —You tell of “ Baldy ”
Davis, a member of your (N.S.W.) Parliament,
who has 14 sons, who all want to join the Austra-
lian Horse (cavalry regt.). We of Yankeeland
can always cap your stories. For instance, at the
interment of the Mormon elder Taylor, buried at
Salt Lake, Utah, a few years ago, there assembled
forty (40) stalwart sons of deceased, not one of
them under sft. 9Jin. (nine were over 6ft. lin.), of
the average weight of 156J1b. I was there and
saw them weighed, and can show you a photo, of
the group, taken at the grave-side, with my own
good self in the background.— Over Thar. [Send
along photo. Also, Baldy Davis is a decent, one-
wife’d man and not a Mormon.—Ed. B.]
Captain Lockyer, who died suddenly at
Port Adelaide just after the close of a dangerous
and difficult voyage with the disabled steamer
Adelaide, whose construction he supervised in
England 16 years ago, was one of the best-known
and most popular skippers on the Australian
coast between Sydney and Fremantle. He had
been in the service of Adelaide S.S. Co. ever since
its foundation 25 years ago, and during that time
he carried nearly half-a-million passengers, not one
of whom sustained the slightest injury of any kind
while under his protection. The worst accident
that ever happened to any of his ships was the
loss of a propeller or the smashing of a rudder.
Both these mishaps befel the Adelaide during the
last voyage he made on her.
There was a time when Hori Grey’s praise
and blame made or marred politicians. The popu-
larity of Joseph Augustus Tole, a young Maori-
land graduate of Sydney University who after-
wards became Minister for Justice, dated from the
occasion when Grey alluded to him as “my
talented young friend.” But when Tole took
office against Grey’s wishes in the Stout-
Vogel Ministry the old man wrung his hands with
a magnificent simulation of despair and said,
heart-brokenly, “ Poor Tole ! ” “ Poor Tole ”
stuck, and the star of Joseph Augustus waned.
Saturday Review has never heard of
Henry Kendall as a poet. In a scorching review
of Mrs. Fisher’s alleged poems it quotes her
egregious line : “ Lindsay Gordon, sweet Kendall
and Stella,” and comments thus : “If the sweet
Kendall of these extraordinary lines be the chaste
matron of the English stage we cannot think she
will be edified by any such company. And, in
any case, if Australia continues to produce such
verses as these we are determined to oppose Im-
perial Federation with our last breath.” Truly
Mrs. Fisher is awful—but Australia doesn’t make
her its official poet as England does with the un-
speakable Alfred Austin.
A Melb. weekly states that John A. Wal-
lace, M.L.C., settled =£40,000 on his present wife,
the niece of Premier Reid. People who ought to
know have said that the lady refused a settlement
(the explanation being that the money wasn’t
“ settled ” but just handed over) ; anyhow, if any
aspect of the <£40,000 story is true it may explain
trustee Wallace’s readiness (when cross-examined
re the Monahan estate) in asserting that he had
willed all his property to his children. Otherwise
he might have paused at the thought of how his
children’s stepmother would regard the arrange-
ment.
Be Johnny Wallace, M.L.C., and his
jumper. When “old John Bull Barton,” the
Little Collins-street “ kitchen-doctor,” kept the
hotel at corner of William-street and Chancery-
lane, his midday meal was a feature of the es-
tablishment, and very particular the “ Doctor ”
was as to his customers. Mr. Wallace came in
with a crowd from Goldsbrough’s, and when Bar-
ton objected to the “ jumper,” it was explained
that Mr. Wallace was somebody. The kitchen-
doctor allowed it “to pass for once ” on condition
that the wearer should occupy a seat beyond the
range of vision of most of the other diners.
Wallace had his dinner, but never paid Barton’s a
second visit.
More news about the wondrous Louis de
Rougemont, or the man who is identified as that
great romancer, keeps dropping in. The latest
assertion is that he was once a rouseabout in a
Sydney 6d. restaurant —this was before he took to
photography ; and that somewhere about ’B2 he
started for the far North to go pearl-fishing but
speedily came back disgusted. “ The last timejhe
was seen about Sydney he was in Enmore carrying
a baby.” Carrying a baby in Enmore reads like
themostplacidand commonplace existence possible
—especially as Rougemont ought at that time to
have been bossing his cannibal tribe in the north-
ern deserts and eating his victuals off plates of
virgin gold.
BEYOND MEDICAL AID.
(Scene, Country Bub.)
P OSMASTER: “ You are not in very good spirits
this morning, doctor."
COUNTRY DOCTOR: “ No; things are so darned
quiet, and I have just lost six patients .”
POSMASTER : “ What did they die of? ”
O.D. : “ They didn't die; they got well.”
CAMPBELL, M.L.C.
Mr. Campbell said (in Vic. Leg. Council)
that the Woman’s Suffrage Bill was only asked
for by extremists and by women of improper char-
acter. Hisses were at this stage heard from
around the galleries, which were crowded with
ladies.
That once-bright intellect, A. G. Taylor—
“ The Giraffe” of N.S.W. Press and N.S.W.
Assembly— is now, sad to relate, suffering from
general paralysis, and is confined in Callan Park
Asylum. Taylor’s intellectual decadence ac-
counted for the hideous inaccuracy of his furious
•anti-Federal articles in the Australian Star.
Rut it didn’t account for the Star’s conduct for
publishing them.
Another Parkes yarn, told by a pressman.
For some time it was my duty to “ do ” the Sydney
Govt, offices. Parkes was in power, and I had to
see the old man every day. And, to do him
common justice, he never put on “side.” When-
ever I sent him a message, no matter how he was
engaged, he would come into that little
library where the clock with the joybells is,
and see me, and tell me what I wanted to
know. 1 loved him for his loyalty to press-
men. ‘ I’m one of your own
noble army of martyrs,” said he
at Alfred Bennett’s jubilee din-
ner to the press in ’B7. Well, one
day, when he was not in a
hurry, Parkes told me this
yarn, with great glee : A Syd-
ney “city” man picked up a
poor little waif somewhere, and
wanted to set him up. He
showed him to Parkes, who be-
came interested in the young-
ster and said he could put him
into a nice home in the after-
noon. The youngster was put
into the room of O’Loughlin,
the messenger, and when the
clerks and flunkeys heard of the
Premier’s protege they came in
scores to see and talk to him.
Later on, old Parkes said to the
boy, “ Well, my little man, how
would you like to live always
in this big place?” “ I wouldn’t
like it at all,” answered the lad.
“ But why?” “ Because,”
says he, “ there’s too many fa-
thers here.”
An officer in N. S. W.
roads - department, who had
been toiling out-back, sent in
an application to the late roads-
lissioner Bennett, asking for a
month’s leave in order that he might be
married. In pathetic terms he set forth his
claim to the holiday asked for,, and wound up by
stating that he had had nothing to eat but bandi-
coot, ’possum, and snake for the preceding three
weeks. Bennett’s reply was : “ Mr. Blank may
have the leave he applies for, but I really think
that he might have provided for more nutritious
diet on the eve of so auspicious an occasion.”
John Wilson, first Mayor of Kalgoorlie,
is the leader of a strong party of a dozen to
Klondyke, but at latest was snowed up en route.
Poor “ Tommy ” Walker, ex-word-painter
of N.S.W. Assembly, escaped from his crushing
defeat at Broken Hill to Westralia, and does
rather worse than usual as a lecturer. Thus
Perth possesses a curious quartette —C. E. Jones,
in his day one of the most fluent and forceful of
Vic. democratic M.’sP. ; Rowland Rees, ditto of
S.A. ; Zillman, of Queensland, though he was
not so deeply in politics ; and the sadly-afflicted
Walkei, And all, bar Reeves, now strive to eke
out a living as public lecturers.
Hori Grey provoked more than one laugh
at the expense of Vincent Pyke, another veteran
of M.L. politics. The man from Tuapeka was
once grumbling in the Parliamentary refreshment-
room about his advancing years, and quenching a
powerful thirst meanwhile. “ You know, I have
gone through a lot in my time, Sir George,”
quoth Pyke. Hori gave a meaningful glance at
the other veteran’s empty glass, and quavered :
“ It isn’t what you have gone through, Pyke, so
much as what has gone through you.”
An Australian ecclesiastical storyette. He
was an untiring member of a preaching order, and
so long-winded in the pulpit that the superior in-
sisted on a discontinuance at the ringing of a
small bell. One evening, in full tide on “ Effects
of Mortal Sin,” he had just enunciated : “ And
all who die in the state of mortal sin shall be
damned for ever and ever ” —when the bell rang.
Out went his hand over the congregation with the
usual concluding benediction —“ A blessing which
I wish you all in the name of the Father, Son and
Holy Ghost. Amen.”
There was a lot of coincidence or fate or
something in the case of John Dickson, who lately
suicided in Melbourne. Seventeen years ago he
killed his “ housekeeper ” with an iron bar. Tried
for murder, he dodged the gallows by the skin of
his teeth—escaping with 15 years. After release
he lived quietly until three weeks ago, when the
ghost of the defrauded Ketch apparently worked
on his feelings so much that he attempted to
remedy the omission. He was cut down and
resuscitated, but seems to have concluded that he
had not even then acted quite squarely in the
matter, so the other Saturday he again took the
matter in his own hands, and this time suspended
himself in workmanlike fashion. The only moral
visible is that if a man is born to be hanged he
shouldn’t waste time dodging the hangman.
Little Gagliardi, Melb. Public Librarian,
who died a few weeks ago, got to Australia in a
curious way. He never intended to settle here,
but started to the Southern hemisphere in search
of a brother. The latter, at 15 years of age, ran
away from home and fought for Garibaldi. Then
he started to travel, and whenever he wanted
money he wrote to his father. The letter was
always from a different place, and the ‘ ‘ old man ”
had a map of the world marked with red dots,
showing the movements of the ad venturous young-
ster. At last he got to Maoriland, and Fer-
nando, his brother, was despatched to arrest him.
The doctor met him on the West Coast of Maori-
land in ’76. Gne of Ferd.’s fellow-passengers was
Baracchi, the present Vic. Govt. Astronomer. The
lost brother is now a flourishing importer in
Sydney.
The history of Abbey Altson’s “ The
Golden Age ” (which he painted for Vic. Art
Gallery in fulfilment of the Travelling Scholar-
ship obligation) is given in Peabson’s Magazine.
Young Altson, like Longstaff before him, was
terribly anxious to do justice to the Scholarship.
No subject seemed big enough for him. Finally,
he decided upon a creation of Arcadia, a beauti-
fully-yellow and impossible place where the girls
are happy all day long and wear no clothes.
Altson, being in France at this time, thought that
the lie de Noirmontier was the best place lie
could strike for Arcadian atmosphere and senti-
ment. So he took some girl models with him and
filled himself with the spirit of the island, and put
such a lot of time and expense into the picture
that when it was finished he was a “dead
broker.”
The long-neglected grave of Bishop Sawyer
in Grafton cemetery is about to receive a memorial
brass, the tribute now being on its way from
friends in England. Bishop Sawyer, who was the
first Anglican Bishop of Grafton and Armidale,
after preaching one Sunday night in 1868 set off
in a boat for his home up the Clarence River. He
had with him in the boat his, son, a servant, and
three members of his flock. The night was gusty,
and about two miles up the river the boat capsized
and all went under. Three managed to scramble
ashore, but the Bishop, his son and the servant
were drowned. The bodies' were discovered a
couple of days after. Dr. Sawyer was only 37
years of age at the time, and had been but three
years a bishop. Physically and mentally he was a
strong, able man, and the memorial now on its way
will revive many stories of his pluck in the early
bush.
Rev. Dr. Brewster, the first barrister who
went to Melbourne (in 1839 he became Chairman
of Quarter Sessions) and died last March at the
Cape of Good Hope, where he had long been a
clergyman, left, as has already been here re-
corded, an estate of about .£150,000. His pro-
perty in Melbourne includes the Victoria Arcade,
upon which there are four pubs, and two theatres,
[n ’76 the doctor let the site on building lease for
30 years to the late Joe Aarons, and Joe built the
Academy of Music (now Bijou Theatre) and the
Arcade. At first the Arcade was a street of
shops, but Wilson’s billiard-room and the Gaiety
Theatre wiped them out. It was rather enter-
prising for a parson to have four pubs, and a pair
of playhouses on his property. His Melbourne
agent, James Graham, used to boast to his prin-
cipal : “ I own three pubs., but you lick me with
four pubs, and two playhouses. If I could only
let half an acre for a church .” The lease of the
Arcade ground falls-in seven years hence, and then
young Mrs. Brewster will own the lot without in-
cumbrance. She is the daughter of a Birming-
ham civil engineer.
The unaffected esteem in which Hori Grey
was held by the Maoris dated from the beginning
of his first pro-consulship in 1845. He never re-
fused to receive a Maori suppliant even of the
lowest degree, and the energy with which he set
himself to master their tongue and to make him-
self conversant with their traditions and supersti-
tions was, he once told the present writer, due to
the anxiety he felt to understand their grievances
thoroughly. Filtered through an unsympathetic
interpreter, many a story of wrong, he felt, might
not be adequately presented to him. He was on
terms of the warmest friendship with all the great
native chiefs whose names live in the history of
British colonisation, and it was a pathetic sight to
see these tattooed warriors wait upon Grey on his
birthday at the Northern Club, Auckland, and to
watch them with streaming eyes and broken
words pay their respects to one who had been for
50 years the friend and guardian of' their race.
The last request made by Rewi Manga Mania-
poto, the rebel hero of the memorable defence of
Orakau, was—“ Next my grave let there be room
left for Nga Hori Kerei.”


%
3&*cestershib£
=4,
the'C
PRlZEfiftMEDfttSkp
RCESTERSfote
\nv>
etfs
rt"
BEE'S
HBSHaafISS
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER.
Aboriginalities.
“ Yangan ” : Snake-yarn season has com-
menced. In June, ’92, a python entered a pig-pen
in Borneo, swallowed full-grown inmate, and was
unable to get out. Brought into town, we bought
him for 6dol. (125.). Measured 23ft. 4in. At this
time a bluejacket from H.M.S. Egeria was lost in
the jungle ; and, as some fool started a yarn that
“Bill” was the cause of the swelling in the
python’s middle, day and night “ Bill’s ” mates
would come up and ask to view “ the serpent wot
skoffed poor Bill.” “ Blyme,” said one, “if Bill
ain’t got ’is long legs drored up to ’is chin,
same as ’e done when ’e ’ad the ’ammick
next to me. ’ Then, as the snake made an effort
to move his dinner another inch, “ Garn, Bill 1
why don’t you keep quiet and give the snake a
chanct ?” Bill didn’t seem too popular, but when
he turned up safe much beer was shed. Thirteen
months later we shipped the snake for England at
an offer of £2 a foot, but the brute, having got
accustomed to a diet of police-impounded dogs,
declined fowls en voyage, and pegged out
before arrival. Only one larger python (25ft. 6in.)
have I actually measured. Once, out yachting,
had been without fire for three days, landed on
Pulo Hantu, made driftwood fire, laid out our togs
to dry, and went for a swim. Came back in about
an hour, and fouitd the ground about the fire alive
with snakes—blue-grey beasts, with flattened tails.
Killed over a score with mangrove branches before
the rest took to the sea.
* * * *
Strathmerton, the border township near
where the recent mate-murder was committed, is
probably the drunkest and most blasphemous
spot in all Australia. It consists of about 30 flat,
galvanised-iron buildings sprawling around a
railway-station, and has a population of about
150, most of whom took a few days off to
get properly drunk the moment the body was
brought in. Then, for the following three days,
the township surged in the bars, and swore and
talked fight in their vicinity from 6 a.m. until
midnight, only resting between drinks, when the
post mortem was made, to try and have a look at
the doctor “ openin’ up the poor bloke.” Though
the opinion was freely expressed that the
murderer “ oughter be ’ung up over a fire! ”
Strathmertonians were obviously delighted that
HERE YOU ARE—THE LAST ADDITION!
his act had caused them to awake famous, and the
possibility of floating a loan in London and build-
ing a £20,000 town hall was plainly in everybody’s
eyes.
S* * * *
Re bottle-trees. A Bulletin man desires
to give some further information for the use of
schopl - papers, Sunday - school librarians and
others. Writer knew aQ. squatter—he owned
a station called Rougemont—who grew rows of
the trees about his paddocks, and irrigated
67,000 acres from them. He had a very big one
near his homestead, of which he was extremely
proud. The hands about the place were trained
firemen, and maintained an excellent brigade.
The old man, when there was a colonial-experi-
encer hanging-out, would usually ring the firebell,
whereupon all hands would turn out, whip along
with the hose, spike it into the big bottle-tree
with a clever auger arrangement, and—gee, whiz !
—there was the nozzle spouting a stream sufficient
to wash the homestead off the face of nature.
Measured the best stream she threw, and it was
five yards seven inches under the quarter of a
mile. There was only one accident that I remem-
ber, and the result was the flooding of the whole
countryside. Something went wrong with the
fittings, and they couldn’t turn the tree off at the
main for nearly a week.
* * • *
Re that item re t’other item concerning
counting-capacity of Port Phillip blacks. When
we used to ask Tommie Pipeful, an aboriginal on
Tomki station, Richmond River, how many horses
and cattle there were on the run, he would
answer : “ ’Underds !—tousandts 1— millions !
plurrynear dozens.”
* * • *
“Steele Rudd ” : When two “ old-man ”
bears meet upon the same tree there’s generally a
row about sundown; the “go-in” is one of the
most exciting sights the bush affords. Have
dropped upon several well worth witnessing. First
the bears sat up dingo-fashion on their respective
limbs and snorted savagely across at each other.
Then, standing erect on all-fours, they trotted
down head-first (the only time bear does descend a
tree head-first), and, meeting at the fork, flew at
each other and fought like dogs, filling the air
with a queer medley of snorts and squeals,
until, locked together, they reeled out of the tree
and came wallop on the ground. Then, letting
each other go, they scrambled hurriedly up the
tree again and snorted violently, but renewed not
the fight.
» * JP *
Dear Bulletin. —Anybody tell me what ia
the greatest distance from the sea-coast sound of
surf has been heard? Yesterday, stormy; to-
night, calm and frosty ; I can distinctly hear roll
of sea at least 30 miles distant. Stony nature of
country no doubt helps sound-transmission, be-
cause, on similar surface, have heard the sea
between 40 and 50 miles away by applying ear to
boarded floor of old station, built on solid lime-
stone rock. The previous lessee was “planted”
in the backyard, and we used to suffer touches of
the “ Jims ” until we found out what the rumbling
really meant.—Long-un.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Recently saw some
Chinkies, who had been cutting cabbages, knock
off for lunch, and on going over to see what the
fare was, was thunderstruck to find it plumcake
and lemonade.—T.P.
“ Alia ” : This is the origin of
at least one of the stories of the
“hairy man” prevalent in New
England, N.S.W. In the rough
skirts of the coastal range a party
of prospectors came across a mob
of about 50 “ clearskins,” and
decided to go to Armidale, arrange
for the sale of the cattle; then
return, take the mob to a neigh-
boring selection, brand them, and
divide the proceeds of sale. How-
ever, a man who had been watch-
ing them on the quiet, guessing
what they were up to, made him
a suit of goat-skins, stitched a cow-
tail in the proper position, fixed a
pair of horns on his head, and,
planting himself on a ledge above
a water-hole at which the pros-
pectors camped, waited till the full
moonlight would give them all the
benefit of his extraordinary appear-
ance, and then set to work throw-
ing rocks at them, and howling in
a most blood - curdling manner.
Now, as the scene was a gloomy
gorge, in a wild, desolate region,
small wonder that next issue of
the local journals devoted much
space to a thrilling account of the
“ hairy man ” —most convincing to
everyone but “ Dick,” who quietly
rounded up the mob, got a couple
of black boys to help him with
them to the station, and put his
brand on them. The prospectors,
however, on the strength of their
remarkable experience, struck it
rich in drinks for weeks afterwards.
* * * *
The sign of the dead dog ia
now pretty well recognised in the
West. When a party has pros-
pected a locality for nix, disgusted
with its bad luck, it hangs its dog
m a conspicuous place and decamps. The Bul-
letin is much afraid that the Westralian dog-
supply will soon run out.
* * * ■*
“Snell”: I also have a bunyip story.
Higinbotham had twice seen the animal in the
Goulburn, near his homestead, just beyond Na-
gambie (Vic.), and described it minutely in the
bar parlor. It had a round head, he said, and
large, staring eyes, and there was much long,
reddish hair floating around its face, as he saw it
close to the surface of the water in the bright
moonlight of the summer night. Higinbotham
admitted being scared, and giving the brute lots
of elbow-room. Then there was much talk about
bunyips, and every man had seen a different kind
°f bunyip ; but Scott was the authority, and gave
Higinbotham minute directions for setting a trap,
with ropes that would be sure to land the monster
if he visited those waters again. Higinbotham
and Scott, it was understood, were to go halves in
the bunyip—when he was trapped. We heard no
more about Higinbotham’s bunyip at the pub.,
but, three days later, the district was full of a wild
OUR HORSE FLESH.
AUCTIONEER (selling old mare): “ You can see, gentlemen, she’s got a thoroughbred
strain in her. Just look at her hind-quarter.”
DEALER (eyeing the quarter in question) : “ Yes; she’s got plenty of strain there—
hip-down both sides; why, she’s all strains! "—(Passed in.)
story of the plucky rescue of the Rev. B ,
the Wesleyan parson, from Melbourne, rusticating
at Mrs. Fowler’s, over the river, who was dragged
out of the water, when on the point of death, by
Mrs. H. According to the story, the rev. gentle-
man was in the habit of swimming in the river
after nightfall, and had got entangled in a rope,
and been hauled out at the critical moment by the
settler’s wife. Details were vigorously suppressed,
but, as I said before, we heard no more of Higin-
botham’s bunyip.
* * * •
“0.T.M.”: lie rat-enemies, you can’t
beat the carpet-snake. He is also a time-econo-
miser—does not leave till to-morrow what should
be swallowed to day. In maize field recently saw
a “carpet” with half his length hidden in a rat-
hole. Did not interfere with his explorations,
and two days later found him in same position.
Investigated with spade, and found that the
snake, having dropped upon a family of rats, had
swallowed the lot, and was, consequently, unable
to extricate hi mself from the banqueting hall.
* * * *
‘‘ Steele Rudd ” : The jackass is a feathered
fraud. When very young I was taught, like
many more, to believe in him, and whenever a
snake came to the house after lodgings I expected
to see jack swoop down upon him & la St.
Patrick. But he never would. Jack is afraid- of
snakes, and it’s only a young one that he’ll even
try to kill. But a snake isn’t afraid of a jackass.
It’s a common thing to see a foot or so of snake
hanging out of jack’s nest, while jack and a dozen
others, with ruffled feathers, squawk and cackle
at him in a most absurd manner from the top
branches of the tree. Place jack and a snake
together in a cage, or in a 24ft. ring, and my
money goes on snake.
* * » *
“Jim. Pan.”: Ever heard of the “ Peli-
can Spree” occasionally indulged in by the up-
roarious cane-cutter in the Big Scrub ? Recipe :
Disused barn; three gallons of Richmond River
rum ; 3doz. red herrings; 7doz. onions ; 11 loaves
stale bread; a dozen tins anchovy paste; 131 b.
good old galloping cheese. All to be consumed in
five days. If, at the end of that time, the
breath be of a deafening color and strong enough
to hang your hat on, you may conclude that the
festival has not been a failure.
* * • •
“Tommy, J.P.” : Susie Capps, an abo-
riginal lady residing near Tabalam in the Big
Scrub, recently applied to the Aborigines
Protection Board for an inscribed brass plate to
hang upon her fairy chest in token of her dignity
as “Kaween belonga Alstonville,” on the Rich-
mond River. The constable ordered to make the
necessary genealogical researches, however, re-
ported that the aspirant to royal honors is only
plain Susannah, wife of Harra Capps, of Two-
wharves, and has absolutely no claims to sove-
reign rank. After all, though, Susan’s request
is only on a par with her white sister’s cravings
for a tinpot title. Even a reddot republican gene-
rally has to take some handle or other “ just to
please the old woman, you know ! ” Her would-
be Majesty Susannah used to scrub house and
school in Twowbarves for a teacher-friend o’mine,
and it was great fun to see her sailing around in
Mrs. Dominie’s cast-offs. The Dominie also once
gave the husband, Harra Capps, a discarded
dress-suit; but Harra caught a severe cold through
the open-fronted garment’s exposure of his re-
spected bingie. He said: “Baal gammon, that
pfeller coat nearly all farresh air. Mine think it
want door alonga front! ’’ And he traded the
coat to Jimmie Pannikin, who used to receive dis-
tinguished commercial travellers in it at Ballina.
* * * *
“T. 0.” : Whilst we were chasing dwts. in
a Western creek,_ Regan’s pigs used to loot our
camp at every chance. At last we tried what
could be done with a dynamite-cap inserted in a
potato. Effects highly satisfactory—to us, though
the pig had not time to give his opinion. Next
night, Regan was rushing around telling every-
body that “the divil must be in the pigs ! There’s
five of ’urn widout their heads on ! ”
* » » «
“E.S.”: Have not seen it mentioned
that the flood-bird, which heralds big rains out
west, jumps the nest of the crow, throws out the
latter’s eggs, and deposits its own in their place.
The crow hatches the latter, and feeds the young
flood-birds until they are pretty well fledged, by
which time Mrs. Crow begins to have suspicions,
and finally fires out the aliens to battle for them-
selves. Next flood they’ll turn up again, and do
what mother did.
Antiquari-
ans in Eng-
land have a
fond regard
for those
places which
afford evid-
ence of having
been Roman
camps, Bri-
tish temples,
or Saxon vil-
lages. Prob-
ably some day
■ the signs of
1 the habita-
tions of the
blacks of this
country will
have an anti-
quarian inter-
est. At pre-
sent, nobody
heeds them.
On the Red
Bluff, St. Hil-
da, at the an-
gle nearest
Melbourne,
there is a deep
deposit of
hard - caked
black wood-
ash and burnt
shell and
stone. It is
many feet
thick, just at
the edge of
the red sand-
stone cliff.
This was for-
merly for
generations,
probably a
blackfellow’s oven, where the savage cooked his
meals. Few people,, enquiry shows, have ever
noticed it. Years hence, long-haired spectacled
savants may pay respectful pilgrimages to that
black patch, and spin learned theories about it.
It is the only deposit of the kind on the shore
of Hobson’s Bay.
• * * *
More about the classic N.S.W. town of
Booroowa. During a gory struggle one moonlight
night between two different clans of Mikes, the
defending party was driven back, and took refuge
in the hut of Patsy Burke —a poor old man whom
no one wanted to hurt. The leader of the attackers
went forward to reconnoitre, and, just as he was
sneaking along to the window, a head appeared at
it. It shone in the moonlight, and all hands could
see it was old Patsy’s; but the temptation was
too much for the skirmishing warrior—he lifted
his “ sthick ” and brought it down with a bash on
the bald head. It disappeared with a yelp, and
the smiter returned to his men. “ Och, Moike,”
cried one of them: “ poor ole Patsy ! How cud
yer hit ’im loike that ? ” “ What! How cud I
nit’im!” yelled the warrior. “Shure, how the
divil oud I miss him I ”
"WHEN OTHER LIPS."
FRIEND: “ Well, how's the 'town-swagman’ busi-
ness payin’, Bill?”
BILL: “It used to pay fine if you could pitch a
good yarn; but since this ’ere Roayemon’s bin
on the job it’s gone bung.”
“ W.L.” writes this quaint letter :
I should like to know why do you call the unfortunate
Chinese people “ Chows ’’ in the fraud of a paper called
Tub Bulletin, which is not worth buying. It is a great
disgrace to the miserable publication called The Bulle-
tin and the editors. I will have nothing to do with you
now, and I shall disgrace the paper if you shall print', or
rather publish, bad things about the Chinese in the
paper. Although lam an Australian, learning my trade,
I have been almost all through China (which the Chinese
which are known as a very kind race of people), has
taken me from town to town and giving many presents
to me, I cannot stand them getting their bad feeling over
the Australian people. My father is an Englishman, and
my mother an Irish-woman. I call the British people
Upside-down Devils.
« • • •
Heterodoxy on the snake-poison question :
Dear Bulletin.— Re present beginning of snake-season.
Australian State-school children are taught that the teeth
of the snake are hollow, and that, when a snake bites, the
poison is expelled through these teeth into the wound.
This, though the generally-accepted theory, is false. The
teeth of the snake are not hollow and the poison is not
thus ejected into the wound. The snake uses its teeth to
make a surface wound only, and the poison is placed on
the wound by a hollow protuberance, like a parrot’s
tongue (situate at the back of the teeth), which can be
opened at will by the snake, and contains (in a venomous
snake) a greenish viscid substance. This is poison, and,
when a snake bites, the protuberance opens and, by a for-
ward and upward movement, dabs the poison on the
wound. If a person is bitten on a bare limb, no fatal
results will follow if the wound is immediately washed or
wiped with a wet rag. It is quite possible for a snake to
bite without poisoning. These observations are the result
of long experience of, and experiment with, snakes.—F.
Bradshaw.
* * * *
“ Harry Monck ”: Our of our little
western town’s two Chow gardeners, being at


THE “F* AND R” WATCH,
( p.FAX*
0
©
(D
0
0
<S>
: m
CD
25/#
“ the most extraordinary watch of the
AGE.”
The movements are on the Lever principle, have
Brequet Hair-Springs, are jewelled in 10 holes ; have
expansion balances, are Keyless. In SOLID SILVER
CASES, which SCREW together, thus making them
dust-proof and practically watertight.
42/-
The same Watch in Oxydised Metal Case, 25 6
THESE WATCHES ARE GUARANTEED FOR 15
YEARS, AND KEPT IN ORDER (BREAKAGES
EXCEPTED) FOR 2 YEARS.
They go with profound accuracy, and stand hard
riding and knocking about.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
25 Hunter Street, Sydney (only).
Tlie Famous Frencb.
Chocolate.
HICHIT REIIEI
Obtainable from all Orocers and Confectioners
Wholesale
Agents:
W. M. Cameron <© Co.,
249 George-st., Sydney.
variance with the other, joined the local Salva-
army, in order to give rival a business knock-out.
Here is the saved one’s “testimony”: “Tank Gaw.
Have foun’ glace (Hallelujah). Yes’day, me tief,
lobber, blanky logue, me sell cabbagee, sickapence ;
callot, fo’penny, lettucee, fo’penny. To-day,
Tank Gaw, I find Cli ’ —l sell two penny cheapa
evlything. Me Olistian (Hallelujah). he
no find glace, he no Clistian, he no sell goo’ ca.bba-
gee, goo’ lettucee, goo’ callot, he make big plice—
lie blanky logue, tief, dam lobber ! Me goo’ man—
Clistian ! You come long me (Glory). Me sell
evlything goo’, small plice.” Drummer (sotto voce) :
“ Wot’s he givin’ us? Let us sing,” &c. There are
now two Chows in hospital blaspheming Con-
fucius ; the ruminative cow in the main street is
chewing fragments of goo’ cabbagee; and the in-
habitants are without the necessary green wad for
the salted bullock to sit on.
• • » *
“ E.D ” : Re the working girl. Knew
one on a small Tasmanian rush—a brown-faced,
bare-footed, scantily-clad damsel of about 16 who
worked her eight hours swinging an axe. Her
father was splitting slabs for the claims, and the
girl would fell the gums, and cut the lengths,
without appearing to be at all put about. Despite
the heavy work she was a most playful and in-
genuous “ critter,” and romped around amongst
the diggers at crib-time like an exuberant young
kid. Sometimes she would bring a baby-sister to
work, and attended to the youngster in addition
to her ordinary duties as axewoman. Her
father was a stolid, fat-headed man who seemed
to think the girl was only doing her duty by him.
“ What’s she doin’ here ? ” asked a digger, signify-
ing the baby. “ Why the devil ain’t she work-
in’?” “ Oh,” said the father soberly, “she can’t
walk yet.”
“ The Mocker ” : Be big-city notion that
a man has only to stroll into the bush with a swag
on his back to find work, or, at all events, bound-
less hospitality. The rations given
nowadays in station country will
hardly keep a mouse alive. If a
traveller has money the stations rob
him (4d., 5d., or 6d. a lb. for weevily
flour); if he has none, he has to rob
them. Tucker-getting in station
country is reduced to a science, yet
if it were not for surreptitious doles
from cooks, and an occasional break-
ing into a boundary-rider’s hut, death
from starvation would be much more
common in the bush. The hardest
articles to come by, honestly or
otherwise, are baking-powder and
tobacco, and, with all deference to
“ .Three-years-for-a-tin-of-baking-powder-
Gibson,” both of them are necessaries out
back.
“Nell Cook”: I had two little spotted
wild pigs from the Queensland scrub given me
when they were very small. Soon they would
follow me everywhere like dogs ; they were
as playful as kittens and developed an in-
telligence very remarkable considering their
youth—and people’s ideas concerning their species.
When hungry they would nibble at my feet with
aggravated little squeals, and if I did not attend
to them they would seize the hem of my skirt in
their teeth and try to drag me to their trough.
They would bristle up when strangers came about,
and take sly snaps at their heels when they turned
away. They had an affectionate but embarrassing
habit of taking refuge under my skirts from all
dangers, real or imaginary. I had unpleasant
forebodings as to the inconvenience of this and
their other sportive little ways when they should
be fully grown ; so when it was proposed they
should be killed I consented to the deed, but I
felt as though it were a murder, and would not
have eaten a bit of them on any account.
* * * »
“ Steele Rudd ” ; Now, is the Australian
bushman—born or otherwise —naturally a good
horseman ? I say he mostly isn’t, and he’s a
friend of mine. When a fellow’s name is Bill
or Jim and he wears a big beard, and can shear or
shoot kangaroos, and walk bandy, and smell like
brigalow, it’s no criterion whatever that he’s a
horseman. We all know that the bush can claim
some good riders—the best of riders—but for
every one of these how many chumps has it—
how many fellows who couldn’t be persuaded by a
ton of dynamite to run the best horse in the world
at a two-rail fence were it to save his life, or mount
a cuddy he thought would “root” or ccck its
tail ? It’s full of ’em. Of course all —or nearly all
—can ride quiet horses, but is that horsemanship ?
* • * •
“C.H.R.” : Knowan old West Coast (Tas.)
hand who lives mostly on rats and ’possums,
though raw bacon, chiefly slaughter-house, is his
particular chow-chow. He is also partial to white-
grubs spread on damper, and smacks his lips
over ship’s biscuits plastered with Holloway’s
ointment. Saw him one day fish out of a creek a
drowned tiger cat, which, to judge by its aroma,
must have been defunct about ten days. In a few
minutes he had it in the billy—which lie afterwards
used for tea. Told me he liked ’em well dead—
the flesh was so sweet and tender. He was a
splendid guide in the bush—you only had to keep
about a quarter of a mile to the rear—dangerous
to get much closer—and follow the scent. His
was the easiest camp to find I ever struck. At
two miles you caught a faint whiff, and by in-
creasing the strength you couldn’t go wrong.
When you smelt something like a dead elephant
you would be within hail, and when the air com-
menced to turn green and everything felt inside-
out, well —you would be thar or tharabouts.
• * * *
“Raspberry”: Knew an old bushman,
where bull-dog ants were innumerable, who used
daily to slice about 200 in half with his sheath-
knife. Have seen thousands of bodiless heads in
his camp walking around looking for their busi-
ness-ends. The ancient reckoned they lived three
weeks after amputation, and he used to make kind
of pets of them in their harmless condition. It
was curious and interesting to see “ Anti-Sting ”
and “ Old Humpy ” cantering up for a shred of
meat or a grain of sugar ; and often, just as one
would be opening his pinchers for a tit-bit, he
would suddenly fall back, roll up his legs and die.
Have never seen the two halves fight, but have
often noticed legs carry off body. For what pur-
pose I know not; to bury it, perhaps.
* * * *
“ Matthina ” : Re Zeehan mud. You
merely sink ankle-deep there now, whereas in the
happy boom-time you went hips under. In those
days you spotted a Zeehanite by his bald eye-
brows ; and I knew an old N.S. W. merino king
who had to be stripped naked and shorn close to
get the mud off him. The man who barbered him
told me that when the fleece fell off it rattled on
the floor like a string of pebbles, and the old man
took it away with him as specimens of Zeehan
galena.
» * * *
“Thomac”: Re derivation of “pushing
the knot.” When I wore the Order of the
Wallaby (ere the advent of the “flash swaggie ”
with his half-dozen straps) the apropos of the
phrase was this: Swag consisted of blanket, spare
singlet, pair of moles, towel, couple of colored
handkerchiefs for binders, and woollen muffler for
sling (wool being springy and easy on the
shoulder). Swag was fastened near ends with the
binders, through which was passed the sling, so
arranged that the knot came just below the breast
and gave a rest for the hand, which thus acquired
a habit of pushing the sling outwards _ from the
body as the man neared the end of his tramp.
Makes me sit-up to see the useless make-weights
fellows have in their swags nowadays. Two or
three pair pants, several shirts, spare hats (fancy
a swaggie with an extra boxer), and carrying
besides fry-pans, axes, tin-dishes and buckets, or
INFRA DIG.
REV. M'FIESCUN : “ Haven't you a better crossing
than this? My feet are literally sopping.”
STATION YOUTH (sent to meet Rev. M'F.) : “ Well,
that is a mug's game, sir. Why don’t yer
stick ’em up on your mare’s neck like me? ”
REV. M‘F. (severely): “ My lad, I never attended
a circus in my life!”
kerosene-tins, as they explain, “ for a pail when
we come to water ’’ —as if the place where the
water is wasn’t pail enough for anybody.
• • • *
It was the first week at Chuckumout shed.
Only a couple had their hands in, and Dick had
third-highest tally. Swelling with pride and
magnanimity, he said to M‘Kenzie: “Cut in,
Mac, you can lick lots of these coves ’ere. You’ll
be fourth, anyway.” Next day “ Mac ” wasahead,
and said he to Dick : “ Cut in, Dick ; you can lick
lots ci these coves ’ere. You’ll be fifth, anyway.”
The yarn went round, and every man-Jack was
doing his level best. One after another, the others
passed Dick’s tally, till at last one shouted across
the board: “ Cut in, Dick; you’ll be last any-
way ! ”
J « * • *
“ Wer.” : Shearers nowadays are not the
happy-go-lucky fellows they used to be ; they’re
studying economy. Coming to a shed, they take
the shoes off their horses and put them away till
the shed’s cut out, when they fasten them on
again. Saves wear. One time, a shearer wouldn’t
start work in the morning if the wool was the
least damp; now, when the water’s dripping out
of it, he’s got to be told to leave off. Also, in the
old days, a “chip” was an insult, followed by a
vacant stand ; now the shearer takes as many as
the boss will stand him, and quits only when told
to. One hardened rep., so leaving, asked me if I
was “ financial ” ; if not, could he sell me tickets
for ’9B and ’99 ? Union, boys, union ! It’s stronger
to-day than ever it was—among the squatters.
• » * *
Dear B.—Heard nothing from any of your
bush-biologists about the tree-climbing fish, of the
Bloomfield and Gulf rivers, N.Q., which, when
alarmed, may be seen jumping from the mangrove
branches in shoals ; or about the toxotis, or archer-
fish, of Cape York Peninsula creeks —the bush-
man’s “ 10-gun brig ” (on account of five black
spots on each side, like port-holes). This little
chap keeps aloof from other fish, and dodges
around waterhole-edges, dislodging its prey from
overhanging branches with a single swiftly-pro-
jected drop of water —sometimes to a height of
lOft.-C.B.S.
A queer thing happened 30 years ago to
Mrs. Austin, the rich and philanthropic Victori-
enne. The Duke of Edinburgh, then touring
Australia, was taken out West to see the country
and mot rabbits, which were scarce then. (It
was Mrs. Austin’s late husband who first let them
loose in the South.) Well, Edinburgh came to
dinner at Barwon Park tired and sleepy, and at
dessert suddenly fell asleep on the hostess’
shoulder.
ROUGEMONT, or GREIN, the Australian-
Fairy-Tale Man.
After all, Rougemont, the French person
creating such a stir in credulous England, is a
very commonplace variety of tozer. But he is
certainly a romancist of some force of character.
When his forty-ton ship was in the storm:
Still the current drew me helplessly onward, and in a
few minutes the ship was in a dangerous whirlpool round
which she was carried several times before I managed to
extricate her. Next we were drawn close to some rocks,
and I had to stand resolutely by with an oar in order to
keep the vessel's head from striking.
Another good effort is where he calls at an un-
civilised island and gives the blacks tomahawks,
knives, &c., in exchange for cases of condensed
milk and tinned fruits. The uncivilised nig. who
lives on condensed milk and tinned fruit is cer-
tainly a new discovery.
Mr. R. J. Black, who has recently received
the distinction of election to the directorate boards
of both the Bank of N.S.W. and the A.M.P.
Society, is one of the most popular and best res-
pected men in Sydney finance. His family’s
Australian history begins in 1798, when his grand-
father, a navigator, having assisted to capture a
Spanish prize, was placed in command of her, and
brought her to Sydney. Here he settled and
carried on mercantile business until he sailed on a
trip to India, and was never again heard of. His
son became manager of the Bank of N.S.W. in
1824, and managed it for 30 years, through all the
stormy periods down to ’54. The navigator’s grand-
son, Reginald J. Black, was born in the Bank of
N.S.W. in the year 1845, what time the bank
stood on Walter Bradley and co’s. present site.
The barracks frowned opposite, and the bank, like
many other George-st. houses, had a plum-garden
in front and a fruit and vegetable garden at the
back, through which flowed the Tank Stream.
Young Black went to Sydney Grammar School
with Edmund Barton, Trickett, M.L.C., E. W.
Knox, A. J. Cape, the late Justice Mein, of Q. ;
and he often saw the bullock-teams winding
their way through the city, and saw gold-dust
sold by auction in three and four ounce bottles.
Young Black knew Woolloomooloo as mostly
bush, and Mostnan’s and Neutral Bay as shooting
grounds for gill-birds. He inherited the sporting
instincts of his grandfather who, in 1799, chased
black swans 15 miles on the Parramatta River
without getting a shot at them. In the gill-bird
time of Mo-man's there was but one small
steamer running to North Shore, and she was so
small that she carried a number of 561 b. weights,
so that when a couple of fat men got together on
one side of her, the weights could be placed on
the opposite side so as to preserve the vessel’s
evenness of keel. Mr. Black entered the B.N.S. W.
in ’63 at the age of 18; rose rapidly to inspectorship,
and stayed in the bank service until ’B2, when he
entered into private business with the well-known
firm of Messrs. Jones and Black, of Bond-street,
Sydney. When the 1893 bank crisis came Mr.
Black was the first man outside the Ministry
whom Dibbs consulted. Mr. Black was member
for Mudgee from ’B7 to ’9l, and he has always
taken an active interest in educational, charitable,
political and financial movements.
Of Australia’s recent visitor, the Duke of
Manchester, thus a writer in London Pelican :
The Duke is not a rich man ; indeed, for a Duke he is a
pauper, as his income at present does not exceed £3OO a
year. There are three Dowager-Duchesses, the widow of
the sixth Duke, who married Sir Stephenson Blackwood ;
the widow of the seventh, who is Louise Duchess of
Devonshire ; and his mother, all of whom have dowries
paid out of the estate. Perhaps now that he is range
his grandmother will forego her dowry in his favor,
which as Duchess of Devonshire she can well afford to do.
His fiancee has no association with the Tranby Croft
scandal beyond being a niece of Mrs. Charles Wilson, the
chatelaine of that place; her father is Mr. Arthur Wil-
son, M.P., who, besides being a shipowner, is a part pro-
prietor of the Weekly Sun. Miss Joan Wilson is a tall
girl, but the beauty of the family is her sister Enid.
Lawyers have always laughed at the
familiar notice, “Trespassers will be prosecuted,”
and have called it “ a wooden lie.” Certainly the
prevailing theory among lawyers was that unless
the trespass was aggravated by a dog or gun or
wanton destruction, no “ prosecution ” could take
place, and, unless a claim of right was in ques-
tion, little or no satisfaction could be got in the
civil court. But if the decision in Grayford v.
Ghouler this year be correct, the trespasser is no
longer in his old privileged position. In this
case the defendant, to make a short cut, walked
across a grass-field, with a notice-board, and after
warnings. The grass was pretty highland he is
said to have done 6d. worth of damage in his pas-
sage. The two Judges decided that he was rightly
convicted of damaging the grass, under a section
similar to the ordinary Australian section on
“damage to real property.”
Mr. Aubrey Davis, dentist, of 492 George-
street, Sydney, opposite entrance to new markets,
has —he states—an absolutely painless method for
extracting teeth. This method has quite eclipsed
nitrous-oxide gas, for it not only allows patients
to be conscious the whole time of operation, but
also leaves them without such after-effects as head-
aches, etc. Hundreds upon hundreds of grateful
patients have testimonialised Mr. Davis’ method ;
and, by the nervous and the sensitive, it is regarded
as a blessing little short of a miracle. Mr. Davis,
with his 16 years’experience in his present suite of
rooms, is an accomplished setter of artificial teeth,
and has developed gold crowns over decayed roots,
crown and bridge-work, to a very tine art indeed.
He does not charge for consultations.*
What We Should Do for the Mining
Industry.
“ Quartz ” to The Bulletin :
Australia owes something to mining. The chief State
effort at its encouragement has been subsidies to boodiing
companies, &c. We have agricultural shows and model
farms for the farmers—why not some national effort to
systematize mining? In Victoria there have been two
abortive attempts at an exhibition of mining machinery.
The first failed because it was held in a foundry, at which
other foundries would not exhibit. The second was held
in Melb. Exhibition, and would have been a success if it
had even got properly finished. To the very last, the
machinery-men were rushing about with nails in their
mouths, preparing to get. ready. Yet these little attempts
were something in the right direction. The stamper-
battery and amalgamation uere for many years the Aus-
tralian miner’s Bible and Book of Common Prayer. As a
sort of Solace to Sinners, he has of late got a vague notion
of oyaniding. But the nolion is very vague indeed,
and the attempts at realisation are mostly Failure.
What would you have ? says the Department of Mines.
We have subsidised the Schools of Mines. Colleges of
Technical Education, at which are taught orewel-work,
violin-scraping, and possibly Lewis Carroll s three R’s
at the eel’sschool -reeling, writhing and fainting in coils.
One province set up a cyanide works, but, its metallurgical
knowledge was so limited that, when it sold itsgold. it
complained about a falling-off in the returns. A sum in
simple division had to be forwarded by the gold-buyer, to
show that there was more zinc left in one case than in
the other. Let the State interfere for good by employing
experts, whether obtainable in Australia or abroad. Stop
the waste of School of Mines’ subsidies to young ladies’ frills.
Stop the jobbery of prospecting votes. There are- more
corrupt practices under this item in the estimates than
in a N.S.W. election campaign. Give us annual exhibi-
tions of mining machinery, duly advertised to attract the
makers in Europe and America. Perhaps we might get
some literature on the subject written by trained men
with practical knowledge. (For a hotchpotch of fact and
fancy, refer to Rose’s “ Metallurgy of Gold,” second ed.,
just out. Rock crushers that were out of date years ago,
describee, at tedious length ; important machines dis-
missed in a few lines; undigested statements about
China, Mexico, Australia. Yet, withal, enough good in
it to make it almost a classic). Give us a decent hand-
book of mining, if it be possible—but by all means bring
the inventor and manufacturer nearer to the miner.
Dear Bulletin. —Some Tasmanians might
object to your name for their little island across
the Strait —I don’t. Better to Sleep-a-Lot than
wander aimlessly around with eyes half glued-
up with sand and brickdust, as they do in
Sydney. We can afford to Sleep. Here, in Tas.,
all our surroundings are awake and calling. Is
not the everlasting music of our rippling streams,
winding aw ay beneath the cool, myrtle forests,
preferable to the noiseless, soulless billabongs of
N.S.W., which creep miserably away across sun-
cracked, death-spotted plains ? Is not the crystal
clearness of our lakes, where the fish leap to meet
the sunlight, and the ducks dance upon the waves,
more to be desired than the melancholy of the
dead-boxtree-dotted holes they call lakes on the
Sydney side ? A man told me (and I believe him
because he was a rabbit-inspector) that he had
seen cod crawling along the bottom of a N.S.W.
river with an army of crows feasting off their
spines. We have rivers here—not dead canals ;
and lakes—not dustbins. Sleep-a-Lot ? Yes, we
do. But in one of our waking moments we in-
vited Tattersall over to stay ; and we didn’t sacri-
fice .£30,000 per an. on the altar of our heavenly
REGINALD BLACK, a director of the Bank
of N.S.W. and of the A.M.P . Society.
Photo., Freeman and Co. Ltd.
hopes. In another lucid interval we appropriated
the tote, instead of sporting our coin on the off-chance
of dragging miserable divs. out of Moses and Aaron.
We were considerably awake, too, on 3rd June
last; and it was just their sleepless, hidebound,
gummy-eyed condition that caused the N.S.
Welshers to fail their country at the right moment.
The Bulletin expresses conviction that oiir
bishop is too wide-awake for Tasmania. That is
my opinion, too. The general run of Tas. bishops
appear to divide their attention between saintly
Hobart and the mutton-birders, and 43 men of
that stamp couldn’t better our morals. We shun
them with awe in the city, and thank God they
never visit us in the bush. And if the present
boss-parson humped his bluey clean out of the
island no one would care much, and few be wiser.
The Bulletin, which also draws attention to our
national virtue re an old tub in Hobart which is
said to have lived through the Nile business, is
quite in error when it says we are much disturbed
over the argument. Nothing disturbs us, except
the beastly whistles of the Sydney boats when
they get bushed, and we don’t care a rap whether
the ancient wreck aforementioned turns out to be
old Noah’s Ark or King Solomon’s foot - bath.
Yes, we sleep and grow fat. Why, we can show a
Governor who can weigh up Sydney’s vice-regent
and its beloved Premier on top of him; and we
can turn out on sight enough raspberry-jam to
silt up its beautiful harbor. Then look at our
Braddon ; and old never-die Douglas—but enough
said. “The Land of Sleep-a-Lot!” Good!
We’re proud of it.— Tasmaniao.


o carry o -f/jA iSst- ry
S-Af. //tfiatet
/( fuifi* M>r7*T</ oJ~ tfe
Jz-Kcoi 0/S ' s
He was a brave exploring man, wbo’d travelled round the
zone.
losing old Munchausen, all on his little alone;
And a lot of incidents and tales of dem'ng do,
To experiences— of course, they all were true.
He told them how one mofning, ’mid the desert’s search*
' ing glare,
A quantity of crocodiles sprang on him unaware ;
Whilst an unattached rhin6ceros manoeuvred from the
untrousered person fanned him idly with a
spear.
•Then there came a blinding blizzard and an avalanche of
Whikt W a flock of earthquakes hovered round the merry
And“ a'whirlwind and a maelstrom made the scenery
to squelch the lot of them, but couldn't
Bp&re the time.
Then ho tewslM to a maqgo swamp, where tnfUions!
see the point of it; leastways, he didn't
Bo lo^v,rapped his head in flannel, and took refuge ma.
; Andh'e e burrowed through the planet, like a persevering
mole.
Next lie swooped upon a savage herde-n eohtaryboy.
And hA massacred the hapless youth with explorative joy.
And he challenged all his relatives to come and have lt,
Which Was really rather bravo, as there were none of them
about.
SaaSSHS-HST-
AndtoSiumph was phenomenal, for everyone had gone.
Boon he struck a hot volcano in a furious, fiery blest.
And he dropped into the crater, whilst an iceberg buried
then, by undiscovered means, he drifted out to cea,
And was hooked on board a lifeboat by a naval chim-
panzee.
And then the thing began to pall—he longed for quistncs:,
Bo he wired off to .England for a publisher's address ;
In a lonely pub he found him on a high Old Fleet-street
; v ' bust.
And the publisher supplied the Facts and Bougcr:: rut took
the. Dust.
a. * a m o
// y s/v <rs/s/vs\
The Dowager Empress has reinstated
Li Rung Chang in the Tsuag-li-Yamap...::
Qoad of of At? &*/> ' 5
' Snast- 6-tcs
jvf f/j ~Z£/nyf
j£acA:<Zra/y
\/%y ffetJC trfyf?S>
/ j yy
/ Sa-y ole(/cffer, -
c ahvut 7fra,f Tfere
> Sfita/c/n flZl/u/)C&
4v &
7 rpc/cts? fact £e/fer, 1
■ 6u^t !? eSS ff 7 Ce ■
A Chinese mob at“ Pekm stoned Mr..
Mortimer, a member of the British Lega-
tion, as he was leaving the railway station
with a lady.
tP% Q.
\>J *,%%
x&. %. %
Yv
\f\X%
\» 9 & <? 'ft.
\A A.V &
v» T?, ® \
\x%% \,
V A*
V v •
„ The most
notable feature of the sitting was thd great influence
for good exerted on the House by Mr. Barton. His
quiet dignity, and conciliatory tone were so marked
that members insensibly followed his exam pie, and
the all-night fitting wast quite free from the usual
accompaniment of such occasions-—namely, scenqa.
and displays of ill-temper, —f—
When Mr. Barton spoke on the questions
of equal representation, the joint sitting, and the
national referendum, he was listened to with marked
attention, not on account merely of his reputation,
hut on account of what he had to sgy.
7?e Frsyier a* so*ct«s-
-l/orfc first fztye. /ft fis/ory j t'fi
OU cJ) nj Crz- ct r J-
/t’-oy&o ja.l Z/j, /°
J 'J “-r ’ya-y <*>j /~~ __
«r</- e^ra.,,<f
0 fr/yo oy //~c{af># y'/~ lijfur/’' J ac j /*$ f/. re *
CARTOONLETS AND SO ON.


STIPENDS- OF THE CLERGY.
•At the eessiOD of the Church Assembly
yesterday afternoon, the RegisJtaur. Mr. w.
H. Mocria, moved the second reading of o
bill to amend certsdh sections of the Pat-
ronage Act
He had been told that the stipends
•oithe clergy In Sydney were about it per
cent, higher than those paid in Melbourne
t*o clergyman in possession of a partsb
shonld be in receipt of less than £3OO a year
(Hear, hear.) In many cases that -would be
a totally insufficient stipend. Some gentle-
mdß who wote In receipt of such a stun
wbtdd. tf they K*d turned their energies In
dootber dtroctipn, be getting thousands -in
etend.ht hundreds a yean (Hear. hear,, and
' **’* l Cv r-i
%A V!
vy beysyiY
T ^ e'jsnllet r 9\
"*|)e is yof~ \v
foy 7 /tf Joy’ll s
VrflHafte
ip<
A BAD ***** OF THE “
■r-i 1 i
VMy Wcri!
Villoogljty i? d.eaf>
, So-nye Sel^Tn/p
ifdiJbr Wor^e
fpp y)upp/p of
you. .
~f/f<?Jyr}jjYess
ffoss Co*7i/u7j/opj)
lL carf/- fajbe
-rff /6'Zl Jf
disable
/• if it be true, as unfortunately
seems to be shown beyond the power of
reasonable denial, that the great Metro-
politan Board Stands like a tax-swallow mg
.cormorant over the citizens, with claims
as irresistible as those’of a Shylock,. city
property .owners must do something to
preveut their possessions falling into the
confiscate!-’* mkw. What we have
endeavored to shdw is that if, on the one
hand, we have been hurried into inevitable
losses which are irremediable, there are
means of money-saving in a general
scheme of civic unification which may
partly at least retrieve the extravagance
of the sewerage business.
v **'& %
~o ie
k i , ra 8 e “ c&l <n^°
t^ e - <^v
/-/f] ~. G^o,
o\/*< >' -p<' r '-,i'° -V
mu/ . <£'*' cP
.tffV
’ ,*#S>
&_
ID
1 ->'
»t ' a j d ll, e evonrng delive-y
from P tJ m “^Oen e lS aW ''t*
e r'>n on ji c , obstmacy*
“arte «cse weiT £»& *V 'he complex
“The people
An opening lor Lapd Bill, which
have got a grasp o the la a a selector
i 8 by no means ample- Wl tb the pro-'
or licensee wirVif.» , u3tr have a lawy<*
visions of this' hill F' iaea . (Laughter.) A
sleeping on P 1 * „ eßBa ry as a watch-
lawyer will he just » 3 There are amendments
ncTtee 1862, hut no consoUd -
ton.”-Mr. Duggan-.
3ill if ke ! A
, Jat/yer io uTpJersfeiyJ rf'feryflye.
A jfor'pp/Qev Js*fc s"jy<? s ,
Sucl sjblevty ofeTpip&s &r difpreyc*
-Tp/eryJe/ecifryuSr-
-ftKe/fy. o^^^
PtJQ :-
*J)
MELBOURNIANA.


To tb€ WOO LG ROWERS
at
Hem South Hales and Queensland.
-
Referring to a previous announcement, we beg to inform you that the mutual arrange-
ment entered into between our Company and the Eight Firms forming the majority- of the
Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association is now absolutely at an end.
From this date the CO-OPERATIVE WOOL AND PRODUCE COMPANY Ltd.
will make the following Wool-selling Charges only :
3 per cent, to the Grower, on small and large accounts alike.
Is. (One Shilling) per Bale to the Buyer, for services rendered.
We undertake the SALE OF WOOL, on the above terms, for all Growers.
The Company leaves itself with confidence in the hands of the Pastoralists, and solicits
a continuance of the generous support accorded to it.
The Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co., Ltd.
39 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Ist October, 1898,
A CLEVER GIRL,
will always speak with enthusiasm of ‘
Whisky after her “ boy ” has tried it one
whiskies, she finds, tend to make him
morose. A nip of “D.O.L. ” causes
sparkle.*
‘ D.C.L. ”
;e. Most
dull and
him to
Prisoners Lilley and Funnell showed in-
genuity of the Jean Valjean order in breaking out
of Coolamon, N.S.W., “logs.” To burn out the
iron door-slide and fixings they used shredded-up
cocoanut matting. The whole centre of the door
was burnt out, and had they set the building on
fire at any other part they might have been roasted
in a hell of their own igniting. A little girl going
past the police-station early in the morning gave
the alarm, or the building would have been burnt
down.
Do you ever have a headache ? Would
you not have a cure—simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets —
ten doses —for Is. Id. by post.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
SoftCa9*/a& Sfrirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per )4-dozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE BROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Thomas Joseph Byrnes.
My school life was in some sense contemporary
with that of the late Premier Byrnes; but he
ended his Grammar School course while I was
still in the throes of Euclid and Virgil. I well
remember how his success in winning one of the
first University scholarships given by Q. Govern-
ment was stressed for us youngsters’ benefit, with
the appropriate teacherly injunction to go and do
likewise. Later, I met Byrnes occasionally in the
course of journalism. I saw him for the last time
at the end of August, when he was in Sydney to
discuss New Guinea syndicate matters.
* * * »
At school Byrnes was regarded rather as a
plodding than as a brilliant boy. Ido not mean
that he was dull—far from it; but some of his
classmates seemed brighter. Arid though a
clever man, a brainy man, he never became
what I would call a brilliant man. This is not
disparagement; for Byrnes was entitled to rub
brains with any of his compeers in Australia; he
was on Barton’s and Griffith’s intellectual level.
Yet I do not think he had Barton or Griffith’s
intellectual force. It is a matter of adjectival
definitions. Judged by old-world standards, are
even Barton and Griffith brilliant? I think of
Disraeli, and say No.
But Byrnes sufficed for his
sphere. He was obviously
and consciously above his
colleagues in the present Q.
Parliament—l do not mean
in the little arts and crafts of
politics, or even in business
capacity; but as a brain-
force, an original stimulus,
an all-round intelligence.
And I have taken trouble
to make his place plain be-
cause the press notices have
been crowded with refer-
ences to Byrnes’s “ brilliant
career,” his “ brilliant
achievements.” As is gener-
ally the case, the memorial
notices were full of errors.
Even in his life Michael
Davitt wrote of a 15-stone
Premier, nearly 6ft. tall.
Byrnes never weighed 15
stone ; and he was a man
of medium height—certainly
little over sft. Sin. He rather
left upon you the impression
of a short and broad man.
* * ♦ *
Almost my first remark
when I saw him last was
that he looked old and tired.
He was only 37, yet his hair
and beard were turning grey ;
his beard was markedly grey.
To my comment he said that
“ what you call the trium-
phal tour through Queens-
land was very fatiguing.
But,” he added, “I feel
strong ; I have a good consti-
tution.” He had influenza,
and refused to smoke. And,
as Henry Hess says, when a
smoker cannot smoke it is
time to see a doctor. From
influenza Byrnes passed
through measles and pneu-
monia to death. The doctors
laid the blame on his weak
heart. I go farther back, and
lay it on degenerated nerves.
Byrnes never spared his
nerves. He had worked
and later he had enjoyed him-
self, trusting to his “good constitution.” But I
noted his Fat as a sign of weakness. Of course,
there is Fat and Fat. The fat of a hearty young
woman springs from sheer overplus of vitality ;
and every atom of it is hard and healthy. Her
fat is force. But fat in a young man usually
means failure of the vital processes ; it is accumu-
lated debris which the body is unable to get rid
of. Perhaps no man has any business to be fat
before he is quite 40. And Byrnes was not quite
38.
♦ ♦ * *
His death once more raises the question of Aus-
tralian stamina. Griffith has worked far harder
than Byrnes ever did; he has had infinitely more
worry and anxiety ; yet Griffith is alive at 53,
though he is ageing or aged. I suppose Reid has
lived harder than Byrnes—has attended more
banquets, drunk more whisky, had farther fling—
yet Reid is lively at 53. Young Curnow, son of
the editor of S.M. Herald, collapsed suddenly
like Byrnes; yet old man Curnow is well above
ground, even if his health is not as good as could
be wished. I could quote a dozen promising
young Australians who have suddenly dropped
out of tiie team when the strain came. Are we
not as good as our fathers ? If not, why are we
not? Is it climate, environment, education ?
* • * *
Byrnes deserved all he got, yet he always
struck me as a lucky man—in the conventional
sense of luck. Griffith picked him out in
1890 and put him on the ladder ; he had only to
hold on and to climb. Certainly, a weak man
would have dropped off; but Byrnes was a strong
man, though not, as I have said, one of the strong-
est. He did justice to Griffith’s choice; and with
a little more grit would have done more justice.
But Byrnes was spasmodic ; he was. fond of
change; and his heart was never wholly in politics
—he had too much brains for that (or too little,
according to standpoint). “ What is there in it
at all?” he said to me. “I shall fight the next
election : after that, I don’t know.” Yet Byrnes
was ambitious ; Tozer thought he was very am-
bitious. I fancy “that tired feeling” came over
him frequently ; his body was not supporting his
brain. I liked him for his leaning to literature ;
he did nothing in literature, but he thought he
could do something ; he wished to do something;
he took far more pleasure in books than in politics.
I have an essay on Brunton Stephens’ poems which
Byrnes read to the Brisbane Literary Association.
It is one of my measures of his niind; when a man
sits down to dig something out of himself and put
it on paper, you get his value as you would not
from a hundred speeches in which rhetoric is used
to gild commonplace. It is a good essay—rather
heavy, not over forceful, written in the style of
the man who talks. Byrnes talked well; he was
The late T. J. BYR NES, Premier of Queensland.
Photo., J. Hubert Newman.
no orator, but he was sensible and effective.
« * * »
Byrnes did not like to think that he owed any-
thing to his R.C. religion ; but he did. It cost
him. something, too ; but not as much as he gained
by it. _ His religion helped to decide Griffith’s
choice in 1890, when a Solicitor-General was
wanted. Macrossan and Thynne had dropped
out of the Cabinet, and a R.C. representative was
wanted to balance things. Later on, religion
gave him many active friends; and, except at
North Brisbane election, his religious opponents
took little trouble against him.
* * * *
I did not see much potentiality of political use-
fulness in Byrnes. To be frank, I saw none. He
had begun wrong ; had associated himself with
the corrupt Stagnation Party in Queensland—the
party which persistently opposes reform, progress;
partly because it does not understand what these
things are and imply, and has no sympathy with
them, and partly because its interests are bound
up . with the maintenance of the status quo,
which means office rewards, bank over-
drafts, Government funds diverted to personal
uses. Byrnes would never have had the strength
to sweep the Augean stables of these parasites on
the people. I doubt if he had the inclination. He
had a contempt for the mob, a just contempt; he
knew that it bites the hand which feeds it, stones
its prophets, ruins its well-wishers through fickle-
ness or ignorance. A Democratic politician must
not expect gratitude, must be ready to see his
greatest measures overthrown by those he de-
votes his life to help, and—must go on helping.
There is a fragment of Tourgenieff’s on the fool’s
judgment and the laughter of the crowd. “ A
man has done all that he could ; has worked stren-
uously, lovingly, honestly. . . . And honest hearts
turn from him in disgust ; honest faces burn with
indignation at his name. What is that man to do?
Go on working! not try to justify himself, and not
even look forward to a fairer judgment .” Alas !
that is beyond a man’s strength, unless he be of
the rarest nature.
■*•***
It was beyond Griffith’s strength. Griffith, as
a politician, honestly tried to act uprightly for
Queensland’s benefit. But he had bad tools, had
to work with treacherous allies. To carry one
point he had to give way on a dozen, and gradu-
ally the pitch defiled his own hands. He found
himself misrepresented and reviled by those he
wished to help; and, heartsick, he gave up
everything— and saved himself. Byrnes was less
conscientious than Griffith ; he was more like
cynical MTlwraith, who believed that the art of
politics is to gull the people—and succeeded. For
the present Byrnes was going to adopt “the
Nelson touch ” —he was going to do nothing, drift
and dribble, and try and consolidate his influence
and power. Then, I believe he hoped that
he could help reform, for he was liberal and open-
minded, did not covet money for its own sake, was
desirous of doing good in his day and generation.
• • • *
But his position was insecure; he had to con-
cede much ; he carried the compromise with evil
so far that there was practically no hope of good
left. He was really disgusted with the Q.N.
Bank influence in politics, but, when he came to
grapple with it, he found the influence too strong
for him ; and he had not pluck enough to cut him-
self adrift from his party and declare Democratic
war to the knife. Or, rather, he did not see how
it would pay him, and shirked the encounter ; he
valued himself first and Queensland next, though
he wished to benefit Queensland, if it could
be done with advantage, or even without
harm, to himself. So he would not widen
the franchise; he would not stop - colored
immigration; he countenanced, if he did
not encourage, the system of constituency-
bribery to keep his party in office. Like Griffith,
but without Griffith’s preliminary struggle he
was saving his own skin. His course was irre-
vocably taken ; there was nothing to expect from
him, save by accident; and his allies would have
fought hard to prevent accidents. So I saw no
Democratic hope in him.
* * * *
Nevertheless, I am sorry at his premature
death ; it seems unjust. A man’s life is his life,
to use or to spoil. One has a sense of wrong
when he is cut off in his prime. And
Byrnes was personally a good fellow. He
had a clever man’s contempt for the stupid people
with whom he was brought in contact, and often
he showed it and earned their resentment. He
was not tactful. And the habit of power, coming
early, had made him a little arrogant, despite his
good sense and good nature. He was intolerant
of opposition, especially of stupid or dishonest
opposition. I do not consider that his action in
taking the fees and emoluments he did from the
Government was that of a high-minded man. But
he had overwhelming precedents. In Queensland,
where the level of public life is as low as it can
well be, it is everyone’s business to loot the
Treasury. Byrnes might have secured a much
higher reward had he chosen. It does not matter
now.
A.G.S.
“ Peritonitis,” to The Bulletin :
“ Gouli-Gouli’s ” recent anecdote of the poor lady-
typist and her greedy medico touches on a burning sub-
ject in more ways than one. As a doctor in fair practice,
I have never yet been able to see the justice, from
either point of view, of the system of charging all
patients the same fee. In “ Gouii-Gouli’s ” instance, the
lady had only herself to blame, as, with such slight
ear-troubles, she should have visited some decent
general practitioner, and avoided the high-rent-pay-
ing consultant who runs the guinea to two-guinea show.
In N.S. Wales, either doctors should graduate their fees
according to the means of their patients, or patients
should avail themselves of medical facilities otherwise
provided for them. As for Victoria, every married man
under 50 joins the A.N.A., and all the rest of the male
population over 50 make their sons (if they have any)
join. The remuneration to the over-worked iodge-doctor
varies from 10s. to 14s. per member per annum, and in
my own city merchants, lawyers, and bankers have the
gall to become members, and calmly appropriate their
lodge-doctor’s services at the aforementioned munificent
figure. And yet, incomprehensible as it may seem, this
eBsentially-to-the-core sweating society has actually as
chief figureheads in the branches and on the metropolitan
committee, practising medical men who, apparently for
the delight of perpetual swelled-head, help to run this
miserable medical grinding-mill. Friendly societies
should be encouraged when honestly run as such for
people with limited incomes, but there ought to be a
legal squelching of pseudo friendly-societies which take
in all, rich and poor—and more especially of the A.N.A.,
which has made itself the curse of up-country pracl
tioners in Victoria.
Another royal prophecy has missed the
mark. Louis Philippe, in ’48, predicted that fifty
years later, there wouldn’t be a crowned head in
Europe.
“Malle”: It is mawkish sentimentality
bo howl about Kitchener’s action in having the
wounded Fuzzies, along the line of advance, dis-
patched. Perhaps the following extracts, from
my note-book of boyish experiences in ’B2, may
explain
A squad of dragoon guards had a brush with the enemy,
and were returning with some prisoners, when they saw
two apparently wounded men gesticulating to them. A
trooper rode over, and, finding they wanted water, dis-
mounted to fill his water-bottle in the canal. Whilst he
was doing so, the supposed wounded men jumped up,
shot him dead, and rushed for his horse. One got it, and
although pursued, escaped ; the other was cut to pieces.
D was one of the finest fellows in the corps.
Another: —
A wounded Egyptian officer asked one of our fellows for
water. Our man unslung his bottle and gave him a
drink, and, as he was reslinging it, the brute lifted his
revolver and shot him dead. He didn’t live long himself.
Sometimes the Gyps have lain down and pretended to be
wounded, and after we’ve passed them have jumped up and
fired on us from the rear. At Tel-el-Kebir our boys
blocked this game by bayonetting every man lying on the
field as they passed. There were a good many shammers.
A miner, who lately arrived in Melbourne
and happened to buy one of atheist Symes’ pam-
phlets, had his religious feelings so outraged
thereby that lie smashed Jos’s shop-window, and
mauled a lot more of the accursed literature.
An ungodly beak, however, charged him 255. for
the righteous deed.
Bull A-begging.
“ Ex- naval officer ” to The'Bulletin :
Chamberlain and Goschen are very anxious just now
for Australia to further subsidise Britain’s marine-murder
monsters. It is possible they take such a soulful interest
in Australia’s welfare that they desire to put our protec-
tion on a sure basis. It is possible, on the other hand,
that “ grab ” is the game, and that these eminent states-
men have been stimulated to covet our cash by the jingo-
whoops of absentee Australian fat men and the faint
echoes of the similar revelations we hear our side occa-
sionally. Which is only a circumstance either way.
The real question for us is: Do we get as much
protection for our money at present as we are
entitled to, and is Britain’s navy all it is cracked
up to be? Ali the world knows it is very fine
and large on paper. But ships are of no use
minus men, and just how British warships are
going to be manned by skilled crews, after a couple of
wholesale slaughterings in big actions, is a problem with
no present apparent solution. Mere intrepidity has no
chance in modern naval battles unless it is linked with
expert personnel ; a lesson that has just cost Spain very
dear. Of the many miles of ships paraded at the Jubilee
Review not half had their complement of men, were
efficiently boilered and engineered, or carried a complete
modern armament. And right here comes in one little
incident —which did not matter much because the game
of manoeuvres was not “ for keeps,” but which would have
mattered a lot in real hostilities. Thanks to a look out
vessel hoisting the signal “ west by north” in
place of “south-west,” the defending Channel squad-
ron steamed off to intercept the enemy in the
wrong direction. In another mimic battle, too,
the day was lost through the Edinburgh being only able
to dodder along at 10J4 knots I Gosciien’s special pet,
too, the Terrible, recently went out to break records on a
run to Gibraltar and back, and so sure was Goschen of i he
result that he actually went to Gibraltar to see the fun.
But instead of keeping up 20 knots of her computed 21,
the lame duck staggered back at a bare 15—didn’t even
get 20,000 h.p. out of the 25,000 she is supposed to develop.
This expensive machinery-box had previously tried to
keep up 15 knots for two hours ; but after 95 minutes her
starboard engine required a 3 hrs. and 25 min. rest. Then
she reeled off 140 knots in 7 hours but compensated for
this with a final crawl of 14 knots an hour. Tons
of money have been spent on this colossal failure
and her misfortunes can be paralleled with those
of many other similar Admiralty mistakes. The
Powerful, for instance, having to proceed as fast as
possible from England to Hongkong, actually arrived
there in about the time one of the old tea-clippers would
have taken to sail the distance —this through a trifling
miscalculation of her coal-capacity. Had she quietly re-
mained at anchor and only utilised her coal for working
her numerous minor engines and for condensing pur-
poses, she would have consumed, in the 40 odd days in
which she was supposed to do the voyage, the vhole of the
coal she is able to carry. And this without being pro-
pelled a single yard ! Again, as for armaments, obsolete
muzzle-loaders are quite common in the British na\y.
The Hercules, Sultan, Superb, Temeraire, and Monarch
have all been re-boilered and engined, but they
still retain their antique cannon, and in the case
of the equally out-of-date Bellerophon, the sagacious
naval authorities have given her up -to - date guns,
but have left in her her fossilised 11-knot engines.
In fact, while not a muzzle-loading gun is to be found in
the navies of France, Germany, Italy, Russia and Japan,
the B. navy is full of them High time, therefore, to ask
if our sea protection by Britain is quite such a certainty
as we fondly imagine. And still more imperative is it to
force upon Australian Governments —ere they even con-
sider Chamberlain and co.’s disinterested propositions—
the need of strict and searching enquiry'into the capa-
bilities of the squadron Australia now partly pays for.
Admiral Cervera’s experiences are not yearned for ‘his
part of the world.
♦
Inspector Cullen, of the Maoriland police,
says there is less crime on the West Coast gold-
fields than in any other section of the country.
The churches are few and the schools many on the
Coast.
During the war fever at New York, every
dude wore a star-spangled banner in his coat or
hat-band even when going to church. But the
boss patriotic Johnny outdid all others by wearing
a Spanish flag in the vicinity of his lumbar region.
CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS.—Sketched at
the Melbourne Conference.


SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS —White, 22/6; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTOASTLE St SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 189 Q-9).
WOOL.
Bales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under;
Tobacco Leaf - - Monday
Leather - • • Tuesday
Bark - - - - Tuesday
Fur Skins - Wednesday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins ■ Friday
Tallow - - • Friday
Hides - Friday
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited. .
Winchcombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address—QQ KING STREET, SYDNEY.
18c. GIPSY.
3 Fine Diamonds,
£2 ss, £3, £4.
1 Fine Diamond, with 2
Sapphires, Rubies,
Opals or Pearls,
£1 15s, £2 ss, £3.
18c. BAND RING.
1 Fine Diamond, 40s,
60s, 100 s.
Ruby or Sapphire, 30s,
455, 60s.
Opal or Pearl, 255, 40s.
90. Opal, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
18c. HALF-HOOP.
5 Fine Diamonds, 17 10s.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with
3 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, 15.
5 Lovely Opals, 455, 60s, 60s.
18c. ENGAGEMENT.
3 Fine Diamonds, £5.
2 Fine Diamonds,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal or Pearl,
£3 15s.
Lucky 4-Leaf
SHAMROCK
PENDANT,
Solid Gold Mount,
10s each.
Gold Name or Motto BROOCH, 8s 6d;
Plain, without name, 7s 6d.
OUE NEW
TWIN
BIRD
BROOCHES.
Plain Gold,
7s 6d pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d pair.
CURB CHAIN AND PADLOCK BRACELETS
9a GOLD.
25a, 30s, 40s,
Extra Heavy and Wide,
60s, 70s, 80s.
Children’s, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
: "»<■ i ■ ■
150. GOLD.
£2 ss, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £5.
Extra Heavy and Wide,
£5 10s, £6 10s.
Children’s, 32s 6d, 37s 6d.
Fitted with Key Padlocks, 10s. extra.
Sterling Silver Chain Bracelets, 7s Cd, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
_ Solid Gold
Faith, Hope, and
Charity
PENDANT,
5s each.
With Pin & Chain,
8s 6d.
Real Amethyst
HEART
PENDANT,
2/6 each.
ALL ARTICLES SENT POST FREE
TO ANY ADDRESS.
OUR NEW WILD BOAR’S TUSK
BROOCH,
With Chain and Bell Pendant,
Silver-Mounted, 5/6
Cold-Mounted, 14
NEW GOLD BIRD BROOCH, 8s 6d.
With Looped Chain to Heart, 9s 6d.
mss*
IMS.
GOLD IVY BAR BROOCH, 10s 6d
With Looped Chain to Heart.
Real Amethyst
BUTTON HOOK,
Very Pretty and
Useful,
2s 0d each.
These Three
Patterns
SLEEVE
LINKS.
9c. Gold, 13/6
15c. Gold, 27/6
Silver, 3/-
per pair.
nil
PLEASE
SEND FOE
oca
Illustrated
SLIPS
OF
NOVELTIES
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
J.W.M. : Too indefinite Reklaw : .Same old
incapacity Jingle: “Floors” not up T. M‘M. :
Nonsense ; there are enough reasonable “ woes out-
back ” to wail over, without commiserating the shearer
who gets work and decent wages ... Capt. Jean : De-
clined. Comealong : Want force and interest..
J.A.L. : Thanks ; forwarded to Minister of Justice
Malle : No interest P.A. : The fault is in your un-
poetical mind. Anyway, such a stern censor ought to
know the rules of the triolet-game before trying to play
it. R.D. : The trouble is that those white men won’t
work under kanakas’ conditions for kanakas’ wages. If
they would, doubtless, as you say, they’d find employ-
ment quick enough. The Bulletin would rather see the
cane industry perish off the face of Australia than
see it flourish by the labor of white kanakas.
Cocky : In a word, -you ask us to accuse that parson of
cow-stealing on the bare evidence of your say-so
THE STRATHMERTON MURDER.
Fred or Alfred Archer, the accused.—Sketched at
N. Melb. Court, 26th September.
Mister Ryan : But, then, Kitchener isn’t Irish Jenny
Wren: Potiphar item may pass J. 8.0. : Drivel
Cornstalk : Dull Grace : No time for detailed criticism
unless matter’s worth it. Yours isn’t 7 x 7: Ranjit-
sinhji was not a prince when in Australia. By newspaper
accounts he wasn’t a prince at any time —only nominee
heir to a prince who revoked the nomination. “ Sylvie ”
no chop Nellie B. : You’ll never do any good till you
drop that semi-maudlin style Mortiboy : Well, we’ve
read it through. Now tell us what it's all about
W.H.W.: Returned with sniff Bert R.: Poor jingle
Yarran : Trifle thin Tim B. : None usably put
L.B.E. : Verse wants force and novelty; considering
interview... Q.N.: Possibly. ..Fay :On the whole —N 0....
F. :No time to indulge in humor. That is to say, we
desire no humor for our personal private consumption.
Humor is only wanted by ns for cold-blooded business-
purposes. Personally, we all suffer from an incurable
melancholy, which it is not desirable should be disturbed.
Mercoro: You couldn’t make a hotel like the Aus-
tralia pay without selling liquor. Without whisky, you
would have to charge higher prices for worse accommo-
dation in a house that, alcohol and its concomitants
having been banished, would be utterly repugnant to the
sort of people who spend money. Where there is grog
you find red-blooded human beings, light, cheerfulness ;
in the other sort of place you meet old maids, parsons,
gloom, and coffee-fumes W. Butler :1, No, 2, Singer
(contralto). 3, Some sharks viviparous, some oviparous.
Thanks for good wishes J.B.D. : Many thanks
Native : Can’t see it 1 Thargo : Hard case, yours. You
may rake-up something to suit us Fitful: Too crude.
......Eric M. :No graphic force Hal U. : Horse-verse,
will consider ; other is vague eroticism 6x 8 : Neither
quite class enough. Also, newchum-blunder subject’s
about ready for dust-bin Ethel G. : Very juvenile
G. Eastgate: “ Episode” much too long for interest
Nix : “Nix” it is, too! Alley B. : No. 10; you can’t
do it Bert R. : Indifferent “Ingoldsby.” Moses
Bellamy: Suggest Bellowing Moses as a new name
Taranaki: Thanks .... Ace: No points about Jim and the
widow except the writing, which looks like an ootopus up
a gum-tree...... Saxon : You talk about the “empires”
which Britain founded ; which empires? Also, “under
British rule you enjoy freedom of the press unknown in
other countries.” Do we! The N.S.W. libel law gives
the press less freedom than it enjoys in at least half-a-
dozen countries we know of. And you actually assure
us, with strong hysterics, that the British race “ will
endure for all ages.” All ages I Why, it is 1000 to 1 that
the time will come when the Briton and American and
Frenchman and German won’t have left a traceable dust-
speck on the universe. 3000 years isn’t much in the
world’s history. What were the names of even the most
powerful nations of Europe 3000 years ago? There are
four nations in the British Isles, and half of one of them
has disappeared in the microscopic period of 50 years.
Get thee to a threepenny bar! Ace: The plain
yarn of the bushman’s lonely grave again. And, once
more, his name is Bill Sinbad: Can’t quite make
out whether it’s meant as fact or fiction V. :
But journalism is a business. The business of buying
paper blank and selling it stained Bernardine : Medico
item altogether too blunt ... P.A.: Thanks; book re-
ceived Long-un : Thanks. Haven’t seen it; but we
sheer off the innocent blasphemies of bladder-headed
infant-prodigies ... Medico (Ken.): Point too sharp
Von K. : Cook, excellent Mero : The right way to draw
a galloping horse is to depict the impression received by
the human eye from a galloping horse. It is wrong to
draw a moving horse as the photo-camera shows that
horse, because the human eye cannot see as the camera
sees. Photography isn’t Art Bender : If it is true that
total abstainers are more immoral than moderate drinkers,
it’s high time for a law making the drinking of some in-
toxicating liquor compulsory. Immorality is possibly a
disease, the microbes of which are destroyed by alcohol.
Woolly-cuss: Handwriting awful. Only deciphered
a word here and there A.H.T. (Ballarat) : A few good
lines and too many bad ones Regular Reader: (1)
Would feel inclined to sell the steamship shares. There
will certainly be opposition some day, and that will
probably mean trouble. Don’t suppose there is any
reason to get out on the instant, but hardly good enough
for a continued investment. (2) Not sure, but think the
gold shares will rise again. If it were our money, would
wait. ... Little Brown Man: Good, but same thing
has been said in Bulletin over and over again
T.E.S. : Nicely-rhymed, but subject too chestnutty
Stanley N. (P.) : Too glaringly improbable Eosono :
Bulletin printed two of your paragraphs. They were
short and to the point. Now, you send 13 paragraphs,
each beaten out to cover a full page. Not one of them
that couldn’t be boiled down to seven lines Wager:
Princess of Wales has £lO,OOO a year, to be increased to
£30,000 in the event of widowhood Rex Backing
D ” accepted. No name or address on MS E.S. (S.A.) :
Drawings hopeless B. Moss (E. Melb.): Have given a
reliable man your address. He will communicate with
you Noco : Though royalties often travel “ incognito,”
their aliases deceive nobody—any more than Premier
Reid would if he packed up and labelled his grip-sack
“ Yes-No.” Cantle : The Messrs. Russell took horses
to England, from Australia, and hunted on them, over 20
years ago W. : When there is only one woman alone
in each compartment—well, it is safest to chum in with
the best looking W.R. (Brisbane): Give him a wide
berth. Send stamped envelope and we will give you
address of right man A.M.B. : You see, it’s just this
way. A tale or set of verses is good if it at once
“knocks” you; if you have to lie back and consider
whether or not you like it, then it isn’t good. Same
situation as when your nose tells you to beware of fish as
un-fresh. Don’t taste said fish to ascertain its condition.
H. Reynolds: Too old-worldy. P. Stewart: We
rarely print such cuttings Leon Breaker: Might
possibly do if you cut it down 50 per cent
W.D.: This paper is not disposed to gloat over the acts
of homicidal madmen—for the encouragement of other
potential homicides. He was a jealous lunatic and slew
his family. The less said about it the better
Prospect G. : “ Leichhardt’s Grave,” enough to make him
turn in it .....Bargo : “Convert” too nebulous Y.A.:
“ God’s Guide ” bit melodramatic, and lacks finish. Verse,
about the middle of the middlings A. Duncan :No
more point than a pumpkin .... Dar : “ Ghost ” promptly
laid J.M. (W.A.) : Merit—but not enough 6x 8:
Verse not worth while Spokeshave : Cheerful as a
coffin Thos. M‘M. : Feeble hand C.G.K. : Tyro’s
touch, so far F.W.G. :No skill E.M.D. : Hardly up.
Colleen B. : Some dry humor—but what a glorious
opportunity missed in not putting the bees on to “ Pa.”
Amelia : Life-like ; but too feeble of interest F.R. :
“Tamehand” very near mark Stybus: Some force,
Jt not well-applied Louis M. : Sorry none up.
“Cheek” would make good music-hall ditty W.L. :
“ TighFPlace ” too loose A. J. Gordon : Feel bound to
say, in all kindness, that verse is waste of time on your
P ar t J.J. : True bill! —and useful corrective to the
gentleman’s mechanical misery and factory-made pathos...
F. : Mere ignorant prejudice. Kid is excellent eating..,..
Casp : Very good suggestions L.A. : Queen Victoria’s
father was 52 at her birth. The marriage was 29th May,
1818. Her half-sister and half-brother are dead. They
would both be almost centenarians now Hawkshaw :
Rule is that way, certainly ; but ’possum-cat-cross seems
to furnish an exception. Also, the occurrence which you
call “ impossible ” has been observed in actual progress.
.....Mark J. : Never heard of the gentleman. Smells very
like imposture Tall Boy: Stole your damper. That
all? Strange if he hadn’t P.T.: But it was never
contended that drinkers are less immoral than abstainers
because they are drinkers. Quite conceivable, though,
that greater “ sensuality ” may be incidental to the
temperament untempted of alcohol E.A.G. : Unavail-
able Pukaki : Why, it is believed that if a
town has two attorneys they both can get a living,
whereas if it has only one he starves Old Jack : That
was only his way of speaking. His book received a warm
and worthy welcome W.H.D.: Held for insertion.
That line was a memory we’ll try and fix Milky:
‘Liberty” below par. Leaf idea ingenuous; verse not
good enough Met: No novelty Krasota : It’s im-
possible to “prove that Tolstoy’s conception of life is
wrong”—for Tolstoy. All you can do is to show what it
implies, and leave readers to judge. Criticism is a touch-
stone, not the “philosopher’s stone.” And we’re discuss-
ing Tolstoy’s conception of Art, not of Life W. Mayn :
Probably use ...Grip: Received No. 19: Not up
Carini: Last batch better. Possibly use one or two
Edward M. : Received Frank S. : Some points; but
far too long. Try something short and lively Percy
R. : MS. still too artificial. Can you call ? Gilbert W. :
Probably use; but it wants a shade more intensity to
reach its possibilities G.H.8.: Tommyrot 1 Such offi-
cials don’t usually conduct inquests, and coroners’ juries
don’t “convict.” Their verdict is merely an official
statement of cause of death Reklaw : But it is quite
possible to be afraid of what you don’t intellectually
believe in. The emotions are but partly controllable by
the reason. Verse too unequal Edwd. M‘D. : “Old
Hut ” has pathos, but not class enough for B. Don’t re-
member others. Will probably turn up Est. P.: Idea
good ; handling indifferent. Racing-yarns—yes, if good.
Nitellub : All three have merit, but none would quite
fill Bulletin bill Beatrice M. : Empty J. Lynch :
Not too bad, but lunatio episode is advanced in years
J.M. M’K. : A mere nothing J.M. O’R. : May use
J. Lyall: Rather prosy horror Alone: 16, will con-
sider Yokel: “ Invincibles” doubtful 7 : “Clancy’s
Letter ” poor ; “ Out Back ” beneath criticism. You have
no ear, and your poetical discrimination is sized-up
by your disparagement of Ogilvie while you admire such
schoolboy stuff as your “ Forgotten Poets.”
Though the Beltana Pastoral Co., in S.A.,
and the Momba Pastoral Co., in far-western
N.S.W., successfully breed their own camel herds
locally, imported Afghans are still employed to
work them. And one of the periodical agitations
against the camel and the camel-man is brewing.
Nine-tenths of the Perth tobacconists’
shops are run by foreign ladies, mostly Belgian,
but calling themselves French. In one street
there are seven tobacco-shops all in a row, which
furnishes the wicked man with food for reflection !
Eleven missionaries, four of them ladies,
left Sydney for China on Saturday week. Almost
every Australasian province was represented in
the contingent. The missionaries propose to ex-
press Baptist, Congregational, Presbyterian, and
Anglican phases of Christian faith—making four
different renderings of one fact.
A Westralian Parliamentary library is
being formed, and a large collection of Italian and
Spanish books has lately been bought for it in
Melbourne. Melb. Parliamentary Library is ex-
ceptionally rich in Italian and Spanish books
bought while James Smith was librarian, so W.A.
has followed suit. But one doesn’t fancy the
W.A. politicians—judging from the specimens ex-
hibited at the Federal Convention—reading Dante
and Cervantes. Deadwood Dicks would seem to
be more in their line.
“0.P.”: Noticing the general robustness
of butchers and slaughtermen, writer has struck a
theory, and hereby undertakes the physical re-
generation of this continent. The butcher fattens
on smell. Have been told that a smell is just as
solid and material as anything else—the smell of a
dead bullock is merely a number of infinitesimally
small junks of bullock floating about in the air
and waiting to lodge on somebody’s “smell”
membrane, and thence, presumably, get to the
stomach, for good or for evil according to the an-
tiquity of deceased. Now, as weak digestion,
with consequent debility, is the trouble with most
of us, and a man can get fat and vitalised upon
writer’s system without any digestion (provided
he smells long enough and judiciously), what’s the
matter with our breaking out forthwith as a nation
of Smellers; cultivating the practice in all schools,
hospitals, gaols, &c. ; giving big prizes at public
sniffing-competitions, and placing the large, fat,
big-beaked Champion Smeller of Australia on the
pedestal now occupied by the herring-gutted,
hump-backed, no-account cycling crank ?
Wild, wet Dunedin (M.L.) is likely to
become still more wet, as the Pacific shows a
strong inclination to roll right across Musselburgh
and St. Kilda into Otago harbor. For years the
authorities have squabbled over dour Atheism and
true-blue Presbyterianism while builders and
Chinese contractors carted the sand away from
Ocean Beach. Now the sand-hills have gone, and
when gales pile the waves on Ocean Beach the
flood-waters swamp the houses on the Flat and
flow off into the harbor. Unless something is
done quickly, the damp Edina of the South will
wake up some rainy morning and find two of its
suburbs gone and a whale preaching in First
Church pulpit.
Verb sap. for Melbourne University Coun-
oil:
When we are permitted to speak about the origin of
virtue and religion without employing whispetable and
circuitous language, and with the same freedom as we
now speak about our mental or motive temperaments,
the population problem will be virtually solved. The
wildest of all abstractions is the idea that our bodies are
dotted with shame-spots, and that we must act as if we
had no natural instincts. This abstraction has driven us
to the most shameful extremes of immorality.—W. A.
MacDonald in “ Humanitism.”
A Westralian lady aged 21 is charged with
being the champion blackmsHfer of her province,
According to the story told in court she obtained
credit from a Hindoo draper, and when Ram
Chunder wanted his money she threatened to
“ make it hot ” for him. Three days later a letter,
purporting to be signed by an infuriated brother,
struck the Hindoo like an avalanche. It stated
that the lady had just died as the result of an
illegal operation performed on her by the Hindoo,
who was a perfectly peaceful and respectable
draper and probably hadn’t the faintest idea how
to do such a thing; that she had perished after great
expense confessing the horror in her last moments ;
that it had cost £lO to square the doctor; and that
nothing but the immediate despatch of £55 to
a certain P.O. address could hush the matter
up. Then, apparently, Ram Chunder or his solicitor
went round to look at the building where the £55
was to be sent, and found the corpse there waiting
for her money. This was the tale told in the
police court, with the addition that the lady had
no enraged brother, and had been in perfect health
all the time. The Hindoo’s name wasn’t Ram
Chunder, but so many Asiatics are named Ram
something or other that that is as good as any
other.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
' n o th
. ve U palatable, and perfectly harmless to Do n
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is put )
effectual, no matter what the cause or the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S.W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
. „ „ 7 , , , , -ci
Tang Anyut : W hen the < e
Weld—one time governor of Westralia was
appointed Gov. of Straits Settlements he under-
took a tour of tho Native States; and as rail ways
and rest . ho uses were almost unknown, H.E. had to
a t hospitality from planters and so forth. A
wa ’„ ot hold Q f some 0 f the colonial secretary’s
stationery, and a plan of the big man’s itinerary,
with the result that planters along said route were
circularised in a confidential manner, to the effect
that, since H.E. was a staunch total abstainer, nis
entertainers would banish pro tern, from their
tables the accursed thing in every form ; but that
a supply of the milk of green cocoanuts would be
very acceptable to H.E. _ Dutifully, there-ore,
each planter produced his ayer klaper and
heroically the big man swallowed it every time,
till at length he struck Stephens on the confines or
Malacca and the Negri Simbilan. The hospitality
of Stephens was proverbial, and though it was
capable of sacrifice to the extent of giving cocoanut
milk to a guest, he would scarce go the length or
sharing in the consumption thereof, and a nip of
whisky m a glass of milk was invisible. A glass
so furnished fell by accident to H.E. ; and, as he
set it down, empty, his eyes glistened, and he
thanked heaven to find m that benighted End one
man who didn’t despise the noblest gift of God.
“For two weeks,” he said, plaintively, I have
had nothing to drink but that thnce-accursed
cocoanut milk.” A fortnight later a host of
planters were seeking for the hoaxer’s blood, with
every assistance from an infuriated Excellency-
wko could have known all about it by applying to
the present scribe.


Nues Pepery I
“ CHRONICLES ” of the “ TIMES.”
Ours are not
Teas of the “AGE.”
It needs no “ ARGUS ” eye to find that out.
But Billy Tea, G-oldenia and Lota in Teas.
GRANUMA, EODAH and HOMAH
in delicious Porridge Foods, and WHITE
HEATHER in Whiskies,
are Best Values, Highest Qualities', and
absolutely First of their class.
“ HERALD ”it ! “ TELEGRAPH ”it ! !
It’s good “NEWS.” A “STAR” of hope, and
these brands are the “ STANDARDS ” of excel-
lence to all “ DAILY OBSERVERS.”
JAS. INGLIS &, CO.,
Sole Proprietors and Agents. Wholesale Only.
• ©
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made; Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City, or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
J3F” Sales Held at the A action I too ms.
Cash; Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
British New Guinea is larger by 3000 sq.
miles than the province of Victoria.
“ A number of insolvent scoundrels are
already preparing themselves for the coming elec-
tion.”—Queensland paper.
Alleged on unreliable authority that one
Australian leader of a Parliamentary Opposition
hasn’t been sober even by accident for five months.
Yic. Attorney-General Isaacs on the
Argus : “ I desire no support from that quarter.
It is generally the kind of support that the hang-
man’s rope gives to its victim.”
Westralian Govt., forced to economy, has
cut off all subsidy from some way-back goldfields
hospitals—Bui ong among them ! And so, of
course, has made more friends.
The Q. Mines Bill, which has many good
Democratic points, is damned by its sweeping con-
cessions to foreign investors. Boodle clauses will
be resolutely stormed by the Opposition ; Demo-
cratic clauses by Ministerialists. Between them
the Bill will probably be wrecked, and the pro-
vince thrown into the throes of a general election
—now bound to come soon, anyhow.
A Kempsey (N.S.W.) correspon-
dent writes to say that, while the late
election was on, the Kempsey Agricul-
tural Society received an offer from
the Government of the loan of an im-
ported red bull on moderate terms.
(Minister-f or-VegetablesSmith officially
imported these bulls, and as Smith was
standing for Macleay, this sudden forc-
ing of Smith’s bull on the notice of the
electors was an earnest appeal to the
agricultural soul.) But Smith wasn’t
elected, and promptly came another
notice that the red bull wasn’t avail-
able. The notice was dated two days
before the election, but the postmark
showed that it wasn’t posted until after
Smith’s rejection. The Kempsey corre-
spondent’s red-bull story ends just here.
_ Apropos N.S. W. Medical Practi-
tioners Bill. The profession would, of
course, like to impose legal penalties on
any undiplomaed person practising. It
would be good to enact such a law. But
as.N.S.W. public opinion is averse to
this, the reasonable and imperative com-
promise is to enact that no person
shall be allowed to pose as possessing
a qualification to which he is not
entitled. The public, when they
consult an amateur doctor, have
a right to know that he is not
technically “ qualified.” When
the law has provided for this, it
can let John Smith take care of
his own carcase. If Smith likes to
believe that he can be cured of organic
heart disease, or cancer, or phthisis, by
bread-pills or horehound-tea_ —well, that ia
John Smith’s own funeral.
The vehicles used in the procession of
welcome to Barton at Sydney the other night
were supplied by a firm of undertakers. Ye gods !
what an omen ! Has humor utterly departed from
the world !
Brisbane Telegraph, commenting on the
iniquity of the working classes, says that in six
years Queensland has lost £150,000 through
strikes. Just think of that! And the Q. N.
Bank alone lost more than that by one Fat Man’s
overdraft.
Sydney D.T. remarked superciliously that
the news of Barton’s return for the Hastings and
Macleay was received with no enthusiasm in the
city. Why should it have been ? The result was
never doubtful. Nobody grows enthusiastic over
dead certainties.
One Protectionist ex-M.L.A. considered
himself so safe at the recent N.S.W. general elec-
tion that he resolved not to spend a cent, and
actually painted his own calico signs. This in-
censed the “ working man,” and the cocksure one
found himself “ left ” when the numbers went up.
How Barton must curse the “eloquent”
blatherer who labelled him “ Australia’s noblest
son.” He may be Australia’s noblest son, but
how absurd to say such a thing—except beside a
grave! And as to the people who talk about God
taking this side, or that side, on any given politi-
cal question, they should be smothered.
The now famous “ Johnny” Wallace lifted
his big, shaven, stubborn chin, the other night, in
Victoria’s House of 48 Rich Landlords to demand
that legacies to charitable institutions should be
exempted from probate-duty, though a trifling
sum left to the widow should pay duty as usual.
Considering the horrors of most charitable institu-
tions, it is pleasing to note that the idea fell
through.
Be the defeat of the motion by Griffith,
M.L.A., in N.S.W. Assembly, for a plebiscite on
the question of partial opening of hotels on Sun-
days. The cold-tea brigade clamors for Local
Option, the same thing as the plebiscite, only on a
smaller scale, and say it is “ trusting the people.”
But when the same means are proposed to relieve
publicans the people, it seems, are not fit to be
trusted.
Premier Reid in his bad temper constantly
accuses N.S.W. Opposition of being “ after the
beans.” But the most ardent.Oppositionist will
have some difficulty in catching up to Yes-no’s
record of 13 furious motions of censure in two
years, presumably in search of the same vegetable
product.
Premier Reid was wont to boast of how
his “jolly and fat” disposition had helped him
along, but the gradual souring of his temper has
been very noticeable since the rise of Barton, and
the trials of the last few weeks have made No-Yes
so irritable that everyone is aware how sadly he
fears political extinction.
One N.S.W. politician makes great way in
his electorate by kissing all the small children.
He has probably kissed every infant in his elector-
ate at least twice over. It is a grimy district, and
several cases of leprosy have arisen there. Yet
that member has been put on the Refreshment
Committee of the House.
Now that the limelight is thrown strongly
°n Minister Yfcrang, he stands exposed in
all his remarkable political nakedness, and makes
an outsider inquire how ever such an ineffably
nervous, commonplace, and uneloquent man suc-
ceeds to positions like that of Speaker of the
Assembly or Minister of the Crown ?
Westralia charges a duty of 20s. per ton
on potatoes, but Premier John Forrest admitted
the other day in Parliament that at Fremantle
(the port of Perth) only 18s. is charged, the other
2s. being illegally knocked off as discount by Big
John’s Government. The Forrest party’s great
desire is to bring trade to Perth, where it has
much property, and it isn’t at all particular how
the thing is done.
Of the 134,000 S.A. Assembly electors
only 45,000 have a vote for the Council, so that
there is far to go ere the democratic idea is
reached. If Kingston’s Household Suffrage
Bill is passed
another 65,000
men and women
will get the fran-
chise for the
Upper House.
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY.
FRIEND OF THE FAMILY : “ Well, Margery, how
are you getting on with your music? ”
MARGREY : "Oh, splendid! I'm my teacher's
favorite pupil. ”
FRIEND : “ Ah! and how many pupils has he? ”
MARGERY : “ One.”
Cook, N.S.W. Minister for Fuel, at
Wallsend : “ The Govt, are not afraid of Mr.
Barton being in the House ; in fact, they thought
he would have more Federal influence if he stayed
outside.” They are afraid of Federal influence,
then. Most people thought so, but hardly ex-
pected one of the party of protestations to blurt
it out. Probably Jocook didn’t know it was
loaded, and Reid will now provide him with a
muzzle.
Maloney and Trenwith vainly tried, when
the Pilot estimates were before Vic. Assembly,
to get a condition inserted against Chinese cooks
being employed on pilot-vessels. The pilots say
that they can’t get a white man to do the work.
As it is only a matter of wages, surely the Turner
Govt, could have followed Premier Kingston’s
splendid initiative in the matter of coolie-manned
coaster colliers, and insisted on the employment of
white labor.
When the charges against Minister Young
were being discussed in N.S.W. Assembly, Mr.
O’Conor said : “ Why does not the Minister bring
an action for libel?” To which Premier Reid :
“ That was a petty junior barrister—the man who
hoped to get a brief on a trial some day.” That
very day the minute had been submitted to the
Governor conferring the title Q.C. on Reid, and
thus lifting him out of the contemned junior bar-
rister sphere.
The Age is trying to stir up Melbourne to
amalgamate its 20 corporations and make a res-
pectable, solvent municipality out of the lot. Its
case is hardly so awful as that of Sydney, with a
rather smaller population and 41 municipal
governments ; but it is bad enough. The pocket-
handkerchief-municipality disease is so bad in both
cities that an agile thief can bolt through two or
three cities and a few boroughs before even a
swift policeman runs him down.
Statement made by a Sydney daily that
members of N.S.W. Labor-party begin to see
hitherto-unsuspected merits in the Barton brand
of Federation puckers The Bulletin’s face with
a sardonic smile. The real fact is that the labor-
ists are coming to the opinion that the Reid Govt.,
even with the Labor support, is not a stable con-
cern, while, on the other hand, Barton, with their
help, could guarantee them security in their par-
liamentary positions for three years.
FURTHER INFORMATION.
FRIEND OF THE FAMILY (who has just told a spicy yarn) :
“ Do you think your wife can have heard me in the
next room? ”
HOST : “ I'll tell you to-morrow, old man.”
Queensland tobacco-manufacturers are
trying to bite the State’s ear for £15,000 a year to
be spent in bonuses ; £2O a ton on all weed ex-
ported. The manufacturer—not the farmer—
does the exporting, so he would get the bonus.
And it is sheer foolishness to pay to promote an
export trade when Queensland hasn’t yet got
within many miles of supplying local require-
ments. Also, it is more foolishness to take money
from the tobacco-people with one hand as excise,
and then give it back with the other as bonus.
The short way is to spend the £15,000 in abolish-
ing the excise.
Crick’s activity in the present N.S.
Wales Assembly is in marked contrast to his
apathy in the last. In his electorate (West Mac-
quarie) he is invariably beaten by a handsome
majority in the large centres, the returns from
which come in first; but this result is always re-
versed by figures from the outskirts. Thus, for
the last three or four elections, first returns showed
him to be hopelessly beaten. While his opponents
are throwing up their hats with joy, a very well-
known Sydney sportsman goes round and takes
long odds that Crick’s not beaten.
Storey, M.L.A., in N.S.W. Assembly,
after protesting his Federal enthusiasm :
So far as the Federal Capital is concerned it should be
in N.S.W., and personally, I think in Sydney. If we made
Wagga or Albury the capital, when the border duties are
removed the trade will go to Victoria.
Yet if anyone else asks that the capital shall be at
Adelaide or Hobart or Melbourne, otherwise the
trade will go to N.S.W., Storey recognises at
once that their shameless greed renders Federa-
tion impossible. “I am perfectly fair and un-
biassed. All I want is the whole earth, and I
must have it.”
Dan’l Cooper seems to have become a sort
of official lone fisherman. Saul Samuel got 12
months’ leave of absence on full-pay, and Premier
Reid, bent on keeping down expenses, kicked at
paying another A.-G. salary during that period.
Which simply meant that the office should stand
vacant or be filled by someone willing to work for
nothing—a rather contemptible situation for a
high office of State. But now the year is up, and
Saul’s screw has stopped, and still no A.-G. is ap-
pointed. Reid says Dan’l is ready to go on for
another couple of months—but for what? The
reason for not paying him hitherto was that Saul
was drawing full salary ; now that he is drawing
nothing, surely Dan’l should come under pay.
N.S.W. doesn’t want Baronet Dan’l’s services
for nothing.
SHOW SKETCH.—FORBIDDEN FRUIT.
If Barton beats Reid by a narrow majority
and takes office, the N.S.W. Labor-party will
have an enormous power and a corresponding
responsibility. They can maintain Barton and
the House without dissolving, or they can throw
him out and precipitate a dissolution ; or they can
split. They will be in a somewhat analogous posi-
tion to the pioneer N.S.W. Labor-party, which had
a big responsibility and no experience. The Liquid-
arities have experience, and ought to be able to
stand the strain better. Still, Barton would
hardly feel comfortable in holding power by the
good-will of a “political dog that bites ’’—having
bitten its last owner—unless he can muzzle the
dog !
“Spud” Young’s peculiar tac-
tics at the recent bye-election will
tend to force on what all „T HE Bulle-
tin sermons for years have failed to
accomplish the bringing about of
N.S.W. local government. Here is a
ludicrous instance of the “ our ener-
getic local member ” farce. The 2d.
section of Balmain tram ended at
Forest Lodge. By energetic deputa-
tions and other means, M.L.A.
Mahony got it extended to Johnston-
st., Annandale. Now Govt, whip
Hawthorne wants it stretched a quar-
ter of a mile on to Abattoirs-road.
When this succeeds —and “Johnny”
never fails to benefit his own crowd
at the general tax-payer’s expense—
M.L.A. Law and his deputations will
clamor to have the 2d. journey go
as far as Roselle. Then Bill Wilks
will be expected to drag it down a
few hundred yards into the other
Balmain division. When that is
accomplished, Clark, North Shore
M.L.A., will probably want to know
about the fares in his electorate.
The 737 persons on the eight
village settlements on the Murray in
S.A. have received during the last
four years more than £70,000 in
State aid ! At the end of Aug.
they had 6585 acres under crop, of
which 6019 was in cereals, and at last
it looks as though they would be
able to support themselves. When
the Tories attack the settlements,
the Govt, reminds Downer and co. of
the vast sums spent in the past on
relief works which have now no value
at all.
Jawbone Neild, M.P., transparently and
obviously drew a political red-herring across the
trail of retributive Justice on Roads-and-Bridges
Minister Young, and has probably made his peace
with the Reid- Telegraph combination for his
absence from the censure division. Neild is a man
who never gets into Ministries. Young is a man
who always gets into them. Why should the one
be taken when the other is left? Why are not both
left? Parkes, in his last Ministry, and Reid in
his two, left J. C. Neild out, contrary to a general
understanding that office would be offered a,t the
first opportunity.
The recently-deceased N.S.W. branch of
the National Ass was doomed from its very in-
ception. Its first reach-out, the ridiculous attempt
to give an extra vote to Patman under the eupho-
nious title of the “ thrift-vote,” was received with
derision; but the summit of its asininity was
reached when it took upon itself the “duty” of
purging the rolls— i.e., examining into the fran-
chise rights of those not likely to be of correct
political color. This brought on its devoted ears
universal execration, and parliamentary candi-
dates secretly favorable to its views regarded its
open support as inimical to their chances of elec-
tion. That the capitalists of N.S.W. continued
to waste money for seven years on a manifestly
useless institution is indeed a satire on money-bag
intelligence.
The present session should be long remem-
bered in Maoriland. It has been one bitter
stonewall with day-and-night sittings and streaks
of lurid language, and the work done has been
practically nil. The Tory Opposition has sought
to demonstrate, among other things, that Premier
Seddon was partner with a Chinaman in a mining
spec. 20 years ago, and that the Chow called him
Bun Tuck ; also, that a long-dead relative of Sed-
don’s was once a corporation employe, and got
more wages than he should have done through
some accounts being cooked. Probably, this un-
clean dragging-up of dead relatives will do a little
to bring the Elective Executive idea nearer. The
object of it is to get the Ministry out of office, and
if each Minister is elected by the House for a fixed
term, and at the end of it his portfolio becomes
vacant and there is a fresh election, then there
will be no need to disinter anybody’s late brother
so as to bring about a chance of a change of Minis-
try. The chance will come round automatically.
T. Smith, M.L A., somewhat startled Vic.
Assembly t’other night by quoting the case of a
vigneron who onetime planted grape vines “ for
the sake of the Govt, bonus,” and then, having
“ pocketed the money,” proceeded to uproot them
all and plant wheat, or something, in their stead.
Smith, a Nonconformist hatter by persuasion,
told the tale as a warning against the folly of
bonuses, especially bonuses for grape-growing.
The snuffling Smith made so great a mouthful of
the alleged vineyard atrocity that the Viticultural
Board called for explanations. Then it appeared
that the “ bonus-grabber ” had planted eight acres
with raisin-grape vines, which proved to be of the
wrong kind, and, after experimenting with them
for three long years, he pulled them up as a bad
job. Meanwhile he had spent much more than
the ,£24 bonus in the purchase of a raisin-drying
apparatus, not to mention the waste of land and
labor. Smith’s revelation was typical of temper-
ance attempts to discredit everything and every-
body concerned in the accursed Drink industry.
The Kingston Government gained a great
triumph in carrying the second reading of its
Household Suffrage Bill by 32 to 17 in S.A.
Assembly. The measure extends the Leg.
Council franchise to between 60,000 and 70,000
citizens, but its defeat is certain in the Coun-
cil, which now contains a solid Tory party
with a small majority. As a compromise, the
Govt, offers, if opponents consent to vote for
the Bill, to make its enactment contingent on a
successful referendum.
Premier Kingston is introducing in the
Leg. Council all the W.C.T.U. legislation to
which his Government is committed. And, so far,
every ‘ ‘ moral ” measure submitted has got through
without much trouble. The only one of the Bills
which has been talked about in the Assembly, so
far, is that entitling a woman to recover £2O
towards the expenses of her confinement either
before or after the illegitimate baby is born.


Keep YoGr BtiSipess ip YoGr OWi) Haijds.
The ONLY TRUE and EFFECTIVE BUSINESS COUPON SYSTEM
IS THAT SUPPLIED BY THE USE OF
Tb€ Storekttpcrs’ COUPON . .
@3
REGISTER.
IT CONCENTRATES your CASH BUSI-
NESS by giving special inducements to your
Customers to REGULARLY Purchase at your
Store.
IT ISSUES a DATED and NUMBERED
PRINTED COUPON with every transaction,
which is a STATEMENT of the transaction, a
RECEIPT for the MONEY PAID, and which
at the same time bears your Advertisement.
Full Particulars on application to
fhe national Cash Register
Company’s
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA:
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Telephone No. 2976. W. A. LINGHAM, Ueneral Manager. P.O. BOX, 1035.
Paling’s
Cheaper and
better than any
other House in
Australasia
*
Strings & Fittings
For Every Musical Instrument.
Pianos
Organs
Music
Violins
ftccordeons
Autoharps
Mouth Organs
\ Polophons
Cornets
Flutes
:\
SOLE AGENTS FOR
GUITARS,
MANDOLINS,
BANJOS am> .
ZITHERS
HE BEST 111 TIE WORLD I
Used by all the Leading Musicians.
>
T
HAN
Catalogues
Post Free.
W. H. PALING & CO., Limited,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
_A_ZLsT;D _a_ t brisbaite & bewcastle.
Nobody would think of accepting
a Coin of the Realm
Registered Vl
Trade Mark
without first seeing that it was genuine and bore an imprint of the Queen’s
head.
Neither should they accept tyres as “Dunlops” unless they
first examine them and see that they are embossed with our regis-
tered Trade Mark — J. B. Dunlop’s head without
which
PuNifiP Tyres
are not
genuine nor guaranteed .
First in 1888 . . .
Foremost ever since.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
The Delicate Relations of Husband
and Wife.
King O’Malley’s Bill providing that when the
propertied old man dies his widow and children
shall have'a legal claim (no matter what direc-
tions are contained in his will) on enough of
the pile to keep them in comfort, was jumped
on both by the S.A. Premier and the leader of
the Opposition :
Mr. Kingston opposed the motion, as the tendency was
now to give the fullest power to a testator, and because
no specific cases of injustice had been mentioned. He
agreed that a maintenance-order obtained during the life
of a testator should continue in force after death, as
against the estate.
Mr. John Downer urged that the children of testator,
whether legitimate or illegitimate, should have the same
claim on the estate after death as in life, but declined to
interfere with the delicate relations of husband and wife.
Which is just as strictly logical as a Chinese
opera. If the old woman has quarrelled with
the old man, and separated from him, and got
a maintenance-order, and he dies during
the currency thereof, Kingston reckons that
she should have a claim on the estate for the
income specified in the order. But if she
wasn’t cantankerous enough for that, then she
can be left without a penny while the whole
pile is bequeathed to the church. Therefore it
is her plain duty to aggravate the old man
into blackening her eye, so that she can get a
maintenance-order. And Downer, who is
just as illogical in this matter as Kingston,
reckons that the old lady shopld be liable to be
left homeless and penniless in her old age lest
the “delicate relations” of husband and wife
should be interfered with and shaken up.
Yet the O’Malley scheme would only interfere
after the old man’s death, and what relations
there could be between the widow and the
remains (unless the lady was a vampire) is a
question which Downer couldn’t answer if he
lived to be as old and stupid as Methusaleh.
Moreover, if the relations were so strained that
the old man deliberately fixed things that the
old woman was to starve after his death, then
they couldn’t be made much worse if they were
attacked with dynamite. Supposing Downer
found the live old man, instead of the dead one,
turning his wife out to starve, would he decline
to interfere with the delicate relations of hus-
band and wife then ? And, if he wouldn’t, why
wouldn’t he ?
Cheap Prohate Law.
“ Demos,” to The Bulletin :
That interesting little Vic. experiment in the direction
of free law, the Intestate Widows Relief Act 1889, to
which reference has been made in your columns, was
originally suggested by two English Acts of 1873 and 1875.
But whereas the English Acts apply to the widows and
children of intestates and the children of their widows
only in regard to estates under £lOO, the Vic. Act applies
both to those who make a will and those who don’t, and
gives any person entitled to apply for either probate or
letters of administration the benefit of the Act. It is,
therefore, a much more important experiment ; and
it is gratifying to note that its provisions are being
eagerly availed of throughout the province. In
Melbourne the applications number hundreds, while
about 100 applications a year are put through from each
of the larger centres, such as Bendigo, Ballarat, &c.
Though many cases are still dealt with by solicitors, to
the credit of'many of them it should be said that they
refer estates within the limit of the Act to the local
County Court. There the forms are filled up and sent to
Melbourne, where the application is considered by the
Registrar of Probates. The total cost for a simple pro-
bate of £5OO is 355., but so many wills are drawn in-
formally at the last moment that extra affidavits are
often required, particularly when the local parson or
school-teacher has taken a hand in the matter. The
defects of the Act are that it is not retrospective, and
that only the gross estate is considered. An estate of
£6OO, with £2OO debts, is outside the Act, though the net
amount is £lOO below the maximum. Something
should be done to remedy such anomalies and further
simplify procedure. Registration should be sufficient to
enable a widow or next of kin to obtain administration
without having to find sureties, and so on. Certainly, an
amendment of the Administration Act enables the Regis-
trar to dispense with sureties in the case of small
estates, but, as in most other discretionary powers in
the hands of court officials, the provision is not as flexible
as it looks.
Another late Vic. Act, from an English source, allows
a childless intestate’s widow the net estate up to £lOOO,
or a charge of £lOOO where net value exceeds that sum.
It lacks, however, a provision enabling the widow to get
administration cheaply or to dispense with a bond. She
must go to a lawyer, who naturally makes the larger
estates pay for the smaller ones he loses under the other
Act.
The difficulties in this respect, and the affidavit-
troubles alluded to above, give point to the contention
that a public officer should be appointed to prepare wills
in a ship-shape form, and advise officially, and without
ruinous cost, about all the details of probate and adminis-
tration.
4,
Prof. Walters (U.S.) furnishes N.Y. Sun
with a paper on an unprecedented mass of skele-
tons, just turned up in excavating for an extension
of Kansas City Railroad. He says that about
75,000 men were buried there, at one time, and the
dints on skulls show it was after a battle. The
period would not be less than 20,000 years ago.
J. L. Jacobsen has maintained his Aus-
tralian chess supremacy by winning the cham-
pionship contest from W. H. Jonas —scoring seven
wins to Jonas’s one, with five drawn. Jacobsen
and Wallace, the former champion, are next ex-
pected to try conclusions, after a reasonable inter-
val.
Westralia is about to start a Zoo at Perth,
and a son of Mr. Le Soeuf, of Melb. Zoo, has been
appointed director. To do justice to the fauna of
the country, Perth Zoo’s wild-cat department will
have to be very large.
The entry in the journal of Capt. Matthew
Flinders (Feb. 7, 1802), re the naming of Denial
Bay on the west coast of S.A. (near the isles of
St. Peter on Nuyt’s chart), states that the title
was given “as well in allusion to St. Peter as to
the deceptive hope we had formed of penetrating
by it some distance into the interior country.”
In the course of a few days The Bulletin
will publish Will Ogilvie’s book of verses, “Fair
Girls and Gray Horses,” for which a warm wel-
come is already assured. There is no man on the
lengthening list of Australian bush bards who has
a tenderer touch or a truer heart-beat. The price
of the book, handsomely bound in cloth, will be
4s. 6d., post free, and orders sent in at once will
be attended to immediately on publication.
The kink in Q. politics gets an additional
twist through Premier Byrnes’ death. Neither
“ Oily ” Dickson nor renegade Philp can command
a sufficiently servile following. The only apparent
loophole is that, avoiding other contentious mat-
ters, the House will pass the Estimates (already
under way) and then let the present Parliament die
a natural death. The most virile and unscrupulous
men—the MTlwraiths, Griffiths, Nelsons, Tozers
—have feathered their nests and retired, and the
Remnant is the quintessence of ineptitude.
James Dickson (“ Oily Jim ”), the new Q.
Premier, is a man with political brains and no
political character. He will be 66 years of age in
November and he has shed so much hair
already that by the time he is 76 an egg will be a
cross-bred fleece compared with his cranium. He
was Minister of Works in ’76, Col. Treasurer
under Griffith in ’B3, and acting-Premier while
Griffith was being nobbled at the Imperial Con-
ference of ’B7. Nobody likes him ; nobody politi-
cally trusts him ; but Q. Parliament is so short of
brains that Dickson has come in handy time and
again. And he can talk ; Philp can’t. A Premier
must be ready to attack, debate, reply ; and Philp
needs three days’ preparation for a speech. Hence,
probably, his rejection.
Victor Daley writes : I have been glancing
at an advance copy of Ogilvie’s volume, “Fair
Girls and Gray Horses.” In my opinion it will
be the most charming book of Australian verse
that has yet appeared. For Ogilvie can not only
write ringing rhymes that make the blood spin
through the veins ; he can also sing dainty and
elegant songs, which remind me at times of the
cavalier songs written between a battle and a
bouquet. There is much of the cavalier, and, as
becomes his name, not a little of the moss-trooper
in Ogilvie. He writes with a galloping heart.
But, above all, there is the passionate bloom of
youth in his verses. He looks out upon the world
around him and finds it fair and young, and
makes it so for his readers by the magic of his
rhyme. Sadness is not his metier. If I were
asked to name the source of his literary inspira-
tion I would say— the old Scottish ballads. He is
essentially lyrical in his manner. His songs need
no musical setting. They provide their own
music.
The last single action fought by a British
warship was in 1878, between H.M. composite
cruiser Shah and the insurgent Peruvian ironclad
Huascar, which had been seized during one of the
periodical local revolutions. The Huascar had
been stopping British vessels and relieving them
of the trouble of carrying coals without the trifling
formality of payment. So the Shah, Admiral
de Horsey, arranged to present the bill. On
paper, the Huascar ought to have sunk the Shah
in one round, for she could manoeuvre more
quickly, and was more heavily armored and armed.
Moreover, one of the Shah’s two best guns went
wrong at the start, forcing the vessel to keep her
antagonist always on the same side. Several
times the Huascar tried to ram, but was beaten
off by the gatling and other fire. Eventually she
made off, sound in hull and engines, but badly
battered otherwise, and took refuge in Iquique,
where the Shah made two abortive attempts to
torpedo her. A funny incident of this fight was,
that, while the fiery little Admiral was lecturing
a young marine for ducking at a shot, another
shot whizzed so close to the great man himself
that he also made his bow —and shut up.
Brandt Bros., of Sydney and Melbourne,
are about to patent and place on the market a
contrivance for making ice. It is about the size
of an ordinary bucket. Water is poured into the
centre cylinder around which is an acid, and by
turning the handle for 10 minutes a block of ice
is produced. This may be repeated several times
before the power of the acid is exhausted. It is
claimed that a child can manage the machine.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Ml. IDont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Paivnbrofcing Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MOWTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
••• AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,(100 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Coiien, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
llexry Moses, M.L.C. ; Richard Jones, Esq. ; T. A.
Dibhs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
Hon. F. J. Humviiery, M.L.C. ; E. S. Cape, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYIOHY.
T. A. Dibhs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; Benj. Buchanan, Esq. ; Manager,
Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
\A
H E A D O F Fleg
Intersection Hunter, Bugh and
Castlereagh
• SYDNEY •
Established - 1879.
Office in AustrM-'* *
Annual Income and Invested
FundsExceed,£2oo,oooVert in*.
TH€ Bankers’ Institute
OF
Austral asia,
Melbourne,
INCLUSION OF BENEFIT AND ASSUR-
ANCE FUNDS.
Committee of management propose
that the following funds be Incorpor-
ated and established in connection with the
Institute :
(1) A Mortuary Benefit Fund. —To
assure a sum payable at a member’s death to
whomsoever he may appoint as his beneficiary.
(2) A Widows’ and Orphans’ Fund.—
For the assistance of the necessitous widows and
orphans of members.
(3) A Loss of Employment Indemnity
Fund. —To make certain fixed weekly allowances
of money to support members out of employment.
(4) A Permanent Helief Fund, styled the
Comrades’ Help Fund, for the relief chiefly by
loan of necessitous banking men who are aged, or
incapacitated from earning a subsistence, or
unable to find employment.
(5) A Fund for Scholarships to be com-
peted for by children of members.
PROPOSED SCALE OF FEES..
For Country and Intercolonial Members under
25 years of age at joining, £1 10s. 6d. per ann.
25 ~ ~ and over, 2 6 6 „ „
Melbourne and Suburbs.
25 years'and over, £2 17s. Od. per ann.
Under 25 years, 1 10 6d. ~ ~
(Inclusive of ordinary Institute Subscription.)
No Entrance Fee Payable First
Tear (1898).
Gentlemen in the service of Banks desir-
ous of joining, or of further information, are
requested to communicate with the Commit-
tee in Melbourne.
lALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
Price Is. ; per Post Is. 3d.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
TV Trustees, CxccOtorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVES and Undivided Profits used in the
company’s business ... ... ... £45,198
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ... £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up £2,974,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: ffm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M’Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 JBishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, EC.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Tictoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
--THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,743—assuring £23,860,45:0.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,923,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
an (l
Guarantee
Co. TMI, of Londozi.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jbssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassael ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees.
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne.
The genkof ftorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £709,000
Capital Paid -up ... ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarice & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
msxiioti'fc’s
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 8, 2 p.m.
-Gabo, Tuesday, Oct. 11, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 15, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 8, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, Oct. XI, 5 p.m.
FREMANTLE
-Gabo, Tuesday, Oct. 11, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE l ]
MARYBOROUGH V]
ROCKHAMPTON j ]
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 8, 2 p.m.
Bunvah, Tuesday, Oct. 11, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 15, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 8, 2 p.m.
-Barrabonl, Tues., Oct. 11, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 15, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe ; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other informal ion, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Sireet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W, Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND J 4p
O'* VIA-
QUEENSLAND PORTS and P RT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
' STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the following favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managuno Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
kfkin Widea6e4.
Ss9leu) Wkcodery
“*£igmo{{iene. ”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGM'LLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skin, Allays instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
Woolloston-house, Castlemaine,
November 30th, 1897.
My dear Mr. Maly on, —
I have used your ointment Ligniolliene with distinct
success in my own ease, but with greater as an emollient
unguent for the face of a young lady suffering from
“ Acne,” very common during puberty, and you should
push it in that direction. Kindly send me another box
of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D. WOOLEY, M.D.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
Mv dear Mr. Malyon, — August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record pro-
gress with regard to ray old enemy “ Eczema Capitas,”
from which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treat-
ment for some years under the prescriptions of Pro-
fessor M‘Call Anderson and other eminent derma-
tologists, with only partial and temporary relief.
When I met you I commenced somewhat sceptically
your ointment Ligniolliene, and after about two months’
treatment I may honestly sa.y my enemy is defeated,
and lam perfectly well. I will only add that since I
commenced the treatment of myself I have prescribed it
to others, and am still doing so with brilliant results.
Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours sin-
cerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.RiC.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
William Henry Malyon,
MANUFACTURING' CHEMIST, Ballarat.
All Chemists, ss. and 7s. 6d. per box.
AGENTS
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS.,
Wholesale Druggists,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO:
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Alling-a (from Sydney)
Friday, October 7.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Allinjra (from Sydney)
Friday, October 7.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
October 8.
Best <(; Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Pares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, Parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORT'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESS MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
H)‘|luiraith, f|)‘Eacharn & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
Eor Specially Reduced Rates, Passage INJoney,
Stock Rates and Ereight Quotaf ions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn Ss Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can he prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO.,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U- S. INI- Coy. Ltd.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger A ccommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE-A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Ooy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


Sffc
iVi
ss' •
■
rT3
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A. QTJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
AT orth Queensland.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
y of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR I—lsoo
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE:—
| T*E T*M * F*R e*E*Y*Q*Y~
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
“ The Manager English Watch Co. —Miss Shellerg
wishes to acknowledge receipt, of watch and chain re-
ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
them. All Saints College, Bathurst, 19th July, 1897.”
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
A Solid Silver Watch.
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY!
Can you read this :
W
T* M *
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
J 22 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions :—That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address—THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing' of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
feet. It has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Enb.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
2*7
S'®
imm
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 12
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is 6d ; 12 Bussia, 6d ; 12 Boumama,
6d ; 12 Ouba, 9d ; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Bica, 6d; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is ;
100, 2s 6d; 150, ss; postage, 2d. Bemit
P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price Lists,
Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth. Street, Melbourne.
BUILT LIKE A WATCH/
STERLING CYCLES.
Fitted with MORSE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
Ladies.— Call and
see our CHEAP
MACHINES, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc.
! s. ROWLEY Ss CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY. 1
RONISCH
ronisch
RONISCH
RONISCH
ROM son
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS
NICHOLSON &
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CO.
VELTEN LASER BEER.
An Ideal Summer Drink. Refreshing, Wholesome, and Perfectly Pure.
ASK ALSO FOR PELICAN STOUT.
The Best in the Market.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE,
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and. can recom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent luthe preparation ofa.good Custard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
Dr. TARRANT,
E.1i.0.5.1i, L.E.C.P.E., L.E.C.5.1., L.M.KC.P.E,
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This inode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at anytime,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
UNTo 3\dEei/n. or Woman.
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin traced }heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus-been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely 3STo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fide s, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention 'The Bulletin when writing.
TERRIS
A. H. MOORE & CO.,
416, 418, 420
Georg-e-sfc., SYDNEY.
A. H. Moore’s . . .
“PERFECT” Racquet
at 20s.
Is for Workmanship and Wear the only
perfect racquet at the price on the Aus-
tralian market.
The “Perfect" Racquet
is of Excellent Balance, Frame and
Gut.
Miss P. lIOWITT,
Champion of Australia, says: “No
matter how good a player one may
be, one will be placed at a dis-
advantage if the racquet used is of
(he inferior qualities now being
imported into the colonies.”
fi. H- Smith * Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
TROPICAL HELMET, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
mrni
FOR
SAFETY
DURING
UnDERIUESR
CHANGES OF SEASON.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, Cotton, or Lisle Thread.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
OS’ CELLULAR, FABRIC in Cotton, Lisl
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
Qavid graham m go.
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
safe*
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to. the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation. ”
Seurf m jjandruff Cured
Remedies, with full instructions, 5/-, postage Bd.
Special Treatment for the Cure of Hair Tallin </
Out. Remedies, with full instructions, 10!-.
The above REMEDIES will absolutely cure you, having-
been prescribed for the last 12 years and only prepared by
A. W. PAGE, Hair Specialist,
91 Market Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
Pelham's
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, o f all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON, Chemist, Cheltenham
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney


Fred. Shaw, the Sydney midget cyclist, has
struck a winning gait in Queensland against the northern
cracks. At Maryborough he made the Queenslanders
look like a bowl of bread and milk struck with a club.
The judge saw that “crimson streak” several times
during the day as Shaw, on his Red Bird “ Special,” won
the important events.*
* * * *
The following is a new clause on the Melbourne
Bicycle Club’s Austral entry-form “ I declare that the
machine I intend to ride possesses no mechanical advan-
tage to accelerate speed beyond what is commonly known
and used.” Is the Melbourne Club frightened that
some embryo Edison will slip in and win the Austral
Wheel Race with some patent gear? How would this
clause affect a rider who rode with a pair of the Dunlop
Co.’s new '99 tyre ?
* * * *
Ben Goodson, the Queensland amateur cham-
pion, established a record last Saturday at the Sydney
Amateur Race Meeting, when, starting (on Dunlops) from
scratch six times, he succeeded in winning every race.
This is the best afternoon’s work yet accomplished by
an Australian cyclist, although W. Martin ran this per-
formance very close on the same track in Sydney two
years back.*
* • * *
The English one-hour track record has been
raised by A. A. Chase, who, paced by the crack Dunlop
pacing teams, succeeded in riding 33 miles 712 yards in
60 minutes on the Crystal Palace track, London.*
* * * *
By winning the 50 miles Vic. amateur road
championship last Saturday on Dunlop tyres W. E.
Shrimpton has now secured the dual honor of having won
the two Vic. amateur championships for 98-9.*
* * * *
The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the dep6t, 257 George-st*eet,
Sydney.*
W’"' \£
“RED BIRD” CYCLES
ARE CYCLES WITH A PAST.
OURS is the honor of having- devised and manufactured the WORLD’S FINEST BICYCLE for the past twenty
(20) years. We do not offer you one make of Cycle to-day and another to-morrow, as dealers do.
We are directly interested in ONE MAKE of Cycles, which we manufacture, sell, and guarantee ; therefore, it is
to our own interest to make that cycle the best. That we have heen successful is evidenced by the fact that 15,000
“RED BIRDS” are now in daily use in Australasia, and not one collapse under its rider.
Can other firms make the same claim ? We think not.
“RED BIRD SPECIAL,” “RED BIRD No. 1,” and
- - - “ BLACK BIRD ” CYCLES - - -
are, for the 1899 season, further advanced than any other wheels will he in the year 2000.
It will pay you to examine the latest at the nearest Agency. If we haven’t a good Agent in your town, let us know.
The goold Bicycle Company, [united.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
221 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VrOTQRIA.
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Factories - BRANTFORD, Canada.
y*—
Agents in Tovm and Country.
in Your Homes.
New sunlight Incandescent Burner.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burners
Complete, 6s. (id ,
SPORTING NOTIONS,
As showing what sort of business the Adelaide
books did in the old days, a correspondent sends us Bob
Sutton’s list for the A.R.C. Park meeting of June 1, 1882.
The list invited punters to back their fancies before the
day on terms that read like a joke. The Midwinter Han-
dicap, for instance, had 18 entries, and Sutton’s prices
were 2 to 1 against the favorite, 4 to 1 against four
others, 6,7, and 8 to 1 against three more of them, and
10 to 1 the “ outsiders.” They had the tote in S.A. at
that time, yet there must have been some fools who
rushed in to take these early odds, or Sutton wouldn’t
have issued his circular. Since then the Adelaide public
has learned the lesson of the tote, and the early bird
gets no more worms.
* * • *
“M. ” writes from' Adelaide “ Your pars, on
the tote question afford me a deal of interest. I have
been mixed up in racing in Australia for close on five-and-
twenty years, and have been in the thick of it in Victoria
and N.S.W., as w 7 ell as here, so know a little about the
strength of the game. When racing reached its low ebb
here, during the 80’s, the tote was urged as the reason,
no credit for the downfall being given to the proper and
real cause, reckless land speculation. Experience teaches
me that tbe tote is the only fair means (to the backer) of
speculation on racing, for, in the case of the favorite
getting home, the machine invariably pays a better price
than that on offer by Ikey Mo, and, when an outsider gets
home, why the tommy-rooks are distanced. lam not able
to supply .you with the bookmakers’ quotations on races
held in tbisprovince for straight-out betting on the course,
because the law prohibits such, but you will find enclosed
a statement giving the tote prices against every horse
that started at the Port races on Saturday, Sept. 17 —of
use to you when making further comparisons between the
tote and the book.” Tiie Bulletin will quote only two
cases from the list. In another case, the winner started
as sixth favorite (20 runners) at 15J to 1, the odds against
tl of the runners ranging from 25 to 450 to I. Tote odds :
Trial Stakes (18 starters)—Winner (4th favorite), 7 j to 1;
Ist favorite, sto 1; 2nd do., 6i- to 1; 3rd do., 6J to 1;
tw»o others would pay over 9£ to” 1; one other, 12 to 1 ;
another, 14 to 1; the remaining 10 would pay from 25 to
240 to 1. Steeplechase (eight starters) —Winner (4th
favorite), 6 to 1; Ist favorite, 7to 4 ; 2nd do., 4J to 1;
3rd do., 6to 1; one other, 6to 1; the three outsiders
would pay from 15 to 55 to 1.
* * * »
“ W.N.” : From personal knowledge and a con-
siderable amount of experience as secretary of a racing
club in South Australia, permit me to congratulate The
Bulletin on its advocacy of the totalisator. People will
gamble—and why shouldn’t they ?—and there is no fairer
way than that of the tote. The 20-mile radius, however,
in force here makes the thing a perfect farce. An
instance or two will show you why. Port Augusta, by'
paying a guinea for a license and £1 for police super-
vision, is allowed the privilege of using the tote, while
Quorn—a much more populous centre, and the other side
of Flinders Range -is refused a license because it doesn’t
happen to be 20 miles away' as the crow flies. Still worse.
An old-established club at Port Pirie is refused a license
because Laura—l9(4 miles from Pirie, and on the opposite
side of Flinders Range—got one first. Port Pirie has a
population of as many thousands as Laura has hun-
dreds. Same thing applies in many other places, but a
special Act has been passed so that the clubs in and
around Adelaide may not suffer by the stupid radius
enactment.
• * * •
It isn’t out of friendship for the champagne-
swilling birds of prey that Labor-member Hancock labors
to defeat the Tote Bill in the Vic. Assembly'. Perish the
thought! Hancock opposes the tote in the interests of
the young. He believes that it would encourage betting,
and although he himself started to bet at an early age,
and hopes to continue the pernicious practice until his
dying day, or thereabouts, his sense of duty to his
adopted country impels him to fight like a demon for
Ikey Mo’s monopoly. Hancock in this matter is a pure
patriot, and deserves to he recognised as such. Ikey Mo
recognised him as such by inviting him to the Victorian
Club’s smoke-night festival last week, and Hancock
turned up, with a halo round his head—by way of offering
further protest against the accursed machine, no doubt.
* » * *
Hancock’s brother legislators at that smoke-
night were Zox, Theodore Fink, and Nat Levi (of the
Council). Frank Madden was not present in the flesh,
but a front seat was reserved for his soul.
* * * *
“ Timi ”: The backer of the racehorse D. O’D.
when it paid the sensational £BOO tote div. at Adelaide in
’BO, was a complete stranger to the city and backed
D. O’D. for no stronger reason than that the rider’s colors
were green. Another big div. was paid on Auckland
course, when the rank outsider Kalo flashed first past the
post in a field of six or seven and paid its three backers
£256 each. These two cases are splendid arguments in
favor of tote as against Ikey Mo. D. O’D.’s backer, had
he risked his pound with a bookie, might have—and the
presumption necessitates a stretch of the imagination-
got 50 to I ; the other £750 would have been “ bunce ” to
Mo. In Kalo’s case the books would have had about £75
to pay out, and over £750 to do it with.
Take the results of the tote at last Adelaide
Hunt Cliib meeting:
Maiden Steeplechase 7 starters Dividend £3 12s.
Hurdle Race 12 ~ „ 3165.
Hunt Club Cup 8 „ „ 3155.
Open Flat Race 9 ~ 10 6s.
Federation Mile 11 „ ~ 45 2s.
Drag Cup 9 ~ ~ 19125.
Flying Handicap 13 ~ ~6 ss.
* * • •
When he wishes to bolster up an argument, edi-
tor Fitchett, Wesleyan parson though he be, is now and
then riot too beastly particular on the subject of accuracy.
Being desirous of damning the totalisator, he points to the
fact that Premier Seddon is moving for: its abolition, and
adds: “The case must be strong which induces an Aus-
tralian Premier to surrender £13,000 per annum, and
Maoriland, it must be remembered, is the one province
which has given the totalisator a fair and full trial.” Even
Mr. Fitchett must have known that the argument of
the friends of the machine in Victoria is based on the
experience of South Australia, where the strident voice
of the bookmaker is now stilled and the totalisator for
years has held continuous and quiet sway.
* * * »
“What are you laying about this race?” in-
quired a punter of a gem-studded layer at a recent M.L.
meeting. “ Three to one, bar four,” was the reply. And
there were only six competitors.
* « * *
Wellington (M.L.) Racing Club has raised a
howl by setting apart an enclosure for books to lay
“ straight-out ” odds at meetings. Hitherto the club has
waged war against the fraternity. As the Legislature has
been conserving the interests of the tote, from which it
derives revenue, it is quite on the cards that next season
permits will not be issued to clubs who license pencillers.
» * * *
Odds on tap at leading Sydney “ book ’’-shops
last Saturday were delightfully satisfying. One race—l 7
presumed starters; longest price, 10 to 1. No scratch-
ings posted, and the town punter not only got daylight-
robbed on the odds, but had his choice of a fine crop of
“ stumers ”as well—“ all in.” Time the tote came, any-
way, wherefore this paper is pleased to hear that N.S. W.
Parliamentary Committee re the totalisator means busi-
ness, and that Mr. A. O. Whittington, secretary of the
S.A. J.C., is in Sydney to give evidence of the “George
Washington’s” working in the Holy City. Significant,
too, in another way, that neither of the Sydney morning
organs has yet given its views re the tote. Both waiting
for the cat to jump?
• * * *
Moorfield (Syd.) had record attendances last
Saturday and Monday, the feature of the meeting being
the forward running of the “pony” division. On the
first day three little ’uns, Churohlight, Federation, and
Loch Katrine, filled the places in Kogarah Stakes ; and
Howlong - , Arden, and Loch Katrine finished ahead in the
Stewards’ Mile. On Monday pony Federation ran second
to Satanelle in the Trade Stakes, and Crimson and Arden
ran first and second in the Workman’s Handicap. Fitz-
roy, carrying second top weight, appeared to have the
Demonstration Handicap won, but M'Carthy, on Feu-de-
Joie came with a rush, caught Fitzroy napping, and won
on the post. W. Kelso’s Lauri, by Goldsbrough from
Equation, won the first two-year-old race of the" season.
The meeting bore out the aphorism that a good little ’un
is better than a bad big one.
• '* ♦ *
At Moorefield (Sydney) “ horse ’’-races on
Saturday all the placed horses"in two of the events were
galloways, driven into the “legitimate” ranks by the
A. J.C.’s recent ukase. Tub Bulletin’s old-time prophecy
that a pony will win a Melb. Cup is not at all improbable.
* * * *
Prior to winning the two steeplechases at the
late Randwick meeting, Levanter, during morning work,
got stuck on a jump through getting one of his legs
through a panel, and had to be helped off by about a
dozen bystanders. While the operation of lifting him off
the fence was going on the horse was as docile as a kitten,
and seemed rather glad of the enforced idleness on
top of the logs in preference to continuing his three-mile
journey.
» • * *
A correspondent refers to the distressful rolling
of Amberite and Merloolas at the end of the Randwick
Plate, 3 miles, as evidence they are “ stones below ” the
form of Abercorn and Trident. But, then, Abercorn and
Trident were not asked to run 3-mile races in an unfit
state.
* * * *
Next Saturday (Bth) the Caulfield Cup meeting,
which is to be a three-days’ affair this year, will open the
Southern horse festival in the good old style. Guinea-day
at Caulfield is famous, like the average day at other
courses, for cronk racing. With the Sydney division, in
particular, it has frequently been an occasion for sow'ing
the seeds of “ surprises” to come, and the surprises have
generally burst forth a week later. The ’orse that runs
nowhere in Caulfield Stakes or Toorak Handicap is quite
likely to be a prominent performer in the Cup race. If
the writer were one of the V.A.T.C. stewards, he would
probably suspect something of a “ pretty good ” character
for Toorak Handicap, but, even in that case, he probably
wouldn’t suspect it at time of writing. And he isn’t a
steward, anyhow. He’s a sick passenger, as a rule.
The comparative strength of N.S.W. and Vic.
horse “form” for the coming carnival can only be
guessed at. The writer guesses that the visiting quad-
rupeds will take more than their share of prize-money,
as they did last year. Amberite is likely to win either
of the Cups—the Caulfield for choice. ’ The Victorian
“cracks”—or apologies for cracks—appear to be of the
one-down-t’other-come-up order, which means that none
of them have any brilliancy. Massinissa may win Toorak
Handicap, but the writer would sooner back one of the
foreigners. Why shouldn’t Staffa, from S.A., win it?
* • * *
After Bobadil’s ridiculously easy wins at Flem-
ington these last two Saturdays, the Bill of Portland colt
looks the deadest of birds for V.R.C. Derby—“ on paper.”
He gets away from such as Cocos and Lee Metford with-
out apparent effort, and his hind-legs simply laugh at
George Frederick, who has laboriously clattered into
second place on each occasion. Bobadil is a trifle smaller
than the ideal Derby winner—about the same height and
length as Aurum, and not so nuggetty—but his action is
perfect, and he appears to have forgotten his early ten-
dency to “ cut it.” There will be lots of clever people
tipping, this, that, or the other 3-year-old to beat Bobadil
—“any fool can pick the favorite.” The Bulletin can
see no wisdom, though, in picking anything else at
present.
* * * *
Wait-a-Bifc and Majestic are good-looking horses
that have often deceived their backers, and will carry a
lot more money this season. Of the two The Bulletin
prefers Majestic’s chance in Caulfield Cup.
* * * *
At Brisbane, the Childe Harold stallion Harold
tried to beat the Australian record (Fritz’s 2min. 14see.),
but could not do better than 2.22 4-sth, Harold had no
show of beating Fritz’s time, and his owner made a mis-
take in not announcing that his trial was to beat the
Australian stallion mile record, which he succeeded in
doing. The Vic. mares, Calista and Mystery, trotted the
best of three one-mile heats last week, when Calista won
straight out in 2.38% and 2.29%. M.L. is out early with
some big trotting-programmes, good enough to "tempt
Mr. Wonbobbie Buckland to take a ruri-over with another
team, including champion Fritz.
» * * *
Though there was much dispute as to the
superiority of Carbine over Abercorn on the turf, nearly
all agreed that Chester’s handsome son must prove the
more successful at the stud. Yet here, too, old Jack is
easily ahead, even before he got his English connection,
and Abercorn, it must be remembered, had a whole year’s
start or more.
* • * *
The late Major Walmesley, for many years
manager of the Maoriland Stud co. and the most success-
ful breeder of horses in Australasia, used to say that the
best mare got by Musket was Mitrailleuse, which old Aus-
tralian sports will remember as a favorite for Lochiel’s
Newmarket. Walmesley pointed her out to the writer
when she was saddling up for her first race. “See that
filly. She’ll be a clinker. Backed her dam, Erycina, for
the Oaks—and that’s What brought me out to the
colonies.” .
* * * *
. Nowadays it is the rule, rather than the excep-
tion, for Australian horses to run unkindly, and common-
sense cries aloud for an improved system of educating the
little animals who bestride the ’osses’ backs. Good riders
make game thoroughbreds. In England, where horse-
racing is less hippodromey than the whip-spur-and-jostle
business which piasses for “ sport ” at Flemington and
Randwiek, there is a constant demand for higher culchaw
in the saddle. Said London Referee lately : “ The
shortest way to improve our thoroughbreds is to find good
jockeys for them, so as to give all a chance of doing them-
selves justice. A means of doing this always presents it-
self, viz., to raise the standard of weight so that the
apprentice will not have to look forward to being too
heavy to follow' his profession by the time he has
learned it. Let us have men instead of little nip-
pers.” The lowest handicap weight in Australia is a
stone heavier than the Hinglish minimum, and very
few adult jockeys grow too fat for their work if they
“ keep off the drink ” ; and yet horse-racing is more and
more of a boys’ game every year. The men who have
learnt something of their profession seem to retire early,
if they live to retire of their own accord. Not unfre-
quently they get killed in a scrimmage coming round one
of the turns. Brainless nippers are mounted on heavy
saddles to ride at Bst. or more, and even when the owner
gets a good go, as it is called, for his money, he doesn’t
know whether to blame the horse or the jockev for a
defeat.
Again, when the boy has obviously ridden a
foolish race there may be a fair excuse for him. Some-
times he is not so much an incapable jockey as a dutiful
ass, afraid to act up to his own knowledge in an emer-
gency. An Australasian writer remarks of such cases :
“ The fault lies with those who load them up with all
sorts of absurd instructions. We remember a jockey of
experience and reputation who had just run nearly last
on a good horse in a weight-for-age race at Randwiek
saying afterwards that he might have won if he had not
been told to do all sorts of impossible (as the race
was run) things in the race. Hales was merely
told how' he was to ride. He was left to use his own
judgment, and his phenomenal success was no doubt
due in a great measure to his being left to think out his
own plan of battle.” Talking of Hales reminds Tiie Bul-
letin that he had the making of the late James White’s
horses, and he taught them to run gamely when they
were two-year-olds. He went out with instructions to
win, and if Tommy 11. didn’t win the fault was in the
horse’s legs, not in its temper. Nowadays we find
“ crack” horses running roguishly. They haven’t been
handled by a Hales, and they haven’t always been asked
to run straight. The j'oung horse that is “pulled” will
be apt to turn rogue on its own account.
* * » *
Lawyer Hutchison’s Restraint of Wagering
Bill has been shelved in M.L. Assembly, but Govt, has
introduced a more drastic measure in the Leg. Council.
It is so arbitrary, in fact, that there is a suspicion that
Govt, does not want the measure to pass, and that it is
merely bidding for popularity with the spotless saints
who never do anything wrong. One provision :If any
person loiters on a roadway, or two or more assemble for
the purpose of betting, in view of a constable, the latter
may arrest them without a warrant and detain them
until they can be brought before the court. No bail is pro-
vided for. In proceeding against owners of gaming houses,
if they knowingly and wilfully keep such places open,
such knowledge and wilful intent shall be deemed to be
proved if it is established to the satisfaction of the court
that prior to the date of the alleged offence the defend-
ants had been warned by the police that such place was
suspected to be a common gaming house.
* * * *
Anomaly of the gambling law : A Wanganui
(M.L.) Maori bought a totalisator ticket and subsquently
sold a share to a brother Day and Martin. Horse won,
paid a big div., but the ticket-holder refused to “part”
to his co-shareholder. Result —row. Defence—denial of
sale, and reliance on the Gaming Act which says a magis-
trate cannot adjudicate on a gambling transaction. Plain-
tiff was non-suited, the beak remarking that in such
matters a man had to trust to another’s honor for pay-
ment. This decision practically means that where four
bankerers after wealth make up a £1 ticket the gent who
buys the pasteboard is top dog because he can stick to the
div.
* * * *
A clumsy trotting s.vindle was lately perpe-
trated at Christchurch (M.L.) A fair goer was nominated
for an event, but his clever party sent out an old trap-
horse under his name and supported the ultimate winner
with a bookie both straight out and in a winning double.
The fish smelt so strong, however, that enquiry resulted
in disqualification for life. Bookie vamoosed and the
party didn’t get a tin-tack out of the whole transaction.
* » » *
Hunk of turf condemnation from Beetham, sti-
pendiary beak at Christchurch (M.L.) : “Horseracing
was a most damnable business. It meant ruin—morally,
intellectually, and physically—to those who followed it
up, and wherever it was tliere were lies. How people
could bring themselves to make a living at it he could
not imagine, and, for his part, he would take for choice a
job as night-contractor.” Then he fined a motley crowd
for “ trespassing ” on a racecourse. The assumption of
the role of night-merchant by Mr. Beetham w ould, on the
de qmtibus principle, possibly not be incongruous. His
unwarranted reference to the lying proclivities of racing-
men, however, comes ill from a gentleman who indulges
inordinately in angling.
* * * *
Westralian society was recently much puzzled
as to what could be the “ urgent private business” which
called home the much-gilded Oapt Haig, A.D.C., within
a few weeks of his arrival in the province. The facts
transpired lately, when files Of English papers arrived
containing an account of the final thatch in the inter-regi-
mental polo tournament at Hurlingham, to play in which
the gallant capt. had “ come all the way front the
Antipodes.” He made the only goal scored in the
match, which won it for his regiment; the Inniskilling
Dragoons.
• • • •
Veteran huntsman Basil Grey, who met his
death in the saddle a few weeks back, had, during his
long hunting career, broken pretty nearly every bone irt
his body. About four years ago, lie got his elbow badly
fractured, but, within a week, was again after the hounds;
with his arm in a sling. The veteran safely negotiated et
couple of stiff fences, but old George Watson pulled hint
up, swearing that he could not allow a friend to so openly
suicide. Grey yielded to his old chum’s entreaties, and
went no further, but, all the same, was not very thankful
for the interference.
* * « •
“ Blister ” : Australian love for the horse. The
other day there was a gee-gee to be landed from the
Casino at Apollo Bay, where, as there’s no wharf, the
intelligent natives came in a boat with a rope 60ft. long
to take delivery. A slip-knor. was run over the prad’s
head, and he was blindfolded, and hoisted in slings
about 10ft. above the rail. “ Let go ! ” yelled the boss,
and “ let go” it was. The boatmen, 30ft. away, tightened
the rope, and rowed for their lives ; the tackle
dropped, and the neddv went down head-first (blindfold)
20ft. into the sea. Presently he came up, and after a
struggle, got the sight of one eye, and would have swum
ashore all right, if left alone. But those in the boat
pulled away about three times faster than the poor brute
could swim ; and, by thus dragging his head under water
succeeded in drowning the miserable animal. Perhaps,
after all, though, the prad was better dead than in the
hands of people who had no more sense than to try and
carry him about by the neck
* • * »
Sydney senior cricket started on Monday last
with a match Paddington and South Sydney. Paddington
scored but 89, M’Kenzie topping with 27. For South Syd-
ney, Walters and Pite both made centuries and retired,
and at time the score stood 294 for four wickets.
* * » *
Melb. Cricket Club has already had agreements
signed by prominent Australian cricketers engaging to go
to England under its auspices if selected. There has been
much private comment in Adelaide over the fact, now
first published, that Giffen was not invited to sign any
agreement, although Lyons was, and did so. But what
has the Cricket Council got to say about this agreement
business —managed so early and so quietly ?
» * * *
Professional football in England. Aston Villa
last year received £11,077, all but £735 of which was ex-
pended. Everton Club received £10,601, over half of
which went to players. Players are bought and ex-
changed in the same way as ball players in America. And
Australian football would perhaps be cleaner were profes-
sionalism openly allowed instead of winked at as it is now,
• • • •
The N.S.W. amateur athletic championship
games, on Sydney Cricket Ground last Saturday, pro-
duced some fine performances. Amateur Stan. Rowley
tied “ Billy” Macpherson’s record, lOsec. in the 100yds. ;
covered 220yds. in 22 3-ssec. ; and ran 120yds. in‘even
time. The 1-mile run was a great go between S. W. York
and Englishman Moates, the pair running a dead heat in
4min. 45sec. Spectators badly wanted to see a “go”
between Rowley, the amateur champion, and Rogers, the
prof, ditto. Each won his race easily in lOsec. “dead,”
and each was willing to run off, but the authorities de-
cided that a lily-white “ amatuah ” couldn’t be allowed
to race with a pro.
A MELB. PUNTING SONG.
Now, let us have the tote-maohine for sick are we of Ikey
Mo,
Of Ikey Mo, the parasite, despised of the gods,
Who maketh turfy sport unclean, arid stiffens e’en the
bikey go;
We want a fairer, squarer fight, arid better bloomin'
odds.
Chorus :
So agitate and raise a din, my punterkith and punterkin,
Take action in November for to bring about the tote—
The tote that parsons deem a sin
Because the lambs, whom bookies skin,
Can thereby get a chance to win
O, button-hole your meriiber and instruct him how to vote.
Instead of totes-upon-the-sly (as cronk as “coppers”
foxin’ ’em)
We want the open-air machine which Adelaide has got;
And if it cooks the smaller fry who suck the brains of
Oxenham—
Well, let ’em go to work a bit, we’ve worked for them
a lot.
(Chorus)— So agitate, &c.
You like the books! What flummery! And you a
gamblin’ martyr, too!
The most of them are vulgar brutes, a-waxing fat as
kings.
The tote don’t guzzle Pommery; it doesn’t keep a
“ bart ” or two,
Nor spend our stuff in gaudy suits and cluster diamond
rings.
(Chorus)— So agitate, &c.
It lives on small percentages (O think of the disparity
Between the prices punters get from Ikey and the
tote),
And, least of its advantages, it works in aid of charity ;
No filthy language—don’t forget—can issue from its
throat.
(Chorus)— So agitate, &c.
Cry out on Franky Madden, boys; he burkes the Bill
in Parliament ;
And simply wink your other eye at Hancock’s little
gags;
For Ikey Mo’s a bad ’un, boys, and healthy public senti-
ment
Is dead against protection for the boodlers with the
bags.
Chorus :
So agitate, and raise a din, my punterkith and punterkin,
Take action in November for to bring about the tote—
The tote that parsons deem a sin
Because the lambs, whom bookies skin,
Can thereby get a chance to win—
O, button-hole your member, and instruct him how to vote.


Question of legal etiquette. Solicitor-
General G. H. Reid, Q.C., argued that Edmund
Barton was disqualified as a M. P. for taking Crown
fees in the M'Sharry arbitration case ; yet he
appoints Heydon, Q.C., M.L.C., a Crown prose-
cutor with fees at Young circuit court.
The import returns of N.S. Wales demon-
strate beyond a doubt the favor with which the
“Three Castles” Cigarettes are viewed by the
smoking community. Facts and figures place this
beyond any doubt.*
WHAT’S YOUR
NECK WORTH?
Would you sell it for £l5 : O J O
Or £18:0:0? Of course you
would not 1 But there are lots of
people who are doing: so ; they are
riding the £l5 :0 :0 and £lB :0:0 kind
of bicycles which is practically the
same thing. They are risking their
necks and courting repair bills to
save the £7:0:0 or £10:0:0 that
would purchase a trustworthy, easy
running Massey - Harris.
It’s not the cheapest in price, but
the cheapest in the end.
Are you an economist of that sort?
If so, we will be glad to show you
at any of our depots or agencies the
difference between Massey-Harris
Bicycles and the break-neck kind.
Even if you do not purchase you
will learn something interesting
about High - bred Cycle
Construction.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Head Quarters : William Street, Melbourne
Branches : luiiedin—Sydney—Brisbane
Adelaide—Hobart—Northam.
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
N.S..W Brancli
385 George-st., Sydney
(opp. Strand Arcade).
BOOK-K€€PIN6.
by Double Entry.
PRACTICAL INSTRUCTION.
F. Bender, Accountant, 21 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
SHORTHAND
Thoroughly Taught
BY BO ST.
Mr. F. W. JONSON, 20 years’ Certificated Teacher (of
Riverview College; Petersham and Ashfield Govt.
Technical Schools). SYDNEY TYPEWRITING SCHOOL,
21 Elizabeth-street.
“ DOWRI DGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES &. FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J, F. McDermott,
Terms on General Agent for Australasia,
Application. 37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
THIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CAIiRUTHERS, Minister for Lands ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... eocceed T1. .V00,00 0 Annual Income ... ... exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
171 OH the person who is not a millionaire, there are
! ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CItEMIEVr,” situated 031
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Kills’ King-Street t oller l’alace.” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-m orrow !
LYE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
'' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT &. BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
Jt2T Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
(Dolf American High J|rt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-raiCE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. 4®" Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American jjic icles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPABEIL
WAVE BLEY
CBESCENT
WEABWELL
1}
MACK LIN
HENLEY
OR 1 MEET
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
863 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
rS>
m
«
9
C A>.jHciMiona£d' vdw
®cucust>rv
6*t/ -2^i
> gT lai/t ( < VlCL&esiJ^
— <rti/ gu
POUT DIM
TO
HEUHE
2050 MILES
FROM
SEA to SEA
Traversed by A. Macdonald in
28 Days Hours.
Previous Time, 63 Days.
A. MACDONALD’S
MOUNT was a No. 1
ROAD RACER
fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
Sole
iVgen.ta :
THE AUSTKAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.
391 George Street, Sydney.
J. 0. Ludowici & Son, leather belting
manufacturers, have removed to 117 York-street
(opp. new Markets), Sydney.*
J. A. Philp to Thbi Bulletin :
Von Kotze’s :mti-Chinese logic is “chop” logic. He
says that the relationship between Chinese exclusion and
the increased price of vegetables is a capital argument
for his contention—that the exclusion of the Chinese
means higher wages. Admitted so far, but can’t he see
that my contention is “No Chinese, no vegetables at
all”? — i.e., that under the arid conditions of interior
Australia no white man can grow vegetables to commer-
cial advantage. Would European-grown cabbages at
half-a-erown a piece suit working men at Wileannia,
Blaekall, or Milparinka? I can fancy Von Kotze’s feel-
ings as he “ scoffed ” up the whole of the proceeds of a
twenty-line Bulletin par. in a heliogabalic pot of greens,
or “ did in ” the price of four stanzas in one tiny salad !
As to the goldfields, we have but Von K.’s bare assertion
that “ the Palmer would be carrying a white population
to-day .. . but for these slant-eyed gleaners.” N.S.
Wales experience is that the fields tackled by Chinese
fossiekers are too poor to attract white miners, and Pre-
mier Seddon, of Maoriland —once a working miner himself
and anti-Chinese to the finger-tips—publicly stated the
other day that many of the towns on the West Coast of
M.L. would be deserted but for the gold fossicked out of
old workings by Chinese. He certainly did not regard
the Chinkie as a “ curse ” in this capacity. Von K.’s
opinion that I have not improved the case for the China-
man carries small weight against the many letters I
have received from all the Australias admitting that I
have thrown a great deal of new light on a little-under-
stood subject.
“ C.T.” writes :
Please let me have this smack at the dog-on-top,
despite the fact that there’s precious little credit in lick-
ing an obsolete enemy, rendered doubly weak by
treachery in high places. The Yank is just as conceited
as if he had won a desperate uphill fight, and innumer-
able ink-slingers will follow a recent scribe’s attempt to
deprecate the personnel of the British army. Material
victories are sometimes moral defeats. Had Britain fol-
lowed the Yank course of sending every available man to
the front, there would to-day be no U.S., nor would there
have been an Isandula or Majuba to sneer at. Further,
had the Yanks started “ on their own,” as they intended,
they would have made a holy show of themselves over the
present affair. No amount of mouthing can get over the
fact that England always fights short-handed and mostly
wins, barring the two accidents above mentioned.
Also, the Yank-reports of their own losses, like those of
the Boers, don’t somehow fit in with the amount of glory
claimed. Announcement of a “ warmly contested fight ”
is not corroborated by a loss of two or three on the
attacking side. It is the old mistake of protesting too
much—since one or the other report must lie. Also, re-
garding the alleged inferiority of the present Tommy
Atkins, founded on the erroneous assumption that he is
largely “gutter-bred,” the disparagement would more
fitly apply to the army of a country which is the refuse
heap of Europe. A long period of peace had produced
the impression that the U.S. land-forces were merelv a
national formality, and as there was therefore no moral
inducement to enlist, the Yankee private had come to be
locally regarded as merely a sort of superior Weary
Willie. Now, bad parents can’t throw good stock ; and,
speaking generally, first-class men don’t emigrate. There
is too much demand for them at home.
[There often is too little demand, under an effete
civilisation, for the man so essentially first-class
that he is best fitted for the founding of a new
one.—Ed. B.]
“Horsehair”: It is not true that Vic.
Attorney-General Isaacs and Justice Hodges
earned their livelihood in other directions while
studying for the bar.” While reading for the bar,
Isaacs was having a good, practical education in
law as clerk in the Vic. Prothonotary’s office
under the late J. A. Porter, a Sydney “boy.”
Hodges, too, was studying and teaching all the
tune he was preparing for the bar. He was tutor
in Ohief-Justice Stawell’s family, and his readings
in law were practically under the direction of that
bilious man and cut© lawyer.
“ A.J.8.” to The Bulletin from Wes-
tralia :
You Easterners amuse us out West with your fuss
about your meat-supply. Recently heard a local
slaughterman explaining the mutilation of a side of beef.
‘‘ You see, I had to cut a lump off that part because he
had a big cancer there.” You have at anyrate a pretence
of meat-inspection ; vve haven’t even that.
Helen Hart, disgusted with the lack of
recognition of her efforts to obtain womanhood-
suffrage, has made up her mind to shortly quit
Australia for England. Miss Helen lately, when
the plate went round one evening after a sermon
with which she disagreed, put in a couple of
tickets for an approaching lecture —in the course
of which, no doubt, she put the rev. brother right.
The poor mother thought it was measles,
so administered marigold tea and whisky ; and
when the child’s neck swelled she rubbed it with
herbs and poulticed it. Then it had convulsions,
got a hot mustard bath and died. When the
doctor arrived he diagnosed scarlet fever. —Facts
elicited at a Vic. inquest.


BRITISH COLUMBlA.—Advertiser leaving
next month, offers from accessible mining
districts, reliable descriptive letters to Traders
and prospectors, subscribing 3to 5 guineas. Ad-
dress, Kootenay, c/o. Burns, Philp & Co.’Ltd.,
Fremantle, W.A.
D.S.MAIR
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring', 2/6 ; Gleaning, 2'6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
26; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3,6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. MAIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appiianoes necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydney.
ST. PAULI
TRADE Wfii MARK
CIRL BR»:;D
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/fe each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, r/<;. all real hair.
CI.'TTINGS & COMBINGS
worked lip, '?J(j per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus*
tralla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N. WigzQlf,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
*t
Send stamps for full Price Liefe.
Prompt attention given to Country Oidsr*
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdrossers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites
for SALOONS and
Hairworking.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Scalpets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
ASSISTANT.-) Engaged for the Country.
H gold Ulatcb for Qadies Free.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE :
T*E N*W WWTS.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some La ieD Solid Gold Watches (Open Pace or
Hunter). Jewelled .Movements, and are Reliable Time-
keepers. hist Price, £5 10s. Send your answer at once,
with a stamped addressed envelope, to know if you have
won the PRIZE. If so, and you purchase one of our
Reai Gold Ladies’ Chains to wear with the PRIZE
WATCH, they will be sent securely packed, free by
iey i.dered Post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Line upon line. A common remark on entering
a well-stocked ironmongery store is—“ What a number
of lines you keep.” This is true, but the art in keeping
a stock is just to keep the very line your customer wants
at the price he wants. In McLEAN BROS. & RIGG
LTD. Melbourne and Sydney warehouses you will find
the very article you are looking for. Implements for the
farm, ironmongery for the house, guns for the sportsman,
fishing tackle for the fisherman at eye-opener prices. If
you can’t inspect write for quotations.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
-THE
DEAF
“ Common Sense Ear
Drums ” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Adral
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
'FLUID
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
I
S>
gw
o
Ny
O
O'-jF
Q3J.il/MI
Cf *<>
V* Ya
-1
•2
■
m
sm
HI
T>OOK OF NATURE
" —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding hack of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of tiie Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d". Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron op Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. THE
Art op Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works op Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Clieap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
BY ROYAL WARRANT OF AFFOnSTTMEMT TO “ THE QXJEEKT.
Ask for
Whisky ai)d
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
SODAWATER, &c.
Ask for
Brapdy aijd
‘Scbwcppc’
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DAPTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra), near
SYlDlffEir.
SM ALTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
'll j
ps%> "': -
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
..BKAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAG'S, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
lor all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Combo Re eel-catching. Menangle
(N.S. W.) Pond, near the station, went nearly dry,
and one Sunday was exploited by. a crowd of eel-
spearers. Some eels caught weighed 50 lbs. and
measured 8 feet. Too rank for eating, they were
left to rot.
A prize temperance yarn. At Mt. Mac-
donald, one night, a digger was drinking at the
pub, when someone told him that a bush-fire was
burning near his camp. Making the best of his
way home he fell into an old hole, and being too
drunk to get out, camped there. In the morning,
the first thing he saw was a 6oz. slug sticking in
the side of the hole within reach of his hand.
The Murray and Darling river-boat, Tyro,
whose boiler blew up a few months back, is in
service again, captained by the officer who was
sent skywards at the time and was regarded as
practically done for. But, contrariwise, a Syrian,
who walked off unhurt, has since died, apparently
of shock.
Yic. Judge Hamilton doesn’t, like his
learned brothers, affect a lamb-like innocence of
the wicked world. In the recent Olive case, where
the wife summoned hubby for detaining certain
property of hers, counsel referred to certain pre-
nuptial relations between the parties, whereupon
Hamilton : “ The Court is not so horribly stupid
that it needs to have these things explained to it.
One would think I was a boy fresh from school,
who had never seen a girl in his life before. This
kind of thing won’t enable me to determine which
of the two parties owns a piano, though it might
possibly enable me to decide who owns a child.”
In the days when W.A. mines were still
saleable and experts listened to reason, a certain
expert was sent out to report on a claim under
offer. He proved to be not at all the man the
sellers bad expected ; at the very first hint at a
small commission he boiled over in a manner that
was simply disgraceful. He insisted on going
down, broke off the quartz himself, put it in the
sack himself, held the sack firmly in his hands till
the tent was reached, and, finally, sat down and
watched the stuff dollied much as a cat watches a
mouse-hole. Bill had the “salt” in his shirt-
bosoin ready to be slipped in at the first chance.
He had told his mates to keep out of the way
that he might not be hampered by inexperienced
aid. Now, he cursed them fiercely in silent
rhythmic accompaniment to the dolly, and the
sweat of agony came to his brow whenever he
looked up to find two eyes carefully regarding his
every motion. Then inspiration came. Suddenly
dropping the pestle he jumped for the tent opening
and gazed expectantly down the track. The expert
looked surprised, but said nothing till the per-
formance was repeated for the third time. Then he
got answer that Bill was expecting per bicycle-
messenger a, letter from “ the missus,” with whom
an interesting event was slightly overdue. The
missus was in bad health, Bill explained, and grave
fears were entertained. The tent being off the
track, too, Bill was mortally afraid the cyclist
would miss it unless hailed, and anxiety was writ
plain on his features. Being himself a family
man the expert was sympathetic and offered to
keep a look-out while Bill finished the dollying.
The letter did not arrive, but both Bill and the
expert were pleased with the “ panning-off ”
results. The report was favorable and the claim
was bought. Truth compels the postscript that
Bill’s share of the spoil was mostly appropriated
by a painted charmer who had previously enjoyed
much alcohol in his company, and that Bill himself
was unmarried except in the casual way of the
West as it was in those days.
“H.”: On the Red Bluff (St. Kilda,
Melb.) were buried three pioneers, in 1840.
The consuming lips of the ocean are crumbling
off the Bluff, so that soon the three skele-
tons would be washed away. So it was
decided to exhume and re-bury them. A goodly
assemblage witnessed this job. Men dug down,
and found that the coffins, of red gum, had gone,
only the skeletons being left. Had the wood been
charred, as with our fence-posts, it might bave
remained sound. Other pioneers are buried on
the Flagstaff Hill, West Melb.
“ Melb. Dropped into the Town Hall,
t’other night, while, the ever-masterful Jew held
’em in his oratorio clutch. Pastor Abrahams, at
a Wesleyan mission meeting ! He quoted Dis-
raeli’s saying : “ All sensible men are of the same
religion,” and the plaudits were roof-shaking, but
the cunning Rabbi neglected to add the other
clause—“ What is it? They never tell.” The
Rabbi is quite a reminder of Gainbetta, and
though he only dealt in magnificent generalities,
he knocked all the orthodox specialists out of
time.


N <rr ßa£Sn)CSS€i)’S Alfalifyc Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc,
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
jA. Few of Them.
■ ♦
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear
Sir,—l thinkjt my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on rny
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of fhe s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Xalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and be can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.— I am, yours
respectfully, Mas. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Oootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt is vvith great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks.—l am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, hut was getting no better ; and I shall never re« ret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of mv friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR, RASSMUSSEN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing'
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.-—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—‘‘Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona flies of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading peojjle of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.— “ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “ It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles." I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
mission in the Herbal (||orld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s At\faline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents —which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to >
sell his Remedies or [
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Bate Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OE THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia .
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,’
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL
FREE BOOK,
1 which contains
COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
IPVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen,
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
LIST
OF THE
ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing-.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. >
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison-from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Feniales, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders -A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stou est
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter bow cau-ed. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills- Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6->.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking Herr Kassmussen’s VITALITY FXX.X.S (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Rassinussen’s Beaid Office: - 54*7 George Street, Sydney.
AND IMPOUTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
N.Z . WELLINGTON 91 Eambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOI.GARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)


Gent’s Kid-leg Calf Goloshed 10/6
~ „ Patent ~ ... ... 10/6
„ Glace-leg and Golosh, patent caps ... 10/6
„ All Russia Tan Calf : 10/6
„ All Ooze Tan Calf 10/6
By Rail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
are Famous
0 :
. . SEND FOB . .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OE OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . OF . .
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s,
and
CHILDREN’S BOOTS.
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
BOUIIKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Geelong and Ballarat.
Swift $ Company,
INDENT AND . .
COMMISSION
MERCHANTS..
7 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
General Agents in Australia for—
Brunner, Mond & Co., Ltd., Northwicb, Eng.—Chemicals
Ciias. Heidsieck, Reims—Champagne.
Gonzalez, Byass & Co., Oporto—Port.
Machonochie Bros., London—Preserves, etc.
Somerville & Co., l td., Leith—“ Glendour” Whisky.
Cramps}
l Colic,
\ Colds,
Cats, \
Burns, }
i Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
'PciinKiUev
(PERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. IV) OX HAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
Birth.
TART.—September 30. At “ Gallop House,”
Ashfield, Mrs. Quong Tart of a daughter.
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
JAMES BURNS, FORSYTH, Esq.)
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Notice is hereby given that the management of
the Company has been transferred to Mr. E. N.
Parker, who will in future conduct all business
in connection therewith at the above address.
C. DANVERS, Manager.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY-
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Btli WEEK! and Continued Success of the Royal
Comic Opera Company.
THIS EVENING, at 8. Wednesday Matinees, at 2.
LR POU P € €.”
£ £
Comic Opera in 2 Acts and 4 Tableaux.
Plan, Nicholson’s. gW PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
HEATRE
ROYAL,
SYDNEY.
■pALACE THEATRE,
“ Lessee and Manager
T
No Debate, No Hesitancy, Absolute Unanimity on the
part of Press and the Public regarding
BLAND HOLT’S
Latest : Successful : Dramatic : Novelty,
Sporting Life. Sporting Life .
PRICES —35., 25., and One Shilling. Plan at Elvy’s.
SYDNEY. __
M. B. CURTIS.
Dante Tlie Great,
IN MAGIC UP-TO-DATE.
Commence NEXT SATURDAY, Bth October.
Absolutely the Greatest Conjuror that has ever visited
Australia. He begins where others leave off.
HE IS THE GREATEST MAGICIAN LIVING.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Manager, L. J. LOHR.
ALHAMBRA (Haymarket, George-st.), SYDNEY.
Lessees ... Messrs. St. John and W. J. Wilson.
A PHENOMENAL SUCCESS!
ST. JOHN and WILSON’S
Alhambra Minstrels and Burlesque Company.
Mr. John Coleman
And a Company of Exceptional Merit, in the new First
Part, “ DREAMLAND,” and
SIN BA I) BURLESQUE.
Popular Prices—2s., Is., and Sixpence. Plan at Elvy’s.
qiIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Miss -A-tia Reeve.
Signor Ugo Biondi.
JULEENE’S ELECTRIC ORGAN.
FOREMAN and FANNAN, BELLMAN and MOORE,
SISTERS TERRY, D. H. CASTON, DELROY and
LYNNE, HAMILTON HILL, LOU BERESFORD, ALICE
SIMMONS, and FANING and DEVOE.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
The Poluskis.
Miss Peggy Pryde Mr- (j- H- Wood
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. WALLACE KING.
Mr. GEO. BEAUCHAMP. THE SISTERS GOVELL.
DELOHERY, CRAYDON and HOLLAND.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
T»IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
** Lessee Mr. Harry Rickards.
FAREWELL SEASON OF
Miss Pattie Browne.
Last Two Nights—THE LITTLE MINISTER.
FRIDAY, Oct. 7 —Matinee Benefit to the clever young
Scotch Actor, LESLY THOMSON.
SATURDAY, Oct. B—Miss PATTIE BROWNE will pro-
duce new and original modern comedy, adapted from
French by Chas. H. Brookfield—THE DOVE COT.
PRICES—3B., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
JOHN O. LEETE, General Manager.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE. ~
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Bateman and Maurice.
2nd WEEK ! CONTINUED TRIUMPH !
GREAT SUCCESS! of GREAT SUCCESS I
SONS OF TN€ S€A.
The most Thrilling, Sensational and Picturesque Play
ever produced. Full strength of Brilliant Company.
Mr. CHAS. MAURICE as PAGANEL.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES —3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and SIXPENCE.
RINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrovb.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
And Wednesday Matinees, at 2 p.m.
UNDER THE REP ROBE.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as GIL DE BERAULT.
Miss ADA FERRAR as RENEE.
Box Plan at ALLAN’S and MENZIES’.
OWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Director ... Philip Newbury.
Saturday Next, at 8 o’clock.
Last of the Melbourne 1/- “Pops.”
MDLLE. CELENSKI
THE WONDERFUL PIANISTE.
Town Hall, Sydney,
GRAND OPENING NIGHT, 15th, OCTOBER.
ARCHIBALD NEWBURY, Manager.
Reai»£er.ivian Hollow Ground
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LONDON. W.
ON€ NOHeST MAN.
■pvEAR SlR,—Please inform your readers that, ii
-L' written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I- was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, ly
Price Waning; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
At Poverty Point.
Charming Grace Noble, perhaps the nicest girl the
Brough and Boucieault co. ever imported, would like to
come out again. She has suggested as much to Robert
Brough, but, according to late letters, he had by that
time completed his arrangements.
“ Old Jack ” : Fact that I’ve just had a dish of peas acci-
dentally dressed with sugar reminds me of a story of the
Bianchis. One day, when crossing from Hobart to Mel-
bourne, Biauchi to his sposa : “ Angel of mine, I have
heard from the cook there are peas—i piselli —eh 1 but,
alas, only one dish ! What shall I do?” “Heart of my
heart,” whispered the lady, “dress it with oil. These
savages detest it.” So, when the table was laid, and
before the dinner-bell was rung, the fat little tenor and
his enormous wife drenched the peas with best Lucca.
The skipper, beholding, whispered something to the
steward, who, forthwith coming to Bianchi’s shoulder,
said, “Sauce, sir? Yessir,” and poured a good gill of
anchovy sauce over the pea 3. A grin went round. But
Bianchi was all smiles. “ Aha ! t’ank you. Ze anehova,
angel of mine. You lika? Si? Anybody else lika ze
anehova wiz i piselli —eh ? No ! Vat peety ! ” So the
pair gobbled up the peas between them. “ But, my
Gawd I ” said providore Mason, who told me the yarn,
“ just wasn’t they sick, right up to the wharf. Had to
be carried ashore.”
That gorgeous farce, the Melb. Shakespeare Ball, only
panned out a paltry £29 for the theatrical charities—after
all the advertising and the distribution of, probably, over
£lOOO among the Melb. drapers for the costumes. The
most striking figure of the pageant was a Melb. art-
student who walked all the way from the Princess Theatre
attired in brass helmet, sleeveless cotton blouse, old
sword with belt, and ancient tweed pants.
Some years ago, at Sydney Opera House, was staged a
hair-raising drama by a local author, in which the late
Frank Oates was enacting the usual heroine-hunting
villain. In a scene in which he was supposed to be dig-
ging down to the gas-main in a cellar, preparatory to
blowing everybody to atoms, he was “ discovered ” by a
well-known actor who was playing a Jew part and had to
ask “ Vat are you doing there, mein friend?” To which
Cates, in stentorian tones, “ Digging a grave for the
author of this d d rotten piece !” And the house with
boisterous applause signified its agreement with the
estimate.
During the bankruptcy exam, of a well-known actor
some time ago, creditor’s solicitor asked, with reference to
an item £BO for carriages, if bankrupt didn’t think that
very extravagant for a man in his position. “ No, sir,”
replied the Thespian, “ the extravagance is not in the
carriages, but in the owner’s charges.”
The stage fall looks quite simple, but it isn’t. At one
Sydney theatre the other night, either the lady was inex-
perienced and fell badly, or the base deceiver cast her off
clumsily ; anyhow, when her shoulders struck the floor
and her boots and stockings flew eighteen inches in the
air the audience gave up taking that heroine seriously.
It had discovered that she wore one black sock and a
brown one.
An Australian actor-manager—though few would sus-
pect it—wears a wig; or, rather, several wigs. Peruke No. 1
is rather long, ditto No. last rather short. He alternates
them quarterly. “ Well, well,” he will remark with an
amusing effort at casualness, “ my hair is getting posi-
tively disgraceful ” ; and next day his appearance in the
shortest wig will convey to the uninitiated the idea that
he has just been to the barber’s. But the most cunning
little wig extant is worn by another theatrical manager,
now much over seven. You know how a tight hat makes
a deep crease in the hair behind. Well, he always wears
a tight hat, and then the crease caused thereby is the
spot where the wig joins his natural hair—what'there is
of it. There ain’t much.
“ P.A.”: I remember Hazon conducting the overture to
“William Tell.” He was specially great in the part
descriptive of a storm in the mountains where the tenor
drums, after a hair-raising crescendo, culminate in a
thunderbolt from the bass drum which used to make
brave men yearn to crawl under a haystack out of the
wet. _ Hazon worked up these thunderbolts with most
thrilling effect. He began by beating time with dainty
movements of his baton, delicate little bird-like twitters,
recalling the most charming girl you ever saw tripping
with up-raised skirts over a muddy crossing ; then, as
the throbbing of the drums increased, his arms would
make wider sweeps and he was a cuirassier mowing down
the foe. Anon he would become a Titan juggling with
mountains, and, finally, when the nervous tension had
continued long enough to make people want to rise up
and shriek in order to let off the accumulated emotion,
he would launch both arms towards the lair of the bass
drum, and a crash like a falling world would answer
the frenzied gesture. People forgot that it was
only catgut, horsehair, sheepskin and whistles kicking
up a row. To them, Roberto was embodied Jove hurling
veritable thunderbolts. He was the most sympathetic
and magnetic conductor I ever saw. His magic baton
interpreted every shade and tint of emotion that music
is capable of expressing, from the airy grace of Boc-
cherini’s minuet to the bombardment of Manila. Even a
stone-deaf man could tell what sort of music was being
played by watching the beats. I knew a man who used
to cause great laughter by an imitation of the “Tell”
overture. He simply ran his fingers through his hair to
make it stand like a chimney-sweep’s besom, and did the
roll of the drums with his tongue. The gestures, and his
auditors’ recollection of the unique original, did the rest.
As you say, Biondi could make his biggest hit as Hazon.
Some years ago, an English opera co. playing at
Adelaide Royal engaged Susini from Melb. to play Meph.
in Faust. S. was supposed to come up through a trap-
door, and on the first night a head appeared for a second
or two; then head and shoulders came into view and
made rather a longer stay, the big man looking as
pleasant as was natural in the circumstances. The
second time the full h.p. of the stage hands must have
been suddenly applied, for up came Meph. like a Jack-in-
the-box. Next night he came from behind a tree.
When Creswick was playing Virginius in Melbourne
some years ago one of the supers., just before the curtain
rose, was noticed to have his Roman toga slung over his
shoulders like a sundowner’s blanket, and on being asked
by the irate supermaster “ What the he was sup-
posed to represent?” replied, “ Please, sir, I am a ‘Decem-
ber ’” (decemvir). “I don’t care a d- if you were a
blanky January,” was the answer; “ you don’t go on like
that! ”
“ I had come into New Orleans,” says mesmerist Ken-
nedy, “ and agreed with the church eiders there to give
a mesmeric entertainment for $3OO, for the benefit of "the
church. Waal, the hall was packed—big church, it was—
with niggers, and I had about 30 nigs on the platform,
and it was a warm night, and niggers waal, niggers
aren’t nice company on a warm night. Anyhow, I got
through my contract, and tuned those niggers up to such
a height that half the audience got mesmerised too. As
a finaie, I showed them Heaven, with the angels in all
their glory, and the transports of the subjects were some-
thing tre-mendous. Next day, the church elders came to
me and said, ‘ Mr. Kennedy, we think it would do our
people a mighty power of good if you showed’em hell.’
I agreed, and accordingly, that night, brought in hell as
a finale. I said to them, ‘ You see where we are all
sitting here in this church. The windows are there, and
there, and there, as you see, and the walls are all
around; but the roof is off. You can see the sky.’
‘Oh, yaas,’ they came in, ‘see the sky!’ One fel-
low says, ‘ See stars ! ’ ’Nother says, ‘ Moon shinin’.’
‘ Yaas,’ I said, ‘ you all see the stars and the
moon shinin’ in the sky. But over there you
see a great black cloud ; it is getting bigger ’n’ bigger,
blacker and blacker ; it is coming towards us—see 1 coming
on, coming on. Very soon it will burst, and you will see
Satan and all his imps. Watch it, now watch it !
THERE ! it has BURST ! ’ Whew ! it did burst. I was
knocked over in the rush, and, before I could snap my
fingers, every one of those nigs, was gettin’ through the
winders and the whole audience was stampeding through
the doors ! I spent all that night chasin’ niggers round
New Orleans. You can imagine me in a cab galloping
down New Orleans and shouting out, ‘There ain’t no
hell at all! ’ and snapping my fingers on every nigger I
lassooed and shouting, ‘You’re alright, sir! Alright,
sir ! ain’t no hell at all, sir ! ’ ”
The Vic. Operatic Society promises some capital voices
for the forthcoming “ Bohemian Girl ” show at Melb.
Bijou. Miss Millie Tree Chapman, Kitty Grindlay and
Cesca Yollugi, A. W. Pett, William Neilson, Horace
Stevens, and J. Goudy can sing well, and two or three of
them act fairly. The V.O.S. will give a fetching musical
entertainment, anyway, for the amateur chorus is to go
SO strong, and a professional orchestra of 20 has been en-
gaged.
Pattie Brown appears again in Sydney at the Royal.
Since Rignold began to talk of leaving the stage and
Settling down in Sydney, he has been mostly travelling
round with a 00. Judt now he is on the Adelaide-Broken
Hill track.
Bessie Rignold was at the Standard Theatre (Lon.) last
month, playing the endless Lady Isabel, in “ East
Lynne.” Her grief and woe received very favorable
mention.
“Paradis”: Though Cecil Ward’s legs be not absolutely
bad, there is a titter when the chambermaid pulls off his
top boots, as Larolle. The contrast with the broad boots
is so great. Cec. is too much of an artist to pad. Besides,
it mightn’t come off, or rather, it might, and slop down
when the boot is withdrawn.
“ Melb.”Met this morning a well-known septua-
genarian harlequin crossing Carlton Gardens. I know
two sexagenarian clowns in this city. All which does not
alter the.question as to where the ballerina, who is more
than seven, six and aged, as they say on the turf, finds
her earthly paradise. The Scotch schoolboy asked
“ Whaur do the figures go when they a,re rubbit oot?”
Stay, a lady neighbor of mine was in the ballet 40 years
ago, and is married to a Chinese gentleman.
“ Melb.” : A Bourke-street bookseller has in his window
a venerable photo, of the Salle de Valentino, pulled down
30 years ago. It was a circular wooden building on the
site of Noble’s canvas circus, the first in Melb., at the
north-east corner of Bourke and Spring streets, opposite
where Parliament House is. The Valentino is depicted
in picturesque dilapidation, with interesting reminis-
cences of the playbills, auction bills, and what not, stuck
about it. ■'Rowe’s;Circus knocked out Noble’s, and was,
in turn, overthrown by the troupe fetched out by G. B.
W. Lewis, from Astley's, London, on the Princess Theatre
site.
“luna” : In Queen-st. still stands Melbourne’s first
theatre, the Queen’s. It is now occupied by a billiard-
table-maker. The building is substantial enough, and is
surmounted by a crude representation of the lion-and-
unicorn allegory. A friend tells me he saw comedian
Charley Walsh playing there when it was the pleasant
habit of the miners to attend with ladies whose charac-
ters could not be called doubtful, and to throw nuggets
on the stage for the favorite actor.
Emma Rogers, eldest daughter of the old-time come-
dian, G. H. Rogers, is taking to the stage again, chiefly
with a view to “bringing out” a very clever little
daughter of her own. Many Melb. playgoers will remem-
ber Emma Rogers as a good all-round actress, and a par-
ticularly effective Queen, in “Hamlet.”
The Argus last week deeply regretted to mention that
Mrs. Palmer, Australia’s longtime champion warbler of
“ Home, Sweet Home” —had been “ attacked by a throat
trouble which renders it impossible for her to continue
either her public appearances or the work of tuition.” In
the same issue of that valuable organ appeared a notice
of the disabled lady’s singing, overnight, at a Liedertafel
concert in aid of Julius Herz’s widow, so a word of expla-
nation was necessary. Therefore, the Argus next day
said a “ misconception ” might possibly arise from the
paragraph stating that Mrs. Palmer’s throat was affected,
inasmuch as it wasn’t affected, and wouldn’t prevent her
singing. In fact, said the Argus, she has recovered
from her illness, which had no connection with her voice,
and is now going stronger than ever. A newspaper “ mis-
conception ” is a wide term, seemingly.
Three English concert co’s., in addition to tenor-mono-
loguist Lely, sought Australian shekels during the past
winter. Results : Lemmone dropped some hundreds
over Alva and Verne ; Amy Sherwin gave shilling pops,
in Sydney ; Lely was by no means Smythe’s most
profitable investment ; and only Albani made anything
like a scoop. Her trills had lost their sweetness ; you
could hear the clavicular bellows blow ; she sang with the
aid of various vocal tricks ; but she was Albani ; and she
was on singing terms with Queen Victoria.
John J. Burke, comedian, lately in Australia, and since
killed in U.S., was a most tremendous stutterer—though,
curiously, not on the “ boards.” Arguing with a fellow-
actor once, Burke took so much time spluttering over a
word that the other held out his hat, saying, “ Here you
are, John —spit it into this ” !
Melba’s latest interview credits the prima-donna with
having referred loftily to “my family’s town-house at
Richmond, near Melbourne.” Chance missed to have im-
proved upon the “ancestral mansion” gag, with “our
house-boat on the Yarra.”
S.M. Herald advt.
A LIVELY LADY required to travel with single
gentleman, able to play piano or other instru-
ment, vocalist preferred. Address, with full particu-
lars, Companion, Herald office.
Rather glowful, ain’t it, Mr. James?
“8.E.”: “5.5.,” who, to judge by his tilts at every-
thing and everybody, evidently thinks no small pumpkins
of himself as a theatrical critic, is sometimes ludicrously
inaccurate when driven to a last desperate expedient in
order to pick flaws. Occasionally, as in the Coleman-
Ashcroft case, he gets punctured. (“ John’s” Scarecrow
Dance is undoubtedly the most humorous and the
cleverest bit of eccentric song-acting seen here since,
years ago, Keeno, I think, did “The Automaton,”
and it isn’t even a plagiarism on that.) Now
(B. 24/9/’9B) “ S.S.” oracularly sums up Peggy Pryde
as having “more confidence than ability,” and as
being consumed by a desire to look “ nice.” Peggy, of
all people, trying to look nice ! Peggy, as the almost
pathetic but awfully smudged and raggedy lodging-house
slavey ; Peggy, as that appalling guy, the gamp-carrying
woman’s rights apostle; Peggy as a Coster-’Ria ; or
Peggy, once more, as the black (and blue) eyed but defiant
wife of Bill, who has pawned everything but her tattered
shawl! Why, lam almost tempted to say that, after
Leamar and other birds whose plumage was their chief
recommendation, Peggy Pryde is the only visiting variety
star who, so far, has not sacrificed art to “ nicelooking-
ness.” “5.5.,” who, no doubt, has never been outside
Australia, probably does not know that Peggy is, as her
mother was, always a type in whatever she does. It
might instruct “ S.S.” if he were to see the prototypes—
he’ll find them in the Little Bourke-streets of London. As
to ability. Well, Peggy Pryde is the most intensely vital
artist, bar none, who has appeared on Australian stages.
She is feminine quicksilver, and that is the quicksilver.
Her dash and ilan are far superior to Leamar’s, and her
vulgarity is far more good-humored and less offensive.
And the tones she gets out of that hard voice of hers
prove the artist, for she makes you believe that she can
singl
Strange that Haddon Chambers’ three most intimate
friends—Barney Barnato, Woolf Joel, and Wm. Terriss—
should have come to violent ends.
“ H.” : Mrs. Lynn-Linton said that both Dickens and
Thackeray were consumed by secret passions. In the
case of Dickens, the object was Miss Ternan, with whom
he appeared in theatricals. This caused the rupture with
Mrs. Dickens.
Marion Hood, w’ho retired into private life and was long
lost to view, was seen again recently among the fashion-
ables at Grace’s jubilee cricket-match, clad in light-blue
silk, white lace fichu, &c., &c. The purfesh always spoke
of Marion Hood as a “ marvel.” Nobody could say how
old she was.
The hitherto unknown river lately dis-
covered on W. coast Tas. by Mr. Moore, F.G.S.,
and named the Urquhart,‘is now found to be a
salt-water inlet 200 yards long.
“Pretend to be huffed with the Govern-
ment ; the Government will also indicate that it
can’t depend upon you. Then Lyne will think
you good material for proselytising and in the
effort will blab the intentions of the Opposition.
Then just you slip in and tell George Reid.”'
[Directions lately given to a member of N.S.W.
Assembly.]
During the recent N.S.W. general election
a strong point was made at Ashfield against B. R.
Wise that he could not possibly attend to local
wants, or that he would not, which was the same
thing. The Reidite candidate, who had no occu-
pation except being a M.P., made a strong argu-
ment of that fact, and said he “ had no clients to
attend to except his constituents ” ; also, that his
valuable services were at the disposal of electors
“all day long.” Yet, the first week of Wise’s
membership, he seemed to obtain from a hostile
Govt, more than his opponent had got for ages—
as witness the =£looo for the Cottage Hospital, at
Croydon. A strong opponent generally gets more
from the Govt, of N.S.W. than a faithful, depend-
able, thick-and,-thin supporter. The man who
gets most of all 'is he who sits on a rail when close
divisions are about, and—makes terms.
The latest report states that Rougemont
ia Tozer in disguise.
John Downer, the be-knighted nominal
leader of S.A. Opposition, grows more and more
insufferably tedious. This session, on Hourigan’s
annual motion in favor of unimproved land values
taxation in municipalities, Downer, instead of
making a new speech, got hold of an old Hansard
and read most of his last year’s speech over again
in a gloomsome monotone that nearly drove the
House frantic. John has represented Ba.rossa for
20 years, and has run two short-lived governments
to the great monotony of everybody, but the
affable old man’s political career is apparently
about over.
The venerable Mrs. Badgery, mother of
the well-known Mr. H. S. Badgery, of Pitt, Son
and Badgery, and of the N.S.W. pastoralists of
that name, who died at Bathurst last week, car-
ried her recollections of N.S.W. back to the early
thirties and was rich in anecdote and personal
experience. She ambitioned verse-making and
painting. Her husband, who predeceased her,
was the first white man to enter the valley of the
Araluen, and was an explorer in certain useful
aspects of the word.
Labor-member Watson offered a sensible
suggestion on the first night of the Federal debate
in N.S.W. Parliament, but was enthusiastically
sat on by both parties. He proposed that, when
the two Federal Houses disagree about a measure
they should straightway have a joint sitting and
let the majority decide. This instead of the cum-
bersome idea that there must be two disagree-
ments (which means two sessions of Parliament),
and then a dissolution and a new election and
another disagreement before the joint sitting can
be arrived at. If a remedy for deadlocks is to be
effective it should be capable of application 20
times, if necessary, over one measure; not be a
slow, elephantine process which takes years
to get into motion. And, seeing that both
Houses will be elected on the widest and most
Democratic suffrage, if the people can’t trust the
majority they can’t trust anything.
Sydney Telegraph, in its leading article
of 27th Sept., declared that “if by such a wanton
attack as they are threatened with the Reid Govt,
were displaced, Mr. Barton’s new team would find
itself confronted with a powerful and justly ex-
asperated Opposition, which would render legisla-
tion practically impossible.” What a beautiful
admission ! If the Reid Govt, is displaced it can
only be because it is in a minority. If it is in a
minority, then it certainly ought to be displaced.
And, if it is justly displaced for being in a minority,
then it will be so mad at losing its sordid billet
that it will block Federation and all other business
out of revenge.


IELUH’S
F
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLSSU’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of-all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
This well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA. HOARSENESS, &c.
gpnSETJB
SrTs COUGH-STgS? c _^
«££PONFUL A DOSE.
Gives Immediate Relief and Rest.
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
See that HAYMAN’S Is supplied.
Publications, etc.
- Ballet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
Adven.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
JANO op ORGAN PLAYING
I learnt in one day.
AOOTCK MTTHmf CHORDS for PIANO and ORGAN.
a y uiOK METHOD of learning to play the piano for those
Withit awy unable to en o a " e the services of a teacher.
V 1th it ANY ONE CAN BECOME AN EXTERT PIANIST aCCOmpanv-
d DanceS ’ Useful t0 the advanced MmS.
It IS the NEAREST APPROACH TO A READY MADE KNOWLEDGE
OF MUSIC YET DEVISED BY THE HUMAN MIND.
184 soMs free SM?*? 0 *? 10 ? i? eveiy . home pratt-s chart
im. (. ... , Published a t 5/-, we will send the Giant Album
af 184 Songs, Words and Music FREE, together with Pratt's Chart
° £ Chords for oniy 2/6 Post paid 2/8. Stamps al extra Address-
6 PuBIjISH , IN0 Co -> Commercial Chambers, Sydney
Mention tins paper when writing. AGENTS WANTED. y
IXTEW MUSIC.
The Chimes of Normandy,” by Sfcanhope Gray, a sonar
certain to please ; “ Saucy Sally,” by Will Godwin, a good
song with a good chorus ; “ Pat Magee,” a pretty, wittv
Irish song; “Rose of the Morn” Waltz, by Henri Laski
composer of “My Polly” Waltz; “Pierrot et Pierrette”’
(Gavotte), by Henri Laski, composer of “My Polly”
Waltz; “Prascatti” Waltz, by Theo Bonheur. Of all
Catalogues post free on application to W.
& CO* 9 203 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
■pTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,’ “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London
arid 203.Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOKS. Books
Et oolts
Published Second
Price. Hand.
15/-
70/-
3/6
5/6
12/6
5/6
15/-
Science of Life, Sexual Physiology (Fowler) 25/-
Picturesque Atlas of Australasia, 3 vols. comp. £16
Manual of Freemasonry, by Carlyle .. 5/6
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk ... ... 7/g
Insects Injurious to Fruit and how to destroy 21/—
Gordon’s Poems, 3/6; Kendall Poems 7/6
The Popular Educator, 6vols. complete ..’80/- j.o/-
Skinnet’s Noted Case of 20 2s. cloth-bound Novels by the
best Authors for £1. All Books sent Post Free.
Boofeg Books
The Notorious Mrs. Merryvale: Her Adventures and Con-
fessions ; Miss Skittles, (he Girl with Six Husbands;
Ovid’s Art of Love; Byron’s Don Juan—all very racv
each post/fr.ee Is, 6d. The New Receipt Book, and How
to comma!ml the Love and Admiration of the Opposite
Sex , The Ballet Girl " Gay Life behind the Scenes—each
post free Is. ; The Lady of the Camellias, bv Dumas, very
racy, post free Is. 6d. R. W. SKINNER, New and
Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st., Svdnev
Telephone 3043. * i
m
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
- LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 3s.——
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
‘Continental Supply Agency,
r Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
flBTSend Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “ Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 2/6,
post free.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIft?3AULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
jOLEMANE'S
EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT
Is indeed “MONARCH" of
all the Eucalyptus Extracts
on the market, as it is ONE
QUALITY onIy—FIRST, and
Guaranteed Pure.
For a COLD, a BAD
COUGH, or any CHEST
TROUBLES, there is no-
thing can touch it. It is
Eucalypte pure and simple
Without Adulterants.
Investigate before Purchasing.
WRITE US AND WE WILL SEND YOU ABSOLUTE
PROOF THAT
Is positively the best remedy for RHEUMATISM,
LUMBAGO, ALL ACHES and PAINS, WOUNDS,
BRUISES, etc. For Stable Use, it is the best Embro-
cation in the world. We cannot publish all the testi-
monials we are constantly receiving' from grateful sufferers
who have been cured. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to
S. COX & CO.,
PATENTEES AND SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
422 JBourfce Street, Melbourne.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d. extra.
Owl Drug Stores,
Corner Elizabeth Sc Bathurst Streets,
s-srjoixriES-sr,
Being direct importers and cash
BUYERS, our Drugs and Toilet Requisites
are of the BEST QUALITY and sold at the
LOWEST PRICES. Prescriptions Dispensed
by first-class Registered Chemists, and faithfully
prepared.
ECONOMY, EXCELLENCY, & FIDELITY
—Our Motto. Call and inspect our Store, and
you will be satisfied.
Telephone D. COBCROFT, Proprietor.
2636. W. E. ARNOLD, Manager.
Medicines carefully packed and forwarded to
all parts of the Colonies.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eacrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
PaniphL, on the disease of Drunk,
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
02 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
i3T The New Insect JPowder .
r*
*3lS\*
Si
Kills all Insects. Harmless to Animals.
I’ll Try It.”
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins!
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. 6d.
Sole Agents :
The Result .
Craig & Aitken, 680-652 George-at., Sydney
J ack : I hear the Yankees are going to
give over using powder and shot
in their war with Spain.
Tom : How are they going to win,
then ?
Jack: With St. Jacobs Oil. It
CONQUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
sals^
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET.
IN LARGE AND SMALL CAKES,
EVERYWHERE.
CtHWi
Granular
Effervescent
Citrate of
vM&?~
0 I -£ £jj-
cz/miiali€KnLA
Obt"air\able at"all Cken\i&!&
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has restored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
ar:d will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
„o Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, 89 Pitt-street, Sydney.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing- in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
iiSliliii!
'ljj&imfaii
' !
Inn#
•Uiiilnain
iviiiiif!!!
iiiiiij
'Ulllliliiin
j!!! l| !iiiniiii
y J ,| !iiiniiii
E
R !!•••: i i
i :ii i
i-! 1 '
iiiiiii
Bill!
'im
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12'6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
J &c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), {riving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
I The Lowest Prices—
The Highest Testimonials—
The Finest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recom-
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
Minerva peptonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, has been reduced to the
public from 2s. 6d. to Is. 9d. The high quality of
the preparation has not been reduced.
Minerva Feptonised Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. large size, and to Is. 9d.
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street, by enclosing with the above
price 6d. extra to cover postage. Sample bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Co-,
Manufacturing Chemists & Pood Specialist?.
LONDON : 15 and 17 Fore-street Avenue, E.C.
NEW YORK: Kemble Building, Whitehall-street.
SYDNEY : 56 Margaret-street.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
P» r »St D
so/}
SK/rf D/S£A$Ef
AND WOUA/DS
or £ VERY
DESCR/PT/O^r
d?r6berts
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES,
AND ALL D/S OfiDERS OF THE
STOMA CM c? L/VER .
°r all che M/srs //ji x 2/9EACH
BE/\CH & BARIVICQTT L°. BRIDPORJ.
MELBOURNE.
DOYOUWAiw
A
-j-oVPOST FREEv^
Watches - Clocks- j evi/ellery- BirtHday*
WeddiNc e. CHristeHiHc Presents
n NEWMAIVl-l7Sy.I77-Fii7flnr T |j gr.
OPPOSITE G:RO.
MELBOURNE.
QIQ
DEAF
HUE
The New Patent
(SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
'and Head Noises, no mutter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible.. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M.NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Latest S.M. Herald advt. :
TAT ANTED, Temporary Accommodation near rail-
' way station by gentleman and hiis wife con-
stantly travelling, and who require to rest for a few
hours when passing through Sydney. C. 8., Herald,
King-street.
Dear B.—The s.s. Bourgogne business
suggests that one reason why men of Latin race
come so ill out of such emergencies is that, in any
dangerous or exciting situation, your Frenchman.
Italian, or Spaniard falls to talking. But
with British races, and Germans, and Scandina-
vians, the reverse is observable. The writer was
nearly cast away on two occasions ; once in a
Scotch, and another time in a Trench ship. When
the former ran ashore (in the Caroline group), no
voice was heard, save those of the officers giving
orders. Everybody—Scotch, English, Germans
and Swedes—listened and obeyed. And the ship
was saved. In the other case, when the Erench
barque took a_ reef in Torres Straits, there arose
such a jabbering of all hands as made discipline
impossible for some time. Each man yelled out
his idea of what should be done, and, as hardly
any two notions agreed, the cackle very nearly
cost us our destruction.—G.B.
Until a few months ago any Chinaman in
Victoria was permitted to go home and return
again to the province provided he produced a
naturalisation-paper and two photos, of himself.
The paper would be endorsed with the name of
the vessel by which he was going and the date,
one of the photos, would be attached to the paper,
the other retained at the customs for identification
on his return. The customs officials never dropped
to the idea that many papers were not genuine, until
one day a well-known Chow storekeeper brought
a big Celestial about 6ft. high to have his paper
endorsed. The clerk asked how old he was.
“Twenty-four,” replied the Chinaman. The
clerk glanced at the naturalisation-paper and saw
that it was issued in 1884. “ What were you
doing when this paper was issued ? ” “ Hawkem
tea.” “You were hawking tea when you were
ten years old ? ” asked the clerk. Just here some-
thing seemed to dawn on both Chinamen, and
they spurted through the door and never re-
turned. On further examination, it proved that
the paper was a hired one. Since then a rigid
examination has been made of all papers pre-
sented, and, during the last six months, not half a
dozen Chinamen have been able to crowd through
the needle’s eye of the law, where they used to
get through by scores.


Don’t be always gloomy and “ out
of sorts.” The change of the season
often induces “ THAT TIRED
FEELING.” It is nothing very
serious, nothing that calls for a
doctor’s attention ; you just want
an invigorating Tonic try . .
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, it will
relieve you of “ That Tired Feel-
ing.” Insist on getting WOLFE’S,
the only real Schnapps.
-
SIS!*
Do you want a pleasant
evening at home, or to
give an exhibition? The
Kraphophone
a most marvellous instru-
ment; reproduces the
music of great military
bands, famous opera
singers, and celebrated
comedians in laughter-
provoking monologues
produced upon the stages
of the great cities of the
world.
Simple to operate.
Will not get out of
order.
Write or Call for Catalogues or any information. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UNITED IMPORTING COMPANY,
117 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
At MICK SIMMONS’.
A NEW
DEPARTURE.
CASH TRADE ONLY
Cut Prices to the Trade. No Travellers Employed.
NO CREDIT. NO RISK. RESULT : BOTTOM PRICES.
Cherrywood Pipes. Briar Pipes. Silver-Mounted Pipes.
Cherrywood Pipes. Briar Pipes. Silver-Mounted Pipes.
Cherrywood Pipes. Briar Pipes. Silver-Mounted Pipes.
THE TRADE are advised of Large Shipments of the above, which are JUST OPENED. The
same being quoted at UNHEARD-OF PRICES, and would recommend Tobacconists and
Storekeepers in the Country to send for Sample Orders. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
CI6RRS.
Special Value to the Trade.
CK3RRS.
La Parold, box of 100 10s Od
High Life, box of 100 13s Od
No. 1 MANILA, box of 100 11s 9d
No. 1 MANILA Heavy Weight, box 100 13s 9d
FLOR-DE-SANTIAGiO, box of 100 ... 15s Od
NIMROD, box of 100 13s Od
TRABACO, packets of B—per 100 ... 8s Od
LA HOFA MEXICAN, box of 100 ... 20s Od
LA HIJA DE CUBA, box of 100 ... 20s Od
MADONNA ROTHSCHILDS, 25 in
box—per 100
24s Od
FLOR-DE-HENRY NEVARRE, Heavy-Weights, Havana, box of 100 33s 0d
Bouquet „ „ .* 33s Od
EL MUNDO, Heavy-Weights, box of 100 24s Od
FLOR-DE-TORELLA, box of 25—per 100 33 s oj
The Trade Supplied Cheaper and Better than any other Wholesale
Establishment in the Colony.
PURCHASE your Goods direct from our Warehouse, and save TRAVELLERS’EXPENSES
being added to the prices of your Merchandise. ALL LETTERS ADDRESS to
Simmons,
Tobacco Merchant
. . . and Importer,
Haymarlset, Sydney.
Tales of the Convict System.
Price la*; per Post la. 3d.
The Miseries of
DYSPEPSIA
EFFECTUALLY ERADICATED
The Case of
Mrs. CLARKE,
(From the "Nepean Times,” N.S.W.)
(by our special reporter.)
Directions were given to our reporter to
look up Mrs. Clarke, of Woodroffe Street,
Penrith. On calling the pressman received
a cordial reception, and, on inquiring about
her illness, Mrs. Clarke said :
“I first guessed there was something the
matter win n I found that I couldn’t do my
ordinary work.
I felt Restless
and relaxed, and if I wanted to go out any-
where I felt so tired by the time that I had
finished dressing that I often changed my
mind and took my things off again. Then
I began to notice a twitching, pricking pain
between the shoulders, which got worse and
Wui'se. At night it gave me the most
distress, then the anguish of it was so great
that night after night I was
Not able to Lie Down,
but sat up in bed, as it was easier to bear
the pain in that position ; and, as for sleep,
why, I hardly ever got an hour’s rest from
evening to morning.”
“ r-’o bad as that ? ”
“ Yes, and all this time I had a heavy
sick headache that never ceased, and my
food disagreed with me every time I took
it. After eating I felt great oppression on
my chest, and i would have given the world
to have thrown it up again. But there it
stuck, cold and undigested, till it turned
sour and brought on windy spasms. There
was always a nauseous taste in my
mouth which nothing could remove. It is
no wonder that I was
So Thin and Weak,
and of a pallid, unwholesome colour.
People used to say that I looked
more like a walking ghost than a
human being, but I looked no worse
than I felt. I had to give up trying to
work; it was no use, I couldn’t do it.
Tortured with unceasing headaches, and
harassed by
The Never-ending Pains
in my back, life seemed not worth the
living, and everything was a misery. Meal
times, which, to those who are in health, is
a time of cheerful gathering, only wearied
me, for I had no appetite, and only ate when
I was actually obliged to.”
“Things couldn’t last long like that,”
Said our reporter.
“ You’re mistaken; a woman takes a lot
of killing, for, on and off, I was
ill for Three Years,
and always getting worse.”
“Surely the doctors could relieve you?”
“ Nothing of the sort; the doctors could
do nothing for me. Their physic quite
f ailed in its object. I can’t stop to tell you now
how many different pills and other things
I took trying to get relief. If they were all
put together I believe the bottles of
medicine and boxes of pills I took would
have filled buckets. Every penny of the
money I paid for these things
Was Utterly Wasted,
and I can hardly understand how my poor
body stood it all. It was quite plain that
none of these remedies bit off my disease,
so I ceased taking medicine altogether; but
I grew no better. A sluggish torpor lay
heavily on me all day, my eyes were di
and swollen, and yet I was not able m
sleep, and at night I never could find to
easy position in which I could get a fevi
hours’ rest, which I needed so badly, so
exceedingly acute were the
Tortures which Affected Me.
I grew very dejected. A great weight
of despair hung over me like a cloak. The
conversation of my husband and children
was not able to arouse or interest me.
Lower and lower I sank, and got weaker
and weaker, till very often I thought that
my spatk of life was going out, and that I
was about to die. Medicine had seemed
useless, and I could not see a gleam of hope
anywhere, and yet, at last, I found a remedy
That Defeated the Disea®'-
which had hold of me.”
“Yes, what?”
“ Clements Tonic. I was repeatedly
advised to take it, but I put it down as
being about as much use as the other things
which I had swallowed. But I was quite
out of my reckoning, for, when I did give
in and commenced to take it,
An Immense Difference
was easily seen in my general health after
only one large bottle. The dull appearance
about the eyes gave place to a brighter and
healthier look. I soon took a pleasure in
reading and the company of friends, who
complimented me upon
My Marked Improvement.
I obtained four more bottles of Clements
Tonic. It brought my strength back
splendidly, and my headache and the pains
in my back gave me less trouble and pain
after every dose. I felt quite sprightly and
lively in the daytime, instead of heavy and
stupid as I used to do, and at night, not
feeling any pain to speak of, long sleep
began to be a regular thing. No day passed
but what I was a step further towards my
usual vigorous health. Once I sent my
food away, but now I called for more, and
it did me good, digested easily, and I began
to fill out all over. I avoided any chance
of a relapse by sticking to Clements Tonic
even after I thought I was convalescent.
All traces of
Pain and Disease were
Dissipated,
and I was robust and vigorous again, thanks
to that fine remedy, Clements Tonic, and I
need hardly tell you I’m never now without
a bottle in the house. It cured me. You see
I am in perfect health now; I hope I ever
shall be. No one knows
The Misery and Despair
of one in ill health except those who suffer
it. lam glad to give the credit to Clements
Tonic. It did worlds for me, and I don’t care
who knows it, for you or Clements Tonic
people can publish what I’ve said in any
way you like.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Fanny Clarkk, of Commercial Street, Pen-
rith, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of eight
folios and consecutively numbered from one to eight,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish the
same m any way; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an
Act made and passed in the ninth year of the
reign other present Majesty, intituled “An Act for
the more effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations
taken and made in the various Departments of the
Government of New South Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof and for the suppression
of voluntary and extra judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
wn/w/L
Declared at Penrith this 9th day of August, one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-eight, before me,
ALFRED COLLESS, J.P.
3XTO POISON
nor any deleterious substance enters into the composition oi Clements Tonic. We
make no use in our process of arsenic, strychnia, kola nut, or any such
dangerous or useless drugs. Why should we? We don’t want to kill our patients —dead men
pay no bills. We want (o cure them, then they come again, and send their friends,
and recommend our remedy whenever occasion arises. That is where we benefit
by supplying a genuine article.
Arsenic is one of the most dangerous poisons that could be used; its quick action on
the human system shows that; but its regular use is bound to result in absorption of the
glands, and wasting away and final destruction of the nerve tissue.
Strychnia has a dangerous, stimulating effect on the cerebral tissue, is cumula-
tive in action, and constant use is bound to result in paralysis of the base of the brain,
insanity and madness.
Kola nut has no merit whatever to recommend it. Its sote claim. to
recognition as a medicine is due to the small percentage of caffeine it contains,
and it is a very small percentage—only 2to 2'5 per cent. —whereas ordinary tea which
you buy at the grocer’s contains double the quantity, and the best brands of tea contain
up to 6 per cent., so there is more of the active alkaloid of kola in a cup of tea than
in two cups of kola decoction and no dangerous or poisonous ingredients
Clements Tonic is no such catchpenny dodge; it is a process, not a mixture ; has
met with universal praise, and we will send hundreds of local proofs of its merit to any-
one who wishes them.
F. M. Curiwfiv
•JLSSIHM.
aSHIVSH 3IIHM
JOJ 3ISV


FEDERAL PALACE HOTEL,
COLLINS STREET WEST,
MELBOURNE.
(Situate Close to Stations , Steamers, and Centre of City).
This magnificent Hotel is replete with, every modern convenience. It offers
a greater variety of accommodation than any hotel in the woild.
CATERING.
PUBLIC DINING HALL (on Ground Floor). —MEALS SERVED a la Carte, from Is.
FAMILY DINING HALL (on First Floor).— TABLE D’HOTE, BREAKFAST, LURCH
or DINNER, 2s. 6d. (open to non-residents).
f!AFT? (on Ground Floor). —OPEN ALL HOURS, DAY AND NIGHT.
ACCOMMODATION.
BOOMS ONLY can to BOOKED at from 2s. to ss. per day for Single, and 4s. to 10s. for
Double—according to floor. MEALS as required.
BOARDERS (inclusive of Three Meals per Day, Attendance, Hot or Cold Baths, Storage of
Luggage, &c.) —From 255. to £3 3s. per Week, according to accommodation selected.
Electric Light in every Loom.
Waltham
m
American Ujaltham jjjatch Comp, matches
Are the most Perfect Timekeepers it is possible to make. To increase the
Sale of WALTHAM WATCHES, and also give the Australian people
at the same time a PERFECT WATCH for the same money they have been
paving for a poor make, we have decided to sell to the Australian Public
DIRECT AT OUR WHOLESALE PRICES!
We send Goods Post-paid to any Colony on receipt of
Money Order or Draft.
14c Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 5 years £2 7
14c’ Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar.lo years 3 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, syr. guarantee .. . . .. 0 8
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 15 years 315
Gold-Plated Watches (Ladies’ or Gents’, with the “ America” movement 1 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, lOyr. guarantee 0 15
14c. Gold Filled Double Albert, syr. guarantee 0 8
When ordering Watches, please mention if Plain or Fancy Case is wanted.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH DEPOT,
Imperial Arcade, Sydney .
J. Landes, Manager.
I
e/2
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
"\A7HY are the Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
VV LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge—2o years’ experience of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by quacks, and are nothing but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says : —“ Everywhere I .^° T } . e^ r
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair.
Another gentleman says : —“ By a mere chance I have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
mm*
'ic
t
52
was quite bald on top of head, and, to my knowledge, tried
ago he informed me he was intending to give your Restorer a trial. Of couise I laughed, finding mv hid omn
give me. I did not see my friend again until a few days ago and, if you U® m y surpr.Seon finding my
rade, not with a bald head, but with a full, thick head of hair. -P. J. CC^NORSEsq,^
PRICE, per Bottle, 35., 45., 55., 10s. 6d, 12s. 6d. Ninepence (small) and Is. extra for postage. Sold by all Chemist.
E. HOLLAND,
BAIR SPECIALIST,
193 Collins-st., Melb., VICTORIA.
On the Track.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They met on the Darling. One was a raw new-
chuiri, smoking a silver-mounted pipe. The
steamer “ Rob Roy ” had landed him at Wilcahina
the day before. He was going west. The other
was an old stager, who had spent his five-and-
thirty years in the backblocks. His back was
turned to the western heat, the western dust-
storms, and the western flies. Old and grizzly,
leg-weary, careworn and gray, he was “ going
in.’’
The new-ehum put down his swag very care-
fully. He was fond of it, as they all are in the
honeymoon stage of “ the wallaby.” Recognising
a brother in misfortune, he held out his hand
with effusive greetings. The old stager said
nothing, just stared. It was a treat to see him
stare. Down went his swag like a ton of bricks,
and down he flopped on top of it. Damn me,
he said, “ but you’re the greatest chump I’ve run
agin since old Brickfielder died. How long ’ave
yer been at this, in the name o God ?
“ Only to day.”
“ To-day? Phugh ! I sed that meself 35 year
ago. That’s a tidy while afore you left the dock,
yard. An’ this is the game that’ll make yer curse
the day yer ever did leave it. An’ fore you go
any further, lemme give yer some advice. Yer
not above talcin’ advice ? ”
“By no means. I’d be obliged, sir.”
“ gj r ! I’m old Bill Tarkalson. I
aint one o’ them coves as hankers after ‘ sirs ’ an’
‘ beg yer pardons,’ an’ that sort o’ tommyrot.
Now, listen to me. In the first place, never ’old
out yer ’and to a man without a bit o’ baccy or a
bob in it. Where’s the good o’ offerin’ him a
empty ’and ? Many a cove would ’a’ knocked yer
sprawlin’ for that. It’s like rubbin’ it in when he’s
down. Don’t make that mistake ag’in. By-an’-
by you’ll want some baccy. Now, the golden rule
on the track’s this : Never cadge off a footman,
or the one-horse bloke. The cove wot has two
nags is good game. So’s drovers an’ carriers, an’
anyone that’s in a billet. Go for them—all of ’em,
an’ partic’ly the cove at the store. Nail him
Don’t wait till yer want a smoke. Cadge every
chance yer see till yer get a supply in. Gorra
match on yer? When yer can’t carry no more
baccy, cadge matches. Gorstruth, safeties !
“In a day or two yer’ll want rations. Do a
sneak, see, and land yerself in the kitchen. Soon’s
the cook twigs yer, if it’s a shemale, stop short an’
gasp. Always put the gasp in. Then start givin’
*er taffy as if yer couldn’t help it, an’ with all the
big vvords ye can manage. She’ll want to know
then what you want. Ask her for anything in the
tucker line—you’ll get it! Then yer want to go
to the boss with yer bags—big ’uns. No use
thinkin’ yer’ll get ’em filled if they’re small ones.
Yer won’t. He’s nearly sure to be into his last
’alf bag o’flour. Never mind that. ’Alf bag’s
more’n you want. Never mind if he scratches his
’ead and performs. You just hold fast, an’ he’ll
shell out.
“ Have to change the style o’ yer clo’es though.
Gorany with patches on ? Then keep an eye
about yer and cop the first bit o’ stuff yer see an’
patch yer oldest pair o’ pants with it. No holes
in’em? What’s that matter? The patches will
cover the places where the holes ought to be.
Them’ll be yer ration-pants. You only want two
more pair—track pants and Sunday pants. Sun-
day’s the day yer in a town. Doesn’t signify
what the day really is. If it’s not Sunday, it’s
Sunday-pants day anyway.
“Lemme see, now. You’ve got baccy and
matches and tucker and rations. Well, now,
young fellow, you want a job. Reach us that
fire-stick, will yer ? Yer a d poor hand at
makin’ a fire, I can tell yer that much. Shove
that billy in a bit. Some ask for ‘ yacker,’ some’s
lookin’ for ‘graft,’ and some’s ‘after a job.’ One
cove wants something to do ; another cove wants
to know if anything is doin’. The men that asks
for ‘ employment ’is laughed at. He should say,
‘ Ken yer give us a job, sir ? ’ or ‘ Eny chance of a
billet, sir?’ Don’t forget the sir, whatever you
do. Be a little awed in the boss’s presence. That
flatters his vanity. If yer can’t feel awed, look it.
By’n’by you’ll feel it, in spite of yerself, and sink
to the level of the rank-and-file. They all do.
Yer want to cringe and crawl, beg and
smooge, else yer’ll get no job. Study slang
for all you’re worth, an’ be careful not to
use genteel talk. Don’t betray yer edgecation—
if yer gorany. Bosses don’t like edgecated
servants. Inconvenient to ’ave a man about them
who knows more’n they do. Jerk us off a hunk
o’ that there brownie o’ your’n. Looks better’n
mine. Woman-made ? Ah, thought so. Lor’
bless her doughy fivers !
“ Sometimes yer’ll meet a gentleman. Yer’ll
know him the moment he speaks. Gen’ally the
other doesn’t speak. He merely looks important
at yer, and waits for you to speak. Then he
grunts. Don’t cringe to a gentleman or your
cake’ll be dough. Be ’onest an’ ’upright, be polite
but independent like, forget yer’ve rubbed
shoulders with the toe-rags. Damn you, be a
man 1 ”
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
The Tohunga and the Taniwha.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hone Tui was small, wizened, and hunchbacked,
but, for all that, a tohunga of the first magnitude.
Like all tohunga, white or black, red or brown,
Hone lived by his people’s dread of the super-
natural, and his biggest stock-in-trade was the
local taniwha.
Miromiro was, of all Maori maids, the sweetest
and most beautiful. She was the pride of her
blood-thirsty father, the chief of Onatea, and the
despair of all men for miles around.
Harrington represented the commercial enter-
prise of that age—a typical trader, who sailed a
small schooner chartered in Sydney.
The taniwha was a terrible creature that
haunted the estuary of Onatea. He was the recog-
nised local demon, and possessed a vested interest
in the place, over which he had received sovereign
rights from the powers of darkness. His mana
extended along the coast and a great way inland.
Within the memory of living man, he had
accounted for the deaths of at least six persons,
and was, consequently, reputed to delight in
slaughter. His usual haunt was the river’s mouth,
where he swam and sported ill the form of a fish-
like monster, or, with his head just above the
water, he would lie on a sandbank, waiting to
catch any canoe that might pass over the shallows.
Also, he had the power of changing his shape, and,
in the form of a huge pig or of a gigantic dog,
would seize his victims on shore. Altogether he
was a devil of a beast —or a beast of a devil!
But all the diabolism in Maoriland couldn’t rob
Onatea of its romance, dr abolish its feasts and
powhiri, its courtships and marriages. In spite of
the taniwha, Hone Tui contrived to fall in love
with Miromiro, and, though the taniwha, out in
the tideway, might roar all night, Miromiro, with
her luxuriant hair and reddest of lips, remained
the most luscious of maidens.
Hone Tui had demanded her in return for
occult services rendered, and her father decided
that she should marry the hunchback tohunga,
from whom he had derived the greatest good for-
tune —Hone’s spells were of wonderful efficacy,
and his incantations were as far-famed as the
taniwha.
* * • *
In the tideway, a stone’s-throw from the beach,
upon which were drawn the canoes of Onatea,
Harrington’s schooner Jay at anchor. Her skipper
paced the soft sand with Miromiro, half-a-mile
from the kainga. He held her hand,.and Miro-
miro was crying—she had just told him of her
impending fate. The feast was ready ; the , n . ew
house was built for her ; that night she would be-
come the wife of the tohunga, and ever afterwards
cook his kumera. .
Harrington was exasperated. He had tried to
get the girl himself, and, to that end, made large
presents to the chief —a tupara (double-barrelled
gun) for the great man himself, a dozen muskets
for his men, and ammunition in abundance and
he had been supplanted by a miserably deformed
tohunga. But that is the way with parsons all
the world over—they get the pick of the women.
And Miromiro, besides being fond of the pakelia,
heartily loathed the tohunga. Marrying Hone
Tui was next thing to marrying the taniwha him-
self. , , .. ...
They sat down on the sand for a time, and dis-
consolately watched the incoming tide. J-hmi
Harrington got up. “ Come, Miro,. he said,
“ let’s walk on.” The girl rose submissively; put
her hand in his again, and walked along by his
side ; but they had not gone far when, suddenly,
Miromiro screamed, and stood still. ‘ Stop, she
cried, “ don’t go any further ! ”
“ What’s the matter, child ? ” said Harrington,
firmly holding the girl, as she struggled frantically
to run away. “ Frightened I shall hurt you, and
spoil the tohunga’s wedding ? ” .
“Look! Look!!” she cried, pointing far
ahead, where something lay like a log, half in the
water, half on land. “The taniwha!!! Come
back, Haritone.”
“ Why, Miro, that’s only a log washed up by
the tide.” , , .
“ No, no, it’s the taniwha! We must go back,
or we’ll be eaten alive.”
“What rot!” said Harrington. But he went
back all the same. And, as they returned, he
questioned Miromiro about this wonderful tani-
wha, and she told him everything. ,
“ I see,” said Harrington, when the girl had
finished. “Comes ashore sometimes, does he?
What if he came to-night, Miro, and seized you
in vour hut ? That would be an eye-opener for
the tohunga.” And he laughed.
He had spoken in English, and Miromiro mar-
velled at his merriment. Harrington next asked
for all the details of the coming wedding, and the
girl told him all that would occur in the kainga
till the time that Hone Tui should enter her hut.
They were now opposite the schooner, lhe
time had come for them to part. “ Well, good-
•bye, Miromiro,” said the pakeha. ‘ I shall be
sailing by the morning tide, and may not see you
°Harrington kissed the girl, and with an effort
she tore herself from him, and went weeping
towards the village. Harrington whistled for a
boat from the schooner.
The night was moonless but starlit. The kainga
Was hushed and still. Nothing could be heard
but the voice of Horle Tui, as he stood in the
middle of the village repeating incantations-all
the kain'ja knew he was working up the strongest
spells agfiinst all -imaginable' sorts' of taipo
that might assail his married life ; mis-
chievous taipo , that might undermine his hap-,
piness and filch away his mana. At length the
chief, who stood by the tohunga’s side, became
impatient, and said, “ Make a finish to these
karakai, Hone. The girl is expecting you. Do
you not see she has kept a light burning for you
all this while? You should not keep her waiting
so king.” „
“ Only two things now remain for me to do,
answered Hone. “ hirst, X must lay the taipo of
Te Kanawa ...”
“ Ay,” said the chief, “ Kanawa is very jealous
of your mana as a tohunga, Say the karakai to
defeat Kanawa.”
“ And then I must break the power of the
taniwha said Hone. “To do that, I must walk
three times round the kainga, repeating the special
karakai I have made for the occasion. Then I
shall go to my wife.” .
For a few minutes he stood, repeating the in-
cantations that were to confound his rival in
sorcery, and then he set off to charm the village
against the power of the taniwha.
The chief stood where he was. He would wait
till the rites were finished and he had seen Hone
Tui enter Miromiro’s hut —he could then sleep
contented. He heard the tohunga’s voice rising
and falling, as the decrepit old sorcerer paced
around the village. Hone had completed the cir-
cuit twice, when suddenly his incantation ceased.
A monstrous black form was moving towards the
kainga. The chief saw it. The tohunga saw it,
and had stopped his karakai in horror and amaze-
ment. He jran into the village, and screened him-
self behind the chief. .
“It is the taniwha!l” he cried. ‘ He has
heard my karakai and has come to stop me before
they are finished. Urrrrgh!” _
“Your karakai are strong,” said the chief.
“ Say the proper one to stop him coming into the
kainga His faith in the tohunga’s magic was
firm.
Hone could not own that he was unequal to the
occasion. He prayed vociferously and with all
his might. But the taniwha advanced, unimpeded.
The two men hid themselves under the lee of a
hut, and Hone Tui fired off another incantation.
But still the taniwha approached—a monstrous
beast, with an enormous head and many legs, which
moved slowly but surely onwards.
Hone Tui fell flat on his face and grovelled
abjectly in the dirt, and the chief was paralysed
with fear. But the taniwha took no notice of
them. It paused a moment, then cumbersomely
turned itself round, and made for the hut where
the light was burning—Miromiro’s hut—burst in
the door and thrust half its body inside. Miro-
miro screamed franctically, and the. light went
out. Then the taniwha emerged with the poor
girl between its jaws, and lumbered awkwardly
down to the beach.
The tohunga’s wedding was “ off.”
• « • •
Next day on board Harrington’s schooner, as
she bowled along before a stiff breeze, Miromiro
sat with her back against the bulwarks basking in
the sun, whilst Harrington stood at the helm and
laughed with her. The vast tarpaulin hide of the
taniwha lay blistering on the deck. Miromiro
kicked it with her bare foot, and said, “Ha!
good old taniwha ; he saved me from thetohunga!”
And the taniwha’s “legs” stood forrard and
grinned broad nautical grins.
M.L.
ALFRED A. GRACE.


Millions Use Bile Beans
“I Suffered for Many Years.”
DYSPEPSIA AND CONSTIPATION CURED.
An interesting story is told by Mr. William Attwood, of
Rose-street, Glebe, Newcastle, who recounts his experience
as follows :—“ I suffered for many years from dyspepsia and
constipation of the severest description, and I could get no
relief until I chanced to come across Bile Beans for Bilious-
ness. I was troubled greatly with a feeling of fullness after
eating, no matter how little I might eat. Then between my
shoulders I had a terrific pain. I had an almost continual
pain across the bowels; so bad at times was this
that I could not bend to pull on my boots. Want
of breath was a serious trouble at all times. Some
people thought I had asthma. Then I was a martyr
to constipation. At work or off work I always had the
same languid feeling, with the pains either in my back or
across the bottom of my stomach. I saw several doctors ;
one said I had ‘ water-brush,’ and others put it all
down to dyspepsia and indigestion, and spoke about
asthma. They gave me plenty of medicine, but I never felt
any real practical benefit from anything till I tried the Bile
Beans. I read of them in the paper; and a neighbor gave
me two of the Beans to try. I felt some improvement from
these, and then I put myself under a course. I used them
for a number of weeks, and now I feel as lively as ever I
did, and can get about my work with comfort. The pains
and aches I never feel now, and my brain is clear and my
eyesight practically as good as ever it was. No tongue can
tell,” went on Mr. Atwood, “how grateful I feel to the
makers of these Beans.”
COSTIVENESS.
The most effectual way of overcoming a costive habit is
to take at bed-time half to three Bile Beans fob Bilious-
ness, or enough to operate once, and not more than twice,
the next morning. Pursue this course for eight or ten days,
and then omit taking the Beans for a single night, but,
nevertheless, the next morning make an effort to be regular.
If successful, so again the next morning, and ever after
regularly at the same time of day. It must not be put off
for a single moment beyond the usual time, as the old habit
will return again. If no satisfactory results follow, neither
the first or second morning after omitting the Beans, then
return to the use of them again for two or three days, and
then omit again as before, until regular daily habits
are established.
Yours for the Asking.
A beautiful two shilling piece of music, entitled the
“ Bile Bean March,” together with a cookbook and
pamphlet of popular superstitions, will be sent free on re-
ceipt of your name and address and a penny stamp to pay
postage. The only condition is that you mention this paper
when writing. The march is an excellent piece of music
that has been very popular in America. Both books are
ANNUALLY.
-7
7
ft
a
7
/
A
AsS:
V”-3 Ui r' 4 '-* !
.-■=
-' '■**>*■* 5>
qub
&
also well worth having. Remember, however, that you
must mention this paper when writing. Address the Bile
Bean Manufacturing Company, 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sick Headache.
Sick Headache is usually one of the symptoms of bilious-
ness, constipation, or other derangements of the digestive
organs. It is accompanied by nausea, from which it derives
its name, and is generally more violent in the front part of
the head. The appetite is impaired, and there is a bad
taste in the mouth. There is a general want of energy, and
the sufferer is irritable and restless. These headaches are
caused by gases arising from the digestive organs to the
head, crowding the nerves of the brain, and causing at
times sharp pains behind the eyeballs. Bile Beans fok
Biliousness will be found an excellent remedy, as they put
the digestive organs in good working order, enabling them
to carry off the waste matter of the body.
-4
The Most Valuable Discovery
of the Age.
Millions of people use Bile Beans annually. Now,
there must be some good reason for this, and one has not far
to look for that reason. Unequalled excellence is the secret.
Great strides have been made during the last century in all
branches of science. Especially is this true of medical
science. Bile Beans for Biliousness are the direct result of
deep and lengthy research on the part of an American
man. Their chief ingredient is a vegetable substance which,
when properly compounded, has identically the same effect
on the digestive organism as the bile of mother Nature
With this specific within easy reach of all, the old methods
of starving and purging, and the use of pepsin and bismuth,
sink into utter insignificance. Being a purely vegetable
preparation, the action can in no wav be harmful to the
system. Here they differ materially from the great bulk of
laxative, remedies sold to-day. This remedy acts on the
bowels in a gentle, natural way, and the patient is not
weakened in any manner by the process. The enormous
success of this preparation the world over is the best
possible proof of its great worth. Millions use Bile Beans
annually, and the reason for this is to be found in the abso-
lute genuineness of a specific so aptly termed “ A Medicine
for the People at a Popular Price.” Bile Beans are not a
cure-all, but they are an undoubted specific for Biliousness,
Influenza, Sick and Nervous Headache, Indigestion Con-
stipation, Piles, Female Weakness, Pale-faced ’Girls
Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples, Blotches, Dizziness’
all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dyspepsia, Heart Palpita-
tion, Pain in Back and Side, Fulness after Eating, Lack of
Physical Tone, Heartburn, and that Tired Feeling. They
are manufactured in one of the best-fitted and equipped
laboratories in the world, at Detroit, Michigan, U.S. A., and
they have been used throughout that countrv by the’best
physicians for years. Australian Dep6t, 39 Pitt-street
Sydney ; Victorian Agents, Roeke, Tompsitt, and Co ’
Fhnders-street, Melbourne; S.A. Agents, F. H. Faulding
and Co., King William-st., Adelaide; W.A. Agents F H
Faulding and Co., Perth ; Queensland Agents, S. Hoffnung
and Co., Brisbane. 8
Health and Vigor Restored.
Vitality and Energy Renewed.
The Man of Waukaroo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Well, we’ll put the blessed peg in, and we'll start
out on the road,
For we’ve torn our two-years’ cheques up, and
we’ve got a liver’s load,
An’ we wakened up this mornin’ with a big an’
achin’ ’ead,
For the whisky won the wrastle, an’ we wish that
we was dead.
But we 11 never whip the cat—it was worth the lot
that night
When Sands of Blazin’ Glory fought the man from
Sandy Blight.
We’ll never whip the cat, old mate—we’re one,
are me an’ you—
And we’ll dare the flies and pad it on the road to
Waukaroo.
Out to good old Waukaroo,
Where we’ll find a mate that’s true.
It ain’t a silver city, it’s a busted tinfield town,
But he lifts the man that’s down
In that busted, blackjack town—
There’s a weloome at the end of all the roads to
Waukaroo.
An’ you go up to him shy-like, for. you owe three
quid for grub,
An’ you’ve strapped the blessed township from
the bakehouse to the pub.,
An’ damn the word he says when you come
crawlin’ back to him ;
Oli, he’s got a baby’s bowels, though his eyes are
old and dim.
An’ he don’t kick up a shindy when you elsewhere
blewed your stuff—
Though he keeps a blessed shanty, an’ ’e’s with a
crowd that’s rough—
But he lets yer start to owe ’im when ’e sees yer
want a few,
Though yer did yer greed in otherwise than out at
Waukaroo.
An’ it ain’t because that ’e’s the man to stand a
boozer’s bounce
That he gives us rum an’ grub on strap, an’ whis-
key by the ounce;
No, ’e loves us, that is why he stalls the jim-jams
from us two
By a tot av rum in season from the man of Wau-
karoo.
Why, Big Tassy held the shanty with a neddy
and a knife,
An’, when Matey got at ’im, Big Tassy pleaded
for his life !
Which, uv course, ’e got—but damaged from a
beauty point of view—
For ’is ugly jaw was broken by the Man of
Waukaroo !
For here or there it’s few
That can hit like Waukaroo—
Oh ! ’is arm’s a blessed bunch of beaks—’is fist’s a
steel-bound law !
An* there ain’t a fault or flaw
In a judgment on the jaw
That’s delivered at the end of all the roads to
Waukaroo !
We ain’t much chance ter serve him—we will
never own a pub.
Where we’ll fill him now and ever with our
whisky and our grub;
We mine the ore, and coin it, and the bits go in a
spree,
And we’ll never keep a thickun till our blessed
souls are free.
But when within the Final Stope we’re breaking
diorite,
With the Man of Blazing Glory an’ the Man of
Sandy Blight,
An’ a cockeyed-devil shift-boss says, “My thirsty
mates, a brew ? ”
We’ll remark together, “ Give it to the Man of
Waukaroo !
For on earth or here there’s few
Mr. Nick, like Waukaroo;
He’s saved our lives a many a time—he’s a mate
that’s staunch and true ;
He’s too good for me an’ you—
And the proper thing to do,
Mr. Nick, ’s to send him Heavenwards—he had
hell at Waukaroo.”
Q.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Tranfc Chambers mentions, in his Wes-
tralian “ Land of Promise,” that the biggest price
known to have been paid for a pearl from the nor’-
west fisheries is .£l5OO. But this, according to
the best accounts, was not the price Streeter first
sold the gem for. It was originally disposed of
for .£9OO (£2O a grain), but was afterwards bought
back by Streeter himself, who wanted it for a
special purpose, for the figure Chambers mentions.
The ’Murkan who now owns it no doubt paid still
more.
The cabled statement that Louis de Rouge-
mont—whoever he may really be—has furnished
particulars of an alleged meeting with Alfred
Gibson, Giles’ fellow-traveller in the Australian
desert, should increase the feeling of doubt as to
Rougemont’s bona-fides. Giles’ expedition con-
sisted of W. H. Tietkins, Alfred Gibson, James
Andrews and Giles himself. They left the tele-
graph line in Aug. 73, and six months later, when
Giles and Gibson were 90 miles from water and in
one of the arid wastes of Australia, Gibson’s horse
gave out. Giles remained while Gibson pushed on
to the main camp on the other horse for water r
presently Giles followed and, after a terrible
journey, managed to reach camp at Port McKellar
only to find that Gibson had not arrived. All
attempts to discover any trace of Gibson were
useless, and his death remains a mystery. Rouge-
mont now announces, however, that Gibson died
amongst a tribe of North Australian blacks, but
how he managed to cross the impassable desert
intervening will take a lot of explanation. Giles,
in his journal, surmised that Gibson had mistaken
certain dry ridges for the Rawlinson Range, which
he should have made for. The possibility of
Gibson’s survival never entered Giles’ mind, con-
sidering that the mare he rode was nearly dead-
beat before he started.
“ Creeve Roe ” (“ 8.,” 3/9/’9B) : “ Woman
is to man the most interesting fact of existence.”
Smollett: “ Facts are stubborn things.”
The surgical treatment proposed by Bailes,
member for Bendigo (Vic.), for certain sexual
offences, is commonly thought to have been an
Oriental punishment only. But a search through
history shows that it was quite in vogue in England
during the good old times. For instance, it is found
in the laws of King Alfred, and in the alleged
“ laws of William the Conqueror ” allusion is
made to it in the last section.
Just a 3 a gentle reminder. Hordern Brothers
are more up-to-date this Springtime than ever. The
choice ranges of the newest designs in gent.’s wear on
hand. The colorings in ties are specially admired, and
the collection is extremely large. We have paid particu-
lar attention in ordering our Tennis and Fashion Shirts,
and in these lines the most fastidious can be pleased!
Our gent.’s underwear and hosiery are reallv first-class.
Silk Mixtures, Summer Gauze light weights in great
variety. The prices speak for themselves. N.B.—Be
prepared for the Fly Pest this Summer, and secure for Is.
a pure silk fly veil. 203,205,207,209,211 Pitt-st. Svdney *
“Aggie.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Aggie came to us vice her eldest sister, “ Emmer ”
Rose, invalided. There are altogether eleven
Rosebuds, and, with the exception of “me
brother,” who lives in Sydney and owns a racing
pony, the whole family slam our back-gate and
tramp down the right-of-way in continual and
profitable visits to the kitchen, bewildering me by
exhibiting themselves as caricatures of all my
juvenile relatives, whose hand-me-downs clothe
the children. The Rosebuds are sturdy and
healthy, with ever-clamorous appetites. Some-
times I think that Mrs. Rose has done her duty
nobly by her adopted country, and sometimes I—
don’t.
Aggie is of nondescript age, “standing with
reluctant feet where the brook and river meet.”
Her feet are literally reluctant; she has an honest
and quite frankly expressed contempt for life.
She is so very tired that existence is too much of
a problem for her, and she would like to give it up.
“Do you think life’s worth living?” Aggie
asked abruptly, one day, when she was watching
our cook. In arguing, she employs the Socratic
method, and fires off her questions point-blank.
“Don’t you '/” I returned, fencing the question.
‘‘No. What’s the good of it ? Too much graft
for me. I’d as soon die as live, any day.”
“How was Emma last night?” (I am con-
scious of being weakly evasive.)
“ Better. Doc. says it’s eneemia. Father says
it’s graft that’s made her bad; but it’s not : it’s
dancing.. She goes to a black-dress-and-flower
party twice a week. I wish Em. was always ill
when father’s out of a job.”
“Why?”
“ ’Cos father’s always cross when he’s at home ;
but he’s all polish when Em.’s there. He thinks
the world of Em. Don’t you think Em’s awfully
stylish ? ” J
“Father” is an “art-decorator,” and perhaps
has an eye for the ornamental, though Emmer, in
a black flop hat with pink calico roses, sixpenny
diamond side-combs in her touzled locks, and dyed
rabbit edging her cape, might seem a trifle gaudy
even in a fond father’s eye. Aggie is a humble
understudy of her sister.
Mrs. James, green-groceress in a small way in
Main-street, is Aggie’s particular friend. After a
visit to Mrs. James one night, she knocked for
admission at the locked door at 11.30 p.m.
“ I’ve been with Mrs. James buying bananas
from the Chows in Little Bourke-street,” she ex-
plained. Aggie’s frank truthfulness would be a
luminously beautiful trait if it weren’t quite so
cynical. “ I said I’d ‘ rnally ’ the Chow if he took
tuppence a dozen off, and he did,” with a giggle
of reminiscence. (Mental note by me :to see
Mrs. Rose about putting a stop to the James
friendship).
Next day Aggie stopped me in the passage to
ask : “ Would you marry a Chow ? ”
“ Marry a Choivl Certainly not. No decent
girl,” &c., &c., &c.
“ Well, 1 would. Chows make jolly good hus-
bands. I’d as soon marry a Chow as a white man.
They keep yer in luxury and yer don’t have to
graft.”
The penalty of Adam weighs too heavily on
Aggie and hundreds like her. That is how the
Chinaman scores.
CLEO.
“Pick’s Ole Man.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dick explained his filial impiety to me as follows ,:
“Yersee, me an’ me brother Tom ’ad a con-
track ter cart the Queen Cumpney’s quartz to the
batt ry an’ empty the san’-pits. We wuz maltin’
good money, an’ we ’ad two orlrite teams. One
night we lost the run uv four uv the best ’orses we
ad obbles, bells, an’ all. My oath, they wuz
’orses—cost us over fifty quid in the yard ; an’ we
never seen them again frum that day to this,
altho’ we offered ten notes reward for ’em !
“Well, me an’ Tom wuz livin’ with the ole man
at this time, an’ uv course we tells ’im erbaht the
’orses bein’ shook. ’E reckoned it sarved us dam
well right fer not ’avin’ no proper brand uv our
own. Sez ’e : ‘ Yer fools, don’t ye see we otter ’av
our own brand, an’ then the ’orses wud be darnd-
easy tracked ef they wuz shook.’ So the ole man
selecks a brand, an’ regestiz it in ’is own name—
me an’ Tom not bein’ fly fur ’im, an’ not suspectin’
nothin’ cronk. Soon as ’e’d got the brand ’e gets
us ter sign a lawyer’s paper, givin’ ’im permission
ter brand our ’orses with it—becoz ’e reckoned
it wud be expensive ter get seprit brans.
’E dries our names, an’ puts the paper
away in ’is pocket. Then we goes out
an’ brans all our ’orses—saddle-’orses an’ all. Soon
as we’d finished that, the ole man sez. ‘Now,
boys, yer can just go and dance jigs to a inilestun’’
—them ’orses is mine now, yer can ’ave the use uv
’em ef yer tucker me an’ gimme a quid a week,
but ef I ketch yer tryin’ ter sell one uv ’em I’ll
gaol yer fur ’orsestealin’, shoorazelh’ Well, we
calls ’im all the names we cud think uv, but ’is
trubbles—’e only larfed. ’E went to Coolgardie
larst summer, an’ afore ’e went ’e offered ter sell
us our ’orses back fur ninety-five quid—damcheep
’e reckoned they wuz. We thought ’e wuz only
bluffin’ us, an’ told’im ter go ter ’ell. That narked
’im, an’ ’e puts the lot up fur auction an’ clears
out with all the stuff. ’E wrote to us the other
day arslcin’ us ter back ’im into a claim—reckoned
’e wuz goin’ter make our fortune—but we hain’t
takin’ no fortunes just now.”
K. C. WYE.


iPovee-fiy
Your Cue ia—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Aooommodatiou in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
WttSN YQV BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or EmtraoL
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRANP.
of all chemists.
N.s.w. AauNia : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd...
O’Oonnell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Go. Ltd., Hobart.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO J33ES3P , 'ST COMPBTITIOKT.
WINES The Beat Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
IRO-^ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
T ractio an,
PORTABLE,
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Lo como tives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
ll' AD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, Colonial Manageb.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
< the most deeicious sauce in the wored.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sola In Bottles, 6d., i'-, and 2/- eacb.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, &, CO, LEEOS, ENG
Sole Agents for New Soutb Wales:
TII,I 4 OCK & CO., KENT and UYERPOOI, SI'REETS, SYDNEY.
FOR
23 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING COUGH, CONSUMPTION, 1
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
fMnidtiei
UjQmgToruc
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
it is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Bold in bottle*, at I*. If d., 2s. 9(2., 4*. 6(2.,
and 11#., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MAN l FACTORING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
FANCY
often plays such pranks with some of us. There are excellent
people who fancy the earth is flat, and who decline to accept
evidence to the contrary. Others fancy they can run this
journal better than any able editor of ancient or modern times.
Some folks fancy they are so strong they can never fall ill.
Others fancy they are so ill they can never get well. The
latter class is, in large part, composed of sufferers from pro-
longed nervous dyspepsia, with all its insidious, ever-increasing
troubles. Such people are weighed down by a sense of hope-
lessness. They are the victims of lassitude and headache—
aye, and of heartache, too, for they can enjoy little, and envy
the buoyancy of their more robust fellows. In short, the v
endure a life of misery,
MEETING
with scant sympathy, because they are not actually laid on
their backs. To such we can offer the welcome assurance of
perfect restoration to health through the medium of
BEECHAM’S PILLS. In the treatment of those disorders
which involve any failure of nervous force, this medicine has,
during 50 years, built up for itself an unassailable reputation.
Nothing renews the power of the entire digestive apparatus
like BEECHAM’S PILLS. They cleanse the blood of long-
standing impurities, brace up the nervous system to a high
point of vigor, and effectually chase away every symptom of
weariness or depression. And since BEECHAM’S PILLS
have cured tens of thousands in this and every country of
the globe, just ask yourself why they should not equally
prove a boon to
YOU!
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Stop that Cougrli 1
Don’t Delay.
. . . TAKE . . .
Boamgton’s
IRISH ROSS
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty oi
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s. Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIE\ E and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels't<v Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. 3E303C.


' I NELARGE
n
ST
makers
flag
HIGH-CLASS
"l+e i
•3H8i~.8vi.83
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS Cd LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq’rt’rs, 163-169 William-st. Melb.
New Seuth Wales Address i
3S Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots ana Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue Tree. °n application;
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they m nj be 'unable
to procure, the paper, and naimng
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
WortbiQgtoi) P(ifi)pii)g Epgipc Corppaoy-
(Australasian Branch.) Simpson Krotliers. (Australasian Brcmch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR, PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
IftAOI MAIUU
Sydney, IN’.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria : WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINCrTON Pumps for all Services
Kept ixx Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- G- ZETjDIRTIDG-lE] &c GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK ST It K IS i\ SYI>IV IS Y
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
THi MOTT NUTRITIOUS.
EPP S p S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCO A
BREAKFAST SUPPER.
What is Health?
Sciatica,
Liimbaf/o, Jt*.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
J'AKKKIt, 145 Victoria Parade,
FITZROY, fiend for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
SW A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
I_| OL LOW AY’S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
8 There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., Loud >n. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
r
71
■
Permanent Cure.
OLEAC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
ECZEMA\
Jars (concentd.), 4/6, post 4/10
“OLEAC
Self Applied.
Sydney— M. H. Horwitz, 84 Pitt St.
Adelaide-Harris & Kemp, 6 Bundle St.
Melbodrye—Fred. J E, Phillips, 317 Cnllins St,
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
LUNCHEON, 13.30; DINNER, 6.30.
Superior Accommodation. Moderate Charges.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
■
LTD
9
■p* noovc! nf ie Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
xlllliuulS OI G f Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)—92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE -for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SH<
135 KING STREET is ONE
E BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
PATES ON, Manager.
hi
e«H
yH?
m.
*SSS
The Rogfer Rolls.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OP
MINING MACHINERY,
Steam Engines and Boilers.
(All Sizes in Stock.)
Patentees of —Ropp Straight-line Furnace, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mill, Frue Concentrator, “ James” Ore
Feeder, Roger Rolls, Dodge Roekbreakers, etc., etc.
Note.—We are now manufacturing in Sydney, for the Associated
Gold Mines of W.A. Ltd., four set< of 36x16 Roger Rolls, weighing
twelve tons each, the largest ever made in the colony.
s
» THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOYLE’S PRINTS*** FAST COLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day,
If our name is stamped on the piece we guarantee that the color will stand boiling. If you can show
any Goods bearing our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will get for
you from us the price of the material, and
WiS WILL PAY THE COST OF MAKING UP A NEW DRESS.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Hummer Days are coming—You will want a Washing Dress.
H. P. GREGORY
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY
CO.,
74
Clarence st.,
Sydney.
435
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
The Geo. W. Blake Manfg. Co.,
DIRECT ACTING STEAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
"W". F. <Ss Jolm Barnes 00.,
FOOT, HAND, AND STEAM POWER MACHINE TOOLS AND GENERAL MACHINERY
B. F. S'fctxx-fcovafc.ia.t; Co.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FORGES, etc.
Representative in Western Australia —J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO.,
„ New Zealand-J. BURNS & CO.,
Fremantle.
Auckland.
