

’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable,”
lancet.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
. DRYSDALE—
-56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briscoe & Co., Melbourne; Briscoe, Mac Neil & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe & Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, London.
BRISCOE
INSIDE BEARINGS.
Fitting No. 106 for Fast Wheels.
Axle part round and square
at ends, rivetted.
V.
A
% x 0 V
<RAc{aJocK>
° c j&~
jS? s
o
V
R. A. HERVEY, A (rent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°’Bs Pitt Street, SYDNEY
ARE SOLE
FOR
SAMUEL OSBORN & GO.. SHEFFIELD.
Makers of R. Mushet’s Special Self-Hardening 1 Tool Steel
Machine - Cut Files, Mining 1 Steel, Wheels, Rollers,
Sheaves, Spur Wheels, Pinions, Clutches, and other
Steel Castings.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
A.zxd see that you get it.
PROOF
«AfEY
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght. Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
PS
FR&QF
ONE*?
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CIGARETTES.
and Nobility.
A GREAT TRIUMPH . . .
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY I
A Most Marvellous Invention.
Tbe only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
E. J. & ID. CURRA.KT,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
■ ~ THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
the
Best.
is
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.YV. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWIGT& son, ltd.,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
162
Aus-
BRANOHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. A
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms. q p ietor .
Joshua Brothers’ Australian Brandy.
Boomerang Brand.
The Report of the British Commission to the Brussels Exhibition of 1897, which has
just been received, speaking of this product, says : —“ This Brandy was
judged by a jury of experts in French Brandies, and so WORTHY OF
COMMENDATION did they find it that they awarded it a GOLD MEDAL.
It cannot but be with the utmost satisfaction and congratulation that English-
men find that they have in their own colonies a product of this class ABLE
TO COMPETE FAVORABLY WITH THE OLD-ESTABLISHED
BRANDIES OF THE CHARENTE.”
In Cases, Casks, Flasks, and Half-Flasks.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO , Sole Agents for New South Wales
and Queensland.
Poverty Pointers
Your Oue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEI*
HOBART.
—mx
Hadley s Orient [jotel.
OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM,
Price Warung. Is. 3d.
THORNE’S WHISKY: A 1 LIQUEUR. THORNE’S WHISKY.
The Bulletin
Voi. 19.—N0. 957. j
fSaturday, June 18, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TDY appointment to his excellency the '
-D GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
PER R.M.S. ORUBA:
Boulnois’ Handbook tor Sanitary Engineers, ss; post
5s 6d. George’s Political Economy, 7s 6d ; post Bs. Tatar’s
Technical Mycology, 15s ; post 16s. Biedermann’s Electro
Physiology, Vol. 2,20 s; post 21s. Ginsbury’s Legal Duties
of Shipmasters, 4s 6d ; post ss. Pullun’s Early Chris-
tianity, 3s 6d ; post 4s. Hair’s Regent Square, 6s ; post
6s 6d. Advent Sermons on Church Reform, 4s 6d ; post ss.
Crockett’s Standard Bearer, 6s ; post 6s 6d. Low’s Reuben
Dean, 3s 6d ; post 4s. Mitford’s ’Tween Snow and Fire,
2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post 3s and 4s. Griffith’s Virgin of the
Sun, 2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post 3s and 4s. Scully’s Between
Sun and Land, 2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post 3s and 4s ; Spring-
field’s Gallery Girl, 2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post 3s and 4s. Scott’s
Lost Lemurian, 2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post 3s and 4s.
DEAD MEN’S TALES,
By Charles Junor,
A Story of the Australian Desert, etc.,
Picture Boards, 2s ; post 2s 4d.
To Arrive Shortly,
Cheap Edition of Lord Roberts's Book,
FORTY-ONE YEARS IN INDIA :
From Sulbatern to Commander-in Chief. By Field-Mar-
shal Lord Roberts of Kandahar.
The New Edition will contain, in readable type, the whole
of the Text and Appendices which are comprised in the
two-volume edition, and will likewise include all the maps
and illustrations. The volume, which extends to up-
wards of 600 pages, with a full index, will be handsomely
bound in scarlet cloth, and gilt-lettered on the back.
8s 6d ; POST 9s 6d.
ORDERS BEING REGISTERED. ■
GEORGE RO3ERTSON <& CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
, George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
for
Cameos
III)).
&
5S
CAMEO Cl curette
The flag under which reigns supreme —
PEACE! CONTENTMENT!
HAPPINESS!
THE RED PAGE.
One of the charming features of that admirable
English art magazine, The Studio, is its en-
couragement of amateur talent in competitions of
many kinds. The prize black-and-white work
by unknown names
is really excellent,
and makes one sigh
for the time when
similar results will
be reached—or even
striven for—in Aus-
tralia. Of course we
have no 40-million
population to work
upon, and must be
content to go slowly.
The annexed draw-
ing, which appeared
in a recent Studio, is
given as an example
of good decorative
work. As an illus-
tration it is inferior
to some others placed
lower in the same
competition. The
figure does not give a
sincere impression of
grief—Little 80-Peep
looks too posed and
modelish. But the
invention and draw-
ing are delightful—
and oneolings particu-
larly to that little
glimpse of sky above
the gully where the
sheep are ambling.
Following—excerpts
from an article in
London Academy by
Lionel Johnson, a
decent minor poet
and capable critic—
is something like what
should be said —it is
“ the other side ” of
Byron. But, in its
totality, it has the
effeot of an underestimate : there is a great deal
more to say on this side. The article, by the
way, is unusually vigorous for English : as com-
pared with the staid, middle-aged deliverances
of Literature or The Athen/eum one might
unkindly call it Byronic for force and fervour.
“But Byron the poet? Emphatically, he was no
poet; not if Shakespeare and Milton are , poets.
He was a magnificent satirist; the “Vision of
Judgment,” “Don Juan,” and “Beppo” are very
glories of wit, indignation, rhetoric ; accomplished
to the uttermost, marvellous and immortal; filled
with scathing laughter, rich with a prodigal pro-
fusion of audacious fancy and riot of rhyme.
Here the man is himself, eloquent and vehement
of speech, alive and afire. No coarseness, cruelty,
insolence, can blind us to the enduring excellence
of these writings, to their virility and strength. This
Byron isdeathless. But theßyronof love lyrics, and
tragedies, and romantic tales, is a poet of infinite
tediousness in execrable verse; in the severely cour-
teous French phrase, he “ does not permit himself
to be read.’' And he is not read ; no one now
reads “ Lara,’’ or “ Parisina,” or “ The Corsair,”
or “ The Giaour,” or “The Bride of Abydos,” or
“ The Siege of Corinth,” or “ The Island,” or the
weary, weary plays. They are dead, and past
resurrection; their passion is as poor and tawdry
a thing as that of Frankenstein or The Mysteries
of JJdolpho ; their garish theatricality is laugh-
able, and we can scarce believe that these things
of nought were once preferred to the noble sim-
plicities and rough, true music of Scott. Among
the poems of farewell, regret, despair, is there one,
except, maybe, “When we two parted,” that can
be read with more than a mild and languid
pleasure? In all the moralisings, and meander-
ings, and maunderings of “Childe Harold,” is
there anything better than a few bursts of sound-
ing rhetoric and impressive declamation, superbly
and masterfully trivial? Dullness is the word,
dullness unspeakable. Outside his own royal
province of satire, he created nothing of power,
nothing but frantic efforts to be powerful ; and
he turned the lovely speech of English poetry into
a hideous noise, Coleridge, master of music,
says of him : “Itseems, to my ear, that there is
a sad want of harmony in Lord Byron’s verses ” ;
and again: “ How lamentably the art of versifi-
cation is neglected by most of the poets of the
present day ! By Lord Byron, as it strikes me,
in particular.”
* * * *
“ But Byron was accepted abroad—he enfran-
chised English literature, he was the genius of
English poetry incarnate before the eyes of
Europe, he moved the aged Goethe and the
youthful Hugo. Why? Surely for a simple
reason: Byron is very easy to understand, he
deals rhetorically with elemental emotions, and
he enjoyed the fame of being “at war with
society an aristocrat in exile, a champion of
the peoples. Now, rhetoric and oratory and elo-
quence make a wide appeal ; they are seldom
subtle, but they address themselves with pungent
and poignant vigor to the simple feelings of men.
“ Give me liberty or give me death ! ” —that is
the kind of thing; a sonorous and impassioned
commonplace, flung out upon the air to thrill the
hearts of thousands. Byron’s best verse has this
quality: he possessed the imagination of the
orator, the faculty of finding large and bold
phrases. Stanza upon stanza of “ Childe
Harold ” reads like the finest things in
Irish or American oratory grandiose and
sweeping. “ Roll on, thou deep and dark-
blue ocean, roll! ” You can see the out-
stretched arm, hear the resonant voice, of Byron,
the deelaimer ; and the effect upon ears unversed
in the niceties and delicacies of English poetry
was prodigious. The blaring magniloquence of
Lucan has certain attractions not possessed by
the majestic, melancholy, subtle Virgilian lines ;
and Byron was much of a Lucan. “The Isles of
Greece,” and “Ode to Napoleon,” and “Lines on
Completing My Thirty-sixth Year”—emphatic,
strenuous, impressive—have the true oratorical
note and ring :
The sword, the banner, and the field,
Glory and Greece, around me see !
The Spartan, borne upon his shield,
Was not more free.
* * * •
“There is a trumpet call in that; but for great-
ness of beauty we turn from it to the last chorus
of Shelley’s “Hellas,” and hear a music of the
morning stars. Byron could shout magnificently,
laugh splendidly, thunder tumultuously ; but he
could not sing. There was something in him of
Achilles, nothing whatever of Apollo. Think
only of these mighty masters of passion—.ZEschy-
lus, Lucretius, Dante, Milton, Hugo ; what sweet-
ness proceeding from what strength ! They are
filled with a lyrical loveliness, the very magic of
music, the beauty almost unbearable. By the
side of these Byron is but a brazen noise.
His saeva indif/nalio becomes a mere petulance
of arrogance when we think of Dante ; one
line of Milton rebukes his haste of speech.
He took Europe by storm ; but a far more
impassioned figure is that of Wordsworth, with
his whole being, body and soul, shaken by the
“divine madness” of inspiration, by converse
with eternity, by commune with “ the most
ancient heavens.’’ There was the true passion,
not in Byron, hurriedly throwing off a few hun-
dred lines of romantic rant after coming home
from some silly dissipation. He has no trace of
the poet consecrate, such as marks many a name-
less balladist. Who would not rather have written
, “ Helen of Kirkconnel,” so fierce and loving,
desolate and defiant, a cry imperishable and per-
fect, than all the famed rigmarole of rhetoric
called “Childe Harold”? In that long and
elaborate work there are precisely two lines of
pure poetry, the lines on the Dying Gladiator :
He heard it, but he heeded not: his eyes
Were with his heart, and that was far away.
• * * *
“That, and perhaps a score of other lines in
Byron, have an enduring freshness and fragrance
of thought and word. For the rest, he was phrased
in poetry, as in life, to “cut a dash,"’ with the re-
sult that both his verse and himself are sorrily
discredited ; things, as George Borrow has it, of
“ mouthings and coxcombry.” Landor, in stately
Latin, once exhorted him to amend his morals and
his style. He did neither, and liis style remained
even more detestable than his morals. When
Tennyson heard of Byron’s death, he went out
upon the seashore and wrote upon the sand the
words, “ Byron is dead ! ” Seas of oblivion
have swept over Byron, and washed away his
fame, as the s a washed away those words.
It may be that his most celebrated passage will be
remembered only by the scornful ridicule of
Browning. The poets whom he insulted or
patronised—Wordsworth and Coleridge, and
Shelley and Keats—have long since taken their
starry stations in altitudes beyond sight of him,
and Byron, “The Claimant” of English poetry,
has been found out. He retains but one glory—
his gift of wit and satire, his superb recklessness
of mocking phrase and rhyme. There, all that
was potent and sincere in him became triumphant,
and the writer of “Don Juan” is a deathless
delight. But the “poet of passion” is dead.
Peacock killed him long ago in Nightmare
Abbey . His wailings and howlings wring no
man’s heart, stir no man’s pulses : we no longer
believe in the Byron of dazzling devilry and burn-
ing poetry, volcanic and voluptuous. In place of
him we contemplate an ill-mannered and cross-
grained fellow, charlatan and genius, whose
voluminous writings are mostly dull and mostly
ill-written—gone for ever, that Byron of the fatal
fascination, the passionate and patrician glory,
whose freaks and whimsies threw Europe into fits,
whose poems revealed to the universe the fact that
Shakespeare’s England had at last produced a
poet. If he could be resuscitated, Mr. Murray as
publisher, and Mr. Coleridge as editor, are the
imen to accomplish that miracle. But, as Mr.
Matthew Arnold loved to inform us, “ miracles do
not happen.” Byron the wit is alive for ever-
more ; Byron the poet of passion and imagination
will never rise from the dead.”
-
“Creeve Roe”: Years ago I was for a few
days laid up with a cold in a Plymouth boarding-
house. My landlady lent me the poems of Henry
Kirke White to read. It was my first introduc-
tion to the fine productions of that consumptive
bard. About a fortnight ago I was again laid up
—also with a cold—and, having read through my
own stock of literature, sent to my nexLdoor
neighbour to borrow a book. Hang me if he
didn’t send me the poems of H. K. White ! Well,
I read them again, and came across this sombre,
anti-jingo passage easily anticipating Macaulay’s
New Zealander —
Where now is Britain ?—where her laurelled names,
Her palaoes and halls? Dash’d in the dust.
Some second Vandal hath reduced her pride,
And with one big recoil hath thrown her back
To primitive barbarity. Again
Through her depopulated vales, the soream
Of bloody Superstition hollow rings,
And the scared native to the tempest howls
The yell of deprecation. O'er her marts,
Her crowded ports, broods Silence ; and the cry
Of the low ourlew, and the pensive dash
Of distant billows, breaks alone the void.
Even as the savage sits upon the stone
That marks where stood her capitols, and hears
The bittern booming in the weeds, he shrinks
From the dismaying solitude. Her bards
Sing in a language that hath perished ;
And their wild harps, suspended o’er their graves,
Sigh to the desert winds a dying strain.
Meanwhile the Arts, in second infancy,
Rise in some distant clime, and then, perchance,
Some bold adventurer, fill’d with golden dreams,
Steering his bark through trackless solitudes
Where, to his wandering thoughts, no daring prow
Hath ever plough’d before —e pies the cliffs
Of fallen Albion.—To the land unknown
He journeys ; and perhaps descries
Some vestige of her ancient stateliness :
Then he, with vain conjecture, fills his mind
Of the unheard of race, which had arrived
At science in that solitary nook,
Far from the civil world ; and sagely sighs
And moralises on the state of man.
White’s dates, 1785-1806 ; Macaulay’s, 1800-1859.
Can there be any doubt of the suggestion—l won’t
say plagiarism ?
“7x7”: The suggested influence of “ Ancient
Mariner ” on “ Reading Gaol ” is worth specific illustra-
tion. E.g., “Ballad” —
But this I know, that every law
That men have made for man,
Since first man took his brother’s life
And the sad world began . . .
“ Mariner ”
Farewell! Farewell! but this I tell
To thee, thou Wedding Guest,
He prayeth best who loveth best
Both man and bird and beast.
“ Ballad ”
With mop and mow we saw them go,
Slim shadow's hand in hand,
About, about, in ghostly rout
They trod a saraband.
“ Mariner ” —
About, about, in reel and rout
The death-fires danced at night,
The water, like a witch’s oils.
Burnt green, and blue, and white.
“ Ballad” —
And each evil sprite that walks by night
Before us seemed to play.
“ Mariner ”
As if it dodged a water sprite
It plunged, and tacked, and veered.
There is no mistaking the similarity of swing, and even
of idea.
Q. Premier Byrnes’s proposal to establish an
Australian University with affiliated branches in - '
various provinces expresses a good old educational •
Wentworth sounded the same note 50 years ago ; a ” c
Uni. of Sydney was designed to be national, not P "
vincial. But if Bvrnes means more than talk he s i
hustle for Federation : there’s no show for a national
supplanter of existing institutions before F.
Viator: “Melb. Public Library is excellent in
the lending department, but the indoor fiction requires
to be entirely re-organised. The tradition of this Blbraiy
is that no fiction at all ought to be provided, and to t us
the. Trustees hung successfully for 30 years. Then they
grudgingly yielded half a bay, which has not been ex-
ceeded since. Here a motley collection is crunched up,
pick- from the lucky hag of good, bad, and indifferent.
The class of visitors would b° greatly improved by a pio-
perlv ample and arranged fiction department. It y
needs to lie up to the dirty old English drama, where the
instinct of the Frowsy leads them to Ford’s ‘’Tis a 1 ity
She’s a Whatdyecallit.’ Those noble vols. are as thumbed
as police-court Bibles.”
Stephen Crane complains that the word “epi-
sodic” —applied to Conrad’s ‘‘Nigger of the Narcissus
—“as a critical epithet is absolutely' and flagrantly
worthless.” But he doesn’t say why—because, alas.
Stephen C. is absolutely and flagrantly episodic himselr.
—
To Corresponden S,— Fred W.: Thanks; but no print-
interest. .. .O.H.F. : Presently Letter posted.
.. . Owata (Q.): Thanks ; will print.... N.K.M.: Ditto ...
Magnus : “ Why' do you deal chiefly—almost exclusively
with fiction and po try ? These aren’t literature : they re
only a section of literature, and not the most weighty or
important section. Has the Red Page no opinions on
history, on philosophy, on philology and ethnology, for
example?” Dear man, lend us your ear. (1) The R.P.
is a literary minnow, and you can’t expect it to have the
swallow of a whale. (2) It isn’t run by a staff of special-
ists, and no man—no half-dozen men —can cover the
whole area of literature adequately. (3) Time is wanting,
as well as space. Criticism of history, for example, is
only worth printing when it’s worth printing. One
beauty of fiction and poetry is that they don’t take many
hours a-reading. Yet you can’t get critically through
even a 200-page novel under two hours —that is, you con
get through, but you take the risk of receiving an inaccu-
rate impression, and commentarily misleading readers.
And if the novel is good—closely packed, with a style and
a thought to it —four hours is little enough. Weil, four
hours —or two hours—is a lot out of a busy day, or a busy
week ; and then, likely enough, when brought to propor-
tion-standards and compared with other books waiting
notice, that book is worth only two or three inches of
space. Now, if you take a book even on the fringe of his-
tory—Mahan’s “Sea-Power,” say—you can spend an hour
over a chapter, or a week over the book —it cost years to
write ; and if' you disagree you must reconsider authori-
ties, and check impressions, for a hasty and unauthorised
impression is worth just 0. And while you’re doing this
do you hear the East a-callin’, also the West and
South and North a-callin’, and all wanting attention,
and time, and space, and notice? Etc. —are you be-
ginning to understand ? Then (4) poetry, and to a
less extent fiction—belles-lettres generally—are in a
nearer relation to Art than your philosophy and ethno-
logy, or even your history. These are all closer to
Science, and hence less fit for purely literary criticism.
For they deal with facts, and must be judged chiefly in
relation to facts; whereas fiction and poetry are products
of the imagination, and must be judged chiefly in relation
to the Ideal, and it is in the discussion of things ideal
that the critic finds his wings, if he have any, also his
widest province and his best justification. We could go
on till (19), but that will do for the present. Well ?


RS.
' •AV.V.V
i®:
A A
~,1111'lli ifi
~1111111111 inn
AND
Sydney’s Heading Specialists,
WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
►tc
Ulffl]
1
MAIM !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.— A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
committing himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for nearly all the walks of
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, the experience of 20,000 men
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly endorsed the treatment of
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men v-uo have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the remarkable treatment
which lias made both fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
WALLACE.
In the J^aboratori
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued ?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swiin ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble ?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting ?
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary ?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly ?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired ?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches ?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has'the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
.»N-pnfcvSf'£fP Y ...lj t _»
Att Trams stop at the Door.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age.thankstothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would he im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
Rested at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 10 colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Fanner—in fact, all
classes and condition of men—should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs.;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l,
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDKTEIY.
/ lease mention this Paper when writing.] Correspondence, P.O. Box 1350.
*>Jt
r • *r
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of ....
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
. He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by Iris unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffe r
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during .sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &e., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Net
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbous will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBIONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescrila s Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNE3T.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Dailv,
10 till 5; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a eountrv in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old, >
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE,- Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. fid. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n>brocatioQ
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatiof).
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
‘‘ Light and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address-S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 llunter-st., SYDNEY.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing 1 how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
an.v earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIIt E L Y
Elt. MSIS, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
•TRIUMPH/ P.O. Box 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
oomvA
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Pa-inless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON, M.K.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WEAK BACKS.
&
mn
i*\ \/V 6t
lame back,
RHEUMATIC BACK,
SORE BACK,
LUMBAGO,
, PAIN in the BACK,
whether the result of a
strain, cold, exposure,
weak kidneys, riding,
rheumatism, stooping,
hard work, or dissipa-
tion, are instantly re-
lieved and permanently
cured by
“ Dr. Pierce’s
Electric Belt.”
It sends a soothing,
wanning, invigorating
current of electricity
into the body that goes RIGHT TO THE SPOT. More
penetrating than a linament, more potent than a plaster,
it never fails to relieve the pain and take out the stiffness
and soreness, and, unlike other remedies, it cures perma-
nently. It sends a vigorous circulation of blood through
the weakened muscles and cords that builds up the weak
parts and makes the cure complete. It is the one grand
remedy for Weak back.. Read all about it in the little
“ Book No. 2,” which we send in plain,sealed envelope by
return of post, on receipt of 2d. in stamps.
Rupture. —lf ruptured, send also for “Pamphlet No.
1.” Address Magnetic Elastc Truss Co.,
San Francisco, U.S.A. ; or W. H. SOUL & CO, 153
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
in JVSen
Wa ted or shrunken parts of the Human Ilody
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the ElectrO-VaCUUm Pi’OC3SS.
Instant benefit —A benefit that you feel, know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address-
J. HINTON-WIULI3, A
jV Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melb. ..jm


TATTERSALL’S
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
Grand National Hurdle. July 9.
50,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me Shares in the above.
Name
Addi •ess _
Australian Waterloo 0. July 12,14,15.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me- —Shares in the above.
N a 11] e _ .
Address .
Adelaide G..\. Hurdle. August 13.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me : Shares in the above.
N am e :
A ddress
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


c
Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Priee fyedaeers
‘friends of the family’
-AND-
Up-to-date Merchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising: 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, in a large
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, including
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
-1 ■’Uies’ Fringes a speciality ; best manufacture, newest
■ ign, 10,6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made
ii in own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 5/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG <STaITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 «t 682 tieorge Street, Sydney.
mm .
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SNADLER,
SYDNEY and SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Years.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HO VIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
dotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel. ,
No. 312.
Head Office
Tel.,
No. 312.
73 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY,
Read’s Liver Pills
Cures all Liver Ills . .
A perfect remedy for Dizziness, Nausea, Drowsiness, Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Coated Tongue, Pains in the Back
and Side, Torpid Liver, Indigestion, Dyspepsia. Small
price, 2/6 per Box. Only address—
H. READ, 145 Collins-st., Melbourne.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may he given without the know-
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk
enness audits cure sent Free, sealed
EUCRABY CO.,
62 Hunter St„ Svdnev.
EASILY
CURED
GO TO HBLL-
IUOLAND for Prelty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6(1.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratia.
FredL Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 spring-?, wheels 4ft. 4in. high, or lower, silver dash, com-
plete, with lamps, £8 17s. 6d. SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ; Double-seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES,
70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles, 70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s.
LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS’ SADDLES
(best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
IT. HILLTJEH,
135 & 137 Sussex-street, Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of
Vehicles and Saddlery, Sarven Wheels, Springs, etc.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Ilillier,” is to he seen on nearly all good saddles used in th«
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order saddles from
this advertisement, I will pay freight'to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE.
Send for a Catalogue.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
B3T Send for Price List. TE6
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Best Quality CANVAS HORSE RUGS, check lined, 8/6.
r
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says:—
“ I have used
your ‘ KOKO ’
now since June
last, and I have
not only stopped
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness,but
Ihavean entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As 1 am not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion.”
V;
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC. „
KQKO MAWfOOTAS COV»i LTD,, 16, 3EV»S MARKS, LONDON, ENfiLAMp.,
LOOK A.T OUK FRICJES !
We beg to notify customers that by buying’ from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buekboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, ±26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from ±2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£B.lB. 6.
Note Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send for Our Illustrated Catalogue.
DR. MACKENZIES
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
DR. MACKENZIE’S Soap is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most
lovely Complexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously and
expensively perfumed. ONE SHILLING PER TABLET. Doctor s certificate with each cake, certifying
to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imitations MADAME
ADELINA PATTI writes : “1 find Dr. Mackenzie’s Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” This Soap
cures shiny and greasy skins. # . .
Dr. Mackenzie’s Face Lotion is not greasy,does not contain Glycerine,and is absolutely harmless.
By tightening the skin it quickly removes all wrinkles, lines, crowsfeet, or puffiness under the eyes, it
keeps the skin soft and velvety, and in summer will entirely’ prevent and quickly remove freckles;
whilst for excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. Price 3/6 per bottle; large
bottles, 5/-. This Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs on the face. Delicious in hot climates.
S. HARVEY, LTD., 5, Denman Stieet, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists and Stores.
THE
Plum
PCD
THB
Plum’
("'i ENTLEMEISI who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Wo
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, ve
know tlie exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We (guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
p ■ ( Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. fid. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
rlce \ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Rec/istcrcd and sent Post Free to any part of the world..
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
.grit- CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Gods Our Makers.
Beyond desire and love and passion,
Beyond the utmost reach of hate,
They live apart in godlike fashion,
Lords of the waywardness of fate.
About them in their home undying
Floats ever on the slumbrous air
A murmur of that endless crying
That men call prayer.
We laugh, and they that made us care not;
We sorrow, and our masters smile ;
We are to them as though we were not,
Whether we bless them or revile ;
Pleasure and pain and all things mortal
They gave us at the first for store,
Then thrust us idly from the portal
And cared no more.
One gift alone of all their giving
Lies light upon the souls of men—
The burden of the pains of living,
Once dropped, is never felt again ;
Tossed on a wide world’s restless breakers,
Saddest of things beneath the sky,
We are happier than the gods, our makers,
For we can die.
I.D.
The Lanrel Leaf.
They wove a wreath of fame for me
Which I would fain have worn,
But one soft leaf that came from thee
They cast aside in scorn.
I wore their crown, despite the grief
That in thy tear-drops welled,
But oh, I sorrowed for the leaf
Which thy dear hands had held !
Upon my brow the wreath became
A crown of thorns and pain ;
I cast it down in tears and shame
And sought the leaf again.
“Your wreath,” I cried, “ to dust has turned,
But fair and sweet is she :
The single laurel leaf you spurned
My crown of Love shall be ! ’’
THE PAGAN.
The Song of the Violin.
She stood in the curtains played over by light—
The tinted curtains —a tired, sweet girl,
With exquisite arms under laces of white
Like an ivory figure in mother-of-pearl.
I entered ; she saw me, but made no move ;
To some I nodded, to some replied ;
(A violin somewhere was singing of love)
She blushed and paled, and I stood at her side.
I asked for a dance—she shook her head
And laughed like a petted, petulant queen ;
She had promised them all to others, she said,
“And you are so late—and where have you
been ? ”
They were talking low in the long, bright room,
And I answered her, moving the blind aside—
“ Out there on the lawn in the velvet gloom,
Wooing a woman to make her my bride. 1 ’
She suddenly shook like a startled dove,
Ruffled and paled and hung her head.
A violin somewhere was singing of love,
And bitter-sweet were the things it said.
“ This heat is stifling ” —she moved away.
“Out here,” I whispered—and, “hark to the
tide ! ”
“ The woman—where is she? ” I heard her say ;
“Now show me the woman you wooed for a
bride.”
“ Here on the land—and there on the sea,
Full length amid roses and tall as the skies ;
And now do you see her ?” She whispered “Isee,”
A white hand on my shoulder, a laugh in her eyes.
“ Do you love her—this lady so mystical, fine ?
I dwindle before her, a plain little miss ;
She has stars in her hair—only roses in mine ;
But the Night has no mouth and the Night can-
not kiss.”
“ Not now, if you please, sir ” —a moment she
strove,
The curve of my arm softly circled her head;
A violin somewhere was singing of love,
And “ Kiss, kiss, kiss, and kiss,” it said.
RODERIC QUINN.
To Grace.
Give me the glowing eyes of Egypt’s queen,
Wealthy with liquid gloom, instinct with fire ;
Now eloquent of Pharaoh, immovable, serene,
Now filling with the jealous moods of tyrannous
desire.
Give me the superb forms of ancient Greece :
Lithe, light, and lissome, long-limbed, smooth
and round,
Evolved to full perfection through centuries of
peace
By heroes born for battle yet husbanding the
ground.
But give me thy delicious lips, my Grace :
Ripe, red and lusty like a hot June rose ;
Magnetically odorous of some old royal race
Of proud, voluptuous dames and grand, full-
blooded beaux.
Q.
ARTHUR A. D. BAYLDON.


Established 1819.
It-ClStra liap Prfti/i/loht CnrirtU
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established " ■ t *fcty ■
•' ! in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors, The lion. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
t®?At LITTLEJOHN > Ks< h ; A - w - Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq.
JJSEPH ABBOTT, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
A nual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1897 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £415,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,090.
Head. Office : 07 iPitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON. Secretary.
nil
i
RATES :
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereag-h-street, Sydney.
Bfcgv
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
VvV
ffc
When purchasing P & B Rllberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Agents: * "
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co.,Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Sandford & Go., Adelaide,
Geo. Ross, Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
il EL I DON
SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
TattersalTs Hotel and Cafe,
SYDNEY,
Comprises a Magnificent Block of New Buildings running
through from George-street (opposite New Markets) to Pitt-
street (opposite Lyceum Theatre); and located within a
hundred yards of Her Majesty’s, the Palace, and the
Criterion theatres, and three minutes from G.P.O.
Electric Light throughout; Telegraph Office; Telephone 728.
Every facility for Visitors and Families, whether on busi-
ness or pleasure. Perfect attention throughout day and night.
TARIFF: - Bs. per Day upwards.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
ok PIANOS
IN
Tbe FiO«St ai?d Largest WarebotiS?
3ZIVJ AUSTRALIA..
'— ✓♦♦♦♦*♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦« .
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, .635.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER A SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
sydio zej-st
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
T'HE above Establishment lias been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Flutes, by means n jliridf/euwrJe,
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
OS King-at., SvcTney
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
Telephone 2615.
Ladies.- call and
see our CM CAP
:W A CHINES, from ‘2os
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
etc.
s. ROWLEY & CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
CHM
RIETOR
COMPAN
iIIUMT?
WIN BUR
m
Trade
m*K
Jco
' K * EDINBURGH.
. ph a sirJi
Ij. *
7 <» f un,ft! ,V
V'/'V t* #>'" ‘ At»Jfl M'
"•'U/ntAi Juflini
"'l *ub /C'fo bu£/,id
j)rink
|||oderatelg.
Take a little Whisky
“for the stomach’s sake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get, “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival. '
Insist on
‘D.C.L.’
THE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE Is.;
per Post Is. 3d.
Sydney Lager and Bock Bier.
BEST
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
last N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all comers.
CHEAPEST
- Costs LESS than any other Lager in the market.
BIER
IS
a Perfect
Winter Lager.
Quality.
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney, in
his analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-,
mg a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol.
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-ciire
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour
Brewed and
Bottled by
Obtainable in draught or bottle at all leading hotels.
.Bottled Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld., Moore Park, Sydney.
Manager, Aug. J. Metzler. Sec., T. H. Jackson.
Facts Respecting Jixson’s Tobaccos.
DURIKG 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
yat)kw Poodle.
.The Sales of this one Fraud alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright. The
most popular High-grade 'Tobacco.
Cbarppioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plucr.
CooqGfror.
New and Old The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Bark Twist.
C€E}t€B)E}ial
Bark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Moiiopo'e, Both>childs.
Bonanza —4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for Gd.
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper .
Vol. 19.—N0. 957.
SAIUKDAY, JUNE in, 1898.
Price, 6d.
THE POLITICAL CASTAWAYS.
LYNE : “It seems a hopeless case. Do you think ice can make it seaworthy?”
REID: “We must make it float somehow. Our only hope of life depends upon it!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiib Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiib Bulletin posted regularly to you every
iveekfor a year.
Cheques, Pratts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
' Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilncTc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted.for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<b Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 32 11 outst., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. —lF. M. Smith Co.
Fiji.-— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There ivill be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Ouing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special 'l'hynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
T7ie S^xzHeizai.
SATURDAY, JUNE 18, 1898.
Sink the Fiscal Issue.
A general election is very near in New
South Wales—no one knows exactly how
near, but it is, at all events, not more than
three months distant. Premier Reid has
already announced that it is to be fought on
the question of the reform of the Legislative
Council, and Ly t ne has just issued his little
ukase that the only subject to be considered
is his old issue of provincial Protection.
Neither of these poor little political creatures
proposes to allow the people to consider any
issue except the one he puts before them.
In the ordinary course of party-politics, the
people are supposed only to have a choice
between Lyne and Reid ; and if Lyne wins
he will say that the country has declared for
provincial Protection, while if Reid wins he
will declare that it is a great victory for his
scheme of appointing Council-members for
25 years instead of for life. This is always
providing that no better war-whoop arises in
the interval. The fact that the people may
want to say something about such a matter
as Federation, and may not desire to
be wholly confined to Lyne and Reid,
isn’t provided for. These two small
dry worms of politics have
arranged exactly what the people are
to be allowed to say, and they are not to be
allowed to say anything else. So the pre-
sent seems as good a time as any to explain
why New South Wales should be sick of
Reid and Lyne alike, and why it should
object to let them dictate exactly how much
it is to say at the coming election, and what
subjects and no other it should say it about.
* * * *
New South Wales has already had four
years of the Reid Government. During that
time it lias had a fair chance to sum up
George Reid as a fat and plausible braggart,
a shuffler, an utterly unscrupulous promise-
breaker, and a Tory failure generally. He
promised the country a State Bank and a
State note-issue, neither of which ever ar-
rived. He also partly promised a State
Land Bank, which never arrived either. He
promised a Local Government Bill, and
actually brought it in, and then withdrew it
because the Assembly refused to let the large
property-owner have something like 16 votes
at municipal elections, and cut him down to
about four. Three years have gone by since
the Local Government Bill and the other
things mentioned above dropped out of
sight, and they have all become ancient
history by now. In fact, they are
never even mentioned. Reid also pro-
mised to introduce Freetrade, and New
South Wales collects about £1,300,000
a year in import duties actually more
in proportion to population than the customs
burden in such heavily-protected countries
as France and Germany. He promised to
substitute direct taxation for customs,
and he levies nearly three times as much
custom duties as his boasted landaninkumtax
amounts to. He has even gone back on such
Freetrade doctrines as he ever possessed by
promising to keep on protecting the New r
South Wales sugar industry to the extent of
£3 per ton. . He promised an Act by which
Government was to acquire large estates and
cut them up for closer settlement after the
plan which has proved so successful in
Maoriland, but, then, the difference between
the two provinces is that Richard Seddon
does things while George Reid only wallows
heavily on top of an addled egg to no pur-
pose. So the Land for Closer Settlement
Bill was also introduced in the very long ago,
and dropped as soon as it arrived, and was
never again heard of.
* * * *
Three long years back George Reid
stumped the country like a flaming torch or
an Early Christian blazing in Nero’s amphi-
theatre on the issue of Council Reform, and
New South Wales gave him a large majority
with which to make a radical reformation
forthwith. The reform of the Council, how-
ever, was never even attempted, and went to
join the other broken promises of G. Reid.
The bulgy Tory Reid of to-day crawls and
cringes to that body, and has just stated, in
his famous Bathurst speech, that he has a
Great Respect for the nominee Council, and
recognises its vast services to the country,
and doesn’t intend to make any radical alter-
ation after all. Also, lie has stated distinctly
that if he does any small reform the Council
is still to be a nominee body, with no re-
sponsibility to the people. He also pro-
mised, above all things, to straighten the
finances, and the result (as shown on page
765 of Coghlan’s “ Statistical Register”) is
that the accumulated deficit, which Dibbs
left in '94 at £2,217,599, had risen, by the
close of last financial year, to £2,363,139 —
an increase of £145,540. Other Treasurers
have done quite as badly as this, but no
other Treasurer ever denied his deficit, while
it stared him in the face in the printed
State Statistics, and had the blushless
effrontery to call it a surplus. He promised
to introduce economy into the finances, and
claimed that he had done so—the visi-
ble result being that the cost of run-
ning the province in 1896 was £352
more than the cost under the thriftless
Dibbs in ’92. There was an apparent sav-
ing of £408,706, but all of it and £352 more
was accounted for by the fact that Dibbs
paid out of revenue the works which Reid
charges to loans. Premier Reid also pro-
mised to do his borrowings locally, and re-
deemed his promise by floating 5| millions of
debt in England. Also, he promised to be
self-reliant and economical and reduce the
loan curse, and he has borrowed over
£2,900,090 in the last eleven months alone
—a record which hasn’t been equalled since
’9l. The other bright features of Reid’s
record are that he was the man who broke
his promise to the other Premiers and
sowed the first seeds of disunion in the
Federal partnership by inserting the famous
50,000 minimum, and the 80,000 minimum
which followed it. Therefore he was the
first Premier in New South Wales to wreck
the democratic principle of the Referendum
by inserting in it a condition which made the
majority of no account.
♦ * * *
Even Reid’s direct taxation isn’t demo-
cratic. It taxes the moderate-sized land-
holder and the very big landholder, the man
who spends his income in the country and
the absentee, all on the same basis. It
levies the same rate of taxation on the man
who earns a precarious income by daily toil,
and the man who earns an assured one from
invested accumulations. And, as regards
Reid’s promise that New South Wales,
under his regime, would grow Jolly and Fat,
what the country definitely knows is that
wages are lower after four years of his
policy—anyone who chooses to compare the
scale of wages quoted in the “Statistical
Register ” for ’97 with that in the same
volume for ’93 or ’94 can assure himself of
this. Also, the stock of State paupers in-
creased from 5691, in ’93, to 6998, in ’96
(returns for ’97 are not yet issued from the
Statistician’s office) ; and the long-promised
boom —well, where is it ?
* * * *
The above is Reid. As regards Lyne,
the country knows him chiefly as a dull,
heavy man, a provincialist Tory like Reid,
whose gloom isn’t lighted up by Reid’s capa-
city for cheerful inaccuracy, and as another
of the wreckers of Federation. It is impos-
sible to sum up what he has done, for he
never did anything. He cordially approved
of Reid’s gross breach of faith with the other
provinces ; and he is a Protectionist whose
leadership has destroyed the chances of a
good cause. Anyhow, these tivo wreckers—
the short, fat Tory and the long, slab-like
Tory—propose to go to the country shortly
and to inform the people that the whole
question lies between them and their respec-
tive local and fiscal policies. And what The
Bulletin desires to say just here is that
New South Wales politics don’t consist of
any two fifth-rate place-hunters, and that no
two small billet-grabbers have the right to
tell the country that the only issue to be
decided shall be the little, wormy issue
which they choose to place before it. Reid
and Lyne put together don’t amount to a
row of pins. If the country elected Lyne
for the sake of Protection, he has intelli-
gence enough to supply it, bub he hasn’t
intelligence enough to supply much else,
and the country can’t live on fiscal politics
alone. If it elected Reid on the issues of
Freetrade and Council Reform, that famous
wriggler hasn’t honesty enough to supply
either. Moreover, Reid and Lyne are allies
on the provincial ticket, and when they
assume that the contest lies between them,
they are assuming that the great Federal
majority of last Friday week is to be wholly
unrepresented in next Parliament. And the
Federal majority objects.
* * * *
The question to be decided at next election
is not whether New South Wales shall be
Freetrade or Protectionist on its own
separate account, but what it will do
with Federation, which was accepted by a
majority, and technically defeated by a dis-
creditable trick, two weeks ago. If the pro-
vince accepts Federation, then there is no
more fiscal issue in New South Wales politics,
and that question belongs to the Common-
wealth Parliament. If the country says
“No,” then there is plenty of time to start the
local fiscal riot all over again. It is no earthly
use fighting about the local fiscal issue until it
is decided that there is one to fight about.
Moreover, as regards the local tariff trouble,
which Lyne asserts is to be the sole issue at
the coming election, the province has the
assurance of Lyne’s friend, Reid, that the
tariff question will shortly be submitted to a
separate Referendum. The promise is pre-
sumably worth as much as Reid’s other pro-
mises, and if this Referendum isn’t wrecked,
like the last one, by an 80,000 minimum,
and the results are not repudiated after-
wards, it is another reason why the local
tariff may rest from troubling for just this
once. No doubt this will be a calamity for
Reid and Lyne, who live solely on the tariff
controversy, bub New South Wales doesn’t
exist for the exclusive benefit of Reid and
Lyne. The Council-reform problem can
also wait; first, because Reid isn’t going to
reform the Council in any case ; secondly,
because he has already all the power to
reform the Council that the country can give
him; thirdly, because if New South Wales
federates there will be so much less for the
local Parliament to do that it can get on
without any Council. Whatever is to happen
to the present Federal Bill, or to the
next one, the first essential is for the
Federal party to send some honest leaders
into the Assembly—some such group as
Barton, Wise, Bruce Smith and R. E.
O’Connor. Then, if the new Parliament
absolutely fails to bring about a Federation
there is any amount of time to have a disso-
lution and raise the old parochial war-cries
at a fresh election. Elections don’t cost
much, and the extra consumption of drink
nearly covers the expense. The Bulletin
moves that at the coming New South Wales
poll the purely local fiscal issue shall be
sunk 1000 fathoms deep with a ton of lead
tied round its neck. It can be fished up
again whenever it is wanted.
The Cheek of G. Reid.
The further proceedings which Premier Reid,
of N.S.W., was contemplating with regard to
Federal matters took shape last week in a
modest telegram to the Premiers of the other
provinces, as follows :
“ Confidential. —I could not cordially support the Bill
framed by the Convention, and tell you frankly that its
prospects will not improve ; but I should be sorry to see
all our labors brought to a standstill.
“I am going to submit to the Cabinet on Tuesday a
proposal that the Premiers of Victoria, South Australia,
and Tasmania and myself (Sir John Forrest being, I fear,
too far away to join, though afterwards to be consulted),
meet to see if it is possible to arrive at any alteration of
the terms of the Bill That would make it more acceptable
to the people of New South Wales.
“ It would also be advisable, I think, to invite the Pre-
mier of Queensland to join in this meeting. I should like
to be able to take the Bill in a more acceptable shape to
the country as a vital part of my Ministerial policy.
“It may be said, how can the BUI be altered ? The
simplest way would be by inserting in the addresses of
Parliament in each colony transmitting the Bill the
changes agreed upon.
“ Another way would be by Act of Parliament, specify-
ing the changes agreed upon, and putting the Conven-
tion Bill in schedule. The place of meeting would be
immaterial to me. . . .
“ If the conference be agreed upon we will undertake
to prepare and send to you before its meeting, particulars
of the subjects we desire to invite you to re-consider, and
our views respecting them.
• * * •
To fully appreciate the magnificent cheek of
N.S.W.’s political bounder, it is necessary to
review the circumstances : (1) Reid invited the
other Premiers to start the movement, and
ran a conference which drafted the original
Enabling Bill. That Bill provided that the
acceptance or rejection of the Federal Consti-
tution was to be decided by a majority. (2)
He at once broke this agreement by the inser-
tion of a 50,000 minimum, and finally N.S.W.
and the other four provinces went into the
movement on this basis. (3) He broke the
agreement again by allowing the insertion of
an 80,000 minimum when, by throwing the
weight of the Government into the scale, he
might easily have kept faith with the other
provinces. Also, he formally and in so many
words “ accepted ” the 80,000 minimum. (4)
He now announces that “ with alterations ” the
Bill will doubtless be accepted by a N.S.W.
majority, when it has been accepted without
alterations, not only by a N.S.W. majority but
by 20,000 over the minimum on which the Con-
vention was elected. The whole deadlock
which Reid regrets so much was created by
Reid’s own degrading treachery. (5) He asks
the other three Premiers to set aside the
majorities in their own provinces and the
N.S.W. majority also, and start the whole
business afresh to suit the N.S.W. minority.
(6). It was the basis of the entire scheme
that the Federal Constitution was to be drawn
up by ten popularly elected delegates from
each province. Reid proposes to set aside the
other nine elected delegates from N.S.W.,
and asks the three Premiers to throw over-
board the other nine elected delegates from
their provinces also—to oblige the N.S.W.
minority. (7) He asks them, also, to set aside
the results of the referendum in their provinces,
and take the matter out of the hands of the
people and transfer it to Parliament. (8)
He asks them, solely for his own convenience,
to leave out Westralia, which has stuck loyally
to the movement all through, because Forrest
is far away and G. Reid is in a hurry. (9) He
asks them, without assigning any reasons, to
take in Queensland, which had no share in the
movement whatever.
* * * *
(10) Supposing they assented to please the
N.S.W. minority and an agreement was
arrived at, Reid doesn’t promise that he
won’t break his word again by requiring a
100,000 minimum next time ; he doesn’t pro-
mise that he will repeal the 80,000 minimum
and validate the vote of June 3 subject to the
alterations agreed upon; he doesn’t promise
that he will submit the matter to the people
again with a reasonable minimum—in fact,
he asks the other provinces to alter the Bill,
and yet says nothing definite about what he
will do with it after the alteration. (11) He
doesn’t say what alterations he wants. And,
though the really powerful opposition in N.S.
Wales was not Reid at all, but Lyne, Want,
Heydon, and the Sydney Telegraph and Star
(Reid himself said, whatever the statement
may be worth, that he was going to vote jor
the Bill), over all of whom Reid has no control,
he doesn’t offer the slightest assurance that they
approve of his intended alterations, or will he
any less hostile next time. (12) And he admits
quite openly that he wants the other Premiers
to hurry up, and throw their elected delegates,
and their partner (Westralia) overboard, so that
he can have the amended Bill as a convenient
party war-cry to secure his own miserable,
sordid, provincial billet with at next N.S.W.
election. In the ordinary course of things, the
present Bill, which has been accepted by a big
majority, would be the subject tor next elec-
tion, so the N.S.W. Premier wants it buried
out of sight before then, and a new Bill put in
its place. Which things are worthy only of a
three-card practitioner on a racecourse. ,
* * * *
The results of this move were about as
remarkable as the move itself. Braddon,
of Tasmania, and Kingston, of S.A., sent a hot
refusal to the cheeky trickster of N.S.W.
Turner, of Victoria, a calm solicitor, who has
learned through long experience in prosecuting
the accused dog-stealer to beware of the wiles
of the defendant, accepted. Turner intimated
that he was perfectly willing to meet Reid and
talk over any proposed amendments, and that
he would endeavor to persuade the other Pre-
miers to do likewise. He was also willing to
make any reasonable concessions provided the
other Premiers and Turner’s own fellow-dele-
gates of the Convention assented. If a new
Bill could he agreed upon at the new Confer-
ence, and Premier Reid could get N.S.
Wales to give its assent to it, so that
Turner could feel sure that N.S.W. was
really satisfied this time, then Turner pro-
mised that he would immediately submit
the new Bill to the people of Victoria at another
Referendum, and give it every possible show.
The proposal that Westralia should he thrown
out and Queensland taken in instead was
passed over in dead silence. The astute St.
Kilda attorney didn’t commit himself either
way. The proposal that the matter should he
taken entirely out of the hands of the people
and the people’s elected delegates, and that the
Premiers should simply fix up a new Bill and
rush it through their respective Parliaments at
their own risk, was mildly squashed by Tur-
ner’s statement that he would submit any
amendments which might he agreed upon to a
new Referendum. In the course of an inter-
view in Melbourne Turner also relieved his
mind of a postscript quite loud enough for Reid
to hear, its effect being that it was necessary to
give Reid the conference he asked for, and con-
sider his amendments, otherwise the N.S.W.
disunion party would make it an excuse to
stump the country with a disordered tale
about how the arrogance of the other
provinces had wrecked the movement just when
N.S.W. was doing its best to bring about a
compromise. Which remark showed that G.
Turner had sized up G. Reid pretty ac-
curately.
* * * *
Turner also put the N.S.W. anti-Billious
Premier in a tight place by mildly asking what
amendments w’ere considered essential. Con-
sidering that the anti-Billious minority of
N.S.W. has put forward about 400 different
insuperable objections to the Bill, something
like 398 of them being pure lying, Turner
leaves it in a rather hard fix by asking it to set
down in cold ink exactly the amendments it
requires. If he had refused, it could have con-
tinued to rage in generalities, hut it can’t go to
a business-like conference and there tell its
hysterical lie about the Commonwealth having
to pay Victoria’s provincial bounties, and about
N.S.W. having to pay all the cost of the Com-
monwealth, and about the seizure of the N.S. o •
surplus, and the annexation of the Riverina
trade by Melbourne, and about the penniless
condition of Victoria and Tasmania, and the
rest of the insane flapdoodle of the late cam-


paign. The rest of the story up to date is
contained in the following telegram, published
in Saturday morning’s papers :
Melbourne, Friday. - The Premier has received a tele-
pram from Mr. Reid sayinp that, while he has received
Sir George Turner’s telepram agreeing l to a conference
with pleasure, he desires to point out. that it would be a
waste of time for the Premiers to meet unless they are
prepared to make the Commonwealth Bill more accept-
able to New South Wales by granting no mere immaterial
concessions but matters of substance.
In other words, Reid asked Turner to meet
him and consider certain amendments. TURNER
replied that he was willing to meet, and asked
what the proposed amendments consisted of.
And Reid further responded that it was
no use meeting unless Turner was willing
lo make substantial concessions, but left the
exact nature of the concessions as much in the
dark as before. Apparently the famous wriggler
isn’t so anxious for a conference as for a chance
to say that the other provinces refused to grant
one. And, after the anti-Billious crowd has
filled the Cornstalk public with tales about the
398 horrors which never were in the Bill, it is
evidently a rather difficult situation to have to
put down about two small objections on a half-
sheet of notepaper, and admit that they are
really all.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Federal Scheme.
The new scheme of the N.S.W. anti-Billious
has developed. It is to cast Tasmania, S.A.,
and Westralia out of the Federal movement,
and make a union of Queensland, N.S.W.,
and Victoria only. One of the fixed beliefs of
the Cabbage-Tree Mob is that Queensland is
N.S.W.’s “natural ally,” and can be relied
upon to back N.S.W. up against the natural
enemy, Victoria. The creed of the Cabbage-
Tree is that there are only two places of any
importance in the world —“our” place and
Victoria, and everything that is bad is some-
how owing to Victoria. This is really only a
variation of the Orangeman’s belief that any-
thing which goes wrong is necessarily caused
by the sinful machinations of the Pope. Thus
the simple-minded Jack Want furiously incited
a Sydney audience not to federate with Vic-
toria because it levied an unfraternal duty on
N.S.W. coal (which it doesn’t, and never did),
yet he demanded that N.S.W. should federate
with its “ natural ally,” Queensland, which
levies a tax of 2s. per ton on N.S.W. coal, and 25
per cent, on coke. As to Tasmania’s duty of 4s.
per ton on coal, Jack had never heard of it;
all his rage about coal duties was levelled at
the province which hasn’t any. Similarly, J.
Want raged against Victoria because, many
years ago, it tried to get an ocean mail service
exclusively its own, and the fact that Queens-
land did the same, and has such a service to
this day, never entered into Jack’s philosophy.
Queensland levies quite as heavy import duties
on N.S.W. produce as Victoria does, and it
lays an export duty of £2 per ton on wool to
keep it from going to N.S.W. ports, which
Victoria never did ; and when the great
original N.S.W. burst up in the fifties, Queens-
land took 668,000 square miles away from the
“ mother province,” and Victoria only an-
nexed 80,000. Also, Queensland repudiated
its share of the joint debt, and declines to
settle up to this day. In fact, every imaginary
parochial grievance which N.S.W. has against
Victoria it has against Queensland in a more
aggravated form—save one : Queensland never
grew a city whose size put Sydney in the shade,
and thereby caused old John Robertson and
his push to burst with envy. The new Federal
scheme is simple, and there is no attempt at
disguise about its details. To quote Nugent
Robertson, one of the loudest of the anti-
Federal prophets:
There are few in New South Wales who would grudge
to the great and fast-growing colony of Queensland the
same equality in every respect that we should of course
concede to Victoria. Her interests can never be adverse
to ours. She never could become, as we have good reason
to fear, under the Bill, one of a cabal of southern States
upon some question where our desires, and, it may be,
those of some of our Victorian neighbors, might be over-
ruled by a minority. To speak selfishly, even, a proper
balance will so be maintained by their inclusion in any
Federation that the interests of New South Wales will be
in the position of stability, and necessarily New South
Wales will possess the capital.
That puts the anti-Bill idea in very few words.
Equal State representation is wrong unless it is
equal representation of the small population
which is expected to vote with N.S.W. There
is no objection to concede equal State repre-
sentation to the great province which is ex-
pected to barrack for N.S.W.—the still
greater province which is suspected of being
likely not to do so is quite a different
thing. The short and simple reason for giving
Queensland more than twice as big a vote as its
population entitles it to is that “ her interests
can never be adverse to ours ” —in other words,
Queensland is expected to maintain a constant
alliance with N.S.W. and—when necessary—
against Victoria. The possible combination of
Victoria and S.A. is a “ cabal ” ; the combina-
tion of N.S.W. and Queensland is maintaining
“a proper balance.” These things are to be
“conceded” by N.S.W., and it is to be paid
for its concessions by getting the capital. Vic-
toria is to make almost equal concessions to
Queensland and be paid by not getting the
capital, and having (so the Cabbage-Tree Mob
openly, though quite wrongly, calculates) to
face a perpetual combination of the two
Northern provinces. A union of four provinces
(S.A. being the other one) might be feasible,
but the present scheme is damned by the brutal
frankness of the schemers.
The Big Fellow at 10s. per Week.
Last week a small strike took place among the
“ hands ” of the North Shore (Sydney) Ferry
Co. The strikers were those miscellaneous
characters who shove the gangways on and off,
and heave the massive rope when the boat is
coming into the wharf; and anyone who
has ever lifted these weighty implements
will understand that it requires a very
sturdy youth to drag them about for 12
hours per diem. The ages of the strikers
varied from 17 to 23 years, and their cause
of complaint was that the wages (for 12
hours’ work daily) varied from Bs. to 17s. 6d.
per week. They also complained that the pay
for overtime was 2£d. per hour, and the rate of
deduction in case of temporary absence was Is.
per. hour—about five times the actual wages.
The co. apparently doesn’t deny these allega-
tions ; in fact, it seems to be rather proud of
the situation, and wants to know what in
thunder there is to object to. This is the
statement of the co.’s manager as regards the
wage problem (Daily Telegraph report) :
The rate of pay is from 10s. to 17s. 6d. a week, though
I admit there is one hand who is getting Bs. But he is
only a very little fellow.'
There is great joy, anylmw, in knowing that
the Big Fellow doesn’t Tet less than 10s. a
week—rather under lfd. per hour. The Little
Fellow probably doesn’t matter. (The manager,
by the way, is reported as saying that the con-
duct of both Fellow's in striking for more screw
is “dastardly” and “unmanly.”) N.S.W. is
a comparatively new country : it has a Jolly
and Fat policy, which guarantees the workman
good wages and prosperity ; it claims to be one
of the richest countries on earth, and it has an
Eight-Hour procession annually, and it is proud
of itself as compared with the effete nations of
old, crowded “Yurrup.” And, so long as it
pays the Big Fellow not less than 10s. a w'eek
and not more than 17s. 6d., what is there to
complain of ? The joint-stock sweaters of the
North Shore Ferry Co. gather in fat 10 per
cent, dividends regularly, and have done so for
very many years, on a nominal capital of
£60,000. They only paid up £40,000; the
other £20,000 consists of profits which were
transferred to capital—-so they really get
15 per cent. The Little Fellow at Bs. per
week, and the moderately Big Fellow at 10s.
and the very Big Fellow who soars to the
bloated affluence of 17s. 6d., are partly the
ckuse of this glorious 15 per cent. To raise
their w r ages to the £1 demanded would reduce
the dividend to about 14 per cent., and the
joint-stock sweaters probably keep this fact in
view. Some day, no doubt, the long-expected
bridge will really arrive and abolish the co.’s
highly undeserving monopoly, but it is a very
long time coining. Meanwhile, a municipal
ferry service, or a legally-fixed minimum wage,
might possibly do something for the Little
Fellow at Bs. per week, anyhow. As for the
Big Fellow at 10s., beastly ingratitude to his
kind employer is plainly what’s the matter
with him.
+
The Honor of N.S.W.
A correspondent writes re the honor of N.S. W.
—if the Government of the God- fearing
Iscariots has left it any :
Dear Bulletin. —I submit that, after the result of the
polling on June 3, the question is no longer one as to the
merits or demerits of the Constitution Bill. The case
stands thus :
N.S.W. invited the other provinces to meet her in con-
vention.
She agreed with them to submit the Enabling Bill to
her Parliament.
Her Parliament passed that Bill, one of its provisions
being that, if at least 50,000 of her electors voted for the
acceptance of the Constitution Bill to he agreed upon by
the delegates of the different provinces proposing to
Federate, and the number in favor of it exceeded the
number of votes recorded against it, the measure would
be carried so far as that popular vote was concerned.
There were to be at least two other provinces adopt-
ing it.
The Enabling Bill was passed as an Act in N.S.W., and
similar Acts were passed in other provinces. Delegates
were chosen from each on the faith of the arrangements
thus made, and those delegates duly met in convention.
While their work was in progress, N.S.W. Parliament, of
its own motion, at the end of last year, chose to alter the
conditions of the arrangement made with the other pro-
vinces, and passed an amending Act raising the minimum
number of electors required to accept the Constitution in
N.S. Wales from 50,000 to 80,000. This was a distinct
breach of faith with the other provinces and dishonor-
able to that Parliament. It has been so characterised by
prominent opponents of the Constitution Bill. Had the
required 80,000 electors been found to vote for that
Bill the dishonor would still, I think, have remained
with Parliament, because it cannot justly be said that
the electors instigated the breach of faith, or had any
effective means at their disposal for preventing it. Now",
however, that, according to the conditions of the
arrangement with the other provinces, the electors of
N.S.W. have accepted the Constitution Bill—be its faults
what they may—it will rest with those electors to say at
the approaching general elections whether they will en-
dorse or repudiate the dishonorable breach of faith of
which their representatives in Parliament have been
guilty. If the new N.S.W. Parliament is returned w'ith a
mandate to repeal the Act by which, behind the backs of
N.S. Wales’s neighbors, the present Parliament infringed
the conditions of the compact with them, the people of
N.S.W. shall be able to look those neighbors and our
mother-country in the face. If otherwise, surely every
right-thinking man among us must blush to own himself
a New South Welshman.— Fred. D. Kent, Commercial
Union Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney, 4th June, 1898.
On the Remote Fast in General.
“ Hermes ” preaches a Protectionist sermon :
Editor Bulletin.— Been listening lately in several
Sydney churches to the good old doctrine that every man
should keep pegging away in that station of life to which
it has pleased Divine Omnipotence to call him ; that when
any nation starts to look after its own greatness God
generally takes it down a peg, and that if it is a stiff-
necked nation and keeps on trying, He wipes it out alto-
gether, as He did Egypt, Assyria, Babylonia, Judea, and
Rome. Also, the parsons all agreed that Britain’s present
financial and mercantile greatness is due to the fact that
our ancestors w'ere GoD-fearing people with meek and
low ly hearts. And, listening to these piously-cocksure
persons, I could not help wondering how it can have
escaped their notice that, once the three-ball-man
and cheap-labor capitalist begin to rule a nation
—that nation is under sentence of death ! The
only thing that can save is the prompt eradication of
the economic ulcer. Rome’s ruin should be national
warning for all time. The Roman legionary, prior to the
stealing of Asia, w'as a peasant farmer of hardy body and
vigorous mind, who laid the foundations of military effi-
ciency by years of hard work in the open air. But the
conquest of Carthage, Macedon, Spain, and Greece
yielded an immense treasure which made the capitalist
and three-ball man mighty in the land, and the shent-
per-shent man got the peasant-farmer down and sucked
his life-blood. And the succeeding conquest of Asia
Minor, Syria, and Egypt utterly destroyed him, by the
increased capitalist power due to another immense swag
of boodle and the unlimited slave-labor supply of the
East. The plunder of Europe, Asia, and Africa was in-
vested in huge grain-growdng estates worked by cheap
imported labor, and the Roman peasant and legionary
disappeared. Then, when Italian agriculture was ruined,
the peasant had no manufactures to fall back upon, for
Rome imported all her manufactured goods from Asia.
Also, the capitalist and the usurer did not long survive
the peasant. It was cheaper to grow’ grain in Egypt
and Barbary, and export it to Italy, than to import the
slaves to Italy and grow the grain at home. Thus the
centre of gravity shifted East, and Rome lived on the
remains of her plunder, her tribute, and the money spent
in metropolitan display by rich absentee owners of
property and industries in Asia and Africa. For,
when the conquest ended, treasure ceased to flow in-
to Rome, and w'hat money was there streamed
back to the East and South for grain and goods.
Rome, in a word, went bung ! In 323 A.D. Byzantium
was in name and fact the capital of the empire. Even
the race had changed, the men who ran the empire w-ere
foreigners. Constantine the “ Great ” was the son of an
Asiatic by a Dacian peasant w'oman.
This isn’t the history of Britain, although it reads hor-
ribl.v like it. The men who built up Britain were tough
old dogs like Drake and Hawkins, who loaded up armed
merchantmen, and dropping into a foreign port gave the
townsfolk the option of buying the whole cargo at fancy
prices or having the town blown about their ears. And
even if the T.P. resisted, the British sailed in and, with
the help of God and good shooting, generally so well
made good their threat that the demand for English
goods became enormous. But the supply was limited ;
for capital was scarce in England. So the English mer-
chant adventurer bought goods anywhere, and to do this
he required more capital. Therefore if he overtook a
Spanish ship in a lonely sea he demolished her as an
enemy of God, taking good care, however, to send no-
thing of value to the bottom.
Thus, for a long series of years, the Briton fought
and waded through seas of blood to world - wide
empire. The plunder was incalculable. The markets
of the world were at his mercy. So he used his
tremendous wealth to increase his powers of production.
More factories were built, a burst of inventive energy
produced labor-saving machinery. The impetus was
irresistible; the merchant adventurer crushed all local
opposition and reigned supreme, running the landed
aristocracy, by the repeal of the corn laws, to cheapen
his cost of production. The hideous factory system
ground out heaps of gold—and piles of corpses !—what
did it matter. The nation grew prosperous; roads,
bridges, canals and railways appeared as by magic, and
Britain became the World’s pawnbroker—her greatness
thoroughly established—not upon the Bible, but upon
the infernal energy of the merchant adventurer and
the blood and sweat of British male and female
slaves, and of millions of miserable serfs of Hindostan.
It will be the modernisation of China that will prick the
bubble of Britain's manufacturing prosperity. China
must, of necessity, become a great manufacturing
country. If the Chow were like the Hindoo—imagina-
tive, spiritual, and anxious only about the life to come—
his modernisation might affect Britain and Europe but
little. But he is materialistic and industrial, and when
Europe masters his cussedness and supplies him with
railways, steam factories, and all the means of rapid
production, the “ Eulapean ” will promptly lose his
foreign trade, and will have to protect his home markets
by iron-bound tariffs. And Protection, carried to its
logical conclusion, means State control of production and
distribution. Failing Protection, the manufactures of
Europe will decay, her working population perish, and
the centre of gravity will once more shift East. And it
is because the British financial ring foresees this that it is
doing all in its power to prevent the division and modern-
isation of Chowland.
4
Gone Amissing 1 .
The disappearances of Vic. railway rolling-
stock, said to date back five or six years, may
be largely accounted for by the “ economies ”
of the acting-Commissioners who succeeded
Speight under instructions to make the rail-
ways pay. In their AGE-governed attempt to
produce more cheerful balance-sheets they cut
down the expenditure on rolling-stock until
probably hundreds of trucks, dozens of car-
riages, and a few engines were worn beyond
repairing. Anyhow, The Bulletin, some five
years ago, quoted the common talk of the
Government workshops that the stock was
being used up. It is easy for the Age to
charge inferentially the disappearance of 1667
trucks against Speight’s extravagant manage-
ment, considering that present Commissioner
Matiiieson can find no trace of them, and
merely “surmises they have at various times
been broken up as worn-out material.” It is
just as easy for Speight, now in Westralia, to
allege that he was extravagantly fond of
keeping things up to the mark, whereas
the men who came after him had no
policy except to effect on paper the
“ economies ” which their master, David
Syme, was clamouring for. If 1667 trucks
were actually missing at the moment when
King David gave instructions for Speight’s
removal, how came it that sensational evidence
to this effect wasn’t produced during the hear-
ing of the Space v. Time lihel-case? Syme
was then in a position to find out everything
worth knowing to his foe’s disadvantage, and it
isn’t credible that he could have missed sucli a
damaging fact as a shortage of 1667 trucks.
Most, if not all, of the “various times” re-
ferred to in Mr. Mathikson’s report must have
been the times when Economy at any Cost was
was practised in the interests of a journal that
had urgent reasons for putting Speight’s
management in the worst possible light.
“F.” to The Bulletin, on “Honesty as a
Native Industry ” :
Three eases of embezzlement by trusted servants came
up for judgment at Melbourne Criminal Court the other
week. In each the prisoner pleaded “first offence,” and
felt more or less aggrieved at being put away for nine
months, and even the Judge seemed to think himself
called upon to offer a half-apology for not treating these
rather flippant sinners under the First Offenders Act.
Melbourne sentiment is wondrous kind to any well-
dressed young man who borrows his master’s cash with-
out mentioning of it. The cheerful doctrine that
temptation justifies crime where cash is concerned seems
to be a popular article of faith with many people in the
Victorian metropolis. They write to The Bulletin pro-
testing against the cruelty of a commercial system which
expects a clerk to be honest on 30s. a week, and the fact
that he Is getting not less than the average mechanic of
the same age doesn’t appear to strike them, anyhow. But
temptation, when you come to think about it hard, is very
much a matter of habit in the individual employA If his
habits are above his means, so to speak, he gets sorely
tempted. He falsifies the books and becomes acquainted
with grief. If his habits don’t exceed his salary there’s
no temptation, and then his character for gazing un-
moved upon the gold when it is yellow adds a little, or
adds considerably, to his commercial value. The world
talks of cash temptation being placed in the way of a
particular Dick, Tom, or Harry, but the world doesn’t
consider what it is saying. Dick creates his own tempta-
tion and the cash supplies his want. To express much
sympathy for the fallen clerk is to encourage his younger
brother to cultivate temptation, and where the majority
can’t be trusted, confidence is destroyed and the prudent
minority whose aim in life has been to gain confidence,
and profit by keeping it, can’t get any confidence to
keep. Many of the loose-minded remarks sent from
Melb. to your office on behalf of captured clerklings
are quite too immoral for any journal. They represent
the offender in all cases as an underpaid toiler, who per-
forms a bare act of justice when he shakes the till. More
often than not his actual services are not worth the poor
wage he receives. He toils to the value of 15s. a week
only, and the balance is paid him for his supposed
honesty, therefore, if he robs his employer, he betrays
his trust before he embezzles the money, and as a First
Offender he isn’t in the same street for sympathy with
the poor devil who steals a pair of boots. The poor devil
aforesaid would often jump at a chance of going straight
for a small salary, but not being able to find a market
for his natural honesty he resorts to the pair of boots in
desperation.
«.
“ Alone ” : Who says the law was not made
for the lawyers ? Consider the trifling action
Rayner v. The Australian Widows Fund Life
Assurance Society. Rayner (a carrier) sued
the society for .£l9 19s. for injury sustained
by his waggon through the society’s negli-
gence. The case was tried in Melbourne
County Court before Judge Chomley. Ver-
dict for plaintiff; damages £l5. The rich
society appealed, of course, to the Full Court.
The three Judges who comprised that august
body, with three barristers and two solicitors,
spent 4i days more over it. Result : appeal
allowed, with costs. County - Court judg-
ment reversed with more costs ; total cost 3
which the unfortunate man who had his waggon
broken has to pay, about £2OO. Let the public
put its head in ice and think of it. Four
Judges, three barristers, and about four solici-
tors take nearly five days over a £l9 action,
and the society that lost it won it; and the
man that won it lost it, and £2OO besides.
Verily, the man that goes within 27,000 miles
of a lawyer’s office is a 16-donkey-power fool of
a client.
♦
The libel-action, P. K. M'Caughan v. the
Argus, which was just the protest of a pro-
vincial identity against annoyance by pro-
vincial humorists, was defended in a provincial
spirit. “We all know M‘Caughan,” and
“ everybody knows M‘Caughan,” said the
counsel for the big newspaper, whereas,
in an Australian way of speaking, nobody knows
M'Caughan. As a topical subject, he begins
and ends in Collins-street, and, as a matter for
labored ridicule, he was of no more importance
than a hundred other men, tall or short, who
air themselves in the same thoroughfare. The
Argus defence didn’t reflect much glory on
Tory journalism, anyhow. By pleading that
it was a trumpery case the Argus acknow-
ledged its weakness for firing off trum-
pery jokes, and the jury’s verdict for
£5 damages (carrying ,£6OO costs) harmonises
with the defendant’s humiliating confession.
The “Oriel” column, in Saturday’s Argus, is
mainly a small-beer chronicle, written for the
particular amusement of small cliques. If
Binks, of Ballarat, happened to fall off his
bike when “ Oriel ” was in the neighborhood,
Binks loomed as a public character in next
issue. The Binkses, as a rule, were proud of
being rhymed about, and they bought a few
copies of the paper for distribution among their
friends, and felt persuaded that its circulation
must be increasing by leaps and bounds. In
this case Binks—otherwise P. K. M'Caughan—
was not gratified, and a small-minded joke has
done more than £6OO worth of damage to the
perpetrator.
The old-time feud between what is and what
should be, moral right and legal right, duty to
conscience and duty to the Constitution, once
more broke out in contradictory speech in
N.S.W. Supreme Court, in the Sykes v. Daily
Telegraph libel-case, last week. Barrister B.
R. Wise (for defendant): “As was pointed
out in a former case, I would now point out, if
the Legislature does not do its duty and bring
the law up to date, the matter is in the hands
of the jury, and it is for them to protect the
public.” And then Chief - Justice Darley
(summing up) : “It is no part of the duty
of the jury to endeavor to defeat the law, or, as
Mr. Wise put it, to bring the law into harmony
with something which existed in his mind.”
The feud goes back to the beginning of trial by
jury. Baron Fitzroy-Kelly declared that the
refusal of juries to convict, when moral right
and legal right conflicted, was the parent of
English law-reform in the criminal cases of the
past. This is one of the reasons why those who
desire progress must stand by juries as against
the present claim to enlarge the jurisdiction
of Judges. The juror remains a man ; the
Judge may become a legal machine.
*
Whatever explanations ex-Premier Nelson
and others may make, published facts show
that Somers Vine’s New Guinea land-grab was
not only in contemplation but actually decided
upon when the Australian Premiers last met in
Melbourne to discuss the affairs of that island.
The meeting of the Premiers took place at the
end of January last. Governor MACGREGOR,
who was present, was then in a position to
acquaint them with the definite, and, so far as
he was concerned, accepted offers of the Vine
syndicate. On this topic, however, he appears
to have remained absolutely silent. Why ?
The purpose of the meeting was specially to
obtain from the Australian Premiers a guarantee
that the subsidy towards the governing expen-
ses of the island would be renewed for another
ten years. Apparently, the material fact that
the best part of the property was given over to
the hungry and rapacious Vine (who brought to
Australia letters of introduction from the
Prince of Wales) was suppressed lest the
Premiers would refuse their signatures. The
Premiers present were Reid, Turner and
Forrest (Westralia subscribing about £2OO to
the subsidy), and Gov. Macgregor in the
transaction is made to look like a man who
obtained accommodation from a financier on the
strength of property over which he had already
given others a lien.
+
Premier Reid’s speech at Milton leaves things
very much as they were. He still wants cer-
tain clauses in the Federal Constitution altered,
but, with one solitary exception, he doesn’t
specify his alterations. The one definite item is
that he is against the arrangement whereby the
Commonwealth is empowered to take over the
railways “ with the consent of the States.”
Premier Reid himself voted for the retention
of these words ; so did Abbott, Lyne, M‘Mil-
lan and O’Connor—Walker and Wise being
the only N.S.W. delegates on the other side.
And now Reid either wants the Commonwealth
to have power to take over the railways
absolutely, or else no power to take them over
at all. The two things are exactly opposite,
and he is willing to take either of them, but
the thing which he fought for in the Convention
is the one thing which he won’t have now at
any price. Also, the new Reid is against the
Braddon clause, on the ground that it com-
mits the Commonwealth to Protection.
He had been prepared to risk his Freetrade policy in
the Federation, but they must give him a fair start. Do
not let them bring in a policy before the Federal Parlia-
ment had a chance of voting on it
This is the new Wobbler Reid. The old
Wobbler, in his famous Sydney oration, said
that the Braddon clause rather tended towards
direct taxation than towards Protection, be-
cause a Treasurer who wanted £250,000 would
prefer to raise £250,000 by direct taxation and
keep it all than raise a million by Customs,
ami keep £250,000, and return the other
£750,000 to the States. LikewiseßEiDcomplains
that Premier Braddon, whom he, without the
slightest provocation, described in the Conven-
tion as a lunatic, hasn’t been “ courteous ” to
him. And that is about all.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £49,349,231
Increase in Assets during 1897 ... ... ... ... 4,187,992
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 10,508,995
Increase in Surplus during 1897 ... ... ... ... 1,513,749
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 198,159,549
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897 ... ... 7,513,284
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L C. •
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. U’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Telephone 2761.
(LATE OF MELBOURNE)
TAKES THE LEAD for
(lifelike and j|rtistic portraits.
NEW STUDIOS :
308 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
OVER LLOYD & COLLINS’.
SIMPLEST-MOST DUKABLE-BEST.
Light
Running
|]eiu Rome
Sewing
Machines
Write for Illustrated Price List
(Free).
Genuine Needles, Parts and
Fittings for all Machines.
Madame Weigel’s Paper Patterns,
Catalogues and Journals.
J. W- Johnston & Co-,
746 George Street, Haymarket,
SYDNEY.
222 Swanston Street
67 Queen Street
Melbourne.
Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal. “ Straight from the Heart."
Her Ma-tbsty’s “A Royal Divorce.”
Lyceum uThe Sea of Ice.”
Royal Standard “ My Sweetheart ”
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Little Minister."
Royal. “Silver King.”
Bijou “ La Perichole.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Town Hall Newbury’s Saturday “Pops.”
Under the guidance of the Most-Travelled,
Mr. and Mrs. Durward Lely made their first ap-
pearance in Sydney, at the Centenary Hall,
during the week. Scotch songsters come and go
every now and then, and they all give us “ Scots
wha hae,” and “The Land o’the Leal,” and the
“Laird of Cockpen,” and Durward Lely does
these things too, but with a difference. He acts
his songs as well as sings them. His voice is a
fine tenor, polished to a high degree of shine, and
a happy suggestion of a successful operatic past
seems to put the final rub on the polish. Mrs.
Durward opened the programme with a, piano-
forte solo, in which a number of Scotch airs were
run into each other’s arms without introduc-
tion. It was the baldest arrangement of
airs this scribe has ever listened to, and
the rendering was not much of an improvement
on the ‘ ‘ Silvery Waves ” of an ordinary schoolgirl.
Things brightened up when Durward appeared,
and was well into his first song, but it must be
owned that the opening pianoforte selection was a
little discouraging. The “Laird of Cockpen”
was one of Mr. Lely’s most successful efforts. The
house wanted to encore every verse, and various
Scotchmen showed their appreciation of the fun
by exploding some five minutes after the joke.
Every action suggested in the song was acted
vivaciously by the singer, and when the Laird
mounted his horse, and rode home a sad and
single man, Mr. Lely threw his legs up in the air
to indicate that he was mounting his steed, then
see-sawed for several minutes in imitation of
the ride home. Each song was preceded by
a few remarks about the composer and his
Surroundings, then several good Scotch stories
about whuskey were introduced, and if they
were not about whuskey, they were about
the meenisters, and sometimes they were about
both. And although the best yarns were all
wetted with whuskey, they never missed fire.
Towards the end of the programme the historical
sketches begin to drag a little. Some of Lely’s
stories look faded in the glare of the nineteenth
century electric-light, but the singing and acting
redeem everything, and with the wee drappie
anecdotes thrown in the entertainment is a bright
and pleasing one. Mrs. Lely accompanies her
husband with much canning, and little Miss Elly
Fusch fiddles in a highly meritorious manner that
doetn’t attempt to suggest infant prodigy, and
consequently impresses you with no small force.
4k 4k 4k 4k
Sydney Royal show has developed no new
features since it was last mentioned in this column.
There is no improvement in the character of Cos-
grove’s red-headed man, and the sudden death of
that fat and insolent minion may, therefore, be
set down as a just interference on the part of
Providence. How he came by his money isn’t
stated, but his grotesque ferocity suggests that he
probably made it killing pigs on a large scale.
His hairiness and the crackling on him lend ad-
ditional weight to this theory. Anyhow, the
writer regards Cosgrove’s red-headed man as the
most interesting character in the drama, and he is
the only one who dies before he has time to become
utterly improbable. How utterly improbable the
other characters contrive to become was fully
described in a previous issue, but the blaze of
scenic magnificence fairly compensates for every-
thing. Red is the prevailing color-note of
“Straight From the Heart.” It begins
with the fiendish machinations of the red-
headed man in his palace; and he is mur-
dered by a red revolutionary under the soft,
reddish light of colored lamps. An officer
decked with a red scarf tries to arrest Baker, but
that wrongly-suspected hero gets away, and is
married to his best girl on the deck of a gallant
ship under a mass of red and other-hued flags, and
then the ship takes fire and red flames nearly
devour them. After that they escape on to the
shores of a red Sahara beside a blue sea, and are
at their last gasp when the red-turbaned Spahis
come to their rescue, and haul Baker away
prisoner, tied to a big horse with red trappings,
and cast him into a prison where he is guarded by
two soldiers with red pants. Then his red, red
blood is just going to flow on the guillotine when
the bomb of the red republicans goes off with
a huge blast of red fire, and knocks the guillotine
in every direction at once. Altogether, “Straight
from the Heart ” is about the reddest thing
Sydney has seen this year.
4k 4k 4k 4|f
An mcl-time drama, written in the days
when the dramatist had time to think, and could
peacefully dream of the plot of his next play over
a pot of wassail or some other ancient refresh-
ment, is the “Sea of Ice,” which is now taking a
turn at Sydney Lyceum. The author of the “Sea
of Ice ” was guiltless of history and geography,
and mixed up his latitudes in a fearful manner,
but he contrived to make a play with a streak—
just one streak—of real art in it. It commences
on the deck of a French ship—the ponderous
yellowy-brown ark of 200 years ago—off the coast
of Mexico. The crew mutiny under the leader-
ship of the wicked passenger, and they put the
captain, his wife and child, and the faithful comic
sailor, adrift in a small boat. That boat puts up
a terrific record by drifting about 3000 miles in
two weeks and lands them on an iceberg. All
parties mention that there is no wood there, which
is obviously the reason why they are found living
in a wooden hut. Instead of departing in
the wonderful boat they stay and freeze and
pray and dodge bears, and finally they burn
the boat to keep themselves warm —the boat burns
oeautifully because it is so wet ; and just then the
Iceberg breaks up, and the captain and his wife
are drowned, and the comic sailor disappears,
while the child floats away on an ice-floe call-
ing “ Mother.” The said ice-floe does 3000
miles back again against the current without
melting, and drops her on the shores of Mexico,
where she grows up to be a beautiful brown
Indian. There she finds the treacherous pas-
senger, who is now an enormously rich Mexican
nobleman commanding a French force in a Spanish
colony. He is conversing with the girl’s grand-
mother and her long-lost sister, who wear fashion-
able Parisian costumes on a lonesome shore where
they are being fired at by Indians, and these ladies
recognise her at once.
* * * *
Then the late passenger falls in love with
her and takes them all back to Paris, and as the
Indian girl won’t love him in return he gets the
Regent Duke of Orleans to exile her grandmother
and sister back to Mexico. As Mexico isn’t
French territory this seems rather a liberty. The
comic sailor, who was left drowning at the North
Pole 15 years previously, steps in without explana-
tion. And just here a sudden streak of intensity
comes into the ridiculous drama, for the Indian
girl marries her gilded and tremendous Mephis-
topheles, after all; and he goes slowly mad for love
of her, and she leads him the life of a demon
sitting on a brisk fire in Tophet. Before he has
time to grow quite mad, however, the Regent con-
fiscates his stupendous pile, and orders him to be
cast into a dungeon, and then he dies miserably
with a load of discrepancies on his head.
• • • •
The strong dramatic force of that last act
makes it worthy of a really great actress, and
how such a streak of brilliance got mixed up with
the bosh of the impossible boat, and the child who
navigates 3000 miles on a bit of ice, calling out
“ Mother !” passes all comprehension. Any-
how, it makes up for a multitude of
sins, and the child shrieking on the ice, and
the comic sailor who kills a large bear by hand,
with 120 more large bears looking on, are
hereby dismissed with a caution. Harry Diver
and Miss Inez Bensusan divide most of the honors
between them. Diver, as usual, is a finished
actor and a polished villain, and he does full jus-
tice to a strong situation, when he comes down
crash in the height of his insolence and glory, just
when he is thinking of buying up France with the
loose change in his waistcoat pocket. Miss Ben-
susan also makes a powerful effect in the same
scene; and any glory that is left over belongs to
Harry Shine, as the comic sailor, who slays the
vast bear by hand at the Pole. The Bulletin
suspeots that Act V. was written by Dumas, and
the other four acts by Deadwood Dick, but that is
mere theory.
4k 4k 4k 4k
Even the long-enduring “ Sign of the
Cross ” can’t last for ever, and that sturdy drama
pegs out on Friday night. It leaves The Bulle-
tin still uncertain as to whether Marcus, when the
lion got him down and breathed on his patrician
countenance, didn’t wish with all his heart
that he was safely back in a state of paganism,
but with a distinct leaning to the opinion that he
did. For the lion is a dirty, hairy animal with a
wet nose and a matted head, and a more uncom-
fortable death for a clean pagan could hardly be
imagined. This paper has an idea that it would
be quite as much to the point if Marcus handed
Mercia politely into the arena, and gave her his
word of honor as a gentleman that he would go
straight home and cut his throat respectably,
where he wouldn’t make an unpleasant public ex-
hibition in his last moments. Such a course
would be just as much plain suicide as the
one he adopts, and it would be a great deal nicer.
It is hereby suggested that the closing days of the
“Sign of the Cross” should be adorned with a
fierce clerical controversy in the newspapers as to
whether Marcus wished he hadn’t done it when it
was too late, or. whether he was glad he did it.
And, meanwhile, it is fitting to mention that that
fine spectacle, “ A Royal Divorce,” resumes at
Her Majesty’s on Saturday, and Napoleon will re-
treat from Moscow for a limited season only.
4k 4k 4k 4k
Comedian George Wood disappeared out
of the Tivoli bill a little while ago and has been
attempting to be comic in bed under serious
difficulties. He has now recovered, however, and
has resumed his old spot to the gratification of
everybody concerned. John Coleman and Misses
Peggy Pryde and Marian Ainsworth still hold
their places in the affections of Sydney, though
the fact that Michael Nolan is leaving creates
a feeling of chastened resignation. Apart from
the lamented departure of Michael Nolan there is
not a cloud on the Tivoli horizon at present.
4k 4k 4k 4k
“My Sweetheart,” sacred to the' memory
of Minnie Palmer when that fluffy angel in a
pinafore was at her best, is now being played at
Sydney Royal Standard. “My Sweetheart ” was
a pretty little trifle before it grew hackneyed and
before the muddy footprints of the critics and the
divorce court advt. began to appear on the white
skin of Minnie Palmer, and the writer feel 3 sorry
for it somehow.
4k 4k 4k 4k
Fraulein Elly Fusch, whose violin-playing
so charmed Durward Lely’s audience on his open-
ing-night, and whose portrait appears in another
column, is a native of Berlin, and was taught by
Joachim and Sautet. On her arrival in Maori-
land, where she was advised to go lest she should
affect the audiences of the Albani co. (which in-
cluded a violinist), accounts of her short life,
translated from the German, were published in
the papers. When asked for a copy by a Sydney
scribe, she said she had not kept one. This is
delightfully illustrative of the innocent youthful-
ness of Joachim’s favorite pupil. The veteran
mediocrity usually carries about cartloads of press-
notices and biographies.
“The Alhambra Girl”—onetime “The
Arabian Nights ” —was trotted out at Melb. Bijou
on Saturday, and the old, reliable humor of that
three-act farce had charms for the multitude.
“ The Alhambra Girl ” is mostly mother-in-law
carried to the limits of endurance, but not further.
An untamed female in green and pink takes pos-
session of a married man’s virtuous domicile
whilst his wife is away, and compels him to mis-
represent her as his niece for fear of the ruthless
gorgon who runs the establishment. Conse-
quently, the real niece gets rushed into a neighbor-
ing hotel, and pays visits to her bona-fide uncle at
embarrassing moments, and the sins of the gaudy
female impostor are visited upon the innocent
relative’s head. Also, the wife brings a fresh stock
of complication into the business, and the husband
becomes entangled in so many attempts to
deceive his family that he at last rises against his
mother-in-law, and lives happily ever afterwards.
Miss Myra Kemble and co. took right hold of
“The Alhambra Girl” on Saturday, and made
the aged joke travel pretty fast. The co. had one
or two palpable weaknesses —the mother-in-law
wanted to look young and giddy, rather than a
terrible woman of 50, and a disreputable waster
named Josh was too fond of lashing out his off-
hind leg—but the performance, taken altogether,
looked likely to keep the little house warm for six
nights.
4k 4k 4k 4k
From next Saturday until the 25th the
Australian Opera Co. will deal with “La Peri-
chole ” at the Bijou, in aid of hospitals and for
the gratification of amateur ambition. George
Leopold, stage manager, also Harcourt Lee, is
engaged in directing the music in the way it
should go, and the principals will have a chorus
of 80 voices to fall back upon from time to time.
4k 4k 4k 4k
“The Little Minister,” at Melb. Prin-
cess’s, hasn’t achieved a stupendous triumph thus
far, but it draws large congregations and
sends them home with a sweet taste in the mouth.
The loves of Pattie Browne and Cecil Ward,
having risen suddenly from a poetic mist, get
warm in a convincing kitchen and hurry along to
a bright finale. It is a play of pretty situations
(in which scene-painters Gordon and Clint have
something to say) and tender moments
and bits of auld kirk character. The
joy of Lang Tammas Macvicars, Oily Deer-
ing, Sweeney, and others, on discovering that
their shepherd has accidentally married an earl’s
daughter, whereby he will be able to raise his
tabernacle higher in the sight of the Lord than
any other kirk for miles aroun’, is a beautiful
lesson in Scotch piety. Likewise the glory that
shines upon Nannie from k above when the Rev.
Dishart drinks tea from her best tea-cup. One
remembers these passing incidents, whilst for-
getting what is false, or flabby, in the little narra-
tive. Some of the Scotch characters lapse into
Irish brogue occasionally, and Oily Deering’s
fruity humor is an Anglo-Australian product, but
they diffuse an auld kirk sentiment nevertheless.
And the earnest hypocrisy of auld kirk sentiment
is always entertaining. “ The Little Minister ”
should run for another week or two, and perhaps
by that .time the uncomfortable captain (Walner
Gregory) will have further modified the curve in
his back and the Wilson Barrettian lump in his
voice. He has modified them somewhat since the
first night, and the more he goes on improving in
those respects the better the world will like it.
4k 4k * 4k
Early next month “ The American Girl,”
a farcical musical comedy of Australian parent-
age, will be produced at Melb. Princess’s by an
energetic syndicate, and this coming event has
begun to cast advertisement shadows before as
though something big is expected to ensue. The
music is by Alfred Moulton, the “ Lelamine ”
composer, and Henry Temple furnishes the two-
act libretto. Seeing that “Lelamine” was an
amateur outbreak in aid of a hospital and under
the patronage of sundry distinguished persons
(who, by the way, showed very little enthusiasm
in cashing up for their seats), it seems desirable to
mention that “ The American Girl ” will be run
as a purely professional show, on its merits, and
with an Australian tour in view. The company
includes Miss Fanny Liddiard, lively Lottie
Moore, and Albert Bellman, Little Gulliver, and
tenor Rose, new to Melbourne, who has been
taken over from W. and M. John Wallace is
stage-managing.
4k 4k 4k *
The Johanna drama is finishing its third
and last week at the Royal, where one more revi-
val of “ Silver King,” with Titheradge in the
name-part, will occur on Saturday. This generally
fickle country has never swerved from its faith in
the white-haired penitent whom Titheradge
realised on the Royal stage many years ago, and
the recent Denver appearances of boomsome Bar-
rett have probably created a public craving for
one more look at Geo. S. Tith. in his good old
character. There can be only seven chances to
satisfy the long-felt want, anyhow. On Saturday
week (25th) the season will close with a farewell
benefit to Titheradge aforesaid. He goes away to
London, and the Holloway co. departs for Wes-
tralian fields and pastures new.
** * *
The Hegelmanns are just now making their
last Australian somersaults in the Opera House,
previous to moving along to ’Frisco, or somewhere,
at the instigation of an enormous salary. Also,
the Mintons are dancing the duets that they
danced at the Royal pantomime, last Xmas ; and
the Poluskis have changed their “turn,” and the
Tiller ballet maintains its health and strength.
There are two variety shows in Melbourne since
Saturday. Harry Cogill has opened the Gaiety,
and promises to devote his best endeavors to keep-
ing the gates of that establishment ajar. An
educated baby elephant is about the most various
item in CogiU’s first programme.
4k 4k 4k 4k
The Trinity College attack upon “Alkes-
tis ” was to have come off at Melb. Town Hall
this Thursday, but it has been postponed on
account of an accident to Miss Towl, the leading
lady. She came off her bike unexpectedly—all
leading actresses, amateur or otherwise, are getting
bruised in the same way, of late —and another
lady will impersonate the heroine’s dead body.
Meanwhile the other lady is in active rehearsal,
along with Hercules and co., and Marshall Hall’s
orchestra and chorus. The delay is a great trial
to several alleged adorers of ancient Greek drama,
but theymust put up with it. Probably “Alkestis”
will be produced on Tuesday or Wednesday of
next week.
* 4k » 4k
Phil Newbury’s final “ Pop ” concert will
crowd the Town Hall on Saturday, weather per-
mitting. Seven previous programmes have fetched
seven big crowds, and the season may be expected
to close with a pop worthy of the occasion.
4k m * *
The Alva-Verne Concert Co. is to intro-
duce itself at the Town Hall on June 2oth.
Manager Lemmone, who knows what ought to go
in this rather musical country, guarantees the
quality of the forthcoming artists. Madame Alva
is a fine soprano, and Miss Adela Verne is said to
be the very best lady pianist under the broad
canopy of heaven. Furthermore, Samuel Masters
figures as Hingland’s coming tenor, and Lemmone
on the flute can always take his own part in the
best of company.
4k 4k 4k 4k
Fitz Gerald Bros.’ circus took the long
jump from Auckland, M.L., to Cooktown, N.Q.
But their enterprise was rewarded : <£37o in. the
house on opening night.
At Poverty Point.
Writing' from ’Frisco, M. Lucien Vaunod, well-known
in Melbourne musical circles, says: “ Heard so much of
Melba that I expected a very great deal. I found more—
a wonderful voice ! Never the least exertion ; you always
feel there is so much in reserve. Technique wonderful;
runs like strings of pearls, and trills on such high notes
that it takes your breath away. Who said that Melba
was not an actress? Saw her act the ‘Traviata’ with
wonderful power and subdued strength. House packed
—s7Boo taken, and Melba recalled six or eight times
after each act. Prices exorbitant ; $7 to $2 for reserved
seats; cheapest ticket $l, for standing-room at back of
gallery ; boxes as high as $4O. Melba casts even the war
in the shade.”
J. W. Sweeney, the best rough Irish comedian of the
Australian stage, is a Scotchman for the first time in
“ The Little Minister.”
Binoc : “ Why ‘ happy ’ and ‘ unhappy ’ marriages of
eminent pros. ? Those that you call unhappy may have
been the happier just because they were what you call
unhappy—and vice versa. Think it out.”
A big, fat ledger, the roll cf the Vic. Old Colonists’
Association, was on hand at their Melb. Carnival last
week. The first name in the volume is George Selth
Coppin, a native of Sussex, by the way. It was quite
difficult to find the next name of a living man after Cop-
pin’s. He signed in 1869, on the formation of the Asso-
ciation, which he patented.
When Melb. University’s first Mus. Bac. was recently
getting up a concert to raise funds to carry his small
body and large brains to Europe, he asked Acting-
Governor John Madden’s patronage as Chancellor of the
University ; but was informed by the private sec. that
though as Chancellor of the University John might
have patronised and presided, his dignity as Waxcellency
rendered such a thing out of the question, except in the
cause of charity.
Story Gofton, Cartwright’s stage-manager, is a Gofton
of more than one story. He has a habit of keeping his
wigs in cigar-boxes, and was once seized by U.S. customs-
officers for neglecting to declare tobacco and cigars on
entering the States. He was hauled along to the sheds,
with his luggage, and carpeted. He was given the option
of “ declaring,” but stuck out that he bad nothing to
declare. In the face of the cigar-boxes, caught red-
handed, as it were, he was regarded as a mild lunatic;
but he insisted on having the boxes opened and examined.
It was done. He is still regarded as insane in the Great
Republic.
Charles Godfrey, who was apparently a wreck when he
left Australia, is now touring the English provinces with
a co. of his own. His latest musical sketch is said to be a
work of art. It is adapted from an incident in “The
Manxman ” —the discovery by Pete that he is not the
lawful father of the infant he makes so much fuss about,
Says a London weekly—“ With one cradle, one dummy
baby, and a continuous musical accompaniment, Mr.
Godfrey contrives to give us the most affecting perform-
ance he has yet vouchsafed unto the variety stage.” A
born actor, Godfrey.
Miss Nora Dane, one of the Melb. Conservatonum
pupils, who sang at an Allan Chamber music-concert the
other Wednesday, has departed for Europe with a view
to becoming yet “ another Melba.” Miss Dane has a
strong, pure soprano, anyhow, likewise a tall and pleas-
ing platform appearance, and her voice is not as old as
many that have gone ’Otne for culture.
Frances Saville has a two-years’ engagement at the Im-
perial Opera House, Vienna.
The energetic Nap-Boffard informs The Bulletin, by
means of a programme embellished with a lovely photo,
of himself, that he has lately been starring at Adelaide
Saturday Pop Concerts. By the way, Bollard, who is
understood to be a baron on his native heath, met Ben
Tillett in the Holy City and socialised with him as though
Noble Birth were of no consequence.
The approaching performance by the students of Trin.
Coll., Melb., of the “ Alcestis of Euripides” seems to
prey upon the mind of one Mr. H. C. J. Lingham. He
deplores the fact that the Italian method of pronunciation
is to be used on the occasion instead of the “ true Hellenic
elocution of the words.” He doesn’t say where that true
Hellenic elocution is to be obtained just now. Perhaps it
can be heard in the Melb. fried-fish and oyster shops,
which are mainly run by black, brigandish namesakes of
Homeric heroes. Miltiades used to sell fried fish right
opposite The Bulletin office.
S.S. : The greater part of one act of the “ Little Minis-
ter ” is rendered garish to me by a hideous green top-knot
that Pattie Browne wears in her hair. It is a fashionable
color, I believe, and there is not much of it, but, little as
it is, it vulgarises a scene, and makes one forget the
pleasures of the show in an absurd longing to pluck it up
and throw it to the goats.
Anyone heard murmuring Fattie Browne will be
turned out of the theatre.
(Continued on page 24.)


LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A pur's Carbolic Disinfectant.
FOR GENERAL USE.
SIR JOHN
Power’s Whiskey.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OP
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
“Tbc R€AL MACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES. J
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors
W
BLEACHING POWDER,
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, ]
36/38%
/itharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE ....
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
71%
Hy. Markwald,
178 William Street,
MELBOURNE ;
11 Pitt-st,, Sydney ;68 Curric-st., Adel.; Queen-st., Brisb.
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MEBGHAITTS,
82 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OE ALL HEAVY’
CHEMICALS.
Mining - Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tasmania’s little boom, so far as the present
year has gone, looks healthy. The first five months
revenue compares with the corresponding five months of
last year as follows
1897. 1898.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
January .. 66,938 7 0 73,063 12 9
February.. 59,018 S 4 71,760 9 0
March .. 73,812 9 7 79,189 1 5
April .. 68,108 2 7 78,052 19 6
May .. 66,750 4 7 74,757 18 4
Total £334,627 12 1 £376,854 1 0
The increase for the five months of the year is £42,226
Bs. lid.
• • • *
Premier Reid, who is looking round for votes
in view of the coming N.S.W. general election, promised
the people of Wollongong, last week, that the Port
Kembla Harbor Bill, at present stranded somewhere in
the N.S.W. Council, will be passed next session. Then
Port Kembla harbor is really to be commenced. The
Bulletin’s own impression is that Premier Reid was
taking a wildly humorous rise out of the Wollongong
people. Port Kembla is a patch of almost open coast,
sheltered from the east winds by South America, and
from the north-east by Mexico and Guatemala. It is not
quite so unprotected as Wollongong, but nearly so. At
Wollongong, a breakwater was built, and the playful
waves broke it and threw 25-ton blocks of concrete into
the harbor, and dredges had to go down and pick the
wreckage out of the fairway. There is only the stump of
an Unfinished breakwater at Wollongong now, and work
is practically abandoned. The local Trust is on the
rocks, and the Government shows no sign of
taking the job out of its hands and completing it.
At Port Kembla a private English co.—the Mount Kembla
Coal and Oil Co.—has the right to maintain a railway to the
harbor which is to be constructed with public money, and
the right to construct wharves there. It has even the
right to carry its railway through the town of Wollongong
if necessary. The public may use the co’s railway as
much as it darn well pleases—provided it pays sixpence
per ton per mile (say 10s. for conveying a ton of coal 20
miles) and finds its own trucks. The British co. is merely
bound to give the use of the permanent way and lend the
engine (at least 24 hours’ notice to be given that the
engine is wanted). The walls of the breakwater at Port
Kembla will have to be 70ft. from the foundation to
the top, and the cost will be enormous. No doubt a real
harbor is much wanted in the district, but the j earning
to build it just on the spot where a private co. has such
extensive rights to build and own the wharves and
approaches, and where the work will so greatly improve
a private co’s prospects, is a matter which smells with a
very dubious odour indeed.
* * • *
The Corporation of Sydney, which has been
drifting fast towards insolvency for some years, intends
to pull up. A committee of inquiry was languidly think-
ing over various needed reforms, when the misguided
ratepayers elected John Norton as an alderman. Aider-
man Norton came into the placid atmosphere of the
Council with a roar, and blew through the dusty halls of
municipal sleep like a blast of Sheol, and he woke up the
committee of inquiry to such good purpose that it thinks
it sees its way to reduce office expenses alone from
£31,493 to £18,467 per annum. With outside savings
added, the committee, thus roughly disturbed in its sleep,
reckons on a possible reduction of £23,993 per annum.
This is apart from savings in the flotation of loans and
the indefinite economies to be effected by keeping a
closer watch on the municipal embezzler, who has been
practically not watched at all in the past.
* * * *
Owing to the want of any decent insurance
legislation, Australia is fast becoming the happy hunting-
ground of life assurance offices of a very small and un-
satisfactory kind. The new concerns are all of the pro-
prietary order. A very few men—mostly men who are prac-
tically unknown —run the show in most cases. There is
generally very little paid-up capital, and how far the
shareholders are good for the unpaid capital if it is
wanted is doubtful. These small institutions mostly go
in for the cheap little 2d. a week business—presumably
because they thereby reach the only class which is ignor-
ant enough to put its money into concerns of so little
promise. Also they fill no public want. All the 2d. a
week insurance which Australia requires is more than
provided for, and the only visible end which the new
companies serve is to supply billets for a number of
people.
The Bulletin has before it the balance-sheet of
the People’s Prudential Benefit Society, Limited, of 90 Pitt-
street, Sydney. This is really a proprietary life insurance
co., but on a very small scale. It has also power to trade
in any kind of property. There are two directors,
J. H. Oarruthers, M.L.A., a member of the N.S.W. God-
fearing Ministry, and John Macpherson. The rest of the
visible authority is secretary Mulligan. The society
commenced by buying from Mulligan the business of the
People’s Mutual Medical Benefit Society. Apparently Mul-
ligan was the whole of this old society ; anyhow, no direc-
tors or other authorities were mentioned in the purchase.
Mulligan is also apparently the biggest part of the new
society. The old society was sold by Mulligan to
the new society for 3500 paid-up shares of £1 each (£3500),
yet apparently all that was handed over was the good-
will ; at least, it is impossible to trace in the new
society’s balance-sheet any assets as having been trans-
ferred. The public took up 1500 more shares, and paid
up £438 10s. which, at the date of last balance-sheet,
was the whole cash capital of the new society. It
actually started with an issue of 5000 £1 shares, of
which '3500 were bestowed on Mulligan in return for
the goodwill of his old business. It is specified
in the articles of association that each member shall
have one vote for every 50 shares. The latest in-
formation which The Bulletin could get showed that
secretary Mulligan still had 3000 shares, so if the above
arrangement is adhered to he can seemingly outvote the
directors and all the other sharenolders, and run the
society himself.
The balance-sheet for the year ended 31st
August, 1897, shows that £B6ll was collected from the
public in premiums. Of this, £7228, or over 83 per cent.,
went in expenses—which is one of the worst things
in the way of expenses this paper ever heard of.
The policy-holders got back £534 in claims and
£849 was left. Therefore, out of every £1 subscribed
by the public in premiums, the said public got
about 3s. 3d. worth of insurance and the other
16s. 9d. went to pay the people who are living
on the business. The balance-sheet shows £4978
of liabilities, including capital, and against them are
£1405 of good saleable assets, and £75 of furniture and
stationery, the rest being the alleged goodwill of Mulli-
fan’s old society. A really gorgeous feature in the
alance-sheet is the statement that, “ after meeting the
necessarily heavy preliminary expenses of the society,
and making the payments agreed upon on the purchase of
the business of the People’s Mutual Medical Benefit
Society, there remains a surplus on the first and past
year’s accounts of £849 3s. 4d." There are no preliminary
expenses mentioned in the balance-sheet, and there
should be none of a serious character, as the new society
bought a ready-made business. Anyhow the purchase-
money of Mulligan’s old society didn’t come out of revenue,
and the balance of £849 odd didn’t remain after paying
frit at all events. The £849 was all that was left out of
£B6ll premiums after paying a few small losses and
£7227 for the ordinary working expenses of the affair.
If this was a case of starting an entirely new business, the
expense rate might be understandable, but the People’s
Prudential Benefit Society took over a business that was
ready-made. Whether the £849 that is left out of £B6ll
premiums is enough to cover all liabilities under its
policies it is impossible to say. If it is, it shows that the
policy-holders get very little' for their money. If it isn’t,
there is the £438 10s. of paid-up capital to fall back upon.
The People’s Prudential Benefit Society gives
about the same very bad value for the policy-holder’s
tuppence as other concerns of its expensively-managed
variety. The child’s endowment policy (Table E) is the
most glaringly remarkable of the lot. Under it, a new-
born infant may be assured for Id. per week. There are
certain very limited benefits in case of early death, and,
at the end of 15 years, if the penny is paid regularly, it
receives the magnificent sum of £2. That is to say, the
parent pays £3 2s. 6d. in all, and lies out of the money till
the child is aged 15, and loses all the interest, and, in the
end, the society, if it is still alive, gives back £2. The
Savings Bank would give twice the money, and far better
security, and, if payment stopped halfway, it wouldn’t
annex the sums already paid as the society seems to
do—at least there is nothing in its prospectus to
the contrary. The same institution, for 2s. per
week (£5 4s. per year), will insure a person aged 49
for £lOO payable at death —nothing is said about bonuses,
and no mention of any surrender value in case of
default. The A.M.P. Society gives the same amount
of assurance for £4 75., and incalculably better
security, and large bonuses, and gives back a very large
proportion of the premiums if the policy is surrendered.
The difference is a pretty steep price to pay for the mere
work of collection. And the joy of being insured in a
society whose balance-sheet shows £438 10s. paid-up capi-
tal is very limited. Also, the kind of law which permits
an institution to start doing life assurance business to an
unlimited extent on such resources is a remarkably bad
one, and the spectacle of a Minister of the Crown taking
a hand in such an unsatisfactory concern is not edifying.
Somehow N.S.W. Ministers and ex-Ministers seem much
addicted to the mean little 2d. a week insurance business.
About a dozen of them are, or have been, in it, and the
most disgraceful industrial assurance office which ever
burst in Australia, and paid nothing in the £, and refused
even to say where the money had gone to, was run by a
N.S.W. Premier.
• * » *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and Build-
ing Co. (Sydney), for the half-year ending 30th April, has
a net profit of £2895, and after paying a 10 per cent, divi-
dend (£1638) there is a balance of £1257 to carry forward.
Some recent profits of this institution are as follows :
31st October, 1895 (year) .. .. £2651
„ 1896 („ ) .. .. 6085
1897 ( ) 5123
30th April, 1898 Q year) 2895
Since ’95 £3OOO has been written off for depreciation ; the
reserves increased from £6250 to £10,950 ; an overdraft of
£3300 has been changed to a credit of £916 ; the balance
at credit of profit and loss has increased by £lOOO ; the
10 per cent, dividend has been paid regularly since April,
’96 ; and the co. only owes £10,012 to depositors and all
outside creditors. Altogether a better result than the
land, building and investment business usually show's in
these times. But the Intercolonial has been making its
biggest profits of late in Westralia, and considering how
the rush to buy sand-heaps at any price has abated of late
in Perth and Albany it is possible that the times ahead
are not so good as those behind.
« * • *
Somebody sends along the alleged prospectus of
the United Australian Publishing Co., Melbourne ; capital,
£12,000 in 12,000 shares of £1 each. Said prospectus is a
document which can stand a lot of hard thinking over.
The object of the co. is to publish books, magazines, and
periodicals ; it proposes to start with a penny weekly after
the style of the English Bits, and it professes to anticipate
that the profits will be enormous. It is “ proposed to re-
serve one-tenth of the subscribed capital as working capi-
tal,” which is painfully vague. Why shouldn’t all the
capital be working capital ? But the really stupendous
feature of the case is the position taken up by the pro-
moters. There are three of them—W. P. Brentnall, who
calls himself a “ literary accountant,” whatever in all
creation that may be ; A. C. Stevens, described as jour-
nalist ;C. F. Guthridge, advertising agent. These three
people are to be the first and sole directors, and run the
show all by themselves. Also, if they' are not re-elected
as directors they are still to be fixed for five years as
editor, sub - editor, and manager of the publish-
ing and advertising departments respectively, at salaries
not exceeding 1250 a year each. This is called an “ eco-
nomical arrangement,” but it seems like piling a good
deal of expensive management on a very small concern,
and it certainly supplies the three promoters with three
very comfortable billets. Apparently the shareholders
have no power whatever to shift them if they prove in-
competent and are making ducks-and-drakes of the
shareholders’ good coin. In addition to the billets and
the salaries and the directorships and the long engage-
ments, the three gentlemen are to have 500 fully-paid
shares apiece gratis. After the shareholders have re-
ceived 10 per cent, dividends, the promoters are also
to annex one-half the remaining profits. Yet they appar-
ently bring no visible assets of any kind into the business,
and put none of their own coin into it. The prospectus
appeals strongly to authors to take up shares and help
the show along on the ground that it will afford a splen-
did outlet for the little thing that the author has dashed
off. And there are so many authors in Australia who
have dashed a little thing off that it ought to succeed.
Altogether, the new co. looks about as good a thing to
leave in the hands of the promoters as could well be
imagined.
* • * •
Once again an attempt by the S.A. Railway
Commissioner to get at the ticket-scalper has failed—this
time on appeal from the Police-court. At the lower court
Gordon, S.M., fined the scalper £5 for selling tickets.
Proved, however, that the scalper had lent his “ clients ”
certain money to buy the full tickets, that the clerk had
sold the tickets to the “clients” while the scalper stood
by, and that the latter took the return parts—as security
for the money advanced, of course. Costs allowed against
the Crown, too.
• * * •
Cabled that Hooley is a bankrupt, which Hooley
attributes to the blackmailing he got from a section of the
London financial press, he having had to pay as much as
£lO,OOO for a single article. The Bulletin could name
that paper in two tries. Hooley will find that he won’t
have to pay anything to be written down. He should
furnish the world with a list of corrupt newspapers—
“ journals I have corrupted or that have corrupted me.”
The writer would like to know how many London financial
papers are not rotten. Only such mines as the Great
Boulder, that turn out ten times as rich as their owners
ever dreamt of, can run the gauntlet of the blackmailing
press of London and live. “ How I could boom the shares
in your co.” said a London editor to a big Westralian pro-
moter, who asked, “ Well, why don’t you ?” “ Well, you
see, I haven’t got any,” answered the mighty penman.
Mining experts, who have been travelling Australia, and
getting cheap liquor as Hooley’s representatives, will now
drop his name with as much ease as they took it on.
Some of ’em will, probably, go back to poor old Rothschild.
* * * *
A later cable says that promoter Hooley, since
his bankruptcy announcement, has received thousands of
letters of sympathy together with large offers of financial
help. Many of the syndicates and newspapers who black-
mailed him are returning thgir contracts and cheques and
appealing to him to preserve silence as to the details of
their transactions with him. St. Jambs’ Gazette explains
at length the position, and ascribes his failure to the leech-
ing of syndicates and newspapers. It states that Hooley
paid nearly a million pounds to “mailers,” and expresses
a hope that he will expose them. The Bulletin hopes so
too, and will think a great deal more of Hooley if he does,
and much less if he doesn’t. Probably the most rotten
institution in the world is the English financial press. Its
bingey is so puffed out with boodle that a clearing out
such as is now threatened will do all the good in the world.
As Hooley did nothing in the mining line, it is very desirable
that one of the dead-broke mining boomsters should also
tell his little tale. One of the biggest operating and pro-
moting organisations in London for the floating of Wes-
tralian mines has, it is well-known, paid away tens of
thousands to owners and editors of London financial
newspapers, and now that the boom is over and the
boodle harvest therefrom ended, the names of the men
and journals receiving these bribes are given with great
freedom. The writers continue to barrack for the mines
until they are wiped right out by liquidation, probably
quite innocent of the contempt and amusement with which
their little effeminate puff-box pars, are read by hundreds
of persons in the know. Quite a number of “ colonial ”
pressmen have so fattened on boom and boodle that they
have since become boomsters and boodlers themselves;
two or three adding mining-expertship and underground-
engineership to their other qualifications.
* * • •
That clothing manufacturer’s sentence of 12
months’ imprisonment and £5OO fine should be most en-
couraging to the many other Vic. traders who are profit-
ably running the local drawback blockade. Weenan has
had 18 months’ free run of the Vic. purse, and, should he
not have made enough to compensate for 12 months’ com-
fortable board and lodging (for such it is in Vic.) and the
refund of a comparative discount to Govt, of £5OO, he is
not the smarty his friends have always thought him to
be. Which recalls that Weenan was the man who was
“ landed” (as he thought) with a liability of £50 —against
which he had taken 50 to 1 Patron for Melb. Cup. The
best offers he had to hedge were 60, 66, and 100 to 1, the
night before Patron’s win. As the average “ little ”
Hebrew hates to face a loss, the natural antipathy forced
him to land £2500.
* * * *
Ballarat Stock Exchange has issued a circular
to the directors of local mines, requesting them to in-
struct their mining and legal managers to forward imme-
diate information as to new developments so that it can
be posted promptly at the Exchange, to prevent the early
birds catching all the worms. Which simply means that
the Exchange wants the biggest early bird itself.
* * * *
Gippsland working miners think very little of
Mt. Deddicks. “ Another Bendock,” they say. And the
working man in mining looks below the surface.
* * * *
Bendigo, which opened the year splendidly, and
promised that ’9B should outstrip ’97, whose gold-yield
was the decade’s record, is falling, off. May output was
17,2720 z short of ’97’s.
* * * •
Bendigo’s mining pride just now is the Nevv-
Chum Railway, which has paid £27,667 in dividends in
five months—not a big aggregate, perhaps, but in that
district of small co’s and limited capitals it means 15s. per
share. Moreover, the metal comes from below 2900 ft. ;
the shaft is down to 3040 f t, which is 2290 ft. below sea-
level. And .prospects are still remarkably good.
Talking of deep workings, besides the N.C.
Railway, at Bendigo, there are there the Shenandoah,
which has just got on to a new reef-formation at 3102 ft. ;
the Eureka, which is now going down to 3000 ft. ; and
.others in the same neighborhood, besides the Lansell
mines, of equal depth, in another part of the field. And
the shareholders are stickers, too. The South Belle Vue,
same neighborhood, has just made its 82nd call of 6d.
« * * *
Broken Hill Consols workings are still in
phenomenally rich ore, much of it assaying 30 per cent,
silver. The vein is, of course, narrow —mostly under Bin.
The stuff is boxed and sent to England, the home of the
co.
* * * •
B.H. Prop, roasters at Pt. Pirie have begun
work in connection with the sulphide treatment.
* * * *
Gibraltar Consolidated Gold Mines, N.S. W.—
Melted gold, 13370 z. ; concentrates, 4600 z.; chlorinated
gold, 9400 z.; tailings, 150 oz.—total, 28870 z. Magnificent,
but what about tonnage V A case in which a small mine
worked in the old N.S.W. fashion has become a big,
steady producer through a big, well-calculated outlay.
• * * •
Mining-man Roberts, of Sydney D.T., confirms
the reports of the good mining, milling, and cyanide work
done on the Myalls United mine, N.S.W. Three years ago
£40,000 cash was paid for it. For some twelve years it
had been worked, or gutted, for an average of an oz. per
ton. The new co.’s estimated average on heavy tonnage
was ioz. Present average, with milling and cyaniding,
sdwt., and the mine is paying at that. Production to
date —battery, 21,421 tons for 47540 z., value £18,394 ;
cyanide, 12,053 tons for 34460 z., value £9688. In antici-
pation of a much bigger thing the same London crowd
gave £20,000 cash for the Tomingley mines, in same
locality. They have since proved their worthlessness by
the expenditure of £7OOO, and the co. is harassed by
objections to any suspension of labor conditions. Sixty
thousand lovely golden sovs. for these mines ! Who got
it ? And are they making good use of it ?
* * * *
Singleton. N.S.W. : “ Mining is brightening up
in the district of Scone. The last crushing from the
Royal Standard yielded 2370 z. from 160 tons, and cyanide
gave 440 z. more. At Omadale Brook, Towns treated 12
tons for the excellent return of lOOoz. The Federation
claim at the same place crushed 100 tons for 1540 z., and
Johnstone’s claim in same district gave 80oz. from 60
tons. Want of capital to carry on development work is
generally regarded as the main drawback of the field.”
Some day the writer expects to have the same old want-
of-capital wheeze about Klondike.
**_ * •
There are several ways of putting the Chillagoe
Proprietary Co.’s scheme. This is one way, seemingly. On
the strength of “ a most favorable report from Mr. Alex.
Stewart,” the original £lOO syndicate shares (200) have
been allotted a paper-value of £5BOO conditional on a
further payment of £4OO, i.c., £5OO in all upon each
share. 200 shares at £5OO will provide a credit of £lOO,OOO
for the new co. in cash, whilst Mr. Stewart’s report pro-
vides a further credit of £1,060,000 in face value of shares.
Further working capital to be obtained from the issue of
320,000 fully paid shares at £2 each. The inducement for
the public to buy £2 shares in the Chillagoe Proprietory
Co. is the suggestion that the co’s copper-mines will pay
good divs. on a paper capital of £1,800,000 ; not yet
awhile, but when the mines are properly developed, and
for ever afterwards. Taking 7 per cent, to be good in-
terest, the property is to yield an annual profit exceeding
£'125,000 per annum. The term “ Mammoth ” applied to
this scheme by Melb. Argus sounds almost satirical.
* * * *
Published from Brisbane that it is known there,
on the best of authority, that Mathieson, ex-Commis-
sioner of local railways, and now Vic. Commissioner, is
the holder of seven original Chillagoe shares, that he ha 3
sold four for £BOOO, and could have disposed of the others
at an equally high rate. Writer can imagine the good,
healthy Scotch expressions which Mr. Mathieson would
let loose in reading the par.
* * * •
S.J. : “Look here: Chillagoe has been worked
for the last nine years, and let me tell you that up to the
present moment not one true lode has been discovered.
Does it not strike you that if the Chillagde and Herberton
country was as rich as Melbournites are trying to make it
out we Queenslanders, who know something of the mining
business, would not have abandoned it for years ? ”
» * * *
The ’97 report of Q. Department of Mines is
before the public. The year ’B9 used to pose as the boss
year in gold-production, turning out nearly three-quarters
of a million ounces. ’97, however, gave the top figures of
813,2060 z. Of this, nearly SOOOozi hailed from Papua.
Queensland stands now, therefore, abreast of Victoria,
Westralia rapidly overtaking both. Large economies
must have taken place, for the average yield per ton has
dropped from loz. 3dwt. lOgr. to 19dwt. 19gr. Noticeable,
also, that the Etheridge, despite its many drawbacks, kept
up its output, producing 6660 z. above produce of previous
year, although the quartz output fell off nearly 2000 tons.
Croydon was, of course, seriously hindered by defective
rainfall, and local enterprise in the way of dam-building
apparently doesn’t exist. The prosperity of the mining
industry can be easily gauged from the fact that the
mining population increased by 2471—f0r which Clermont
is, of course, mainly responsible. The crowning glory of
Bananaland was the Towers’ output of £1,030,190. ...
And here we may leave it.
* * * *
Croydon items : —Croydon Iguana Amalgamated
blocks lately milled 260 tons for 7510 z. 14dwt. Share-
holders divided from this £132 per one-eighth share, and
tributors got £135 each. Now working on a sft. reef of
ljoz. per ton stone... .Reported that Elmslie Limited,
management of La Reine d’Or, has made a rich discovery
in recent purchase, No. 3 and 4 West Iguana. More joy
for Bull and co. !.. .Strong local co. recently formed to
sink the Ophir Block shaft, and tap the rich shoots under-
lying the Iguana Hill. No British money in the concern,
but plenty of pluck, energy, determination, and local
capital No. 7 North Golden Gate promises to eclipse
the hitherto premier mine, No. 1. At latest, was working
on big reef, with 250 tons in paddock and crushing about
to start, with handsome div. to follow. Isolation has
hitherto been Croydon’s drawback. Railway communica-
tion with the east coast would boom the place and make
dividends roll out.
* * * *
During May, ’9B, Gvmpie crushed 8137 tons
quartz for 90170 z. lOgr. of gold, against 4317 tons for
60680 z. for May, ’97, or an increase of 3820 tons and 29490 z.
in favor of last month. Also, 1390 z. were won by cyanide.
Total production for first five months reaches 33,131 tons,
yielding 40,5800 z., against 21,084 tons, yielding 29,9770 z.,
for corresponding period of ’97. Present year, therefore,
shows production standing at 12,047 tons and 10,6030 z.
better than it did at same time last year. Total div. for
May, ’9B, £12,442 9s. Id., against £8546 for May, ’97. Last
five months’ profits stand at £66,441 14s. Id., against
£47,246 for corresponding portion of last year. May calls
amounted to £8507 18s. 4d.
* • • *
C. Towers turns out, for May, a return of 19,618
tons quartz for 20,0840 z., together with 41,154 tons tail-
ings and concentrates, giving 16,7260 z. ; total, 36,8100 z.,
against 27,1850 z. for May, ’97. Mt. Morgan gave 14,3630 z.
(12,7110 z. from quartz, 16520 z. from tailings and concen-
trates), as against 16,6870 z. for May, ’97. Croydon pro-
duced in all 39530 z , while Clermont alluvial returned
28080 z., against 16930 z. in May, ’97.
» » • *
Q. gold-returns, for May, show a satisfactory
increase on same period of last year. Quartz crushed in
May, ’97, was 59,701 tons, for 64,5080 z. Alluvial gold
amounted to 26250 z., making a total of 67,1330 z. For
May, ’9B, returns are : Quartz crushed, 100,675 tons ;
yield, 70,6520 z. ; alluvial, 36190 z. ; total, 74,1810 z. There
is thus an increase for May, 1898, of 70480 z. Returns of
Horn Island and Mackay not vet available.
* * * •
The recent big drop in a celebrated Charters
Towers mine was allegedly caused by a semi-millionaire
selling out his little lot, and buying into the Q. South
Great Easterns, Gympie—ls,ooo at 305., and 5000 at 40s.
was reported. Since then these shares have risen to 525.,
no sellers.
* « * *
Explanation by the Great Boulder (London)
secretary of the contract made with the Boulder Milling
Co. for the treatment of tailings. The G.B. Co. lends the
money for the purchase and installation of the plant up to
£20,000, but £BOOO will be enough to bring it into opera-
tion on the Boulder mine. The ,G.B. Co. receives half the
shares in the Milling Co., which will get 3dwt. per ton for
expense of treatment, and, of the surplus of the gold won,
the Milling Co. will get 40 per cent, and the G.B. Co. 60
per cent. The writer congratulates the Milling co. and
sympathises with the other. Allowing for the shares
given, this means that the Milling co. will get 12s. a ton,
which should more than pay the cost unless the process is
a dear one, and 20 per cent, of the gold obtained. On the
face of it it looks an outrage, and the G.B. shareholders are
the victims. Who are the shareholders of the Milling Co.?
According to the last report of the Boulder Co., the
gold contained in the tailings already on the
dumps is estimated by the manager at 55,4100 z.,
representing, at £4 an oz., a gross value of £221,640.
Accepting this explanation, published in London
as coming from the secretary, as correct, things
will thus work out : £33,242 for treating the tailings at
12s. per ton, and £84,780 representing 40 per cent, of the
balance of the gold w in, making a total for the Milling
co. of £118,022, and ti e G.B. co. would come in for half of
the profits by reason of us shares. It has the privilege
of finding all the money up to £20,000 1 Suppose the
process is a failure it will be : he G.B. co.’s funeral, and if
it succeeds the Milling co. wi- ■> all along the line, and the
B. co. will still have its fu. -ral. Are there any other of
the big producing minca of Kalgoorlie would like to make
similar contracts for the treatment of tailings and slimes ?
Where is the necessity of any contract at all ? What is
the matter with the system working at Lake View ? The
Konneman process may be the best in the world—it will
need to be—but that it has never before been heard of in
Australia is not a recommendation. If this is really the
contract made and signed, it should be the death-warrant
of those responsible for it.
* * * *
Great Boulder, fortnight, 1410 tons, 30760 z.
Production to date, 63,702 tons for 200,5340 z., or an aver-
age of 3oz. lldwt. per ton. A great record to make in •
three years.
* * * *
Denmark is freezing milk at a cost'of 3-40ths
of Id. per litre (about |th of a quart), and exporting it in
blocks to Paris, where it has been subjected to analytical
tests and found pure. Something of this sort should suit
the Australian summer.
* * * *
Gilfillan and M‘Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists ; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*


c.
ORIENT
••••••••••••
CLOTNINC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAK,.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND for samples.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board m the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
/ Opposite \
V G.P.O. )
SOCIETY
An almost inevitable result of the un-
speakable slush lavished upon our Recorddrain
warriors at ’Ome is the proposal now made to send
200 N.S.W. Lancers to England for six months’
“Imperial training.” These stalwart warriors,
not content with an easy and universal local mash,
long for the girls and the fleshpots of the anti-
podes, and are eager to exhibit to the doting
damselhood of Britain their bull-beef beauties.
Also, they will graciously permit their fellow-
citizens, per Government, to foot one-half the bill
for the glorious picnic. The “training” fiction
would be a lot too chin, even if N.S.W. was not
already paying for newly-imported cavalry-in-
structors who are, presumably, right up to date.
* » * •
The Yanko-Spanish trouble has proved the
puerility of that cable syndicate between Austra-
lian dailies. Every batch of mail news details a
number of readable incidents unchronicled by the
London cable-men, who have all through allowed
Australians to believe the war quite bloodless save
for the slaughter of Spaniards at Manila. How
different to the good old days when the rival
correspondents invented their incidents rather
than give no news at all ! Conflict between
England and another Power would at once knock
the bottom out of the cable amalgam—which must
save the already rich du'.ly press thousands a
year.
The daily newspaper business is an “all-right ”
trade, especially under the N.S.W. free-postage
system. The trouble is to get a fair start—which
is always tough work. Suppose, for instance,
that a newspaper with £50,000 capital was merely
paying expenses until within the last year or two,
how it must shovel the coin in now ! A few years
ago printing paper cost well over 2d. peril)/; to-
day it can be landed for little over a penny, and
what the difference means when many tons are
used weekly is easy to reckon. Also the average
daily now saves by using the linotype at least
•£lOO a week—linotype savings alone are in each
oflßce big enough to pay interest on say .£lOO,OOO
capital at 5 per cent. Yet papers are still retailed
at Id.
• • * •
Ed. Bulletin.— The correspondent who
objects to the regulation providing that Sydney
licensed vehicles shall go past a church on Sunday,
during “service,” at a walking pace, is unreason-
able and inhuman. The noise of passing ’buses,
&c.,isa most serious interference with the Sab-
bath rest of tired pew-occupiers. How can they
sleep in comfort amidst a continuous rattle of cabs
and roar of ’buses? The regulation is a most
salutary one.— lndignant Churchgoer.
* » • *
Th-s Grotty case calls attention to a strange
anomaly in matrimonial law. The man who
deserts his wife is compelled by law to provide
her with a living suitable to his station in life,
whereas the same man, dying, may, for the sake
of his alleged soul, leave her completely destitute.
Curious also, that professors of a religion sup-
posed to be based on unselfishness and self-sacri-
fice, should think to purchase everlasting felicity
at the expense of other people’s temporal misery.
And what a dreadful denouement it must be for
men like Crottv to wake up and find that, after
all, their selfish solicitude for their own souls has
only landed them in the wrong place !
* * * *
Pathetic and soul-stirring conclusion to
the Argus account of the “Snodgrass Tragedy,”
W.A. :
In the afternoon the remains of Kenneth Snodgrass and
his victim were interred in the Church of England por-
tion of the cemetery. During the whole of the proceed-
ings rain fell heavily, and a cold wind made the conditions
very unpleasant.
“Made the conditions very unpleasant!” Quite
knocked all the enjoyment out of the funeral, in
fact.
» * * *
The Coolgardie shooting-case reminds The
Bulletin that the sister of the chief actor in that
queer tragedy is neither “Janet, Lady Clarke,’
nor “Lady Janet Clarke,” in a titular way of
speaking—she is simply Lady Clarke. It is open
to anyone to specify W.J’s widow as L.C. No. 1,
or “ the other ” Lady C., or “ the first ” Lady C.,
by way of distinguishing her from Baronet
Rupert’s wife ; but to trot out her Christian name
as though she were a peeress is to invite new-
chum ridicule for young Australia’s tendency to
overrate the sassiety distinction of its first native
baronet. Melb. Argus, in printing “Janet, Lady
Clarke,” attempts to create a Victorian nobility
on its Tory own.
* * » *
The Orthodox Greek Church of Sydney
seems to have weakly allowed itself to be captured
by the local Church of England. When the
Archimandrite Dorotheus arrived in Sydney to
take, charge of the Greek flock he set up shop in a
portion of St. James’s, and ran the new worship
under the approving patronage of the diplomatic
Carr-Smith. When, the other day, the Greeks
opened a church of their own at Surrey Hills, the
Rev. Carr-Smith again played Pooh Bah. His-
torically, the Orthodox Greek Church has nothing
doctrinally in common with the Church of Eng-
land. The way N.S. W. Anglicanism has taken
it under its wing argues, therefore, either able
astuteness on the part of Mr. Carr-Smith and
those acting with him, or a weak-, dependent
spirit on the part of the Greek authorities. In
either case, the oyster-openers from the Levant
THOSE JAP CADETS.
CHORUS OF ENAMORED SYDNEY GIRLS: “What a darling!
Isn't he just too sweet!”
who have liberally subscribed to start the new ism
are not getting their full money’s worth of the
old, fierce fanatical orthodoxy that curses every
sect but its own.
* * * *
He the eternal Chinese question. The
high intelligence of half-bred Chow children is
truly remarkable. Writer has taken stock of
them in various Q. State schools, and has never
yet come across a dull one. One year all the
prizes in the Cooktown S. school were taken by
hybrid youngsters of Chinese paternity—the pure-
bred Europeans coming in a poor second and a
bad third. The population of Bananaland is
making a few curious experiments in the line of
cross-breeding. Results are worth watching.
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin, —Mr. Philp’s estimate of
the virtue of half-caste Chinese girls is not sus-
tained in Victoria. In Melb. especially a fair
proportion of the women in the Chinese quarter
are half-castes, and as they are more sought after
by the Chows than either the white or the yellow,
taken neat (I had almost written “ pure ”) white
iottie is simply not in it with her lemon-colored
sister.—M.G.
* * * *
A Victorian married a widow with four
children, and, naturally, became responsible for
their maintenance. It did not prove a fortunate
marriage, as he has just obtained a divorce from
the well-endowed lady. The local sergeant sued
him for arrears of payment due for the mainten-
ance of one of the children at the Industrial
bchools, only to find that divorce dissolved the
parentage.
* * * «
“ Gr.B.” on a Melbourne incident :
■ ln , m.V street lived a painter, his wife and two kids, until
the landlord came along 1 , the other day, and carried off
their all an old sofa, a blanket, and some baby-clothes.
The last were not wanted, because a few days before the
poor creatures had buried the baby, to do which
they had parted with the rest of their scanty belon<>-in<r S
the P awn^roker * A»id, besides paying- for the ground,
the coffin, and the carriage of the body to the cemetery
they had to squeeze out 10s. for a parson to mumble
his formula over the little grave. And now they
are in the street without shelter, food, or money* But
such I hings are too common to take much hold on us.
It wants melodramatic surroundings, desperation or
suicide, to tickle our thick-skinned sympathies.
*** ’ •
“South Melb.” writes on “The Beach
Girl ”:—
Now is the winter of our discontent, for the Beach-Girl
will be conspicuously absent till the roses bloom again,
i *l e u v-Girl is a study in contradictions. She can
hitch her dress so as to show more stocking than any
mere ballet-dancer, and her petticoat hangs a couple of
inches below her skirt; but a first attempt to speak to
her will result in scornful rebuke. She will sit on a seat
(or the sand or a pair of knees) and be hugged regardless
of the watchful passer-by, yet she turns her head aside
when the youngsters go into bathe. She scratches her-
self in public, no matter where the trouble may be located,
but her furtn e reachings for a slipped garter are modesty
itself. She has an incessant giggle—five words to the
giggle is her average in conversation ; but she knows
with whom she is safe. On Sunday the city vomits her
forth in swarms. Her dress is neat and generally in good
taste, but her hat—oh, Lord ! Trotting humbly by her
side, like a dog on the chain, is a gaudy, mechanical
figure known as her “boy." It is then you realise why
the Beach-Girl s costume seems quiet in color, for the
creature’s necktie would shame a rainbow. He can’t
talk, and she doesn t want him to —she only totes him
along for effect. And when she walks with her poodle
along the beach, you don t know which to whistle to.
* * # *
Ed. Bulletin. “ Where do city slaveys
sleep ! 1 lie slavey in my boarding-house sleeps
in the bath-room—and in the bath. When she
gets out in the morning I get in. I live in hope-
ful fear that some morning she may leave the
bathroom-door unlocked —we are both abstracted
casual people—and I may turn the shower on the
mixture. Also, in my other boarding-house
haunted by the same question, I gradually elimi-
nated the servant from every apartment save one
then Horror clutched me by the nose and I
dropped the puzzle and the boarding-house. What
Sydney landladies want is a race of slaveys like
the ancient Piets—whose feet were so big that
they fell dead standing-up as it were, and you had
to push hard to get the familiar horizontal corpse-
illusion. Then they could bo stowed in a cup-
board with the soiled clothes, and sleep upright
In my large experience, however, it was the mis-
tresses who most nearly supplied the Pictish
desideratum. I knew one whose feet—but that is
another shocker.—B.B.
* * * • *
Recent S.M. Herald advt.
■pARTNER. —Would Gent invest sm. cap., or ioin
TV I. and tab dghtr. opening l’c’tive bus. Talent,
Jr.O., Wm.-Bt. *
Is this an opening for love—or money ?or both ?
* • • „
Bicycle thieves are growing more and
more enterprising, and in Adelaide the other day
one of them “shadowed” Detective Priest and
stole his wheel.
“Steff”:
Every trade and
profession has
to pay a license
in Fiji. All law-
yers, doctors,
chemists, mer-
chants, butch-
ers, bakers, pho-
tographers,
storekeepers,
&c., have their
annual fee to
pay. I remem-
ber a visiting
dentist having
to part <£lolos.
for the right to
practise for a
few months. (I
believe there is
now a resident
gum-dragger.) I will never forget, once,
in Suva, wanting badly to be relieved of
a tooth, and the visiting dentist was
not due for three months. Impossible
for me to wait, so I consulted the local
chemist, imploring him to do the need-
ful. He refused at first, saying his li-
cense did not cover dentistry, but I
might get a permit for him from Govt,
to act on this occasion, I to take all
risks. Impossible for me to get any
such permit within a week, as it might
have necessitated calling their great
Parliament together, so careful are they
of “ the Ordinances.” However, after
much argument and great suffering, I
prevailed on him to extract the refrac-
tory molar, which he did, with me on
the floor, using rusty pincers as well.
Of course, he could not accept a fee—
only join me in several whiskies, which
I urgently needed. The visiting dent-
ist used to make great hauls out of
any native chief needing a new set of
teeth (most natives, however, have
splendid teeth) —£50 was only a low
price for same. Such horse-mouths he used
to make of them, too. But the dusky patient
liked it. When set up, he would call on his
friends, entertaining them for hours with the
opening and shutting of his capacious mouth, the
snap resembling the closing of an oven-door.
* * * *
English magazines instance the case ot a
man who married 16 times, yet was never a father!
The record woman had 13 different husbands, and
survived the last.
• * • *
The moral Govt, of Bananaland is at it
again. Man was charged the other day with
harboring a gin. He pled guilty, and asked per-
mission of the bench to “marry the girl.” Bench,
however, was of opinion that the Act gave no
power of applying such a remedy, and fined
prisoner £2, ... Of course, the gin will be per-
fectly happy, and Simpson perfectly moral, now
they’ve been forced to separate. Funny thing—
isn’t it? —the ultra-willingness of all these whites
to deck their paramours with orange-blossoms?
Funnier still—to hear the J.P. who heretofore has
always prescribed matrimony as a cure for such
troubles, now emphatically forbidding it!
* * * *
During the hearing of a certain unspeak-
able case in Brisbane it came to light that the
police, in the course of their investigations, “ hid
themselves ” in joyful anticipation of “ seeing
something ”of a criminal offence. Justice Cooper
immediately wanted to know if it was not the
duty of the police to prevent crime, in place of
watching and tolerating its commission ? No,
Judge, no! The mission of the police is not to
arrest crime, but to arrest the criminal, secure a
conviction, and win the promotion due to a smart
officer.
♦ * » *
A cleric, speaking at a Federation meet-
ing, at Hay, declared that everyone should vote
for the Bill because it would undoubtedly procure
WAITING.
better seasons for Riverina. To an ordinary un-
theological mind, the connection between federa-
tion and good seasons would not have been made
very clear had not the reverend speaker supplied
the missing-link. The border-duties cause much
blasphemy, and thus incur the wrath of God in
the shape of continual dry weather. Surely a
confusion of cause and effect—most of the blas-
phemy is due to the dryness.
* * ¥ *
THE WOMEN DOCTORS.
The sex is fast advancing. Soon
Will women shine as builders, tillers.
What hope for man beneath the moon
When maids succeed as lady-killers !
S.
* * » •
J. A. W. : There’s at least one church in
Sydney which needs more seating accommodation
—the Hyde Park Unitarian to wit, where there is
less of what parson Walters calls “mystery,
mummery and magic ” than in any of the other
tabernacles. The “sermons” are mostly on
literary subjects with just a suspicion of very
broad theism to give the expected religious flavor.
Just finished a series on “Hamlet,” “Lear/
THE POET'S CHOICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The backblox-bard was down in love
-4s deep as bards can be;
He rhymed his “ dove ” with “ stars above ”
In Mulga-poetry.
The backblox maid was smitten, too
(Her cliristian-name was Nell),
Until she knew—his breath spoke true—
That he loved Beer as well.
“ Dear boy,” she said, “ divided heart
Ts but divided bliss,
Ere ive can start a wedding-cart
You ll have to settle this :
Decide! ” she cried in louder tone,
Which made the bard feel queer,
“ If I can’t own your heart alone,
Decide ’twixt me and Beer! ”
The poet raised his eyebrows high,
And thought, and dropped a tear,
And sighed a sigh—a farewell sigh—
And sadly whispered, “ Beer!”
N.S.VV.
6x8.


v,
"TlAvt You
roROofTEH
The
I
a
i
S«
XgOSE’S CELEBRATED
KYE LOTION
STANDS ALONE
{or ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, - 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Saif-dozen, free by post throughout
v Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE St SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soria,
CAUSTIC FOTASH,
Oil of Milbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Vir Moi.lr«rnld 17? William-st., Melbourne :
ny. maiKWaia, u Pitt-street, Sydney ;
63 Currie-st., Adel Ainu; 'Jaef.n-st., Brisbane,
“Macbeth” and “Othello,” topped-off with a
discourse on Barrett’s “Sign of the Cross,” in
which the conventional Christian was severely
handled for “ hugging to his miserable soul the
idea that in some mysterious manner he is acting
in the same spirit as the early Christian martyrs.”
* * * *
Coincidence. Death of Gladstone : defeat
of Disraeli in “Derby.” Anyone take the
pointer ?
* * • •
S.M. Herald advt. :
QATHLEEN,— Will you be mine?
No sneaking behind the door about that!
* * * *
“Melb.”: Jos. Syines boldly advertises
his tariff of charges to Sunday meetings, no man
hindering. This is as it should be, and the
Attorney-General declines to interfere —while
printed notices are affixed to the R.C. church
doors that a silver coin is required, except at the
free door. Here is what all the churches must
come to, with Church-and-State gone for ever. At
present the axe-to-grind of raising money is a
nuisance, from which the hard-working clergy
must be absolved. There will be a pay-box and
check-taker at the church, with copious and good
free seats, and everyone will understand that
nothing has beam abolished but the collection.
* * * *
A large Son them vigneron posed around
the inner sanctuary of a city pub., the other
evening, spoiling for a fight with somebody small.
After one or two successful intimidations of very
little customers, the fermenting grape - juicer
offered battle to an oil-merchant about sin. shorter
and 3st. lighter than himself. It was a brief en-
gagement, and the combatants never once got
mixed. Oil and Wine don’t mix. Wine stripped
himself of coat, vest, and hat, whereupon Oil,
merely buttoning his overcoat, slipped into the
enemy and drove him from bar to bar. Finally,
when the pursuing force had boosted the barrel of
Wine to the outer doorway, he gave his hogshead
(to quote the late H. J. Byron) a regular good
puncheon—one on the “pint,” in fact —and laid
him down to mature. Then victorious Oil went
back to finish his refreshment, and the Hebes re-
warded him with roses and raptures; whereas
Wine took a cab to his hotel, and sent a “ boots ”
to fetch the garments he had left behind him.
But the humor of the story is in the sequel. The
Oil-man toasted his victory with a bottle of claret
from the vanquished one’s vineyard, and when +Vl e
Wine-man had sent out for a tin of bruise-! alve
he found, on looking at the lid, that he was ano.nt-
WET WAILING.
BRIGADIER: “ Night, cap’n: gorbless yer.”
CAPT.: “ Gor bless yer, brigadier.”
B.: “ Er—ei —nasty weathcr fer prayin', ain't it,
cap’n?”
C.: “ Yes; gorbless yer.”
B.: “ Gorbless yer.”
ing his injuries with the other fellow’s infallible
grease. Positively rubbing it in.
* * * *
The Indians who landed in Melbourne
lately, and are making their way northwards, are
said to be living chiefly by the sale of pornographic
pictures. Calcutta is the great source of the
“French card” or similar transparent pictorial
obscenity. A printer lately prosecuted there for
this traffic pleaded that it was a thriving manu-
facture, which gave employment to thousands of
hands.
A certain
erratic parson
horrified his
flock the other
Sunday by in-
forming them
that he could cut
better Christiana
out of cardboard
than they were
—whereat the
service came to
an untimely end.
The local three-
pennies of that
denomination
are now diverted
into the coffers
of strange
churches.
* •
A new cure
for drunkenness.
According to
M.L. papers,
Dr. Ginders,
medical officer of
Rotorua, has
found a new
method of com-
batting the alco-
hol devil. Ac-
cording to Dr.
G., the sulphur
waters of the
Vaux spring ex-
pel permanently
from any indivi-
dual who has
bathed therein
the craving for
alcohol. This
should attract
many Australian
tourists—a class
of great imbib-
ing capacity !
Not a spark of venom illumines Bran-
gwyn’s picture, “The Scoffers,” hung in N.S.W.
National Gallery. The principal scoffer is a tired
person with a well-meaning expression, yet the
average Moor out on the scoff possesses about as
much restraint as a tiger. Some years ago, in
Aleppo, writer saw six Moors chyacking a Nubian
corn-stealer. His black nibs was lashed to a cart-
wheel, and, every time a scoffer scoffed, he leaped
sft. and struck the Nubian’s chest a sounding
kick with his heel. Australians are justly disap-
pointed with Brangwyu’s picture. A pie-stall at
12.30 a.m., or two strong men wrestling for the
last bone in a rubbish-box, would be the scoff-
picture that Sydneyites know—-or, say G. H.
Reid, done in sepia, strangling threepenn’orth of
butter-scotch outside a certain Sydney confec-
tioner’s.
* * * *
All the ordinary tales of sweating fade into
insignificance beside the story of four Vic. youths
charged with assaulting and robbing of Is. lOjd. a
girl about their own age. The girl’s charge is that
they knocked her down and took the money from
her pocket by way of plain robbery. The boys’
version is that the girl was lacking in orthodox
respectability and that the Is. KHd. was the joint
subscription of a syndicate of five, who were to
beguile her into a life of pleasure, it being under-
stood that she was quite willing to tread the
flowery paths of sin for rather less than a florin.
At the last moment, however, she relapsed into
respectability and backed out of her part of the
contract, and the lads then took back their
money by force instead of suing civilly for breach
of contract. The case had yet to be sorted out at
time of writing.
* * * *
The other day, a sulky, crammed with
gaily-clad children, and driven by a crazy female
who took both sides of the road at once, went
flashing down Oxford-street, Sydney. ’Bus-drivers
cursed horribly as the turn-out fled along ; tram-
men waved their arms and yelled ; and cyclists
took to the pavement for refuge. The she-Jehu
had escaped murdering an old lady and just
shaved a lamp-post, and was taking a flying spell
on the wrong side of the road, when a huge coal-
lorry came round a corner, and the crowd held its
breath and waited for the smash. At that moment
the lady was driving blind with her eyes turned
backward at a duck of a bonnet in a shop-window,
and the horses got mixed. The big Clydesdale in
the lorry reared up, and two iron-shod feet, each
as big as an encyclopedia, waved over the crowd
of scared children, but the grimy driver hung on
to him and, by a tremendous effort, dragged him
backwards and sideways. And the loud woman
on the wrong side of the road didn’t even stop to
thank the man who had saved her from being
guilty of slaughter on a large scale. She merely
flicked up her horse and went at a rush down
College-street, taking both sides of the road as
usual.
* » * *
A tale of the long drought in the South
Australian farmland. Five starving, gaunt,
tattered urchins, who had to be rounded up by
the police-trooper like wild steers, were charged
at Murray Bridge with being neglected children.
The father, a small German farmer, has, through
total failure of crops for three years, been all the
time on the verge of starvation. The youngsters,
who speak no English and only a few words of
German, had been mostly eating bran—-when they
could get it. When more pinched than usual they
went as far as the nearest railway siding, and the
engine-drivers and porters threw them food, if
they had any ; the youngsters fought for it like
wild beasts. All this, too, not in the arid,
droughty North ; but in the Murray country
sou tli of Adelaide.
* * • •
The Chinese of Melbourne, with a view to
taking the starch out of customs nabob Wollaston,
who is a stern Peter to the aspiring heathen new-
chum, have let out a little secret. Awhile back a
number of incoming Chows were disqualified after
a long, hard fight and ordered to return to Cathay,
cash on delivery. At the same time there were
eight or ten Mongolians in Melbourne who were
on the eve of going home with fortunes and the
bones of their cousins. In one of the corridors of
the Customs offices a smart exchange was effected.
A dozen Chows were marched on board, and duly
shipped off, but the most of them were not Wol-
laston’s condemned pagans. Eight of the latter
were smuggled away to Lilly Bluek-st., whilst
the 'Austral-Chinese got a cheap run home on the
strength of the deal. Another good reason for
replacing the useless Yic. tonnage-regulation with
a stiff poll-tax.
* * * *
Brisbane has an evil reputation in dietary
matters. Everybody has heard of the Enoggera
water, that fearsome liquid that a Yankee meat-
expert would not allow his carcases to be washed
with. Brisbane water is thick and heavy, but its
bread, on the other hand, is charmingly light.
Two bakers heavily fined in one week over
deficient loaves.
A Canadian legislator has
been generally ridiculed for his
attempt topass a Bill prohibit-
ing Sunday newspapers in the
Dominion. English papers
seem to regard the man as an
unparalleled absurdity. But
in Victoria, years ago, the
rumor that little Bailey had
come over from Sydney to
Melbourne to start a Sunday
paper was responsible for a
law, still in force, to pre-
vent the contemplated act of
Sawbath desecration. Apro-
pos of the Sabbatarian view,
it has been here related how,
in the long ago, little Bailey,
of Sydney, waited upon W.
T. Stead in London, and,
thinking he’d better his wel-
come, introduced himself as
“the founder of Sunday jour-
nalism in Sydney.” “The
founder of Sunday journalism
in Sydney ! ” said the keeper
of the Nonconformist con -
science. “ Sir, I regard you
as an enemy of mankind.”
* * * *
“T.D.”: lie debilitated
coal-ships. A vessel must have
more than an iron constitu-
tion not to sustain damage from
the dumping of 10 tons of coal
at a time into her from a
height of 40 or 50 feet. The
water poured on to the cargo
to prevent heating also rusts
the ironwork through and
through in time. Yet the
average collier goes through 30
to 40 years’ service—then falls
to pieces, and widows a few
more wives.
* * » *
Quinine wine has been
declared subject to duty as an
intoxicating beverage by Vic.
Customs authorities. Recently
hop-beer was listed as an in-
toxicant, most brands of it
having been found to contain more alcohol than
the brutal, demoralising product of the breweries.
There will soon be nothing left for Yic. teeto-
tallers to drink when they go out for the day.
* * * *
“ Another Church Scandal.”— Familiar
Melb. headline :—
All! human nature in the fold
Is bound to find its level;
That day will be extremely cold
When’t happens that the church can’t hold
Its scandal to the devil.
* ¥ * *
Hermes : “ The wives and cuddlers of the
Westralian foorce are agitating to have their pets
fitted with shooters. If the arming eventuates,
Westralia will become as liable as N.S.W. to the
officer who so promptly slings slugs after the
man who is running to fetch a doctor to the
missus. Revolver-shooting is a fine art, anyway,
and the average constable with a gun is a person
to be carefully avoided by the people he doesn’t
shoot at ! ”
* * * *
A witness before Yic. Law Commission,
the other day, cited the case of a cheerful practi-
tioner who sent in a bill of £7B 11s. Bd. for the
job of examining one witness, which occupied less
than three hours. But, after all, a lawyer’s bill is
invariably in proportion to his cheek.
• * * *
A lady litigant shocked the lordly Dr.
Madden, Chief Justice and administrator of the
Government, in Melb. Practice Court, the other
day. She was in pursuit of one guinea awarded
her as compensation in connection with a case,
and the C. J., who stands by his cloth, refused to
help her out. “ People who appear for themselves
are not to have more assistance than is allowed by
the rules.” Then the irate female arose, and
shook her gingham at the most sacred and honor-
able court, and cried aloud : “ It is a mockery ! I
am dragged about the courts, and the whole thing
is a robbery from beginning to end. The three-
card trick is nothing to it.” When the Chief J.
recovered from his fit the woman had fled.
* * • *
Legend affixed to closed door of Sydney
Italian gent’s fruit-shop :
Shop will be opened to-morrow afteroon.
Case of Dead.
# * * *
N.S.W. country newspaper advt:—
A LL Persons are hereby Cautioned against giving
anyone Credit on my account. All persons are
also warned against giving myself credit after this
date. W. SMITH.
» * • *
Organist Sykes, who sued Sydney Daily
Telegraph for =£looo libel-damages (the paper
having unpri vilegedly reported certain deprecia-
tory remarks made concerning him by city-organist
Wiegand when under examination before a City
Council committee) will probably curse the Law
to his dying day. Instead of getting JllOOO he
got a farthing, which carries costs, the Judge
having expressed an opinion that the paper had
no business to print Wiegand’s remarks. But
“ costs ” doesn’t mean all costs ; when Mr. Sykes
squares with his lawyer he will probably find him-
self out a bit (“as between attorney and client ”) —
even though he has so considerate a lawyer as
Tom Dibbs, jun., is understood to be.
* * * *
Bendigo has a Henri Gilbert in the small.
A 13-year-old youngster of that place, committed
to the Lilydale Reformatory, absconded, and got
home in four days. He covered 150 miles in that
time, besides hunting for food, and just missed
beating the telegraph message which reported his
disappearance.
* * * *
The girl with the unconvincing tale of woe
blossomed forth in Melb. the other day. She was
a little tailoress at ill per week, and one Saturday
she turned up at home without the usual sovereign.
Instead she had with her high-colored romance
about a man with a straw-colored whiskers and
light pants, and brown shoes, and a bag in his
hand, who wrested the money from her and ran
away. She said she could identify the man, and
MELANCHOLY UNANIMITY.
1ST BROKER (from ’Ome): “Well, George, old boy; if my people at
’Ome could see me now, by Jove they’d cut me off with a
paltry shilling.”
2ND BROKER (looking sadly at clcck): “I would be glad, in that
case, if they could see you at the present moment.”
was obviously ready to swear to any male with a
pale whisker that the police might bring before
her. But the unbelieving cop went out to the
tailoring establishment and ascertained that the
heroine had been missing for a week, and had
never got any sovereign, so the tale fell through.
A very bad girl is now understood to be expiating
her crime in solitary confinement in the attic.
* ’* * *
Last week’s Russian sassiety gathering
whereat the noble Melikoff slew Gouriel, and
Gouriel’s best friend put a bullet into Melikoff,
suggests that Ouida’s Prince Zouroff has not ceased
to be a typical representative of Russian civilisa-
tion.
Melb. Age laid the scene of the cabled shooting
affray in St. Petersburg “ «t a banquet given to
the native nobles in Russia.” The idea of an
ignoble public furnishing banquets for a crowd of
princes who come to table with revolvers in their
pockets pleases The Bulletin immensely.
tHE Little Girf
who
Once was
Mine
yST vacofp
CgaJifh soor.d f -ov.ng wKeob
scen- 1 roje; gainjt- +K.e wa.Pf
iHSkere never wiPd wind fo beah
ever came a hot oo.pn'j keob,
USHFgwaj more +f\on Kaff divine,
woD-kif> for O forrn (>el-.1-e
fittfe girP w\o once wo; mine
rvpw w\\en ffeajurej & t •
sj£nd cKorPljK totes onkindfy ckeab.
I wonder if ske wed <*<47 .
smgfe life Is .
Or Sfa-ys among the sweel
JJerchance she cro)>4 t/kh\e,
■®rcKanceshe reigns m.dheigHtj d.le,
fiffPe once was mine •
jffrckonce ske Peff r\°'se and btawP
.creeds £, Ibifes deoeif .
yaeghf o f>eace tkal since fk e f a ”
gives Id weary "feel".
, oPP things dijcreel",
gldifp never grieve or fret" or |)ine ;
’ Jf^ she wears ai winding
•Uhe pittfe girf wl\o oAke jwm "i' ne
*v<» a
flMi ijshorUeyeorj or e feel>
iFKc draught life ij **«* *«»h ty*,-
CfronC me boon, once m° r*To /
Pitffe giif A° once waj rn,ne ' /,
C.Friend


CUMCTEiI.
Ladies’ Fine Kid Boots,
14s 9d, lGs 6d, 19s 6d.
Gent’s Tan Russia Leather,
21s, 22s 6d, 28s Gd.
A Boot’s Character is what it IS. A Boot’s
real worth is in its material. Gloss and
polish often cover up deception.
Callaghan Boots, P rice for P rice > have
no equal as regards leather, workmanship,
style, tit, or finish. Try a pair now.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-st., Sydney.
GLOBE TEAS hatc wo
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 14, 1898.
Mr Dear Myee—
Lady Hampden’s tea, at the Polo Club, last
Thursday, attracted a Very Special, and neces-
sarily small, crowd to the course. It was not the
weather for high-flying fancies; rain fell every
five minutes or so, and capes were the only variety
on coats. Lady Hampden did the honors in a
oomfortable cape and skirt costume, of purple
cloth with ermine linings; and Miss Alice
Brand wore a coat and skirt of, presumably,
purple. Miss Dolly Brand, whose bright face is
particularly popular with the Sydney folk, rode
out on horseback, and exemplified the old adage
that an Englishwoman looks her best in a riding-
habit. The tea-party in the Polo-shed was a trifle
subdued, and, for this reason, it was not the easy
thing it generally is to distinguish the town-men
from their country opponents.
Few of our Governors have been as enthusiastic
in the cause of outdoor games as the present one.
Everyone knows that Lord Hampden’s pet gambol
is golfing, but the affection for athletics runs
through the family from father to youngest son,
not forgetting the daughters. By the way,
the youngest son, Hon. Bobby, is the giant of the
family, and is nicknamed Baby by his comrades,
because he is still growing.
A visit to the Japanese man-of-war was a bright
spot on the week. The little men are altogether
too naive and boyish-looking for the big guns they
exhibit so proudly. The first part of the visit was
all guns, but I understood the reason of that after
a time. The Japs’ English is limited to such sen-
tences as “ This gun 70 centimetres in diameter,”
with variations, very proudly spoken, and when
you get them away from their “ diameters ” they
begin to dimple, and blush, and fall shamefacedly
into their native yap. A timid artist who hap-
pened to be there proffered a request to be allowed
to take a few snaps. The request was passed on
from a sailor to a middy, from one middy to
another, then to two officers, where a long
complicated consultation took place, and the
artist thought of all the stories of innocent
men who had been shot as spies—then on to the
Commander. Finally, when the artist had con-
cluded a calculation of the distance between him-
self and the gangway, a baby-faced officer ap-
proached and told him timidly the result of all the
colloquies. Which was, in effect, that to-day was
washing-day and all the clothes were on the line ;
and, please, no photographs to-day, because the
ship wasn’t cleaned up to photographic oitch.
And every second word was “ please.”
In several other ways the Japanese boat uiffers
from an English one. Nobody seems in a hurry,
and nobody is backboned—not even the captain.
You might imagine you had got into a big com-
pany of little boys, some ugly and none pretty,
but all with a happy absence of responsibility, and
any amount of time for politeness.
The actual reason why Premier Reid hesitated
about starting on his Bodalla trip was that he
shrank from entrusting his portly form to the
tender mercies of a storm-lashed sea in the little
Bega. He finally left by rail on Friday night
after vacillating for three days, during which time
he dosed himself with the latest alleged cure for
sea-siokness. And now he is vaguely wondering
what darksome feats a quart of the mysterious
tawny-colored liquid will perform on a system
undisturbed by the rollings and churnings of
mal-de-mer.
Archbishop Murphy, of Hobart, has just cele-
brated his diamond jubilee; for 60 years he has
been a priest and 50 years a bishop. The arch-
bishop, born on Waterloo day, worked for many
years in India, where he became most popular
with the British troops during the Mutiny. He
is a delightful old gentleman ; a universal favorite
with all classes and creeds.
Is it a blunder ? The Age, May 23, says that
there are but two Australian knighthoods—Fairfax
and Bonython—and that the Edward Knox
knighted is a Judge of the High Court of India.
A. E. Finckh, sent by the Royal Geographical
Society to further Prof. David’s work at Funafuti,
has had an erratic career up to date. Born at
Neutral Bay, Sydney, he spent his childhood in
Germany and Italy, started to earn his living in
Europe, came to Sydney University, failed in one
of his exams, in the medical school; went up
country and was unheard of for a time, came back
to the ’Varsity, gave it up again, started business
as a watchmaker in George-street ; then was
appointed assistant curator in the Zoological
branch of the Technological Museum, and about
a year later takes charge of one of the most in-
teresting expeditions in connection with modern
science. Rumor has it that Mr. Finckh is a bit
of a misanthrope, and takes a far greater interest
in zoology than in the “proper study of man-
kind.” Be that as it may, this modern Diogenes
was seen to depart at 11 p.in. to the Islands with
a most fetching smile, the very latest thing in
overcoats, and an iron cylinder of such vast size
that he could retire into it, together with his
beloved specimens, far, very very far from any
Funafutan madding crowds.
“ Miss Ethel Benjamin, our bright lady-lawyer,”
writes a Maoriland friend, “ has been getting into
trouble with the Women’s Convention, lately
sitting at Wellington. That body invited her to
contribute a paper on ‘The Legal Disabilities of
Women,’ but, when it arrived, refused to read it
aloud, on the score of* its alleged impertinence.
On its being published in a local paper, Miss Ben-
jamin’s sin was found to consist mainly in having
referred to the Conventioners as ‘ political babes,’
whereupon they proudly displayed their grey hairs
and taunted the young lawyer with her youth
(sic). The tussle between the old women will be
as nothing compared to that between the new-old
woman and the new-new woman.”
Elsie Hall started her second series of concerts
on Saturday in the Y.M.C.A. Hall, that goody
little building where the lights are never too
bright, and where champagne in the green-room
always seem to me to desecrate the worthy ghosts
of bygone lemonades and water. The audience
sat in hats and bonnets for the most part, and
gazed respectfully at the large text over the plat-
form ; and the three front rows of bare shoulders
enjoyed a cold loneliness that almost passed for
distinction.
The young pianist was gracefully gowned in a
long white empire robe, with its waist up under
its arms, and chiffon sleeves to the wrists. She
also wore glasses, and a gentle student air that
found an echoing note in her performance. Mr.
Burns Walker, who was Miss Hall’s only
assistant, sang several love-songs in a feeling
baritone, and was as Byronic and effective as
ever.
For pure, crystallised deliciousness of touch I
can’t call to mind Miss Hall’s ri val in any woman
player who has graced Australian platforms. But,
at the same time, much fuel is needed before the
little lady’s fire will be hot enough to present the
great emotional works of the classics in their
natural atmosphere of soul-storm and spirit-
lightning. I liked best her Bach number, which
doesn't call on all the depths to rise and testify.
The Invitation to the Waltz was rendered with
charming sparkle and a little air of diablerie that
convinced me that the invitation was not refused.
Then there were several dainty trifles that
seemed expressly invented for Miss Hall’s delicate
fingers, and somewhere there was a Chopin
nocturne.
But is it possible for any woman to interpret
Chopin ? The knowledge of a man, the emotions
of a woman, and the fantastic temperament of a
spirit that has crossed over, weighed the life
beyond and the life behind, and never decided
which was the better, a feeling for grapes as for
flowers, for rain and twilight as for sunshine and
warm winds—the feminine temperament cannot
wholly reply to the demand for all these. And a
tinge of the masculine with the feminine composi-
tion results in a hardness that shuts out the feel-
ing for flowers and twilight. No; to make a
Chopin artist, the gods must make a man at the
beginning, and dash him heavily with what Le
Gallienne calls “the woman silver,” and make him
blase when he is born, and keep him young when
his face is old, and ruin him for banking accounts,
and things of that nature, but—there’s your
Chopin artist !
Not that a man’s feeling for sentiment is always
evenly balanced. A great big male, who sits on
the top of a tall business-tree in this province,
made an attempt at expressing his emotions, the
other day, and achieved something truly funny.
He had been nursed by a good old lady, who used
to spank and spoil him alternately in his youth,
and who died quite lately. He visited her grave
and thought it would be a fitting deed to plant a
tree upon it.’ Shade of Christina Rossetti, who
so meekly pleaded “ when I am dead, my dearest,
sing no sad songs for me, plant thou no roses at
my head nor shady cypress tree,” what would you
say at being overgrown by a prickly cactus? I
don’t wonder if that old lady moves in her grave.
How difficult it is to be exact in the use of
superlatives. “ Marvellous technique,” “fault-
less execution,” “ artistic expression,” are terms
that may be used to describe more than one
pianist yet no one is like another. All the
wonderful qualities that went to make Mark
Hambourg’s playing what it was are also to be
found in the young Mr. Morley—yet, at present,
the latter cannot create a like enthusiasm. I
think the reason is that Mr. M. seems quite un-
conscious of his audience—there never was a player
more unconcerned than he. During the pauses
he does not so much as glance down the hall—
whereas Hambourg, soulful musician as he un-
doubtedly was, never forgot what was the right
moment to roll his eye in a fine frenzy, or to toss
his leonine locks. The result of this is that one
player is credited with possessing “ personal
magnetism ” (one emotional lady of Sydney, to
this day, believes Hambourg to have been the
Devil), and the other is considered cold and
callous. Possibly, too, the matter of entrance-
money affects the question ; the racial instincts
of Mark compel him to keep one eye on the beau-
ties—of art —and the other “on the gate.”
The small girl of 15, as usual, was present in her
hundreds at the Morley concert, but, thank good-
ness, Mr. M. did not play any one piece that may
in future be tinkled out in hundreds of school-
rooms. The Henselt Concerto is about the most
difficult piece written for pianists, and is only
attempted by first-class artistes. No doubt to
have had the opportunity of listening to this will
prove some small consolation, as also to have
known (if they did know) that in Mozart’s over-
ture to the Zauberflote they were hearing an
example of the highest form of contrapuntal
development.
' Most of Mr. Morley’s pieces were accompanied
by orchestra, conducted by Mr. Sydney Moss,
and during the long solo passages the audience
was treated to the novel sight of the conductor
beating time to the soloist. Possibly the relations
of master and pupil induced Mr. Moss to see no
harm in dictating to the pianist, yet surely on
such an occasion the two performers appeared as
fellow-artjstes. Mr. Morley is a wonderful player
with a scholarly style (only why did he make such
a continuous use of the pedal during the Bach
solo ?), and will be another addition to the band of
gifted musicians who have in Europe and else-
where done so much for the musical name of Aus-
tralia.
The Durward Lelys began their performances
this week at the Centenary Hall. There is a
happy-family look about them that carries just a
little suspicion with it. At an ordinary entertain-
ment you can distinguish the relatives of the lec-
turer by the aged smiles they bestow on his jokes.
But Mrs. Lely has a phenomenal store of fresh,
unduplicated dimples for all her husband’s funny
tales, and looks and laughs as though she had
never heard one of them before. She is a pretty,
bright-cheeked lady, with neatly-dressed hair, and
her first appearance in Sydney was graced with a
cream satin frock, smartened with turquoise
sequins. She opened the programme with a fan-
tasia of Scotch airs, and remained at the piano all
the evening, and whenever Durward wanted to
put a fine point on a joke about wives and mar-
riage he turned, and sort of pointed the joke at
her. I notice that this trick invariably fetches a
house.
The violinist of the party, Miss Elly Fusch, is
a distinctly German maiden, fair and plump, with
a straight fringe and short frocks, and a capable,
unflurried manner. She was billed to appear in
the interval and again at the close of the pro-
gramme, but her first performance was so warmly
received that a change was hastily announced, and
she was allowed to be number one of the second
part. The rumor that she is Joachim’s favorite
pupil was lent color to by the generous breadth
and dash of her interpretations. The rest of the
concert was entirely Mr. Lely, who is so very like
Mrs. Lely that you can’t tell one from the other
in the eccentric photograph of their two profiles
that heralded their coming. He enunciated his
songs, sang, acted, pranced, told anecdotes, and
laughed as easily as if ten songs and ten lectur-
ettes were merely ten little j okes.
The “ Sea of Ice ” is covering the Lyceum boards
this week, and as every one in the piece is
“ dressed ” and all the costumes are old—date the
middle of last century—the play is described as a
Costume Play. Inez Benxusan has the trying
task of playing three different people in one
evening. She begins by being her own mother.
She then becomes a red Indian, answering to the
name of Ogarita, and finally bursts into much
elegance of powdered hair and picture frocks as
Madame La Marquise. As a red Indian, Hia-
watha himself might have been deceived into
adoring her dusky beauty, but on the whole there
are more points about being Madame La Marquise,
with diamond tiaras and flowered silk petticoats,
than in wearing bead and wa-wa feathers and
chasing squirrels through Indian forests.
Wilson Barrett has taken home with him a
small band of Australian stage aspirants whom
he intends to train for his own provincial com-
panies. Half-a-dozen of these students are
maidens, “all very agreeable girls, and none are
over the age of 21.” One charmingly-prettv Syd-
ney girl (Miss Helen Thorpe) is regarded as
perhaps the most promising artist of the bunch.
She has recently Seen studying in Melb. under
Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis, another of whose pupils
(Miss G. Smith) has also joined the Barrettian
ranks.
A late notice of Ada Crossley, whose position in
England is not now to be assailed, deplores her
want of insight, and declares she gives no inner
meaning to her songs. Voices and voices every-
where, but insight and voice together seems to be
the rarest partnership into which insight enters
nowadays. The names of brilliant singers who
contribute to their songs little more than the
physical are legion this century. Is the blame to
be laid on competition over excessive voice-pro-
duction, or the great Wagnerian epoch that
demands the soul, whose lack Italian music so
exquisitely cloaks?
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The Govt.-House Maddens’ (they must be dis-
tinguished somehow from the other varieties of
the clan) ball on Friday night turned out to be a
sort of big family party, rounded up by a number
of small family parties. In the bounteousness of
their hearts, and aided by an energetic and good-
natured female relative, with an extensive visit-
ing-list, they began by inviting households
wholesale ; then, by the time they had counted up
all the roots and branches belonging to them-
selves, they found the walls wouldn’t hold any
more, and so a lot of people on the Brasseys’ list
were left out in the cold. The feature of the
entertainment was Lady Madden’s double quad-
rille, got up for the benefit of 11 new debutantes
(Lady Madden has always followed royalty in her
guardianship of the debutantes), and so 11 men
were captured and detained on the premises for
duty. Eleven bride-like forms, each one with a
big bouquet, floating through the mazes of the
dance, was the prettiest item on the programme,
and Miss Leslie, the Madden’s fourth, brought
out to fill the place of her pretty sister Sylvia,
who is to be wedded next month, looked quite the
belle of the 11. The rest of the ball had the usual
vulgarities and dreariness, the men, for the most
part, were in their ‘counting-houses.’ At the
Brasseys’ fancy ball one society man had to putin
time by taking 12 women, whom his wife had in
charge, into supper, and his lively recital of his
sufferings has made the society dancing-man
scarcer than ever.
“Dr. Leeper’s Greek play at Melb. Town Hall
will probably, like Jean Paul Richter, be spoken
of ever alter as the “only one.” At all events,
150 stentorian Liedertafel men singing the
music from the wings, while 15 selected society
youths—inclusive of the reigning Madden’s heir,
the budding parson at Cliveden, two of the richest
of the Millers, with an A’Beckett as premier
danseur—go'mg through the movements of the
chorus in dumb show in front, is something pre-
Eosterous in the way of innovation. The holy
orror of the ancient Greek of having women on
the stage has been just as lightly disregarded by
bringing forth four of the Trinity Hostel damsels
as attendants. The public hasn’t gone mad over the
Greek play at ss. all over the house as the manage-
ment expected, so the curious can get the back
seats for half-price.
“Herr Wiegand’s ‘regret’ that there are no
good organists in Australia save himself is not
cordially endorsed in Melbourne. Nobody will
quite deny the Sydney artist’s superiority as a
performer on the key-board and the pedals, but
everybody seems to think that Ernest Wood can
‘give him weight’—as a sporting chorister ex-
presses it—at working the organ stops. And, as
regards the playing of song accompaniments on
the tiresome Town Hall instrument, we have
lately had evidence that Mr. Willie Nott under-
stands that branch of the business quite as well
as the gentleman from t’other side.
“ It’s all very well for some people to write
letters about the increase of the prices for admis-
sion to the orchestral concerts, but. the plain fact
is that it costs money to make it worth the while
of 40 first-class musicians to find time for the
numerous rehearsals and performances. And,
after all, the prices now are only those of a theatre.
People don’t grumble at being asked to pay big
prices to hear an imported yawper who sings on
the strength of her past and of her aristocratic
friends, but they think it hard lines to be asked to
pay even less to hear great music played by men
who live round about them. Melbourne boasts
that it is a musical city, but the number of its
really good musicians is being rapidly thinned by
removals. At the present rate, the orchestral
concerts will be an impossibility in a year or so,
from sheer lack of competent performers.
“Cole’s Arcade reports that a sluggish sale of
Barrie’s ‘ The Little Minister ’is not yet quickened
to any extent by the pretty Pattie-Babbie per-
formance in Spring-street. Evidently the ‘Trilby’
boom will not be rivalled by the ‘ Minister,’
although the heroines of both plays show bare
tootsies, not to mention a seeming tract of bare
leg in Miss Babbie’s case. ‘ Trilby ’ book pushed
the play, and the play sold thousands more copies
of the book. ‘ Little Minister,’ with its storm-in-
a-teacup kind of plot, its discursive preachiness,
aud superabundance of Scotch accent, has not so
much charm for the ordinary, sinful Philistine,
whilst the play, which goes on its own and reminds
one of the third Incomprehensible in the Athan-
asian Creed, doesn’t excite a craving to find out
what it all means from the original story.
“ Miss Rose Musgrove, it is understood, will
attain ‘the haven where she fain would be’ —viz.,
the stage —in a few weeks’ time, when she cele-
brates her 21st birthday. Disapproving Dad, so
gossips say, stops the ingenue’s allowance, accord-
ing to agreement, the moment she steps on to the
boards. However, as ‘ The American Girl,’ at
the Princess, piii-money will probably be plentiful
enough. Elder sister Lily was married t’other
week to barrister Woinarski, who will be a Judge
some day ; but the youngest and prettiest of the
Musgrove girls is still at school.
‘ ‘ The latest cookery leeturess on the scene,
sister-in-law of ‘ Bristow’s ’ senior partner, comes
with a flourish of trumpets from South Kensing-
ton. Apropos of the new demonstratrix; the
usual press talkee-talkee is proceeding re the
culinary cussedness of the working-man’s wife.
Confiding philanthropists hope thatthe South Ke-
nsington missionary is destined to turn the frying-
pan sinner from the error of her ways, but most
likely they’ll be disappointed. Anyhow, when a
friend of mine read the lecturess’s first menu to
her washerwoman, she only got as far as ‘Veal
and chicken cutlets, apricots souffle,’ when the
listener, laughing ironically, interjected—‘Shut
yer head, miss, that’s quite enough for me ! ’
“ Hat-feathers tend more and more to curl
caressingly round crowns or droop over brims in
picturesque fashion. So far, however, the effect
is hotch-potched by retrograde concessions to the
vanishing era of erect plumage. Befeathered
blends of reclining plumes and bridling ospreys
and aigrettes are less artistic than a poulterer’s
window-show.
“ At that carnival, the wife of an advertising
doctor aired a hat reported to have cost ever so
much. A long-tailed bird brooded on either side,
and when the wind blew from the right quarter,
the drooping feathers blended and streamed be-
hind the wearer’s head. Seen from the back, this
chapeau made you think of twin hens hatching
‘in beauty side by side.’ Cluckers, you know,
have set up house-keeping in more unlikely
places. A certain country parson, on his pastoral
rounds, always clings to his hat like grim death,
because once, in his young days, when he stowed
it under the chair, a fowl had the front to lay in
it. Another time, when he hustled on his ‘ top-
per ’ in a hurry, dampish stockings hung and
dangled all round his blushing face. It wasn’t
good drying weather, you see, and his short-
sighted Rev. had put his tile just under a make-
shift clothes-line rigged up by the fire.
“ The heiress-sister of that richly-gilt widow
who was cut off just as she had begun to enjoy
herself, still honeymoons abroad with her douce
elderly bridegroom. Her brother and co-legatee
remains phenomenally faithful to the young person
of his primeval choice.
“Lieutenant Commander Marix, chairman of
the Maine enquiry board and a prominent figure
in Yankee naval circles to-day, was a member of
the U.S. commission at the Melb. Exhibition of
’BB, and was a notable figure in the Johnniedom
of that boomful era. He is a Russian by birth,
but became an American citizen at an early age.
“ Touching a recent Bulletin par. re the unholy
glee said to be excited in women by such everyday
phenomena as the arrival of eggs and ‘ accouche-
ment of cats ’: surely the boot’s on the other foot.
Men really do seem to get exquisite enjoyment
out of unexpected kitten chronicles, accidental
glimpses of thick or spindle feminine ankles,
underwear, and similar trifles. At a Melb. smoke-
night, no time ago, the guests almost hee-hawed
their heads off over a recitation concerning an old
maid ‘ who sat by her fire, and her old tom-cat
sat by her.’ Later on, strange developments with
regard to puss proved that his name should have
been not ‘Tom,’ but ‘Tabby.’ The same spirit
probably tempts the ‘ Peeping Toms ’ of life too
near the haunts of indignant mermaids. The
knock-knees, scant top-knots, and elephantine
foot-prints of the various lady-bathers—every
spectacle of the kind is a rattling good joke against
the would-be beautiful sex. Now, a woman only
feels sorry for a man afflicted with round shoulders
or bandy legs.
“In ‘ Household Words ’ for 1852, I recently
came across a paragraph describing ‘ the first large
picture ever painted, or (by many people) ever
seen, in Australia.’ It was in illustration of the
words, ‘Suffer little children to come untome,’
and was painted by Mr. Marshall Claxton. The
critic describes the picture as being exhibited at a
gallery in Pall Mall. A lady commissioned the
artist to paint it for the decoration of an Infant-
school, just as he was on the point of emigrating
to Sydney. He accepted the commission on con-
dition that he might consider the subject on the
voyage and do the picture in Sydney. ‘lt may
be questioned,’ says the critic—perhaps Dickens
himself, since the little article is by way of edi-
torial —‘ whether any Australian models had ever
sat before to a painting man.’ Now, was this the
first large picture painted in Australia ?
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


THREE CASTLES
CIGARETTES
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“As a speaker, Mr. George Reid is never
short of matter.” — Vic. paper. What is matter?
Never mind.
Another Australian rich (and Most Respect-
able) man’s brother has died at Liverpool Asylum,
and been buried as a pauper.
Cardinal Moran’s unwillingness to face the
journey to Rome while his health is infirm brings
mind the fact that Card. Vaughan, his immediate
■predecessor in Sydney, died on his way thither,
ant* Archbishop Polding, another step back, was
obliged' from Aden on attempting a
last trip to
Mali e t o a,
King of Samoa,
by the grace of
Britain, Ameri-
ca, and G e r-
many, appears
to be having a
very dismal time
just now. His
subjects are once
more in ar-
againsth'
j.jj e Jim, and
’ . consuls are
Holding back his
stipulated salary
of £7 10s. a week
—which doesn’t
seem an extrava-
gant screw for a
monarch. Also
his creditors are
sitting by relays
at the front £
back doors of his
palace, and there
isn’tatradesman
in the capital of
his own kingdom
who will trust
him with a tin of
salmon, till next
week Sorrier
plight rfO sover-
eign was surely
ever in! Later
accounts state
that his troubles
are fast break-
ing him up, and
that he has re-
tired to his coun-
try palace, about
five miles in the
bush inland from
Apia, where he
is— presumably
with a view to
raising enough
vegetable food
to keep him
alive starting
a taro-patch and
banana - planta-
tion.
Cabled that the Chow Emperor has con-
ferred the order of the Double Dragon upon the
Emperor of Germany. It was about time some
one put the drag on the gentleman, with the order
of the straight-waistcoat to follow.
The omission of a Melb. newspaper from
participation in the Birthday “honors” when
Sydney and Adelaide were included is significant.
Perhaps it was considered that when David Syme
refused a title, the claim of Melb. journalism to
such a distinction became forfeited.
Scene —Police-court. Police-officer (sus-
pected of having “a touch of the tar-brush ”) to
female witness of a certain type: “What are
you?” No reply. “What are you? Are you
not an outcast?” Witness, promptly: “Well,
I’m not a half-caste.” “ Silence in the Coort.”
The Australasian continues to reprint
Phil May’s pictures from London Punch, with the
name of the ex-BuLLETIN artist carefully omitted.
The Bulletin doesn’t want to receive anymore
flattery of this kind at the expense of Phil May,
" hose signature surely belongs to his work.
John Roseby, buried at Rookwood the
other day, gave up politics for philanthropy. As
treasurer of the Benevolent Society and director
of Randwick Asylum, he often said he did more
human good in one week than he was able to effect
as M.L.A. in the life of two N.S.W. Parliaments.
They tell several stories of a very promi-
nent politician's combined lack of money and—er
—keenness. The latest relates to his entertain-
ment of another public man at dinner —on the one
course of chops and mashed potatoes, “ with fil-
tered water and tea, whichever you prefer,” to
help them down.
Admiral Pearson stickles for his title
“Excellency.” ItwasGov. Carington whohad this
hammered on to the Squadron’s figurehead. In
the days of Admiral Scott some doubt arose about
the designation, and at Carington’s suggestion the
Secretary of Stato wrote formally affixing “ Ex-
cellency ” to the chief of Australia’s fleet.
Dear B.—Pure rot the statement that
recently-deceased Philip Levi (Adelaide) had 50
years ago a good part of the northern suburbs
included in his sheep-run. Half a century ago
there wasn’t a sheep-station within 20 miles of
Adelaide. Osmond Gilles owned most of the
land north of the township, and it was then being
cut up for building sites.— Ancient.
Old W. J. T. Clarke looked hard at small
outgoings. When he drew 40,000 sovs., once,
from the Union Bank, Hobart, to buy land on
Port Phillip, the appalled manager suggested “ A
draft, Mr. Clarke?” “And charge exchange,
eh? No fear.” “But the risk?” “Well, you
see, I’m going with it. If anything happens to
the schooner, and I go, so does tlie money. Or,
put it the other way—if the money goes, I go.”
e j^° UBe Premier Reid is
guarded by a special constable, who escorts the
great man home from the railway-station and
then pervades the premises all night lest the
admiring public should break in and deal its
H°y e f., rul ® r .5 »vere hit in the circumference.
Evidently Reid hasn t the personal grit of his pre-
decessor, the breezy and piratical Dibbs.
Captain Joshua Slocum, who left Boston a
years ago solus in his 12- ton yawl,
Mpray, was encountered by a British foreign-
office visitor to Keeling, Cocos Islands. He was
described m a report as “a most interesting and
amusmg raconteur. Those who met Slocum
when he looked in at Australia will fully endorse
the description, especially in respect to smoking-
room yarns. - * * e
NOT TO BE SHAKEN.
SUNDOWNER (outside fence): “What 'er yer tyin' ’im up fer, sonny?"
SONNY: “’ Cause ' e might wawk abart an’ fag ’isself; an’ father's goin’ ter drive
mother darn the crik ’saftemoon ter do the washin’ !”
Be the late Judge Windeyer’s assertion
that he knew a witness was lying because he
shuffled his feet, it is. significant that exactly the
same remark was made by the King (“Alice in
Wonderland ”) who wanted to find the accused
guilty first and try him afterwards ! Also
the French officer who practically convicted
Dreyfus alleged that, when he gave the
latter the incriminating document to copy, he
knew by the way Dreyfus moved his legs that he
was guilty. Dreyfus also was “ tried afterwards,”
but the trial did not have any effect upon the
original verdict. N.S.W. Govt, goes even further;
for, having found Suffield guilty on equally pre-
posterous evidence, it refuses to try him again.
INFORMATION AT A GLANCE .
Scene—Medical Institute.
PATTEN: “ Can yer tell me wot’s the matter from
looking into this ’ere eye? ”
SIGHT DIAGNOETICIAN: “I can see liver disease ,
and stone in the kidney. ”
PATIENT: “Garni that’s my glass-heye !”
A Crick story : A few elections ago a cer-
tain squatter in the West Macquarie electorate
rounded up his men to vote against Crick. They
were instructed to cross out the name, William
Patrick Crick, on the ballot-paper. Tho first was
an old Irishman, who, on coming out of the poll-
ing-booth, was asked how he voted. “Well,’’said
he, “sure I struck out the William, and then I
came to the Pathrick. I couldn’t sthrike that out,
so I passed over it and sthruck out the Crick ! ”
Everybody wondered wherever Premier
Turner got those rattling tin-pot medals that jig
on his watch-chain and make his career as noisy as
that of a Sydney tram. Now it is made known
that he won em all in swimming-matches when
he was a nipper.
A S. A. member of Parliament has been
blackguarding the local reporters, whereupon a
weary scribe reports verbatim a hunk of his
eloquence:—
there should no difficulty on this matter
that this has been such burden in the past and I am
helmed to think this verj r question I hope at least we
will bo able to get out of this difficulty and solve what if
we can get nothing out of it but this discussion but this
discussion of this federal question,.
It is alleged that the first man who was
buried at the Barrier had the American Declara-
tion of Independence read over his grave. He
Wasn’t an American —but there was no Bible any-
where near the Barrier, and it seemed necessary
to read something over his dust, and the only two
pieces of literature to be found were the Declara-
tion of Independence and a recipe for kangaroo-
tail soup. The soup recipe didn’t seem respectful
enough, so they read the other thing.
Premier Kingston recently visited a S.A.
country township and availed himself of the
occasion to see the local public school. The
inevitable speech followed, during which he
advised the children to study penmanship, as
everyone abhorred bad writing. Just here a tele-
graph messenger arrived with a telegram written
in Kingston’s execrable fist. “Please, sir, the
station-ttiasfer can’t make out one or two of these
words, and — ” The story ends right here.
When does Barton, Q.C., intend to start
living up to his reputation of “lazy man”? So
far, he has scarcely had time. As a child he was
a brilliant pupil at Fort-street and Sydney Gram-
mar Schools ; at the University he gained scholar-
ship after scholarship, concluding with the Uni-
versity gold-medal awarded at the B.A. exam. ;
sobn afterwards hewas called totheßar, and elected
to Parliament; when little more than the age
requisite for becoming a senator in ancient Rome
or modern America, he became N.S.W. Speaker ;
he is M.L.C., has been Attorney-General, and is
now occupied in giving his heart, soul and body
to the making of a nation. The Sluggard !
Over-acting Gov. Madden is probably the
greatest exquisite—not even barring Redmond
Barry and Justice G. B. Simpson—the Australian
bench has ever possessed. Each day it is His
Honor’s habit to walk from his home to thelawcourcs
and back again for the purpose of keeping down his
threatening embonpoint; the figure of the C. J.
with glistening belltopper, uncreased black frock-
coat, irreproachable buttonhole, trbusers neatly
creased down the front and patent-leather boots, is
one of the most lovely evening features of St.
Kilda-road. In the matter of trousers Judge
Madden is most punctilious. Wearing them in
town, he carefully changes them for a “ sitting-
down ” pair at the law-courts, to reassume them
at the close of the day’s work. Should occasion
ever arise for the Acting-Gov. to sit down in his
walking pants, Melbourne will be stirred to its
uttermost smells.
Old Henry Bull Templer Strangways, who
was Premier of S.A. for 18 months in the late
sixties, has been writing to London Times about
his one stock grievance. Strangways, now aged
66, was the man who initiated the transcontinen-
tal telegraph line and persuaded the Eastern
Extension Co. to bring its cable to Australia.
After the hurried fashion of S.A. Ministries he
was thrown out of office long before the work was
finished. John Hart succeeded him, and then
Blyth (who was chiefly remarkable for the circum-
stance that his mother’s name was Sarah Wilkins)
had a turn, and finally the great work was finished
under Ayers’ premiership. And Ayers, who had
opposed and ridiculed and jeered at the scheme,
was knighted on account of it, while the admiring
British Govt, never even asked Strangways if he
had a mouth on him. All that was 26 years ago,
but Strangways is after his lost knighthood yet.
Justice Owen, who is on his way back to
Australia to resume his seat on N.S.W.
Supreme Court Bench, is in his 65th year.
Forty years ago he was called to the Bar
in Ireland. Of the Judges on N.S.W.
Supreme and District Court Benches
whom the immigr int barrister ap-
peared before on arrival all ex-
cept one are now dead —that
one, Dowling, being a pen-
sioner of long standing.
Owen left the Bar for a
while, accepting the Under-
Secretaryship which Mr.
Critohett Walker now
holds, but tiring of civil
service work returned to
practice and pegged away
till he got a seat on top.
Robert Lowe was
the first in Australian
political history to apply
the term “ wriggler” to
a local Premier. His bite,
noir was Charley Cowper,
“ the Slippery,” as some
? used to call him, but “the
Wriggler,” as Lowe pre-
ferred. Cowper was the
second N.S.W. Premier, but
he had long been member of the
old Council, and, according to
Lowe, “if the gate of Heaven
were wide open, and St. Peter in-
vited Cowper to walk in, the Pre-
mier would not walk, but wriggle in.”
The suggestion of such an invitation being given
to a seasoned Australian politician shows that
the personal acerbities of those days were, after
all, less fierce than they are now.
Judge Casey (Melb.) was wont to make
frequent use of the phrase, “I thank you,” and
sometimes it gave him an absurd air of proprietor-
ship. One day an acquaintance met him and re-
marked, “ Nice weather we’re having lately,
Casey.” “Yes,” responded the Judge; “yes,
very nice weather, I thank you.”
Lord Hopetoun was wont to speak in an
awe-stricken nasal twang of his first and only
interview with Gladstone. When the G.O.M.
fixed his grand old eye on Hopetoun, that heredi-
tary legislator went off into an intellectual swoon.
He doesn’t remember what Gladstone said to him,
probably it was only a remark about the weather,
“ but the glamor of his personality was irresis-
tible.”
Be a rumoured newappointmenfc to N.S.W.
Supreme Court, there are now’ three barristers in
full practice who have held acting appointments,
Heydon, Sly and Barton.
There is now no Q.C. at the Bar in Queens-
land and no man of title in the Government,
ihese defects Premier Byrnes has indicated an in-
tention to immediately remedy.
A sister of Mercy in the Brisbane convent
was among the nursing sisters who attended the
sick and wounded in the Crimean War. The old
lady is now in her eightieth year.
Two N.S.W. Supreme Court Judges—
Alfred Stephen and W. W. Burton —lived to pass
90 years of age. The cold and pious Burton
reached 93, Mentally, at least, they had much in
common.
The circle of fate ! A Benalla (Vic.) man,
some years ago, drowned himself in a waterhole
with a bag of stones tied round his neck. The
other day the son’s turn came—same spot, same
method, same brain-kink, probably.
Arthur Galton, Gov. Duffs nephew and
Sydney’s more or less' accurate historic essayist,
takes an Australian youth, a son of Sydney’s ex-
Mayor Manning, on a European tour before
settling down to harness work in England,
Sydney demagogue Dodd's recent anti-
Federation howls have gained him promotion, in
Sydney D.T.columns, from “a man called Dodd,”
or “one Thomas Dodd,” to “Mister” Thomas
Dodd. “ Praise from Sir Hubert Stanley ! ”
COUNTRY RACING.
“ The finish for the plate.”
The Hooley is bankrupt. He didn’t
“ clean-up ” as he went along-. Also, he bit off
more than he could chew. Furthermore, he had to
pay as much as <£lo,ooo blackmail to one London
paper for a single article. “ The Press, gentle-
men—the Press ! ”
The alleged offer of the Gold-Coast Go-
vernorship to “old Bill MacGregor” of Papua
(now said to be booked for Raspberry Land) looks
very much as if it had been a case of Fiat experi-
mentum in corpore vili. and the tough Caledonian
corpus in question—having graduated in evil
climate from Fiji to New Guinea —had drawn the
fever-line at the ‘ White Man’s Grave.”
X.Y.Z. : Although Byrnes is really the
first R.C. Premier of Queensland, the premiership
was offered, in days gone by, to a Roman Catholic
in the person of the late Mr. T. H. Fitz-Gerald,
owing to whose no-confidence motion the Mac-
kenzie-Pahner Ministry resigned. Mr. Fitz-
Gerald was thereupon “sent for” by the then
Governor to form a new Ministry, but, either un-
able or unwilling to do so, he suggested Charles
Lilley under whom, as Premier, Fitz Gerald took
the Treasurership.
Acting-J ustice Sly signalised his temporary
appointment to N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench by,
in the Murray Prior abduction case, commencing
his summing-up to the jury at 10 minutes to six
p.m. The summing-up lasted till 9.5 p.m., or
three hours and a quarter, after which the jury
were locked up to thrash the long day’s wrangle
out. As it happened, they completed their task
in an hour, but the pressure of such an amount of
judicial work into one day augurs badly for Justice
Sly’s Bench career. By the way, neither Sydney
morning newspaper reported the summing-up in
this important case.
The best-threatened man in Queensland
is the overseer (son of the proprietor) of a Mackay
cane-plantation. Though only 22, his hair is
already grey ; he sleeps with a bloodhound in his
room, invariably carries revolvers and a loaded
whip, and never stirs out after nightfall unless- in
company. Five desperate attempts have been
made on his life—result, two dead kanakas and
several nasty knife wounds for himself. He would
gladly give up his position, but doesn’t like to
“ give in to the brutes.” Also, he has suspicions
of a kanaka vendetta, and believes safety lies
where danger is most suspected.
W. T. Cadden, who died the other day at
Glen Innes, was'among the first in the gold-rush
to California in 1849. He was also among the
first to quit there for Australia when the new
fields were discovered, and was a witness, if not
an actual participator, in the revolt of the Eureka
Stockade. Again, he pioneered North Queens-
land in search of the precious metal, and often
regretfully narrated how it was he just missed
sinking where the great Mt. Morgan now is. The
spirit of adventure appears to run in the family,
for a son who had started for Klondyke was
just back in time to attend his father’s funeral.
From Lord Malmesbury’s Memoirs
24th July, 1860.—Gladstone, who was always fond of
music, is now quite enthusiastic about negro melodies,
singing them with the greatest spirit and enjoyment,
never leaving out a verse, and evidently preferring suob
as “Campdown Races.”
Just imagine it! The Grand Old Man sings—
Campdown race-track five mile long,
Doodah, doodah, dey !
I’m bound to ride all night,
I’m bound to ride all day,
So I bet my money on the bob-tail nag,
Though somebody bet on the bay.
Ye gods !
Edward Wakefield, former Christchurch
representative in M.L. Parliament, could speak
Maori like a native. One day he was addressing
a number of Maoris near Wellington. It was
shortly before the war, and the natives, generally,
were sulky. When Wakefield ceased, a scarred
and tattooed old man arose and said, touching his
breast : “He speaks as his father spoke. And
his father did not speak truth—for which he died !
I saw him die. And, because he spoke lies, we
cut a slit in his cheek, and pulled his tongue
through it. Yet here again ” —and he pointed to
Wakefield—“ he speaks lies ! ”


By far the Best Victorian Coal.
. ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU . .
Address:
Telephone 1431).
THE COAL CREEK PROPRIETARY CO.,
Flinders Buildings, 312 Flinders-st., Melbourne.
RAFFAN'S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY cure hydatids, skin eruptions,
boils, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
rocket. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
Aboriginalities.
Australian cattle are fearsomely irreverent.
Saw our cow yesterday grazing peacefully within
a few feet of the lion’s cage—Cleveland-street—
and his mangy highness was swearing and growl-
ing suffink awful. There’s a bit of good feed
under the Zoo. fence, and our cow ain’t got no
instinct and only whisks her tail when his nibs
begins to blatherskite. She’s only 15 next birth-
day—strawberry-red with cream-white legs. Our
Jim says that if that blanky lion gets her she’ll
settle his hash. Jim’s open to bet that our billy-
goat will biff their best lion right over Botany.
• * * *
“ Malle ” : One night in the bakblox I was
in company with a squatter, who was also return-
ing-otticer for the district. Conversation had
drifted to the question of blacks and the franchise.
Writer maintained they had not sufficient intelli-
gence to vote “on their own,” while the squatter
took the high moral ground that we had robbed
them of their country, &c., and the least we could
do was give them a vote. “Besides,” he added
naively, “ if eleven of ’em hadn’t been away from
the Mission last election we’d have put that
blanky Jones out ” (Jones, the cookies’ man, had
beaten the squatting candidate by six votes). At
that election, same returning-otfieer was sitting in
the polling-booth, with the usual don t-want-to-
know-what-youTe-going-to-do look in full working
order, when a black buck, who had been carefully
primed but had forgotten his lesson, strutted in,
received his ballot-paper, looked it up and down,
and then said : “ I say, boss, this blanky Jones
you tell me strike um out, that fellow on top, eh 1"
* * * *
Dear B.—lf you want a genuine snake-
yarn, try this. A swaggie gravely told me that he
has, in times of severe drought, seen carpet-snakes
“ bail-up ” a nannie with full udders and fasten on
“as natural as could be.” This was up Clarke River
way (Ch. Towers district), where snakes and
nannies are both plentiful. He was a much
bigger man than myself, so I restrained the tor-
turing doubt. —Via.
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin. —How would the same sys-
tem as in bush “clubs” do in church? In the
shanties where members only can purchase drinks,
there is a hired shouter for non-members. The
latter are thus guests. I now propose to have a
few paid lenders of sixpence distributed through-
out the sanctuary. A well-dressed man could say,
“ I'll put in for you, as you haven t got it ” ; or
wink, and drop the tizzy in with a smile, as much
as to say, “You pay for me next time.” The coin
would be lent by the vestry-treasurer, and there
is no danger of loss. It is recovered at each ser-
vice. Known passers-of-the-plate and sham toffs
would pay up to the small-change man for very
decency or shame’s sake. Method copyrighted,
patented, and royalty claimed by— Scotty the
W HINKLER
* * » »
“Toby”: Re dingoes. In the early sixties
I have poisoned as many as 70 in one week between
Bowen and Port Mackay—a run with plenty of
scrub on the ranges. I used to lay the baits on
the cattle-tracks in several different places when
bri ngi ng the cattle to the head-station at mustering-
time. My plan was to scrape a shallow hole and lay
the bait; the dingoes always took it that way, but,
of course, they were not so cunning in the early
days. Some were very plucky. I have known
them to come to the station at midday, and saw
two dingoes deliberately thrash two cattle-dogs
kept on the station. I shot one ; the other got
away. On several occasions they have jumped up
and bitten my horse when I was chasing them. Once,
some 29 or 30 years ago, near Bowen, a dingo saw
a policeman on top of a stockyard fence, and kept
him there until the owner of the yard, attracted
by his cries, came out and shot the dingo.
* * * *
Two more mean men. A
M.L. country storekeeper (Scotch)
had laid in a stock of cider and
was working up a deal, when the
customer expressed a desire to
sample the liquor and they ad-
journed to the cellar. “There,”
said the storekeeper, as he re-
moved the'plug, “put your Unger
in the bung-hole and tell me if
you’ve ever tasted such stuff as
that! ” In same locality, a stylish,
but impecunious, young blood
bought 25 bushels of oats for his
horse from a farmer, at 3s. Bd. a
bushel; but, three months later,
when he was about to leave the
district, he still owed for five
bushels of the quantity, so he
went to the farmer and arranged
that they should be taken back.
“And,” said he, “as oats are
now at 4s. 5d., Mr. Hodges, you
owe me 3s. 9d.”
* * *
Some of the aborigines on
out-back stations get fairly good
pay (as pay goes out-back) while
they are at work ; but except here
and there they will not bind them-
selves to regular duties they
must be free, when the fit seises
them, to have their walk-about.
But, no matter how good their
pay, they will rarely, if left to
themselves, make any provision
for buying clothing—good, ser-
viceable things, anyway. The
“store” on the station gets back
nine-tenths of the cash, a third of
it for tobacco, and most of the
balance for silver watch-chains,
colored ties, &c. So a “ store-
keeper ” with 14 years’ experience
of ’em tells The Bulletin.
“ Rox ” : He “ S.C.’s ” par., 14/5/98,
Fijian “cika” is a much severer affliction than
(judging from your column) “ bung-eye.” People
subject to former are forewarned by a gritty feel-
ing in the eye, and generally begin treatment at
once. Cika resembles a very severe form of sandy-
blight, and the treatment is as “ S.C. ” says, with
the addition that, in bad cases, a nitrate-of-silver
wash should be used. With cika there is not the
amount of swelling which accompanies bung-eye,
though the inflammation is greater.
“Flabby Paul ” : Went fishing
once with two plugs, of dynamite.
Came to a sandy spit, on which were
a couple of niggers, and enlisted their
services for the day. Asked one,
“What your name?” and received
answer, “What your name?” All
other questions were similarly re-
peated, till, disgusted, 1 gave it up.
Presently I saw a shoal of mullet;
landed on the spit, stuck the fuse
into the dynamite, and showed one
of the niggers how to throw it in.
Said, “You sabee?” and the nigger
likewise said “ You sabee ? ” Lighted
the fuse, and said, “Now, then, throw
it in!” Myall responded, “Now,
then, throw it in ! ” still holding the
dynamite and smoking fuse in his
hand. “ Throw it in, you cursed
fool ! ” “ Throw it in, you cursed
fool! ” repeated the nigger, excitedly.
The fuse was nearly burnt down to
the dynamite by then, so I took to
my heels, but the nigger followed
close behind, still holding the dyna-
mite. “Drop it, you black
fool!” I gasped. “Drop it, you
black fool! ” yelled the nig.,
who thought it was grand fun. Things
would have reached a bad ending,
if I hadn’t tripped on a root and
come down, the nigger falling over
me, and sending the dynamite flying
from his hand—just in time, as it
exploded directly it touched ground,
sending a shower of sand over us
both. I got up, and thumped that
nigger till I was tired, and then sat
down, and laughed till I cried.
* * *
Comp. : “ Be your recent par.
about murder by explosives. I once
met a Queensland swagman who was
possessed of a dog—a faithful animal
to his master, but one that would
kill sheep in hundreds, having a
special partiality for Jimmy Tyson’s.
So Jimmy gave swaggy notice that
the canine would have to be destroyed,
and accordingly a fairly large charge
of gunpowder was placed underneath
the dog, and connected with about 15ft. of fuse •
Result: Miss-fire ; dog swallows powder, deserts
master permanently, and becomes a worse sheep-
slayer than ever.
* * * • •
The progress of science is not unaccom-
panied by calamities great and small. A China-
man in a small backblox town noted with pleasure
the process of artesian boring and subsequent
water reticulation. Weary of humping the eternal
water-can round his garden, he arranged to have
the bore water laid on to his premises and pro-
vided himself with a sufficiency of piping. Garden
was accordingly watered with ease and John sat
down well satisfied with his enterprise. But in
a few weeks his vegetables began to- wither; a
blight fell on the fruit trees, and even the hardy
pumpkin commenced to wilt away. One day the
local municipal council was surprised by the
inrush of a frantic Mongolian who apostrophised
that august body thusly : “You bally bore water
no good ; spoilee olange; spoilee cabbagee; spoilee
floot; spoilee me! 1 I wan tee five hundled pound
flom you to-mollow, or fetchee pleeceeman ! ”
* * * *
“Dipso” : John Marsland, solicitor, Char-
ters Towers, Q., told me, after visiting the Q.
artesian-bore country, where the bore overflow cut
channels for itself, or where channels were arti-
ficially cut, bulrushes sprang up mysteriously and
flourished luxuriantly where bulrushes hadn’t been
ever seen within (sometimes) 100 miles. I asked
where the seed came from, and what was bulrush
seed. Marsland hazarded the suggestion that the
birds brought it on their plumage. Meeting Q.
WHAT THEY HEARD ABOUT THEMSELVES.
“ I wonder if they’re really great friends?“
“I'm sure they are.”
“ How do you know?”
“ Because after lunch here, the other day, I saw her flick
crumb off his waistcoat!”
hydraulic-engineer Henderson and enquiring, he
said — Perfectly true. And the birds carry it.
“ But there can’t be many birds there.” “Mydear
felloWj in times of drought birds will fly hundreds
0 f miles in'search of water. At some of the bores
I’ve sometimes seen a flock of at least a hundred
teal come sweeping along to drink.”
* „ n * , * 4( * a ,,
Alone : Can corroborate <> x<S t e
the lyre-bird’s failure to imitate the kookaburra s
laugh. In the hazel and musk scrubs of 8.
Gippsland I have often heard this marvellous
mimic perseveringly wrestle with the job. He
can manage the “ kook—kook—kook,’ and the
THE VERY UNSUITABLE REMARK.
LADY OF HOUSE (to start conversation): “Now, Mr. Keepups, you are a great judge of physiognomy.
Tell me, who is this dear child like?”
MR. K. (saying the usual thing): “Oh, no mistaking your husband.”
LADY OF HOUSE: “Great heavensl Why, it belongs to the lady next door!"
long following chuckle all right; but the loud
staccato “ ha-ha-ha ” beats him. I believe the
lyre-bird possesses a more extensive vocal register
than any bird, animal, or even musical instru-
ment. The bird has also a strange habit which
I think has never yet been described. It holds
assemblies —and dances to music. For long I was
puzzled to know the wherefore of certain round
level cleared patches met with in Gippsland
scrubs, and I put them down as paddymelon
camps, until, after much watching, I caught an
assembly in full hop; six cocks and four hens—
latter as spectators only. One of the birds supplied
the music, a low rippling allegro movement, whilst
three, and sometimes four, of the cocks danced
round and round with much bowing and bobbing,
and now and again a most comical throwing-back
of the neck and a hopping sideways. -Every now
and then one would run out, and another take his
place. The game went on for a considerable time
before the birds got ken of me, and scattered to
the trees. [This habit of the lyre-bird is well-
known.]
• * * *
E.D. ; “Most country towns of my ac-
quaintance have boasted a ghost or tw.o, but
Waddy’s goblin was the most realistic of the lot.
It was an evil monster with bat-like wings, a
luminous face, and a tail, and it amused itself of
nights hiding in the saplings or amongst the
scrub near the tracks, and scaring the population
to the verge of lunacy by suddenly springing out
in front of them with a blood-curdling yell.
People of all sorts, sexes, and sizes were driven
balmy by the Waddy goblin, which reigned for
months, and was the terror of pious Cousin Jacks
coming from and going to the mines at midnight.
On one occasion it set a whole shift tearing
helter-skelter through the bush. The spectre
made the usual mistake at last, though it up-
heaved itself before Bruntwood. Bruntwood did,
not turn-tail and jump the country-he collided
with the ghost and grappled with it, and being a
burly ‘ Geordie ’ he whaled that unearthly visi-
tant with his prop till it was reduced to a ruin.
And on top of this the ghost got three months’
hard. It had made the mistake of trying to haunt
a blind man.”
* * *
Some years ago a band of pilgrims sailed
from England to start sawmilling on King’s
Island, in Bass’ Straits. They landed with a
kit sizes larger than Stanley’s when he went to
look for Livingstone, and, the steam-sawmill not
having arrived, they wandered around searching
for suitable timber, leaving strips of Englishman
on the beastly bushes and wrecking their tailor-
built bags past repair. At length they discovered
a tree which the boss pilgrim said would split, and
seven sawmillers began the attack in seven dif-
ferent spots whilst the others retired some hundreds
of yards off. After three hours’ banging the place
looked as though a company of black cockatoos
had been hunting grubs. At length the disgusted
monarch of the forest, which by now resembled a
skittle-pin, gave vent to his feelings in a loud
crack, and the happy band ran like fiends and
never returned. They consumed what was left
of the tucker and quitted the island. Their next
venture was the purchase of another steam-saw-
mill in Tas., the first one not having turned up.
In fact, nothing ever did turn up, or arrive, or re-
turn with these pilgrims. They got some hairy-
chested bullock-puiichers to haul the second mill
into a remote corner of the bush, where it got
stuck on the summit of a lone hill, with not a
stick of splitting timber within miles. The bull-
drivers swore till the air was thick, but the
machine wouldn’t budge, so they left it and re-
turned to the city. Soon after, the baud s boot-
maker took out some more ox-persuaders who
said their bulls would pull Sheol out by the roots ;
but, though they blasted all the vegetation in its
vicinity, they conldii t shift the mill, and the last
seen of it was a funnel sticking out of a desert of
bog. By this time the fertile brain-box of the
boss-pilgrim had evolved a scheme for hauling
trees bodily out of the scrub with a wire-cable.
He fixed an engine on a bush road and fastened
one end of cable to a revolving drum, whilst the
other was dragged up a hill and hitched on to an
enormous stringy. The leader told the awe-
stricken spectators that when he blew the whistle
they would at once perceive the tree approaching.
Then he blew, but the tree didn’t approach—didn’t
wave a leaf. On the other hand, the engine dashed
up the incline at a terrific speed, and, halfway up,
burst into bits of metal, which dangerously bom-
barded the neighboring settlement. After that
the boss left for ’Ome to collect the expenses of
the little trip from their syndicate. He hasn’t re-
turned yet.
• * * *
The burning of Norseman (W.A.) post-
office recalls the early days on the field when the
mail was dumped at the biggest store, and the
storekeeper bossed the delivei’y, always giving
cash customers precedence, and telling them to
“look for yourself,” while those who were on his
books had to be content with a hurried search by
the postmaster. Complete outsiders were advised
to “call next week.” Papers were thrown into a
packing-case at the back of the store, into which
you dipped for a prize as in a lucky-bag. Ihe
bookkeeper deemed it his perquisite to have first
go, till one day some of the miners upended him
into the case and nailed the lid down over him.
The writer was that bookkeeper.
* • * *
“ Xtra ” discourses on “Cannibalism in
Queensland ”
Edilor Bu-lustin.—ls there not episcopal authority for
the statement that there is no cannibalism in Queens-
land V Well, in the first month of this year 1898, a J.i.
of N Queensland held an inquiry into the death of one
johnny, an aboriginal, when the following facts came to
lj»-ht. (You may rely on accuracy, but I prefer you to
keep name and address out.) The row started over three
blacks resenting the fact that, six or eight years ago, a
station boy went with the myalls outside his own district,
but not outside the tribe’s —the Kulkadoons. The station
boy, “ Charlie,” got sick, and came back and died near
Cloiieurry, and his friends reekomd some other black
made him sick over there, and they blamed the myall
blacks for his death. So they challenged two blacks to
tight by throwing boomerangs straight at them, picking
on two brothers —rather ancient customers. During the
light that ensued, after the usual hectoring and stopping
bv friends, the challenging pair (one of whom killed a
white man last April) fought the two old chaps, and a
friend of the challenging pair, seeing a good chance at
one of the old chaps, hit him on the skull and laid him
low. Then another black joined in also-, as at Donny-
brook, and hit the intruder, and flattened him. Then
Johnny (the corpse-subject of inquiry), went for the boy
Billy (who eventually killed him), and hit him on the head.
These were all blows from behind. Then Johnny reached
for a shear-blade, neatly fixed on a spear, and threw it at
Billy, it sticking in his side ; but Billy pulled it. out and
charged Johnny with it. Johnny dropped the end of his
lighting nullah, and struck an attitude with both hands
on top of the nullah, holding it in line in front of him.
The shear-blade entered Johnny’s chest, and when the
aggressor pulled it out Johnny dropped dead. The
‘‘"keeper of the camp ” to the Kulkadoon tribe was there,
and he tried to doctor the old chap with plain water, but
it was no use. lie then asked the crowd what he should
do should he cook him or not? (If all say “No !” he is
covered up ; but if only one says “ Cook him ! ” he has to
be cooked.) And the crowd turned their thumbs down
and voted for cooking. Then the keeper of the camp—
with the black who had held that- office till the present
holder was old enough, and had been initiated as R.W.
brother, etc.— took the eotpse down to the creek. There
the old keeper showed the young one what to do, and
where to make incisions, and so on. They dug a hole in
the sand-drift, and in the centre a deeper hole to contain
the entrails ; cut the carcase open under the short ribs ;
took out the entrails, placed them in the small hole, and
covered them with a few coals. Meanwhile the fire had
been made and stones heated ; they were put inside the
old chap, and then he was put into the hole and cooked.
When taken out he was cut up by the new keeper of the
camp under the direction of the late one, and all the
blacks had a feed. After awhile the keeper cooked the
bones and remnants all over again ; and they ground the
bones into powder and ate them. The entrails were left
where they were put. As this was his maiden roast, so
to speak, the keeper of the camp was not allowed to eat
any This happened six days before the enquiry. As no
corpse was producible the matter somehow dropped, so
far as white justice is concerned. The N.Q. blacks, how-
ever always punish a man who kills another of the same
or of a friendly tribe. They give him a certain amount of
time, and then one night quietly spear him or kill him
with a boomerang. Or else they tell him a lie or two and
walk him out, hamstring him, dig a shallow grave, truss
him and leave him with head only above ground. After
a day or so he may be knocked on the head, or he may be
left to the ravages of Time. His gin is killed too, unless
she comes into a station, where she may live for years if
he does not venture away a little bit. Once she does
Hiat she goes to join her late lamented.
* * * *
Re the wearing properties of Australian
hardwood. A section of drain-pipe made of this
wood, and laid down in the convict times in
George-street, Brisbane, was lately taken up and
examined. After being 50 years in the ground
the section was found to be quite strong and
sound. Wood-blocks in use for a similar period
were found in the same condition. Sent off as
specimens and curios to the Imperial Institute.
» • * *
A squatter-pigeon killed up Bowen (Q.)
way was found to have its crop full of cattle-ticks
—all alive and hearty.


The Teacher’s Report.
A CRITERION FOR OTHERS.
Mr. George M. Hassing, Teacher, Haddon
Bush, Southland, N.Z., l/3/’9B, sends the follow-
ing report:—“ I am pleased to testify to the great
benefit I have derived from the use of Warner’s
Safe Cure, when a few years ago I was suffering
from kidney disorder. From Mr. C. H. Macalis-
ter, chemist, Invercargill, I obtained my last case
of Warner’s Safe Cure, and it completely restored
me and put me into grand form.” This is just
what thousands have previously experienced, and
no medicine before the public to-day can show
such an array of indisputable proof of its power to
cure kidney and liver disease. Original copy of
this report may be seen at the company’s Mel-
bourne office.
trams over the country and induce immigrants
from Dutch possessions to take up land. They
simply want the land and all it contains to be
handed over on terms of easy tribute.
Do you ever have a headache ? Would
you not have a cure—simple, harmless, effective,
of 'trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets —
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post. #
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/0 ; Drab, 25/6 eaeh.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Soft Car)v/aS Shirts
Madk to Measure.
Post free SO;- per Jfj-dozeii througli-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 6/6.
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. I‘ 11<E MHO iHI '. US,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
The Raspberry Isle and the Cabbage-
Patch.
About the only bright idea which the N.S.W.
Disunion-at-any-price party' has contributed of
late to Australian politics was Julian Salo-
mons’ suggestion that Tasmania and Victoria
should unite and go into business together as
one State. It is not at all likely that the
learned and painfully local disunionist spoke
seriously. Almost in the same sentence he de-
manded that N.S.W. should possess the Federal
capital, because it has at present the largest
population. As the combined province of Tas-
mania and Victoria would have the largest
population, and would, therefore, on Salo-
mons’ own showing, be entitled to claim the
capital, and as the N.S.W. Disunion-at-any-
cost party would rather see the capital frying
in Tophef than see it anywhere save in N.S.W.,
The Bulletin doesn’t imagine that there was
anything serious about Salomons, Q.C., on this
occasion. Nevertheless, he advanced an idea
well worth consideration. The fact that he
only repeated the suggestion made in a back
number of The Bulletin, which advocated the
same thing on 3rd April, 1897, in a little article
disrespectfully entitled “ The Tasmanian Fly-
Speck,” makes the idea none the less creditable
to Salomons, Q.C.
• * * *
The Bulletin’s idea is distinctly that Vic-
toria and Tasmania should unify, wdiether
Federation comes or not. Australia has had
considerable experience in disruption, and none
at all in combination, therefore the suggestion
will probably seem recklessly unusual. Never-
theless, there are many good reasons to be
offered. Victo’ria and Tasmania are the two
smallest provinces in Australia. If they com-
bined, the combination would still be the
smallest province. If N.S.W. broke into three
equal pieces, and Queensland into six, and S.A.
and W.A. into nine each, the combined pro-
vince of Victoria and Tasmania would just be
“SCOTTY THE WRINKLER .”
Photo., Carl T. Dagdalo, Narandera.
about the same size as each piece. Even ac-
cirding to the standard of European States,
they are both small. Tasmania is more diminu-
tive than Scotland, and the two provinces put
together wouldn’t nearly equal Great Britain
and Ireland. As Australia fills up, even Vic-
toria, merely through lack of room to hold
population, must sink gradually to a third or
fourth or sixth-rate province. As for Tasmania,
through still greater scarcity of space it will
presently be the least influential of the States ;
it keeps just ahead of Westralia for the
present, but 26,000 square miles can’t long do
a sprint with 975,000. In this particular case
the process of disintegration was carried too
far. There are elements of the ridiculous in
keeping up all the pomp of a separate constitu-
tional Government for a small isle with 171,000
people ; there is also a great deal of needless
expense. And statesmen of any real value are
so scarce in this world that Britain often finds
it hard to supply materials for a first-class
Government out of 40 million people; and
N.S.W., with 1,300,000 to choose from, has a
Government consisting largely of Jake Gar-
rard, the painfully silly Brunker, and the
absurd Ghould. Tasmania, trying to find
materials for a brilliant Ministry out of its
171,000 population, has a hard row to hoe.
* • • *
At present Victoria is the second of the
Australian states, while Tasmania is nowhere.
And its dimensions make it unlikely that it
ever will be anywhere to any great extent.
The point that it might be worth the
while of the islanders to consider is whether
it isn’t better to be an important part
of about the strongest State in Australia, or
the whole of the weakest one. There are
many solid cash considerations in the matter.
It would save the cost of a Government, an
Agent-General, a Governor, a Chief Justice, a
Speaker, President of the Leg. Council, and
several dozen other functionaries. It would
also bring about a ' certain improvement
in the credit of both provinces which should
ensure at least a small reduction in the interest
on the public debt ; and though part of this
saving would probably go in raising the salary
of the Tasmanian ' legislator to the Victorian
level, still there should be a net profit of at
least £30,000 per annum. If Federation
should prove to be postponed for a number of
years there would still be one border tariff the
less in the meantime, and a great market would
open up close at hand for the green vegetable
of the Tasmanian agriculturist who lias now no
free outlet nearer than Sydney. And, when
Federation does come, the union would remove
one serious obstacle, anyhow. The exceeding
smallness of Tasmania makes its admission on
the terms of the Constitution Bill such a cause
of complaint among the anti-Billious that there
are actually suggestions in many quarters about
leaving it out of the Commonwealth altogether.
And, even if it came in, the voice of the least
of the provinces, with only ten representatives,
would not amount to much. As a part of one
of the two strongest provinces, with about 32
representatives, it voice would amount to a
great deal.
* ♦ * *
The principal difficulty in the way of such a
deal is that the smaller province must, to some
extent, lose its identity. . It need not do so
wholly, any more than Scotland did when it
united with England, but, to a certain extent,
the result is unavoidable. Still, on the other
hand, Victoria might possibly be willing to
make some concessions in consideration of the
fact that it would reap most of the honor and
glory of the transaction. If the two railway
systems were united just as they stand, 'Tas-
mania would get rid of a rather heavy burden,
which Victoria would hardly feel, and if the
debts were unified Tasmania’s load would drop
from £49 13s. to £4l 12s. per head, while
Victoria’s liability would only increase from
£4O 12s. to £4l 12s. per head. The savings to
be made by combining a large number of
departments and doing away with a Governor
and many ornamental officials should make up
Victoria’s losses and leave Tasmania’s gains as
net profit. And if some arrangement could be
made by which Tasmania would always have a
certain number of portfolios in the joint
Ministry, and his Ex. would breathe the pure
air of the island in those months when Mel-
bourne is unfit for any respectable person to
live in, the smaller State might perhaps manage
to avoid any serious loss of dignity.
* * » *
On one point it would be hardly possible
that both parties could fail to advantage. The
new State would have to start with a new
Constitution formally authorised by the British
Government, and therefore a chance would
present itself to get rid of two old ones which
are the despair of all honest Democrats. It is
almost impossible for an intelligent community,
with much costly experience behind it, to con-
struct anything in the way of an Upper House
which wouldn’t be an improvement on the two
now existing at Melbourne and Hobart. For
all these reasons, and many others which would
cover too much space, The Bulletin reckons
that the idea of a union is well worth the con-
sideration of both parties, if they happen to be
awake, and are not too deeply embedded in the
regulation groove. Whether Australia federates
soon or late, the unification of the two smallest
provinces has many advantages and no visible
disadvantages which this paper can discern.
Certainly union is an art about which Austra-
lians know little ; the art of separation is the
one which has attracted most of their atten-
tion. But Maoriland made a very successful
experiment when it unified its group of baby
provinces, and the example thus set is worth
consideration.
T. M. Slattery defines five alterations in
the Federal Constitution which he considers im-
perative, the first and foremost being that the
capital is to be Sydney—where Slattery’s office
and legal business happens to be situated. The
capital will bring more population, and that will
mean higher rents and higher land values—and
incidentally more costs to the lawyer. And Slat-
tery’s recipe for making a nation is that these
blessings must be planted, not only in his pro-
vince, but right at his ffice door.
In one respect, Gov. Macgregor has held a
beneficially tight rein in Papua. Mission-
aries there have in no case obtained from him
grants of land for church purposes without signing
a bond that, if the land at any time ceases to be
us.ed for strictly church purposes, it shall revert to
Govt. Had the early Governors of Australia
possessed equal knowledge of ecclesiastical human
nature, the secular Governments would not have
been “ done ” out of garden-spots innumerable.
Stephen Barker, chairman of Yic. Anfci-
billious League, likens the fervid supporters of the
Bill to “ the class that stabbed Wat Tyler in the
back and thought they had killed democracy.”
But democracy lived, as he unnecessarily assures
us, “and, make no mistake, it still lives.” In
spite of its well-meaning Barkers, the Cause con-
trives to struggle along hereabouts in a small,
provincial way of business, and if a number of
Barkers could be persuaded to stab themselves
from behind, Democracy would progress more
rapidly. The sort of Wat Tyler who submits to
the Victorian Constitution and opposes the Feder-
ation Bill is a bad thing for the people, that’s
certain.
FRAULEIN ELLY FUSCH, violinist.
Photo., Kinsey & Co., Wellington, M.L.
The Bulli (Colliery) Disaster Fund, insti-
tuted 10 years ago, stands to-day with 85, as
against 196, dependents. The 85 are provided
for, with a surplus of £BOOO to the good. A dis-
pute has arisen as to what should be done with
this sum, but, for the present, a secretary is to be
paid to take oare of it.
In Victoria, the other day, five Chinamen
and a Seventh-Day Adventist reformer were haled
before Justice and charged, under the law of
Charles 11., with violating the provisions of the
200-year-old Act for the proper observance of the
Sawbath. The Chows were duly fined for water-
ing their cabbagee, and the Seventh-Day man was
let off with a warning that he wouldn’t be so
lucky next time he was caught sawing wood upon
the Lord’s Day. Curious feature of our “ civili-
sation ” that the present generation should have
to suffer for the compensatory hypocrisy of the
Man of Many Bastards.
Few Bulletin readers will be prepared
to find in the mildly benevolent - looking old
gentleman pictured in present issue The Bul-
letin’s caustic and whimsical contributor,
“Scotty the Wrinkler ” orthonymically Phil
Moubray. Mr. Moubray’s outer man, how-
ever, is otherwise characteristic enough of
a sturdy ancient whose good - humored cynic-
ism is perhaps the necessary outcome of the
extraordinary career thus summarised by himself.
“Officer, Royal Artillery; ditto, 13th Bengal
N.I. ; ditto, Abyssinian Transport Train ; Drafts-
man, Boston and Florida State Railway; ditto,
Mississippi Levee Railway Scheme; ditto, U.S.
Lighthouse Dept. ; ditto, Glasgow Tramways ;
and, in Australia —miner, schoolmaster, drover,
horsebreaker, journalist, gardener, tutor, sawmill-
agent, and ‘whaler.’”
The attempted exploitation of Dutch New
Guinea seems, in many respects, a more red-hot
piece of capitalistic effrontery than the concurrent
one in British Papua. The Dutch syndicate,
with a triple head, has petitioned for a Royal
Charter to enable the members to practically
make their own use of the territory. They ask,
among other favors, the right to levy import and
export duties and to mine for all metals. In
return, they offer the Dutch Govt. 10 per cent, of
all takings. They also plead for the right to
establish a judicial system and a police-force and
to build fortresses. In return, they promise to run
SERPOLETTE, the French cyclist.
Photo., O. Mane, Paris.
With a curious lack of business instinct
Victoria levies no poll-tax on the Chow, but tries
to limit the influx of the pig-tailed legion by
tonnage regulations. Yet a <£so or £lOO tax is
quite as good a restriction, and it brings grist to
the financial mill at the same time. Turner, as a
man who hungers after grist, should see to this.
The local Northern Star (Lismore,
N.S.W.) announces proudly that Mr. G. Pritchard
has imported a cab from Japan to ply for hire in
that town. By the way, the much-talked-of
Japanese boots have really begun to arrive in
N.S.W. During ’97 three packages of hoof-gear
from Japan and 118 from China were landed in
the Foreign-raid province.
The senior and the junior members of the
S.A. Assembly both represent Mt. Barker. Land-
seer has sat for the district continuously for 23
years, and Dumas for about as many days.
A large number of English county councils
are now importing road-metal from Belgium !
London papers, commenting sarcastically on this
fact, say that in time there will be a foreign-made
England for British patriots to defend. Woe 'to
the land that is not sufficient unto itself !
Piesse, W.A. Minister of Works, advises
the sandgroping community to stand out of
Federation till there is time to judge how it works
in the other provinces. Which is logical in a
way, but if Westralia had postponed Wittenoom’s
famous 10ft. alluvial regulations till it saw how
they worked in some other province the chances
are that Premier Forrest wouldn’t have got his
spine so badly bruised by his excited secretary’s
gamp at Kalgoorlie, the other day.
Cosmos : Apropos the Yee Hing secret
society :
In the Childers Chinee murder case, the prisoner, who
afterwards hui'g himself in Bundaberg gaol, alleged that
he was the victim of a conspiracy. The chief witnesses
and accusers were Chinese, and the interpretation was
so conducted as to invite strong censure from the Judge.
I have a vague idea that in many Chow court cases the
prisoners have pleaded conspiracy, and that the interpre-
tation didn’t make it clear. Maybe the Y.H., or some
other Chinese Mafia has already a good footing, and is
able to supply interpreters as well as witnesses. Anyhow,
sueh a long-headed people as the Chows are not likely to
do the thing by halves. What’s the matter with white
interpreters? Writer knows of one man who has spent
most of his life in the Straits and the rice-countries, and
knows Chinese like his own tongue. He was in Aramac
hospital for cataract. Why not have decently-salaried
circuit interpreters, instead of depending on aliens, who
may be impartial, but ar possibly in the “ring?"
Here is a Parisian
photograph of Serpolette,
the French cycliste who has
come to Australia to initi-
ate feminine racing in
cycling. She lias won
wheel-races in Paris, and
in other French centres ;
in Germany, Belgium,
Switzerland, England. She
met her one serious accident
at the Olympia, London,
when a competitor’s pedal
caught in Serpolette’s front
wheel, bringing Serpolette
down on tlie hard track
and breaking two ribs.
Nevertheless, she loves,her
bicycle—says that being 20
she is too young to marry,
and. besides, she prefers a
wheel to a She
landed in Australia at Perth
about a month since; but
although matches against
her were talked of there,
and again when she was
in Coolgardie, Adelaide,
and Melbourne respectively,
no definite challenge was
offered her. So Serpolette
challenges. She says she
will in a month’s time race
any Australian cycliste over
any distance from a lap to
two miles—in skirts. She
has brought her bloomers —
bright red velvet ones—the
pair in which she has won so many races; but she
has also the most modern skirts for the lap-dash or
final sprint. Although she has been cycle-racing
for two years, she becomes nervous just be-
fore every contest, but once her wheel is on the
starting-line her habitual coolness possesses her.
She thinks she will be able to race well in the
Australian winter— “ which is the French sum-
mer ” —and if not “ it is because Australian cook-
ing is abominable.” Training, the main of her
diet is steak and claret, and she adds that “Aus-
tralian claret here is superior to French claret
here.” She will train on Sydney Cricket Ground,
doing every evening a ten-lap ride ending with a
sprint.
THAT WRIGGLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Which I wish to assert,
And my language is sane,
That for words that are pert
And for tricks that are plain
One anti-Billite is peculiar—
Which the same I proceed to explain.
No-Yes is his name,
And I shall not disguise
In regard to the same
What he tries to devise ;
But his ways, although cunning, are childlike,
As I frequent remark to B. Wise.
Which we played a great game,
And No-Yes took a hand ;
It was Politics. The same
He did well understand ;
And he winked when he came back from Melbourne,
With a wink that was knowing and planned.
But the speeches he made—
That anti-Billite !
And the tricks that he played
Are too frightful to write ;
Spoke at last; “ Not this Bill, but another,
To keep my fat billet all right 1 ”
Then I looked up at Wise,
And he gazed hard at me,
And said, “ Shall we not rise ?
Shall we let such things be ?
We are ruined by self-seeking wrigglers.
Down with Georgie—and up with Tobee ! ”


CUSTOMS PRA.UDS.
The Weenen case has resulted In five of
the Reused, being convicted and sentenced.
kveU \
S°fS > oY a>
sv t c 5S°7
S V '7
/ t z/y<r£&a-/( /»: <
urn&f £3,000 'Vrte/6yv7'- j/i'\r
-ur/Lt&ft' iffieJ~sfc&mat?r
7C(£> j> *2/00 0 ...
~ M^ur
Ipr (y
cxfCj gcsxJL
(Otytu. ‘cjzr/ /cT —^poa/43i
<*-■ ■ ' "
Q | |orcU *We z>Te, 70K"
vl)e/c Ve«-l?a07 *g W eec J? 'io^Jgfe,
n h S ° U/ /
a&cierff~ - /y/
7g
recovery of Mr. Duncan Gillies.
M L.A., from the effects of an unfortunate
: accident was celebrated m appi-opriate
' [“thy of ti- PoUtid sup-
Zi A fTL Government of New South
"wl present iu-Ure tbe .rand
V~>
'wlyefijef
a*Kff%' fe^ v 5 cT ' e
iy
t r\ olio c ® l *'
Mr , J tl';. GUlies upon hi*
\S“«.
chi£ ‘"t° the t h * a bUi f’ «.>
es/ re y s t iSloil of a °hit>
■»£*•£ 2,'‘r~t" i s-»v“V
c d econ 'Wl USo^w ,e
iie ,
tr ‘>li a ' n * s of ,l he bj/i ,
"> a to ,l 'A/eA "«rf j.? ». a
a 'J o lt
mL 'torn* M ‘ 4^-
° f Victoria before a meet f Trade
or Commerce ££*«*, lhe Lon <l°n
Hall.
raw
f»fio /
Kw ■'
r
Will \je
ipe w.|> or
lei"'" T»?e 4°Wi;
l5
V
Got " ky|>W * „. ..
diff cl/ «7ce
2vJ?A "tjoK W^jdecL"
MELBOURNIAN A.


The Emperor of China has conferred upon Haiser Wilhelm of Germany the
Order of the Double Dragon. What’s the matter with a Double Dragon
George Reid 1
A NEW GAS.
LONDON, Tuesday Night.—Professor William
Ramsay, professor of chemistry In the University
of London, has discovered a new gas, which he
has named “Crypton.”
In 1894 Professor Ramsay announced
his discovery, simultaneously with Lord Ray-
leigh, of a new element in the atmosphere, now
, known as Argon. Crypton is a Greek root
signifying “hidden,” and occurs in the English
word cryptogram
' SHAMsTjAyte
OB TAj/YED o/v
4PfliCATio/J
“ WEIGHT FOR AGE ”
Two breaches of promise have recently
been decided in Sydney. In one .case the
defendant was aged 20 and 'in the other
170. Each had done £5O worth of damage.
Age counts for nothing in affairs of the
heart.
The other day- a pig broke
loose from the shambles in a
Sydney suburb, and, making
his way to Govt. House, de-
manded to see His Ex The
swine Was mistaken, for but, no matter. |a.nd shot
by the police. Such is life !
“ The burnt child
shuns the fire.”
A LEGAL ANECDOTE.
Alluding to certain*irrelevant matters contained
in affidavits read before him in the Divorce Court
yesterday, Mr. Justice G. B. Simpson said he
supposed that these matters were intended to in-
i fluence the Court in some way or other, and this
reminded his Honor of something which he had
read had occurred in an American court. There
the judge said to counsel arguing before him.
“You don’t seriously contend, do you, colonel, that
tflat Is the law?” "Well, as you put it that way,
judge, I can’t say I do; but I didn’t know how it
would strike you." To this the judge observed.
“Well, I cah't say, colonel, that that is contempt
of Court, bat I must say it was a close shave."
Suggested new headgear for the
N.S.W. Bench.
THE BEL IN THE WATER PIPE.
Manly has always been a favorite resort of
the fisherman, but it has remained for Aider-
man SteveDs to discover an unexploited possibili-
ty. At a recent meetiDg of the local council he
[ solemnly arose and stated that he had found an
eel In his water service pipe.
To Wl**
P 0,0 /
T7cKETSC.I^ NA,VaV
To H/ERy hector.
L w °
\ Actual Ly Votes
another corner.
London, Wednesday, 1.45 p.m.-
Mr. Ernest Terah Hooley, the well-
known financier,, has filed a petition
in bankruptcy.
The principal assets are cuttings
from financial newspapers.
How to stimulate the average N.S.W. voter in future.
Combine the franchise with some big gamble as abeve.
The morning tub will now have added, attractions for many aldermen.
The next meeting-place of
the proposed Premiers’ con-
ference to reconsider the Con-
vention Bill.
A MISCELLANY.


Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
“We preach to timber-yards.”— Melb.
parson.
At a Melb. burial t’other day a mourner
at the grave-side interrupted the service by observ-
ing, in a stage whisper, that it was the wrong
grave into which the corpse was being lowered.
The chief mourners, after reading the inscription
on the headstone, stopped the service. The
coffin was carried into the cemetery gate-house,
where it remained until its own 6x2 allotment
was discovered the following day. 'During the
confusion a nimble pick-pocket successfully
operated.
r PIIE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY of
the U.S. is renowned for its liberality to its Agents,
and invites applications from gentlemen to repre-
sent the Society in Country Districts in JSew South
Wales and Queensland; also in Sydney and
Brisbane.
Liberal terms to those possessing experience in the
procuration of new business.
Credentials must be enclosed with applications.
Apply to MAN A CEB,
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Mr. Arthur Griffith, International Patent
Agent, 41 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, desires to
inform intending patentees that, having been
joined by Mr. T. C. Aden (M.E.A. of N.S.W.),
Consulting’ Mechaniccil jhiUg’inoor, the firm is now
in a position to furnish inventors with expert
engineering assistance free of charge.*
The Co-Operative Wool and Produce Co.,
Ltd. During the (joining wool season the magnificent
stores of this successful company, at Central Wharf, will
be taxed to their uttermost. The sampling floor (300 ft.
by 100 ft.) is the finest in the colony as regards equal
diffusion of light and absence of all obstructions. Receiv-
ing and delivering of wool can be carried on with the
greatest possible speed and efficiency, and clients of the
company, growers and buyers alike, may rely on their
interests being in every way well looked after.*
The colossal M‘Sharry (N.8.W.) arbitra-
tion recalls another great railway suit of the
sixties -Cornish and Bruce v. The Crown, over
the Melbourne and Mt. Alexander railway. The
wMv Was ® ar before Judges Stawell, Barry and
Williams, and a special jury of 12. Cornish and
Bruce secured nearly the whole of the leaders of
the Bar, the Attorney-General (Higinbotham) and
K. A. Billing being the only two left for the
Crown. The ease lasted for many weeks, the
contractors eventually succeeding more or less.
Theirclaim was for 1£ million for “extras.” The jury
fees were £3oo each. Some of the extras ordered
were of a most expensive character, many of them,
as one witness said, being in tunnels where only
the swallows could see the work. The same wit-
ness (a Scotsman) being asked the difference in
certain “ tooling ” in masonry said that one kind
had to be done by an expert tradesman, while
any rough Irishman could do the other.” With
two Irishmen on the-benoh and two appearing for
the Crown, this remark struck the court like a
large rock in the abdomen.
Dearß.—Was stuck-up, once, on Breakfast
Creek road, Brisbane, and cleaned out of 4s. odd.
At theatre, same night, happened to sit next the
man who did it; and, when I threatened to run
him in, he handed over two half-crowns, and
calmly asked me out to have a liquor. Gospel 1 —
Old Jack
YOU WOULDN’T CATCH
us advertising “ D.C.L.” Scotch Whisky so
largely unless we were prepared to convince the
public of its absolute purity, by supplying only an
article which they will ask for again and again,
and refuse all others.*
An S.A. farmer during May sent down to
a produce-merchant for enough bi]e beans to sow
half an acre of land. He had heard so much of
their valuable properties that he wished to try
them, he said.
Things to Adore : Locks, Hinges, Door-
knobs, and Knockers. Pointed Facts : Tacks,
Nails, Screws, &c. A Short Cut : Lawn Mowers,
Scythes, Sickles, and Reaping Hooks. Around
the Globe : Chimneys, Wicks, Burners, and Lamp-
ware. The only federated Hardware Firm, we
can supply any of the above lines at rock-bottom
prices. M‘LEAN BROS. & RIGG LTD.,
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, and George-street,
Sydney, and Perth, W.A.
“ Tahune ” bewails the departed glories of
Hobart
The glory of Hobart as a port has departed, despite
her perfect wharf-accommodation and unsurpassed har-
bour. The place seems almost deserted. Imports from
London come mostly by Shaw, Saville N.Z. S. Co.’s
steamers, which only remain in port a few hours. The
direct line of locally-owned sailing-vessels is a thing of
the past, and of the old goodly array of interprovincial
traders there remain but half-a-dozen vessels owned in
Tas. The Union S.S. Co. of M.L. has by far the biggest
slice of the trade round the island ; it made a good
deal when it, absorbed the ancient T.S.N. Co. One
whaler remains to represent an industry formerly prose-
cuted by some 20 or 30 vessels, all owned at Hobart, from
whence they made extended cruises. What has become of
those who manned these craft ? It is significant that nearly
all of the whaling barque Helen’s crew, shipped for this
voyage, are Kanakas recruited in Sydney. The disap-
pearing Australian seaman again ! In its palmy days the
industry was a general all-round benefit. The adventur-
ous calling and remunerative prospects—where know-
ledge of seafaring was not absolutely essential—tempted
many a j outh from the family hearth in the bush dis-
tricts. Merchants, ship-chandlers, sailmakers, coopers,
all participated in the greasy plunder. Splitters and
sawyers found employment in procuring staves for the
big array of casks which necessarily formed part of each
ship’s equipment. And, after a lucky voyage, how the
wine flowed! Now—“ Lost and given over.” The
leviathan takes his ease on the sail-deserted cruising
“ grounds,” whilst his former hunters follow more
cleanly, but, perhaps, less profitable, occupations.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydne}'.*
PROSPECTUS
—OF —
Henry Tait £ Company [united.
Incorporated under the Companies Act (whereby the liability of the
Shareholders is limited to the amount of their shares).
Capital, £30,000, in 30,000 Shares of £1 each
(WITH POWER TO INCREASE).
Of this number 15,000 Shares (fully paid up to .£1) are to be issued to the Vendor (Philip London,
Esq.), and the balance, 15,000 Shares, are offered to the public, at the office of the Brokers of the
Company : payable ss. on application, ss. on allotment, ss. one month, ss. two months.
Provisional Directors:
PHILIP LONDON, Esq., Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
FRED. WALSH, Esq., J.P., Engineer and Patent Agent, Sydney.
GEORGERO BE RTSO N, Esq. (Messrs. Nelson & Robertson), Ship Brokers, Sydney.
E. E. MILLER, Esq., Agent of the late Judge Josephson’s Estate).
Managing Director:
J. E. O’BRIEN, Esq.
Solicitors:
Messrs. STEPHEN, JAQUES & STEPHEN.
Brokers:
Messrs. JONES & BLACK, Bond-street.
Bankers:
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Auditors:
JOHN KENT, Esq., of Messrs. Kent & Brierly.
(One other Auditor to be elected by the Shareholders).
TmS COMPANY is formed for the purpose of acquiring from the vendor, Philip London, Esc,,
his old-established and profitable business as a financier, and the goodwill thereof, carried on by him
under the name of Henry Tait, Elizabeth-street, Sydney, for the sum of .£20,000, to be paid as
follows :—J>dooo m cash, and ,£15,000 shares fully paid up to =Bl.
This firm has from the outset realised considerable and steadily increasing profits, and the business
has developed to such an extent that a larger capital has become necessary to meet the requirements
of the public, and it is to satisfy this increased demand that the business is being formed into a
Company.
npllli, business will be taken over as a going concern as from 30th April, 1898, and as an evidence of the vendor’s
opinion respecting its value, and of the future of the proposed Company, he himself takes 15,000 shares, and per-
guarantees a 10 per cent, dvidend for three years, and in addition guarantees the soundness
of the present securities of the business up to £13,000. As security for the payment of the dividend, the vendor
deposits 9000 fully paid up shares with the Company. The certificate of the well-known accountants, Messrs. Kent
and Bnerley, which is appended to this prospectus, states that in their opinion, after a careful examination of the
business for some four years past, there will be no difficulty in paying a dividend of 10 per cent, on the increased capi-
tal after making ample provision for a reserve fund.
It must he patent that there is a great demand for advances on certain securities which hanking institutions do
not accept, more particularly for such as are required for temporary purposes only, and the business now being formed
into a Company stands quite in the front rank, and is in fact the largest of its kind in the hands of one individual.
By availing themselves of this opportunity investors are not embarking in any new venture under inexperienced
management, but, on the contrary, they will he joining a Company that is well established, and which from its in-
ception has been highly profitable. Shareho.ders will, therefore, secure an interest in a very remunerative and
steadily increasing business, in full working order, and returning well ascertained profits with a certainty of a 10 per
cent, dividend.
Power will be taken in the Memorandum of Association to carry on the business of a Mont de Pi4t6 Company if
deemed desirable.
It may be noted that the New South Wales Mont de Pi6t6 Company, which was formed in 1882, has paid regular
dividends of 10 per cent., notwithstanding the depression of the last five years, and the £1 shares are now worth
£ll6s. per share, and there is every reason to anticipate the shares of this Company will have an equal value.
It is stipulated by the vendor that he shall be a director or nominate a director whilst he holds 5000 shares, and
that Mr. J. E. O’Brien, to whose judicious management for some time past a good deal of the success of the business
is due, shall join the Board as Managing Director.
. The vendor further binds himself under a penalty of £lO,OOO not to carry on business of a similar nature within
100 miles of Sydney.
The dividends will be payable half-yearly.
The only contract entered into is one dated June 9th, 1898, between P. London, Esq., the vendor, of the one part
and John Kent, Esq., of the second part as Trustee for the Company.
A considerable number of shares have already been taken, and the list will close as soon as the full number have
been applied for. Should the Company not be floated the application money will be returned in full.
The whole of the money subscribed, less the amount of t'5,000 to be paid to the vendor and the ordinary legal and
flotation expenses, will be placed to the credit of the Company.
A full report upon the business prepared hj r Messrs. Kent and Brierly, extending over the last four years, can be
inspected at the offiee of the brokers.
Prospectuses and forms of application for shares can be obtained from Messrs. Jones and Black, Bond Street,
Sydney, where also the agreement referred to between the vendor and Mr. John Kent, and the proposed Memorao
dum and Articles of Association of the Company can be inspected.
Copy of the Certificate of Messrs. Kent & Brierly.
The Strand (First Floor),
Messrs. JONES and BLACK, Sydney, Bth June, 1898.
Stock and Share Brokers,
Bond Street.
Gbntlbmbn,
We have examined the books of Henry Tait, financier, Elizabeth. Street, Sydney, and find that the
business has been -established-about seven years, and has been SOUND, PROGRESSIVE, AND VERY PROFITABLE
FROM THE FIRST.
. Should a Company having a subscribed capital of £30,000 take over the hook debts, goodwill and whole under-
taking of the business for £20,000, and the management continue as careful, prudent and economical as hitherto,
THERE SHOULD BE NO DIFFICULTY, with the increased capital and resources, after allowing for the extra cost,
of management, IN PAYING A DIVIDEND OF 10 PER CENT. AND MAKING AMPLE PROVISION FOR A
RESERVE FUND.
We are, Gentlemen, yours respectfully,
KENT & BRIERLY, Public Accountants.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Spondeo : “ The Victorian ‘ Registration of
Firms Act’defeats itself. I can name several trading-
concerns which re-register the names of the proprietors
periodically, in order to legally plead that debts incurred
in the ‘ firm’s ’ name were not owing by the new pro-
prietors. The old proprietors, by whom the debt was in-
curred, are invariably found to be worthless where the
case is pursued, and suppliers of the newest proprietary
discover that when the account becomes due the pro-
prietary of the ‘ firm ’ has, pending the currency of the
account, been re-registered in the names of people of
whom they (the suppliers) never heard. Truly an Act of
Parliament is made to be driven through.”
* * * *
W.A. Full Court has decided that a boarding
or eating-house keeper can keep a stock of liquors for the
use of customers if he purchases them from a licensed
victualler and charges no profit.
* • 9 9
Whatever hope there is of “ restoring silver to
the currency ” springs most from a possible French co-
operation w.th the United States; and, according to the
French Professor Yigouroux, now in Australia in the
interests o. the Mus6e Social, France is dead-cold on that
subject. The inside view, he says, is that with the de-
velopment of paper-money less coin is requisite, that the
increasing production of gold will more nearly answer
requirements, and that the existence of practically
unlimited quantities of silver in comparatively, recently'
discovered American and other mines, and workable at
anything approaching the old level of prices, makes silver
an inereasingly-impracticable currency metal.
*** * *
By “sending up” two snips for “cabbaging ”
(i.e., pilfering), P.M. Panton has upset a long-standing
tailors’ and dressmakers’ tradition that it is justifiable to
cabbage as much as possible without detection. Many a
dressmaker gets level with a mean customer by' sticking
to a few yards of material. In many other businesses the
lower grade of employc-s take toll of ,the goods passing-
through their hands.
* * • *
A Vic. taxpayer entered on his income-tax
schedule £7OO, entrance fee to Stock Exchange, as a
charge of his business. Commissioner disallowed, and
assessed on amount. Taxpayer paid, but appealed. On
hearing, the Commissioner contended that the outlay was
in nature of an investment. Taxpayer denied this, inas-
much as he could not sell it except with the concurrence
of four-fifths of members. Also, relied on the section which
exempts all outgoings actually in Victoria in production
of income from taxation. Judge Casey held that all out-
goings incurred for the purpose of obtaining business are
charges on income ; and do not constitute investment of
capital.
* * • •
Salting the crushing to sell the mine was a great
game at Coolgardie in the early days. A mining-manager,
who ran a battery, had put through many small lots, the
returns from which were so much above the value indi-
cated by the look of the quartz- that he determined if
possible to catch one man. His order to the feeder and
driver was to stop the engine the moment either of them
detected any monkeying at the box. The mine-owner
waited till about lewt. of stone remained uncrushed, and
was then seen to drop something into the box. The
engine instantly stopped, the breaking of a screen being
given by the driver as the cause. As he opened the box
he saw a small bag, the weight indicating contents. Un-
seen by the salter, he dropped this into a bucket of quick-
silver, replaced the screen, and re-started the battery.
The boss washed off and got no amalgam. The “ salter ”
swore the yield should have been several ozs. per ton.
“ Well, I’ll retort the silver for you, and see if there is any-
thing in that,” said the manager, whereupon he proudly
handed the salter the bag of gold, remarking : “You
can’t beat this battery, old man—it not only leaves
nothing in the tailings but puts the gold in a bag for you.”
Though glad to get his gold back, he patronised that bat-
tery no more.
• * * *
Extract from the insolvency schedule of Joe
Gett, Chinaman, who recently filed at Wellington, M.L.
Gett wrote it with red ink, in a beautiful flowing hand :
“ Your gentlemen—l be regret to inform you my ex-
pected trouble. It seemed to me endless pushing, press-
ing very hard on me indeed, as compel me to hand the
whole of my estate to the Assignee hand. lam defendless
of my business. I been suffering for long day gone. I
dont wish to do these, but one hundred forty-five my good
friends help me to do so. Therefore I made this follow-
ing my statement to explain to you as follows :
“ I came out from home with my father in the year
1883, landed in Hokitika en route to the goldfields of Ross.
I been dug with father for 3 years in Redman’s Creek. In
the same following year I go to English school at
Donohu’s, about 4 mdes from Ross. The claim we work
gain nothing by except make a fair living. I leave school,
afterwards I went to Greymouth look for work. I
have hear work, work for Dr. M‘Car thy and
the bookseller shop for while, I thought it not
enough pay. I went up to Kumara, I been ap-
pointed an acting Chinese interpreter, it were 1887. I
also representing mining business for Mr. Seddon and
other Lawyer in the Coast. I earn fair sum, sometime,
but not often. When I gave up my interpreting duty I
came to Wellington in May, 1892. I had nothing with me,
only 3s. left after I pay for my passage over here.”
The bankrupt then enters into a little story of how he
spent money, paying Is. 6d. for “cab fee,” and then bor-
rowing ss. from his cousin, who was a “counter-jumper”
at Sun Kwong Lee’s. Then he was in the employ of
various Chinese storekeepers, acting as clerk in one for
three years, at the end of which time he “ start a partner
business with Mr. Chow Shum in Blenheim. In the year
1892 Blenheim was lively place, that time doing a bonsor
trade.” Then follows a detailed account of various busi-
nesses he embarked in, proceeding as follows:—“My
trouble begin August last, from 7th August to 16th May.
Summonses against me. Claim amounting to £285
13s. 9d. Paid off £99 17s. 7d., leaving £lB5 16s. 2d. un-
paid. Still summonses press, push all time.” The next is
very good : “ I can’t stand the worry, letter comes day
after day. I wish I can’t read English such unprint-
able word they wrote, and send the youngster come to
my shop use threaten language at me. I see my troubles
endless to come. I can’t get my money to pay. lam
helpless. During last three years over 36 creditors sup-
port my business. During last two months not a one let
me have a penny on tick. Fish never can live in a dry
pond without water. Engine can’t move along without
well supply of coal. Boy can’t fly his kite without tail on
it. Housekeeper pour out all tea to the cup no refilled
water, how she give you more tea you require ? All empty
out just the way like my business. Great friend turn an
enemy, the old saying no provisions could never make
soldier stop defend his general camp. The last creditor,
Messrs. W. M. Bannatvne and Co., supplied me the goods,
the balance I owes. I am sleepless. I must not forget I
would give they best my happy day to come again. I sell
they goods, other creditor take away the money. lam
quite understand.”
* * * *
Why country storekeepers go broke. The other
day, tenders were called for the purchase of a firm’s
assigned estate in Newcastle (N.S.W.) district : Stock and
good debts, £704 ; doubtful debts, £277 ; bad debts, £452.
And that is an everyday circumstance. The bulk of the
average country storekeeper’s assets are bad or shaky
debts.
* * * *
In Vic. Insolvency Court it is beooming usual
for the trustee to obtain an order that the insolvent shall
pay over a portion of his salary for the benefit of his
estate. But, under the old order of things, such bills of
costs (in which, according to some ill-natured people, the
trustee often stands in) have been run up that only in
case of extreme longevity will any creditor be likely to
receive a div. Judge Molesworth recently cancelled his
previous order directing an insolvent to pay £25 per year
to his trustee for the benefit of his creditors ; £7O 16s. Bd.
had been paid and duly mopped up in costs, and as the
order bad been for the benefit of the creditors—not of
the lawyers—the Judge quashed it.
I ‘ * * * *
Nothing in connection with Australian indus-
trial organisation appears to have struck Prof. Yigouroux
and his co-commissioner from the French Musee Social
more than the organisation of co-operative stores and
shops, and the development of the coupon system of pay-
ment, during the Broken Hill miners’ strike of ’92.
Another striking thing is that, as soon as the strike
petered out, the men allowed the whole system to peter
out also—without quite paying up for goods bought, either.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
E.T.P.: The laughing-jackass which perched on
top of your Federal flag on the morning of June 4 was a
prophetic bird. It conveyed the meaning that the jack-
ass party—which is the same as the jackwant party—was
on top Narramine : N.S.W.’s answer to Bill :
She hasn’t said “ Yes : ”
But she didn’t say “ No.”
And her downcast eyes, and her sigh
Leave us hoping still
That next time she will
Just quietly answer “ Aye.”
But then, she did say '“ Yes”—only her letter of reply was
intercepted by her step-father, G. Reid H. Hamilton :
Better insure with the big society L. Lee: Tale of a
dog with a broken heart declined Christian : Not sur-
prising. Even a pious spinster of 42 generally says she’s
only 30 .A.F. : You want Cuba to be free “ because it
grows the best cigars.” Dunno. Present writer’s dream
of bliss is the long pale cigar which they sell at Madeira
for Id Reader : Thb Bulletin published Gladstone’s
obituary when he finally left politics, years ago.
So far as the public was concerned, he died then
Harry Monck: Afraid only about one available for
illustration M.Q.: Merely' silly P.M. : He’s dead,
and though many of his ill deeds, alas, live after him, it
would be unseemly to seek reasons for continually attack-
ing his fragrant memory Admirer (W.A.) : Note
posted H.G. : “Dream” sent to artist Derero :
Better ask Tom Slithery .Endymion Smith: You
throw a lot of valuable gloom on the subject.
T.G.A. (M.) : Unavailable G.I. : Ditto. Facile P. :
Thanks; Bulletin, however, has no space for publicly
inserting marmalade into itself Slim Jim : Thanks.
F.S. (Red.): It would have been readable 20
years ago Saloon : Trouser joke many years old ;
present writer saw the original notice in England.
Other joke also venerable and American. Demos:
Such a staggering assertion should be accompanied
by solid evidence. .. Macquarie: One or two may
do Gilaomi: Some merit, but subjects not worth
writing about. Can’t you strike a better theme ?
Her. : Well, Culloden and Vinegar Hill, considering the
good fight made by the losers against heavy odds, are
better worth celebrating by the losers than the winners.
Of course the Saxon doesn’t do such things ; perhaps he
isn’t honest enough to mention that he ever was licked.
The Yankee, being a mixed individual, still cheers about
Bunker’s Hill —where he didn’t win. But, then, he al-
ways talks as if he won S. : The Vatican’s attitude
towards the Italian revolutionaries seems hard to sort out
and of little interest when sorted G.R. (Ch. Ch.):
Person has already got more space than he deserves
Moinus : Poem rejected with cold scoff J. M. L. : You
dreamt you were an insane M.P. getting £l3OO from the
boss of the asylum. Did you, now? . . Manawhiti : A
pretty, dreamy thing about nothing and with nothing in
it. Not a tale —only a faint, mild reminiscence of a white,
jewelled arm on a balcony J. Harcourt: British stories
full of noblemen and diamonds are rather off our beat
J.N.B. (W.): Looked all over it for points, and found
everything else F.B. : “Surveyor” not bright enough.
G.H.B. (W.A.): Gladstone ode forwarded to bis ad-
dress J. J.D. (Vic.) : “ Australians ! let a mighty shout
be heard!” We’ve obliged you ; but you had a narrow
escape. The compositor made it read “ lout.’,’.
Alice : Can’t understand how you turned out two
first-chop things and two hundred fifth-chop
S.C.R. : If you. had passion and imagination and
style you’d be a poet Ennella : Deadly amateur-
ish F.C. : No force Gil. : May do as illus-
tration-idea G.R. : Doubt cow-killing too rough
M.A.H. : Poem too faint and low', like a tea-hell tinkling
on the other side of Jordan Topsy : Sort of thing that
is “dashed off in XOmin.” We dashed it off in 2sec
E.J.C.- (W.A.): You’ve got precisely 1745yds. to go
before you reach the winning-post in that mile
Korero : Nonsense I The State in N.S.W. simply can t
afford to give free primary education all round in order
to save poor people and their children the stigma of hav-
ing to apply in pauper form. The State, you see, has to
provide free postage (at a cost of, say, £50,000 or £60,000
a year) for that Great Educator, the metropolitan news- ,
paper press and the Sydney merchants’ and fakers’ adver-
tising circulars Ernest E.W. : It would get us six
months Von K. : Now, tell us—is that gubernatorial
board-bill yarn a true bill? E.A. : The clinging Fine is
classed by botanists as a parasite, is it not? ... Barkis:
Will print W.H. (Adelaide) : All right; but we don’t
propose to start a libel-action for such a worthless set
of spielers M.Q. : You don’t lie with agility enough.
Melb. : Tummy Wales molten-metal yarn has been
bobbing-up for years ... Bushtrax : No argument possi-
ble. Rotundity demonstrable in a dozen ways
J.M.D. : No points about your bunyip Onlooker : To
hand Alex. S. : Horse-yarn not more than 100 years
old. Nothing in other Mese ena : Bulletin does not
seek “ to be always on the winn. ig side” ; it has fought
many battles in which it knew all along that it would be
on the losing side, though it also knew that the principle
advocated would ultimately prevail. “ The voice of
the people” isn’t always “the voice of God”; it is
occasionally the voice of the Devil. As to your im-
putation that Bulletin financial criticism is regulated by
Bulletin advts., this paper leaves the commercial com-
munity to judge Macquarie : What are you drivingat?
No time for enigmas Oapt. Jean : Had escaped the
Federation-ode-horror pretty well till you smote us hard
with an invitation to “ Arise ” 1 &c. Nobody ever arises
in this paper J. M’D. : Trifling interest Peter :
Not quite on the mark J.P. : “Identification” and
“Socratic” may use: nothing in other E. Mac:
Thanks for insinuation ; these things gall us not. Snake-
lie not even funny 7x7: We don’t preserve rejected
trifles of that kind. “ A. 8.” items may take months to
appear. Pars, to hand good. “Queenslander,” Bris-
bane, will do E.B.L. : Our idea of Federation : N.S.W.
Assembly now consists of 125 members, each paid 1300 a
year. Under the Commonwealth, they would rank as
little above aldermen ; also, their number would doubt-
less be reduced by fifty—which would mean a direct saving
of £15,000 a year. Likewise, the screw of the remainder
would probably be reduced to £2oo—another economy of
£5OOO a year—£2o,ooo saved in one item. Then the
Postmaster-General would go, and the salaries of the
other Ministers would certainly not be increased. With
the imposition of newspaper-postage in N.S.W. to bring
the local P.O. into line with the postal departments of
the other Australias, at least £50,000 a year would be
saved. Say £70,000 saved in these two items. Which
would only be the commencement of the beginning of the
economies effected by Federation F. (M.L.): Sort of
will-o-the-wisp gleam—and, when we tried to catch it, it
went right out Chorodian : So you’ve just struck the
city v. bush controversy. You must have been sleeping
among George Reid’s promises R.P.M. : Solemn Joke.
Jingle : Too like Gordon A.R.D. : Butlered .. ..
M.T. (Walloon) : Neat little echoes in frilled little pants
are not what The Bulletin wants ..W.A.L. (Q.) : Poetical
conversation between God and Satan kept private....
Omio : You “ did in £9O in four days ” ! In this modern
age ! L.M.D. : “ Devil ” and “ Prayer ” fair ideas, not
well handled L.B. (M.L.): Honor declined Jack B. :
One dull; t’other unintelligible. C.: Unworthy.


A TRIBUTE TO VIRTUE.
50,400 BOXES OF BILE BEANS
BOUGHT IN ONE ORDER BY MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., of Sydney.
Bile Beans for Biliousness
H Hjedicine for the People at a Popular price.
SUFFERED FOR TWENTY YEARS.
A WELL-KNOWN SYDNEY MAN TELLS OE HIS
REMARKABLE CURE.
WAS COMPLETELY DERANGED.
DOCTORS TRIED IN T>r . TTArT ,„
WASTED ON USELESS I&iAXY- POUNDS
BILE BEANS EFFECT A COMPLETE AND SPEEDY
CURE.
This is the story of a man who for 20 years suffered from a
variety of complaints, the result of stomach and liver derange-
ment. Mr. A. S. Selwyn, of No. 4 Emily-street, Marrickvdle,
is the gentleman in question, and so impressed is he with the
great cure that has been effected in his case that not only does
he tell all his friends about it, but he has considered it his duty
to let the facts of the case be known to the general public, un
being interviewed by a special reporter, Mr. Selwyn said :
“My first symptoms were
pains in the head ; this was
about 20 years and I
have suffered in this manner
to a greater or less degree
ever since. At this time I
was in the employ of Bid-
dell Bros., manufacturing
confectioners, and of course
the pains interfered some-
what with my work. I
suffered greatly, too, from
pains across the chest, and
a full, heavy feeling in the
stomach, accompanied by
pains in my back and right
side. They also extended
to my left shoulder, and so
acute and distressing were
they that I often thought I
was afflicted with sciatica.
Insomnia was another of
my greatest troubles. Night
after night I would go to
bed at my usual time and
be totally unable to sleep
for three or four hours.
Then, in the early morning, I would drop off into a doze, and
when the time came to get up I had no inclination to do so. I
felt drowsy and always in a semi-exhausted state. _ My circula-
tion was also bad, and I suffered from numbness m the hands
and feet. No one knows how I ; ve suffered. I consulted posi-
tively no less than 30 doctors, and have spent pounds upon
pounds on their medicines ; but these remedies would only
afford me temporary relief, and after that the old * ro "kk_would
return with renewed vigor. About this time * Q
lost my appetite, and could only eat a few mouthfuls at a time.
Needless to say, this caused me a great annoyance. I have been
a member of the Oddfellows’ Lodge for 26 years, and have held
various offices in connection with that order. Most of the
doctors recommended a change of air, but business would not
'V
ii
The following is a Facsimile of Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS.’ recent order for
50,400 Boxes of Bile Beans.
LIMITED,
*^ S 4LE DR®*’
TELEPHONE
1622.
65.
.1950.
O’Connell Street,
Sydney, ;
May 20th, 1898.
The Bile Bean Manufacturing Co.,
19 Macquarie Place,
Sydney.
Please deliver at your earliest oonvenience 4 300 dosen
,50 400 ) boxes of Bile Beans, our stock of which has been
(ou , ftuu ; uuaco With vou an order
reolenished so frequently that we now place y
o 1 i _ pvpr eiven in Australia
which is probably the largest one ever give
for any one line.
The demand for the Beans, however, from the box
sold has shown such astounding increases, month over mo ,
that we feel the quantity is justified.
Trusting for your prompt attention to our wants.
We remain,
Yours faithfully,
permit my leaving the city. Well, to make a long story short, complaints I was suffering with.
I got worse instead of better, and influenza addedl itsedfto e ho i d on my system.
Of course, in my weakened condition it was easy o work and for over a week I was con-
as32*^=£ , '
‘was completely cured The fee ing in the stomach and across the chest has completely
cl"l”tely , ou«d.W may add X. I have recommended Bile Bean, to my friend*, and they all say
“ h 6 oSvSyoulnroWeoSnsto'thMe'flets W« made known to the. public through the news-
papers?” was asked. already said, I have told a number of people
“No, sir, you can use it how you like As whvT should obiect to people knowing of
about my case before I ever saw you, and I see n ‘ ,^ ul by tbe W ay, there’s another thing,
my cure, as it may be the means of help ng ■ ’ would be sure to regret taking any such
In speaking to a friend of “'“‘ilmptßle Beans b.aw£ 1 .woul ia l oe keef f we]L Now I want
medicine, for, as a rule, one had to continue taking * stopped taking them gradually,
to say that I have not found such to be the care with “™PP, ve n g^ neral health.”
as directed, and have not found it nccessa y • of integrity and is quite well-known in Syd-
In conclusion, let us say that Mr gdwyii is a' “® n Selwyn resides at No. 4 Emily-
ney. He is 47 years of age, and the fa , ‘ doubtful as to the genuineness of this or any other testi-
S“ d bKb“ £'‘tomSlnquiries cud refer themsel.es When we publish « case the address
is always given, and we don’t fear the most searching investigation.
HE
EftflS
FOf\
ILIOUSNESS
A BUSINESS MAN’S ILLNESS.
OVERWORK CAUSES HIS SYSTEM TO RUN
DOWN.
COMPLETELY CURED BY BILE BEANS.
Business worry is often the cause of weakening the sys-
tem, and thus opening the door to complaints of various
natures. Mr. T. A. Chappel, of 248 Cardigan-street, Carlton,
Melbourne, has had an experience of this sort, and in speak-
ing of it, he says “ Owing to heavy and protracted business
my whole system became run down. I was low-spirited, and
totally unfit for business. My nervous system became un-
strung. I lost my appetite, and was able to obtain but
little sleep at night. Throughout the day I felt drowsy and
listless, and had no energy or ambition. I got weak and thin,
and began to fear there was something very serious thebeyond my expeotatS. In a short
Beans, and I decided to try a course of th m . The result was Y P f healtb .
time the sleeplessness and loss of appeti te^toneandT am now in the best of health and spirits
In a month or so my weight increased and J. ainly a first-rate medicine for such
and take a pleasure m recommending Bile Beans. iney are cenam y
complaints as mine.”
♦
INFLUENZA AND COLDS.
Nothing so suddenly obstructs i thethese are suddenly
rarifies the blood, quickens the c f f Th most common cause of disease is obstructed perspiration,
checked, the consequences must;be bad’ gore throat) etc „ if attended to
or what commonly goes by thenaneof «itch:ingg * generally prove the forerunner of
in time are easily subdued, but if allowed to affliction from a neglected cold,
more dangerous diseases. Nine-tenths of t clothes or exposure are more numerous than are
g»,rally One°of Sort efficacious mediciucs’for the prevention of diseases of the throat
and lungs is Bile Beans.
BILE BEANS
Are an Undoubted Specific for BU Sj* pt’, “KS, DiSS.Tii
P*. in Back .ndS.de,
Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn,
and that Tired Feeling.
Bile Beans are obtainable from all Chemists and btore-
keeners generally ; Australian Depot of the Bile Bean M.inu
facturing Co., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney ; Victorian agent.,
Rockc Tompsitt, and Co, Flinders-street, Melbourne; S.A.
agents' F PL Faulding and Co., King William street Ade-
aTde 'w.” .gents, F. H. Faulding and Co., Perth . tjucen-
land agents, S. Hoffnung and Co., Brisbane. Bile Beans aie
not anOrd inary medicine. They are manufactured in one o
the best fitted and equipped laboratories inthe w ° ’ ,
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A., and they have been used thiouffli
out that country by the best physicians for years, ; and the
amount of time and labor expended in compounding them
would, even if someone had the formula, exe hide them trom
selling.them, as it is only on account of the saies being in the
millions annually that they can be sold at the low pnc ,
owing to the great cost of the ingredients.
Remember, each box bears the signatiire of the pro-
prietors, THE BILE BEAN MANUFACTURING CO.
THE
Remedy
of the
AGE.
n POSITIVC CURE FOR INFLUENZA, RHEUMATISM, &C-


CbipS of Wi&don? . .
Eat Granuma and defy the physician.
Early to bed and early to rise,
And drink Billy Tea if you wish to be wise.
Granuma in the morning
For mother’s darling.
Billy Tea at night
Is mother’s delight.
A PROVERB FOR CYCLISTS.
Granuma Porridge for a hard road.
One cup of Billy Tea in hand
Is worth ten (of any other) in the bush.
The proof of Granuma is in the eating.
JAMES INGLIS & CO.,
Sole Agents and Proprietors.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY > CO.,
Furniture <& Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
Smoke
rvT^
ft* y**Ktom
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only 3
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNFY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Premier Reid’s nation—Procrasti-nation.
N.S.W. anti-Federal motto :—Defeated,
yet victorious.
FEDERATION V. GEORGE REID.
The matter now is narrowed in
A very simple situation ;
Ye proud electors, which will win—
The nation or the corporation ?
George Reid sticks his carcase in front of
the hand-cart which his Convention colleagues
have pushed almost to the brow of the hill and
says (confidentially): “ I should be sorry to see
all our labors brought to a standstill.”
Price, M.P., in accounting for the absten-
tion of the Labor-party from voting on Referendum
Day, remarked that once a man could get a pot of
beer for his vote, and since that has been
taken away he demands a cab. If none is forth-
coming, he stops at home or goes to the races.
If the U.S. war with played-out Spain
and her broken-winded fleet has doubled the
price of bread in England, consider what would
happen Britain herself “took on” a combina-
tion of France and Russia. Either the State
Granary must come—or Protection for the British
farmer !
Graham Berry says he remembers with
pride the support he and his Protectionist opinions
received from Jacob Garrard when he (Berry) was
years ago invited to-Sydney to deliver a public
address in favor of the, at that time, obnoxious
doctrines of Protection. “ A man in his life plays
many parts.”
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Lyne objects to
“sinking the fiscal issue.” Naturally. His recent
attitude towards “ Braddon’s blot ” and majority
rule, to say nothing of the Federal views of the
Hume electors, make the long politician only Uit*
anxious to star as a jgg n 0; a
Provincial
One polling-place made a record in the S.A.
voting on Federation. At Ebenezer, a country
township, every elector voted for Federation ! The
humor of the situation is derived from the fact
that the place is named after Ebby Ward, M.L.C.
—the eccentric S.A. politician who so strenuously
opposed the Bill.
The recent Hindoo invasion of Smell-
bourne should accelerate legislation. , The last
79 arrivals are quartered on their fellows in the
slums which the Flossies have been driven out of.
An attempt to ship a batch to Queensland failed,
as the steerage in which the former travelled re-
mained uninhabitable for four weeks afterwards,
and the shipping co’s are—literally— not taking
any more Ram. Jam Sammee.
Concerning The
Bulletin's pre-referen-
dum day observation
that the Labor - party,
whose existence depends
upon “ sinking the fiscal
issue,’’had much to gain
by instituting Federa-
tion. Of the 35 M’s.P.
in N.S.W. who attended
the first Labor caucus
after the ’9l election,
only Black, Cann, Ed-
den, M‘Govven, are now
members of the party.
All the rest and half-a-
dozen more who came in
in ’94 have been Sunk by
the fiscal issue or driven,
like Cook, Fegan, and
Bavister, into otho
parties.
HE WAS LOOKING IN THE WRONG PLACE.
VISITOR: "Beyond their novelty, there seems to he no interest conncoted with your big sheep-
stations.”
NATIVE: “ Oh, isn’t there; you ought to see some of the mortgages on them!”
The wise men came from the East, and
evidently went back there. The only S.A. con-
stituencies which gave a majority against the
Commonwealth Bill were West Adelaide and
West Torrens.
W. E. Gladstone, on March 22, 1850, in a
speech in the House of Commons, vigorously
championed an elective Upper House for N.S.W.
He accepted nominations for the House of Lords
in England, because the institution existed there,
but contended that such a principle in a com-
munity like that of N.S.W., where one level of
social qualities prevailed, would create a class of
legislators antagonistic to popular rights.
S.A. Federation polling was lessened by
the mistaken policy of proclaiming Referendum-
day a public holiday. With their ardor damped
by the N.S.W. failure, Adelaide citizens picnicked
instead of voting, and the fact that a big race-
meeting eventuated on the same day also made a
difference. It was, in fact, seriously proposed to
run an official tote at the various booths to attract
the sporting crowd and swell the polling.
Premier Kingston completed his fifth suc-
cessive year of office on Tuesday this week (16th).
Of the Ministry formed by him in June, ’93, only he
and Holder remain, but it begins another session
in a few days backed by as strong a majority as
ever. Of Kingston's original Ministry, Gordon
has retired, Playford and Cockburn successively
resigned to take th Agent-Generalship, and
Gillen died in harness. During the whole of his
present term of office Kingston has not had to face
one no-confidence motion.
Premier Turner and barrister Purves are
two prominent Vic. federationists who hold that
the Commonwealth should start just the same
whether N.S.W. comes in or not. If Westralia
accepts the Federal Constitution, Turner votes
for going ahead. The S. A. Ministry and most of
the Tasmanians are of the same opinion. A
federation of Vic., Tasmania, S.A., the Northern
Territory, and Westralia would cov»- °
square miles
and the Riverma district of
-PUSiW, Would certainly do its best to come in.
Apropos a variety of things. There is no
sound reason why statistician Coghlan, because he
is a public servant, should nob criticise Barton’s
Federation figures. Don’t let us create a United
Australia with the help of the gag. If Coghlan
says Barton is ignorant, and cannot prove it, then
Coghlan is foolish. If Barton says Coghlan is
ignorant and proves it, then Barton has the best
of it. But it is bad policy to try muzzling the
other fellow on mere technical grounds. It only
makes the public think that his case can’t be
openly confronted.
Sydney D.T.’s crude invention about the
vast sums of money sent over by parties unknown
from Victoria to help along the Federal Bill move-
ment in N.S.W., is met by a plain statement of
accounts from the Federal Association. All the
contributions received in aid of the Bill movement
were .£1330—£1230 from N.S.W., and about £lOO
from all outside sources put together. Will the
Telegraph now explain exactly where the funds
of the disunion-at-any-price party came from,
and how much of them was subscribed by Chinese
and other foreigners ?
Adelaide Observer, as most people
familiar with its history expected, hasn’t taken
long to come around to the pro-Federation
majority. On the Monday following the S.A.
polling it described the result as “a foregone con-
clusion,” said the Bill was “ practically safe from
the start,” and pictured itself as belonging to “the
party of independent criticism ” —despite the fact
that for weeks it had prominently reproduced the
sophistries of Sydney Telegraph without a word
of criticism, although those pars, relating to S.A.
were obviously false.
The Spanish monarchy has its heart eaten
out, and is marked to go the way of Brazil.
The brief Spanish republic was essentially fatal
to the monarchy. All needed was the education
of the working-classes, who, as in Russia, formed
the backbone of regality and imperialism iion-
archy can only live on w hich is Divine
right. .1 m me Bible, said he would serve
»ue Lord as long as he got rewarded for it. This
principle won’t do with monarchy. The people’s
affections must cling all the closer in disaster, or
the cause is gone for ever.
Premier Reid could, without difficulty,
pass at one sitting an Act to make the resurrection
of last year’s Hansards penal—especially October
Hansards. . And, if he extended it to October
newspaperfiles, Sydney D.T, would rise upand once
more call him blessed. How, for instance, does
Labor-man Sleath, who has been bellowing
through the country about a “ cast-iron constitu-
tion,” and “impossible three-fifths majorities,”
and the glorious right of majority rule, like to
read his own advocacy, first in favor of an absolute
majority of the electors being required to vote
“ yes ” before the Commonwealth Bill could be
adopted, and, afterwards, of a two-thirds majorityt
(N.B.—This groat Democrat polled 17,761 votes for
Convention.)
Already, the N.S.W. Provincial party has
got up to remark that the large majorities in the
other provinces prove that these provinces recog-
nised in the Federal Bill a glorious chance to
plunder N.S.W. And, if the other provinces had
all readily assented to Reid’s overtures for an
amended Bill, the same party would have re-
marked that they were willing to do anything, so
long as they got a chance to federate and plunder
N.S.W. As they proved somewhat reluctant,
however, the party says that they are hanging on
to the present Bill because it gives them a chance
to plunder N.S.W. The argument works every
way.
Parkes, in his first Premiership, 26 years
ago, sent, through the then Governor, to the
Secretary of State, a letter, impressing upon the
British Govt, the paramount necessity of at once
annexing the whole of Papua. That letter was
never answered.
OUTSIDE THE POLLING BOOTH.
JIM: “ Well, Bill, what do you think of the Referendum? ”
BILL: “I ain’t seen it lately. We take the Referee now! ”
S.A. anti-Billites anticipated a majority
against Federation of at least 5000 in the city and
suburban electorates, and it was there that they
got their biggest surprise. Those districts pro-
vided a majority for the Bill of 2900, Premier
Kingston’s constituency (W. Adelaide) and W.
Torrens being the only ones . with majorities
against. Country constituencies went strong for
the Bill—furnishing a majority of over 15,000.
S.A. Federalists give Treas. Holder, who stumped
the country on the eve of the polling, most of the
credit for the provincial successes.
Dear Bulletin. —After the result of the
Federal poll was known, I was talking to six
N.S.W. electors who had gone with the noes.
Four acknowledged they had never seen the Bill,
one “ had it at home but hadn’t had time to read
it yet,” and the sixth had read it and voted against
it because, among other things, “he did not be-
lieve in handing over our railway men to an Inter-
States Commission to do as they liked with.”
Truly, the Telegraph, Want and eo., and that
ineffectual Tasmanian elephant Lyne, have reason
to crow over their so-called victory.— One of the
Majority.
To party politicians, one of the most
significant things about the Federal poll was that
not a single N.S.W. electorate represented by a
Labor member recorded a decent-sized vote, and
most of the Labor districts in the other provinces
had small figures too. Some of them Lang
(city) 887 of 2083 on the roll ; Gipps 1162 of 2418 ;
Pyrmont 821 of 1949 ; Red fern 1348 of 3070 ; Alma
864 of 2073 ; Sturt 410 of 2008, and so on. In West
Adelaide 1612 of 5015 on the roll voted ; at Pt.
Adelaide 3197 of 8092 ; at-E. Adelaide 2136 of 6840.
In Yic. —Footscray 2812 of 3882; Pt. Melb. 1357
of 2413 ; Collingwood 2491 of 4987. But W. Melb.
put in 1978 of its 2340. So far as N.S.W. is con-
cerned, the fact seems to be that, tho’ apathy no
doubt had much to do in it, thousands didn’t
vote at all because if they did vote they would
have been compelled in honesty to vote for the
Bill and against their own representatives, and they
wanted to avoid what it had been put pretty plain
to them would be “disloyalty.” That simply
killed the vote in the Broken Hill and other far-
western electorates.
When Premier Reid last week sent along
his request for another Federal conference his
obsequious barracker, Sydney Telegraph, came
out with an intimation that the other provinces
could take it or leave it :
It is the other colonies that want N.S. Wales in the
Commonwealth. If they are all earnest about it they
can accept the clear and reasonable proposal of the Pre-
mier, and discuss terms which may be mutually satisfac-
tory. If they decline, said a leading member yesterday,
the whole thing is at an end. It is useless to discuss the
matter further.
That looks logical, at all events. As Parkes and
Dibbs and Reid have now among them sent out
four different appeals to the other provinces to
federate with N.S.W., it seems quite conclusive
that it is the other provinces which are craving
after union, while N.S.W. doesn’t care a hang.
The principal difficulty in the way of Federation
is not the detail of the agreement. The coarse
mendacity and bear-like uncouthness of the Cab-
bage-Tree Mob and its organs, and the irritation
which they create, those are the lions in the path.
Episode at the supper lately tendered to
a certain Premier after a speech made by him in a
country town. One of the speakers to the honored
guest: “ Dear old boy, we’ve loved you for youi
principles; we’ve loved you in the past; but to-
nightyou’ve proved yourself ablankyold wriggler.”
Dr. John Dunmore Lang
dreamed of the federation of
Australia. Last time he sat in
Parliament, he said: “I shall
not live to see it. But the time
is not so far distant when there
will be higher considerations to
occupy the attention of the re-
presentatives of the people—the
politics and policy of a nation,
as against the small and narrow
concerns of jealous and divided
communities. ” It was then that
Martin, in a superior way, re-
minded the stout old warrior
that he was falling into dotage.
“ Aye, aye,” said Lang, ruffling
his “top-knot”; “maybe so.
But, if so, I have not antici-
pated it. Can the hon. mem-
ber say as much ? ” And Mar-
tin looked like a disconcerted
bull-terrier.
Parson Boyce, of Sydney,
publishing his annual liquor-
bill and cold-tea wail, incident-
ally brings out the fact that the
people ot N.S.W., in 1897,
spent <£3 2s, 7ci. LIT ’ n
Poking into the CfieerfuTbeer
pewter, whereas in 1884 they
spent £5 4§, 6a, per head, There
■* 1
~..o ueen a very steady reduc-
tion in all these 14 years, and,
despite the great increase of
population, the total amount of
drink consumed is only three-
fourths of what it was in ’9l.
Under these &'■
is difficult to ssG vrhy MUBoyce
shouid f "be so dreadfully low-
'Sptrited over the matter. Mr.
8., by the way, asks mildly :
“Are there not two or three
persons, on the average, who
die every day in N.S.W.
through drink ? ” The. Bull-
etin doesn’t know, but it thinks
not. That would mean about
1000 a year, and, seeing that of
the 15,839 people who died in
N.S.W. in 1897,6618 were under
15, when people don’t drink
much, and about 1300 were
over 75 and so really died of old
age, and tho others perished
through well - defined causes
ranging from spinal curvature
to being dropped on by a gum-tree, it is difficult
to see where Mr. Boyce’s alleged mortality
comes in.
Jack Want, in his oration of May 31
He could take that Bill, and in an hour, by means of a
pen, make it such a measure as would make it acceptable
to all the colonies! (A Voice : “ Why don’t you do it?”)
He would do it if, on Friday next, they rejected the Bill.
(Applause.)
If Jack Want can do these things, and yet leaves;
the country to get through without his assistance,
then he is an unpatriotic disunionist of the
deepest Jdye. If he can’t do them, then he is.
a braggart and an unreliable windbag. And if he
doesn’t do them—well, what does Jack Cabbage-
tree call a man whose promise can’t be relied upon ?
The new attitude of Premier Reid towards
the N.S.W. House of Nominee Fossils :
I quite agree with the Hon. Jago Smith that the prin-
ciple of a nominee Upper House in this country is, on the
whole—although on grounds of logic and historical;
reasoning absolutely indefensible and ridiculously out of
proportion to the principles of our constitution—on its
actual working merit, a good one. Although I have occa-
sion to speak strongly about the Upper House, lain not
destitute of a sense of the very great services which have
been rendered to the country by the Legislative Council,
and I cheerfully recognise that there are a large number
of gentlemen in the House who are pre-eminently fitted
by character and talent to act and work for the public in
the capacity of Legislative Councillors. There is no
reason why the reform of this Upper Chamber should
assume any rash or revolutionary form. I have
never proposed to lay profane hands upon the
Legislative Council. .. . The institution shall re-
main permanent, independent, and be made stronger
and more efficient by periodical changes. . .
I simply point to a constant system of reasonable change
in the composition of the body,'not excluding any one of
the useful members of the House from the prospect of
perpetual service to the country as Legislative Coun-
cillors. I feel sure that any violent policy in connection
with the Upper House would not commend itself to the
good feelings of the people. ... We wish to see the
Upper House a strong, able, independent, patriotic body,
doing its work fearlessly for the people, and, as it must
perhaps be, occasionally coming into collision with the
house that represents the people. ... In my great
desire at the approaching election to receive sufficient
strength to remodel the Chamber, I can assure you that
in taking that course I will endeavour to pursue it in a
spirit which will not be unworthy of the high services *
which that Chamber has rendered and of the good
feeling which the people have towards it in respect of
those good services.


v AV#"" W "%///////,
%
1
“%/
%
CCipid’s Choice
ii) Fii)e Shoes
Should be relied on, as he knows he makes
as many victims by a pretty foot, clad in a
dainty shoe, as by any other attractive
feature. Even Romeo praises Juliet’s foot :
“ So light a foot ne’er hurts the trodden
flower.” Our new stock of Winter, Light,
Strong, Comfortable Shoes combines
Style, Beauty, and Durability, . .
. . . with, Reasonable Prices.
John Hunter and Son, Ltd.
CITY BOOT PALACE,
GEORGE and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY;
AND 75 BRANCHES IN CITY, SUBURBS, AND THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
Po Yoti Waot to Bliy
. . . ao ASSISTANT?
We will sell you a metal assistant, who will stand in a prominent part of your
shop and hold up a sign in his hands, showing everyone what a customer has done
—whether he has paid cash, bought goods on credit, paid something on account,
received money, or had a bill changed. An assistant who will prevent anyone
from making mistakes, and give you a record of the entire day s business.
This assistant costs but a small sum a day for the
first year, after that you own him. He draws no
salary, and is always on duty.
There are over 130,000 of these Metal Assistants
in use in retail shops all over the world. Give us an
opportunity to explain his good points to you.
Here he is
You will hear more about him by sending your
name and address to
.. the ..
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER CO.,
Head Office for Australasia: 393 George Street, Sydney.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Telephone No. 2976.
P.O. Box, 1035.
You can Buy
at PALING’S
Catalogues post free,
01.5. Paling! 80.
litd.,
Sydney, Brisbane,
Newcastle.
PIANOS
ORGANS
MUSIS
VIOLINS
aeeoRDEONS
AUTOHARPS
SORNETS
BANJOS
FLUTES
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
Mouth Organs
POLYPHONS
STRINGS
FITTINGS)
For
every In*
strument
Clieaoer and better than
k
any other house in
Australasia.
Our Guarantee worth 20s. in the £
applies to all Roadster Tyres
that are embossed with
this Trade Mark —
m
m
m
The
Damn
of Hope
to the unfortunate cyclists who are continually in trouble
with their cheap grade tyres — PIT
DuNifiP Tyres
and your troubles will vanish, for they have proved
Reliable, Durable, and Easy of Repair-
First in 1888. Foremost ever since.
The Qunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, 486 Kent Street, Sydney.
Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
The Anti-Billite Bill.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let them talk of constitutions
Of the nations of the earth,
And the grand old institutions
To which they’ve given birth ;
But to rouse our admiration
And the world with envy fill,
Give us that divine creation
Called the anti-Billite Bill.
It was promised to the nation
By the fat and frothy man,
’Twill receive consideration
Ere Jack Want goes to Japan—
They were fools in former ages
At a Federation pill ;
Only wait and see the pages
Of the anti-Billite Bill.
Some may boast of Federations
Framed by wisest human brains,
But the fathers of the nations
Aren’t in it with John Haynes.
What is Bismarck to MacLaurin,
With his blood and iron skill ?
What is Washington to Foran ?
See the anti-Billite Bill.
It is bound to please all sections
Of the anti-Billious lot ;
And we 11 hear no more objections
To the blessed Braddou blot.
Nor the burden of taxation
Will the D.T. columns fill;
And the Statist’s relaxation
Will be praying for the Bill.
It will please the deep-dyed Tory
And the plutocratic shark,
And the agitator gory
On the benches in the park.
We shall study it at leisure
' Till our bones in death grow chill,
And we’ll pass it on with pleasure
To young anti-Billite Bill.
’Twill include a referendum
Never known in any school,
By providing an addendum
That minority shall rule,
And ’twill show the proper leav en
For a legislative mill,
‘ Is that six is more than seven,
Will the anti-Billite Bill.
And such words as blast and blither
Must in every chapter be,
■ Else John Norton’s tongue will wither
Up the scheme with one big D.
To avoid all further snarling
All the trade from Broken Hill
Will be carted to the Darling
By the anti-Billite Bill.
Such a legislative wonder
Never Senate hall has seen ;
Heaven above and place down under
May smooth differences between,
( But their chance of Federation
We may estimate at nil
. Till they get some legislation
Like the anti-Billious Bill.
N.S.W.
MIRANI.
Fourteen Victorian M’s.L.A. were among
the anti-Billious, and their constituencies voted
for the Bill in every case. Higgins, the leader of
anti-Billiousness in the South, saw his own town
of Geelong give a majority of 1780 against him ;
smellful I ootscray jumped on Hancock’s gospel
by over 600 majority; baronet O’Loghlen’s con-
stituency gave 800 majority for the Bill; Styles’s,
700 ; M‘Lean’s, 550 ; Bromley’s, 580, and so on.
Lven Maloney, the popular gentleman who hove
the water at Deakin, couldn’t carry his own elec-
torate with him on this occasion.
Mildura sent along 278 votes for Federa-
tion and 2 against, and one of the latter is said to
have been recorded in error. And this is how
that thumping majority came about. Mildura
was running short of flour a month or so before
polling-day, and sent down to Murray Bridge, in
S.A., for 20 tons of it. But, as Mildura is on the
right bank of the Murray, somebody pointed out
that it would cost ,£lOO in duty to throw the stuff
off that side ; and, that being out of the question,
an order was sent to Echuca instead. But there
had been a drought in Vic., and the upper Murray
was consequently low ; so, as the flour couldn’t
come down stream, it had to be sent by train to
Melbourne, thence by boat to Pt. Adelaide, then
by train over the Hills line to Murray Bridge, and
then up stream to Mildura. And, before it got
there, Mildura had decided that that sort of fool-
business had to be stopped somehow.
Stephen Barker, J.P., a leader of the
Victorian anti-Billious league, did a picturesque
roar in the Argus the day after his party went
down. This is the peroration of Barker, J.P. :
Victorian Democracy has failed to appreciate the gifts
of the past, the struggles for freedom, the labors of the
John Balls, the Wat Tylers, the glorious memories of the
martyrs of 1832 and the Charter movement. . . . Thank
G0d,. 1 was nu iennoclast, av 1 nude others the same. I
heard some of the biggest skunks outside your office on
Friday night singing “God Save the Queen.” Why?
Because they thought Democracy was strangled. The
same class stabbed Wat Tyler in the back, and thought
they had killed Democracy. But it lived; and, make no
mistake, it still lives.
Everybody who is out in the interests of Disunion-
at-any-price somehow claims to be a Democrat.
Even barrister and Tory Heydon, late of N.S.W.
Leg-iron Council, who was so mad with The
Bulletin a year or two ago because it didn’t cheer
properly for Queen Victoria—-even he said that he
was a true and consistent Democrat.
Now that the N.S.W. anti-Billious have
technically wrecked the Federation Bill on the
80,000 minimum, though the Bill got a large
majority, they are rising with remarkable unani-
mity to say that they are sorry they put in that
80,000 minimum at ail. Many of the anti-
Billious, they say, didn’t vote because they felt
sure the 80,000 votes couldn’t be obtained, but if
there had been no 80,000 minimum they would
have voted and shown a fine, large honorable
majority of disunionists. An equally probable
yarn is that many Billites didn’t vote because
they also felt that the 80,000 minimum was hope-
less, and voting was mere waste of energy. But
anyhow, the party which killed its enemy by stab-
bing him in the back when he wasn’t looking now
says, after he is dead, that it isn’t afraid of him,
and that it wishes it had attacked him openly in
front. Not one of these valiant anti-Billious,
however, suggests abolishing the minimum, and
taking another vote, and doing that fair and
square win which they say they could do if they
cared to try.


TUESDAY, 21st JUNE.
BY AUCTION.
Tenham Cattle Station-
TO be SOLD pursuant to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Queensland, made in an
action, Hammond v. Hammond and Others, num-
bered 55 of 1897, with the approbation of the
Honorable Mr. Justice Cooper, by Messrs. B. D.
MO RE HEAD & CO., of Brisbane, Auctioneers,
in conjunction with Messrs. HILL, CLARK &
CO., of Sydney (the persons appointed by the said
Judge), at Mary-street, Brisbane, in the Colony of
Queensland, on the 21st Day of JUNE, 1898, at
Eleven O’Clock in the forenoon, in one lot,
TENHAM STATION
(Outside Tick-Infested Area),
Situated in Gregory South district of Queensland, con-
sisting of 276 square miles of country (more or less), of
which 190 square miles are Leasehold, having 17 years to
run from the Ist July, 1897, and 80 square miles of country
held under Grazing Right, under “Crown Lands Act of
1884.” Together with
6500 CATTLE (more or less), Fifty (50) HORSES (more
or less), STATION PLANT, STORES and IM-
PROVEMENTS thereon or belonging thereto.
The Country is situated on Cooper’s Creek and Kyabra
Creek, about 40 miles south of Windorah and about 230
miles west of Charleville railway station. It is very rich
fattening country for cattle, consisting of lightly timbered,
open, mulga country, with occasional black-soil plains,
abundance of salt-bush, blue-bush, cotton-bush, and other
edible shrubs. TENHAM is splendidly watered by the
main channel of the Cooper and its many branches, be-
sides springs. The Cattle are quiet, and have been well
worked. In the herd there are about 1000 head of Bul-
locks and Cows fit to start for market. The Improvements
are sufficient for the efficient working of the station.
Particulars and Conditions of Sale may be had gratis at
the office of Messrs. Macdonald-Paterson and Hawthorn,
Edward-street, Brisbane, Solicitors for the Plaintiff;
Messrs. J. F. Fitzgerald and Power, Queen-street, Brisbane,
Solicitors for the Defendants; or at the offices of the said
B. D. Morehead & Co., Brisbane ; Messrs. Hill, Clark &
Co., Sydney ; Messrs. Ryan, Hammond & Mates, Mel-
bourne ; and Messrs. Barker Bros., Adelaide, and at the
place of sale.
Dated this twenty-fifty day of April, 1898.
(L.s.) W. A. DOUGLAS,
Deputy Registrar.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
H. 5.111. IHont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
•74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Paivnbroking Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MONTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
AAtivssmm
Hi
-HEAD -P. v F.f-J ccs
Intersection Hunter, Buqh and
Castlereagh Streets .
• SYDNEY•
Ti,-. Established - !879.
Office in'AustrM** *
Annual Income and Invested
Funds ExceedJ[2oo,ooo for/in*.
NElv
OF
r .
oV>
£ll
Of Highest
Character.
MINERVA TONIC
is a tonic of the high-
est possible character.
Minerva Tonic testi-
monials are testimoni-
als by the best-known
citizens of Australia.
MR. G. D. CLARK, the gifted mouth-piece
-of the great Temperance Partv in New South
Wales, writes from the Grand Lodge in the fol-
lowing eloquent terms: —
“ May Ist, 1898.
“ I have pleasure in stating that, having
tried Minerva Tonic, I am decidedly of
■ opinion that it is most helpful in clearing the
brain, stimulating thought, and making work
a pleasure.
(Signed) “G. D. CLARK.”
■'Of all Chemists, or direct from any of the Aus-
tralian Depdts.
THE MINERVA CO.,
Manufacturing Chemists and
Food Specialists,
London, 15 and 17 Fore-st. Avenue, E.C. ; New
York, Jvemple Building, Whiteball-st. ; Sydney,
■ 56 Margaret-st. ; Melbourne, 231 Elizabeth-st. ;
Adelaide, 98 Currie-st. ; Brisbane, Taylor and
• Colledge, or 3 Darragh’s Buildings, Queen-st.
OUIB ELL’S Dipped Wool trumpets its own fame
Realised top price, 12id., for N.S.VV. wools at
' Sydney ; and top price, 15 Ad., London, ’98 —both greasy.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
Price Warung; price, 1/-; posted, 1/3.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, <& Agency
Company, Limited,
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. .. £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and rtiients, 31st December. 1897 £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Es p, C.M.G., M.L. A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street.. Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-up ... ... .. £2,974,804 10s,
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P.; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L. A.;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo . K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors : Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M‘Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd,
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., £B2lO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
"—THE—,
Colonial Mutual liife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,400.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lon' 1 :i.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.'
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiky, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
or to
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
(Queensland).
E. A. WEINBERG, E. M., General Manager.
cam
UniERUIEIIR
WINTER COMFORT.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc, in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, or Cotton.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
BST CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
Oauid graham k jjo.,
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
Leura, Saturday, June 18, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, June 25, 2 p.m.
For MELBOURNE'i
GEELONG I ]
PORTLAND |]
WARRNAMBOOL J
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Peregrine, Saturday, June 25, 2 p.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Peregrine, Saturday, June 25, 2 p.m.
Takes passengers and cargo for S.S.
Buninyong leaving Melbourne
Tuesday, June 28.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
i Tyrian, Saturday, June 18, 2 p.m.
eßurwah, Tuesday, June 21, 5 p.m.
I Leura, Saturday, June 25, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG A
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE ! r
LUCINDA POINT p
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c. J
Tyrian, Saturday, June 18, 2 p.tn,
Leura, Saturday, June 25, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CUItKIINT FAKES TO ALL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard, Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
171NGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ItOUTK).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
QUEENSLAND POETS and POET DAEWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TXESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
L' STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & GO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stafnp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
Cable Address—Kiemseil.
Code—Mokeing & Neal, eto.
Telephone No. 695.
Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. BUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND —
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
WALLEN & WOOPS
/ FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers >
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716.
l^elboOrQe-
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street. London E.C.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ 6UIPE
Shouhl be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANOE BAY
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, June 21.
S.S. Innamineka (from Melbourne)
Tuesday, June 21.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Tuesday, June 21.
S.S. Innamincka (from Melb.)
Tuesday, June 21.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Tuesday,
June 28.
Best & Cheapest Jttoute to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., J/i-D., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker § go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
|{)‘|luiraith, |D‘Eacliarn & Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
Eor Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from, £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co’s Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MERGE LL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U- S. N. Coy. Ltd
Royal Mail Coastal Service
TH R POPULA it PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY AND ROCKHAMPTON —Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN —Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenyer Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge street
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Co
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
No. 139.—9 ct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6cL
No. 209.
Gold, Amethyst
Heart, set Pearls.
£1 ss.
No. 130.—15-ct. Gold, Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and handsome "design. £l2 10s.
No. 217.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
Diamond and
Sapphire, £ 1 ss.
No. 145.—9-ct. Gold, Amethyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 15s.
No. 102.—9-ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Kuby, 15s 6d.
No. 117.—Elegant 15-ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
1 Diamond, 2 Bubies, £1 7s 6d.
No. IX3. —9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Diamond centre, 17 s 6d.
No. 101.—9-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Pearls, 10s 6d.
No. 107.—9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Ruby, 17s 6d.
H
No. 335. —Solid Silver Child’s
Cup, 3in.-high, £2 10s.
No. 308.—Solid Silver Pin
Tray, 3in. long, 8s (id.
No. 136.—9-ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 ss.
No. 234.
15-ct. set Opal,
£1 7s Od.
No. 201. —Set Gold Links.
8-ct. Gold, £1 ss; 15-ct. Gold, £2 ss; Silver, 6s 6<L
No. 134.—15-ct. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
ls'o. 235.
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Diamond,
£ll2s 6d.
No. 289. —Out-Crystal Toilet
Salts Bottle, Silver Top,
2Jin. high, 11s 6d.
No. 332.—Electro-Silver on
Nickel Child’s Cup, 3in.
high, 16s 6d.
No. 150.—15-ct. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Kubies
£1 7s. 6d.
No. 311.—Solid.Silver Bon-Bon Dish,
6.|in. by;siu., £l'7s 6d.
No. 263.—Gross.
9-ct. Gold, 8s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, X7s 6d.
No. 260.—Solid Silver Case, elegantly engraved. s}in. long,
to hold Four Cigars, £3 3s; ditto to hold three, £2 ss.
No. 347. —Elegant Electro-
Silver Gong*, ilin. high,
£1 103.
«***ssur«*
No. 337. —Six Solid Silver Tea Spoony
in morocco case, £llos.
No. 197.—Set Gold Links.
6-ct. Gold, 361 ss; 15-ct., £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d.
9-ct. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 196. —Set Gold Links. *
9-ct. Gold, 18s Cd; 15-ct., £llss ; Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 215.
9-ct. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
16s Cd.
f
No. 200. —Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is; 15-ct., Gold, £ll7s 6d; Silver, 5s 6d.
No. 284.—Cut Glass Puff Box,
with Solid Silver Top, Sin. high, 21s.
No. 330.—Solid Silver Butter Knife, Jam Spoon,
and Sugar Sifter, in morocco case, £1 ss.
'9(&sftw®sssk
w
f
$
S,
§ ~
No. 286. —Elegant Photo Frame,
Solid Silver, cabinet size, 16s 6d.
No. 370.
New and Elegant Design Electro-Silver Entree Dish,
llin. long, £2 2s. (Dish and cover make pair.)
No. 297.
Solid Silver Thimble,
steel lined, 3s Cd.
No. 133. —15-et. Gold Brooch, Opal centre, set Pearls
and Diamonds, £4 17s 6d.
No. 155.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 18 fine Diamonds,
2 whole Pearls, 3 Sapphires, £8 10s.
No. 118.-—l5-ct. Gold Broochj
set Sapphires and Rubies, £ll2s 6d.
No. 157.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 fine Diamonds,
2 whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £7.
No. ;;k>. ,
Silver Button Hooks and Shoe Lift,
10s 6(1
No. 262.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., £llss.
No. 295.
Electro-Silver Serviette Kings,
in case, 8s 6d ; 4 in case, 16s 6d;
6 in case, £1 5s
No. 336. ■
Twelve Electro-Silver Tea Spoons and Sugar
Tongs, in case, £1 7s 6d.
No. 261. —Medal. Silver, 3s 6d.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., £ll7s 6d
NOTE. —The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the
any of which will be forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet of Specialties (80 pages) Post Eeee.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH-


Piles.— Pamphlet on Sharp’s new “ Can-
nalin ” treatment, for home cure without opera-
tion, sent free to any colony from the depdt, 257
George-st., Sydney. References allowed to
prominent people cured after years of suffering.*
Gov. Macgregor’s chief relaxation from
■the cares of Papuan rule consists in methodically
examining the students and pupils at the mission
schools. This work he does as punctiliously as a
paid school-inspector.
Premier Reid now states that he won’t
;say definitely what alterations he wants in the
Federal Bill because it would be prematurely
“ showing his hand.” Also, he wants Turner to
promise that he will make concessions before he
■explains what concessions are wanted. Likewise,
though the Vic. Premier has promised to meet and
■confer with him, he says that Victoria is hanging
■on desperately to the “ good thing ” it has got,
and complains that he doesn’t see any probability
of Turner meeting him. At the same time, he
won’t fix any date for meeting Turner, and he,
alleges that the attitude of Premier T., who is
still waiting for an answer as to the concessions
required, is injuring Federation. Same old
Wriggler !
Australia is now able to accurately size-up
Lowles, M.P., the dreary, greasy English gabster-
grabster who lately stalked through the land talk-
ing about Patriotism and the need for Imperial
unity, and so on. In a letter to London Daily
Chronicle Lowles (one of the arch-enaineers of
the groat Papuan land-steal, Somers Vine being
another—and these two being seceretly aided and
abetted by sundry Queensland and Victorian poli-
ticians and others, whom The Bulletin could
name, but who are lying low on the weather-bow)
impudently says that “a fatal blow will be struck
at the credit of Queensland if, at the bidding of a
few angry Socialists, the Government goes back
upon solemn and binding obligations in connection
with the New Guinea land syndicate.” “ Solemn
and binding ” —booh ! An unlawful steal done in
the dark, a mere political thug-act, can neither be
solemn nor binding ; and, as to the “ few angry
■Socialists ” —they include the whole Australian
nation, barring the few political rascals who have
helped the greasy Lowles and his fat and hungry
fellow-brigand, Vine, to accomplish the reach-out,
so far as it has gone. If the Papuan steal is rati-
fied, it will be the biggest nail yet driven into the
coffin of the Imperial connection ; and if Chamber-
lain drives it for the sake of “ Wales ” and Wales’
Man-Friday, he’ll be doing it with his eyes wide
cpen.
“ There ’ll be a Hot Time in the Old Town ”
WHEN THE GREAT NEW 1898 models arrive.
Look Out for Them !
THE RED BIRD
SPECIAL.
The warmest baby in the
bunch. This wheel is years
ahead of the times, and has
so many improvemen! s that
all other wheels are second
grade in comparison.
Price, £2B 10s.
THE RED BIRD
No. 1.
Were the RED ' BIRD
Special not manufactured,
this grand wheel would he
the leader of the high
grades. It has more im-
provements than any wheel
but the Red Bird Special,
which is in a class by itself.
Price, £2l.
The BLACK BIRD.
No road too rough, no jour-
ney too long, tor BLACK
BIRD quality. Better in
value than wheels sold at
£30 —by dealers. If your
mind turns to cycling, and
you are not prepared to pay
for Red Bird quality, you
will be very foolish indeed
not to examine this superb
mount. Price, £ t(i lOs.
Look Out for STRONG POINT in Next Issue.
THE GOOLD BICYLE CO., LTD.
Wellington, M.L. ; Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic. ; Rundle-st., Adelaide, S.A. ;
Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. Factories—Brantford, Canada.
“ These ar*e produced by the same methods as those in vogue at the Beeston Works ;
the workmanship and materials are o£ the highest quality ”
Reduced.
LADY’S
GENT’S
aU2S
The Australian Cycle & Motor Co. Ltd., 45 York-street, SYDNEY ; and at 381 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
That accident to Cartwright’s daughter, Miss Edith
Morley, was really a much more shocking incident than
it appeared in print at the time. The handsome youn«-
damsel had the narrowest of escapes from a gruesome
death, for she must have been dragged some distance by
the horse, her foot trapped in the stirrup-iron and her
head bumping the road sioues. When picked up, Miss
Morley was unrecognisable.
Melb. : “ Apropos Rickards’ ukase against a reference
to Jews, on the Opera House boards—there is a similar
order in a Melb. daily newspaper office.”
Paradis : “ I object to the burlesque footman in pieces
like ‘ Little Minister,’ ‘ Little Vags,’ and ‘ Work Girl.’
Let him be true to life like the other parts.”
“Haresfoot”: Miss Myra Kemble’s announcement of
the “Alhambra Girl” recalls an occurrence said by a
theatrical newspaper to have taken place there. The
manager let the centre box to a gentleman. Afterwards
there came a pressing message from Marlborough House
to secure it for a German party. Having some clue to
the renter the manager let them have it, making sure he
would gratify the other man with a box holding twice
the number of people. Then he sought the house of his
man and found the wife at home. Hubby had told her
he was off to Edinburgh that night. She accepted the
managerial offer to change the box. Thitbershe repaired
at night, and waited till her husband was shown in with
another lady. Tableau!
“ Ami ” : Newbury and Spada are kept in Australia by
London’s obstinate fogacity. Until lately, the see-saw
with them appears to have been that as soon as his thorax
got well, her larynx went.
Another Remenyi anecdote. When the first accounts
of his death appeared, a man of The Bulletin’s acquaint-
ance casually said to his gardener, “ I see Remenyi, the
great violinist, is dead.” “No fear,” replied the gardener
—“Ae warn’t much good. Why, I was in England the
time he fust come out, and the people was all taking
about him. Well, there was a fellow down at our place,
and, my oath, 'e could play, and he sends this ’ere Remenyi
a challenge to come down there and ’e’d play ’im six
tunes for five poun’ aside. And Remenyi never took ’im
hup.”
The “ mummers ” of the Chinatown co. actually struck
sorrowful attitudes on Sadie Macdonald’s tomb and had
themselves photographed ! “The ruling passion strong
in death.”
Dear Bulletin.—A notice prohibiting allusions to the
Jews may be posted somewhere in the stage regions of
Melb. Opera House, but certainly not in the “ green-
room,” as a “Pov. Point” par. stated. There isn’t any
green-room at the Opera House.—Shifter.
When Pattie Browne (“ Little Minister ”) lavs aside her
gipsy dress for the gorgeous apparel of Lady'Babbie she
commits the truly womanly indiscretion of wearing her
hair in the “fashionable style” instead of leaving it to
hang loose as before. Under the circs., she isn’t called
upon to sport a top-knot.
Edgar Hoskins, a Cambridge graduate, who once held
a mastership at Newington College, Sydney, is reciting
battle-pieces at Adelaide Cyclorama. He is a son of actor
“ Billy ” Hoskins, and has done a little in the same way
himself. Before his latest engagement he was gold pro-
specting at Echunga, S.A.
From Grantham (Eng.) Journal, l/l/’9B Singing
Contest. —Another very successful contest, promoted by
Mr. H. Dennis, took place at the Railway Tavern on
Christmas-eve. Mr. George Parnham again carried off
the first prize, a dressed duck; Mr. John Lound took
second, a couple of rabbits ; Mr. Ed. Joyce third, a pork-
pie ; Mr. J. Wilson fourth, a rabbit ; and Mr. John Bot-
tomley, jun., fifth, a plmn-cake. The prizes were given
by Messrs. A. Dennis, of Grantham, and J. W. Dennis, of
Essendine. A large company assembled and followed the
proceeding's with great interest. Messrs. Arnold and A.
Bailey acted as accompanists throughout the evening.”
Fancy the look of triumph on Mr. Joyce’s face as he
stepped up before the sea of envious faces and amid their
clamorous applause became the proud recipient of a pork-
pie ! Why does London send all her missionaries, to the
East?
Dear Bulletin. —Though doubtless the average mum-
mer is pretty thin-skinned—the imported variety
especially so—there may be something to be said on the
other side. As a matter of fact, the actor’s art is not
strictly an art at all. The systematic practice of simula-
tion which he calls “acting” depends, for its artistic
existence, upon a corresponding willingness on the part
of ot hers to be deceived. It therefore becomes a question
how far those who are, so to speak, particeps criminis—
accessaries to the “ make believe ’ —may submit their
accomplice to public criticism, adverse or otherwise.
Moreover, it is the irresponsible critic —the gull who,
while proclaiming his wish to be gulled by attending with
the other gulls, yet. wants to be considered one of
Minerva’s owls—to whom the buskin-wearer most objects.
Pope’s sarcastic dictum that “ critic’s all are ready-
made,” applies particularly to theatrical criticism, in
which line the boy-reporter often graduates. It has
probably taken the actor longer to acquire the in-
numerable “tricks” of his trade than it has
taken the theatrically-inexpert reporter to learn
how to slate him in a few sentences. Hence many
tears. As to the law of retaliation, the architect, say,
who reads in a newspaper article the opinion of a writer
(who is not an architect) that he can’t build houses worth
a cent has recourse, if he likes, to a libel-action. But
anyone may write that any actor can’t act, and the mum-
mer’s libel-action, in that case, is usually a subject for
hilarity, if he brings one, which he usually doesn't. And
if the actor takes himself and his trade seriously isn’t it,
after all, the public (whence come his critics) who first
lend him the rope ?—Busk. [Here are several fallacies.
Granted that between actor and beholder there exists a
tacit agreement to illude on the one hand and to be
illuded on the other, the latter is unquestionably free to
express an opinion as to how the former has kept up his
end of the contract. Also, a man who should engage an
architect to do certain work would be at perfect legal
liberty to say he was dissatisfied therewith. Outside that,
the architect does not invite non-professional opinion ;
whereas it is for the sake of non-professional opinion that
the actor exists at all.—Ed. B.]
Paradis : Clever pros., in the prime of life, coma
grumbling, but how can I tell them they are too old ?
.Their lives leave off where that of a Gladstone begins.
Talma married the lovely Mdlle. Vanhove ; he secured
her in a very remarkable way. His rival was the heavy
man, who awkwardly fell upon Mdlle. Vanhove on the
stage, driving a brass pin into her bosom. She came off
in consternation and fell unconscious. While everyone
else was helpless, Talma tore off her bodice, drew out
the pin and sucked the wound.
An actor of Lear made three shots at his text, and yet
could not strike it aright. First : “ How sharper than a
serpent’s child it is to h ive a thankless tooth.” Second :
“ How sharper than a serpent’s thanks it is to have a
toothless child.’ 1 Third : “ How sharper than a childless
tooth it is to have a serpent’s tank.”
Melb. : “ One Prof. Claudius Nash tried the Kennedy
biz. at Charles Wright’s Coliseum many years aao. He
said to the audience : ‘ Now I have this man entirely
under control. I defy him to hit me.’ The man let out,
and landed the Prof, one on the jaw. The Prof, brought
him before the police court for assault. Dismissed.”
The sixpenny gallery at Melbourne theatres is often a
delusion and a snare. The liberal patron goes with his
sixpence, and finds he has to stump up the usual Robert
or remain in the outer darkness. The idea is to admit
only Is. galleryites as long as they offer, and then the 6d.
man gets a show for the dusty nooks and dim recesses.
All right but for the 6d. draw in the advt.
There seems to be a lot of Freeman and Thomas in the
world. Gov. Brassey’s son-in-law is a Thomas, christened
Freeman after his father’s partner in the contracting
business, and the death of another Freeman Thomas was
recorded lately. This was the F.T. who onetime ran
promenade concerts at Covent Garden Theatre, and
figured as a shining light among the London beer-
sellers.
D. : Again re deaf composers. I have just been reading
that Smetana, a composer w'hose works are neglected
because of their stupendous difficulties, had quite lost his
hearing when he wrote his best-known quartet, a sort of
unusual autobiography. He afterwards commenced a
piece in which he proposed to portray music “as it
sounds in the ears of a deaf man.” Smetana finished in
the mad-house.
A few prominent English singers never heard in Aus-
tralia—Edward Lloyd, David Bispham, Ben Davies,
Ffraneon-Davies, Plunket and Green, Barrington Foote,
Norman Salmond, Clara Butt, Ella Russell, Fanny Moody
(a most adorable woman, whose sister Lily was here three
years back), Margaret Macintyre, “Stephen Adams”
Maybrick, and Sims Reeves. Let Australia hope, how-
ever ; most of these are nearly aged enough to tackle us.
As for the Continentals, there seems to be absolutely no
chance of hearing such stars as Ravogli, Plancon, Maurel,
Alvarez, or the two Deßeszkes.
Charles Wyndham, the veteran London comedian and
manager, served as an army-surgeon through the Ameri-
can Civil War.
A member of Melb. Argus staff, who was lately “ boy-
cotted ” by the manager of a local theatre, will read this
with interest. “Carados,” of London Referee, is speak-
ing The actors, to be sure, are not solely to blame ;
but a generous diet of butter has produced such a bilious
effect upon some of them that it seems as if only a course
of proper treatment could cure those whoarejstill clamor-
ing for the head of Mr. Clement Scott on a charger. . . .
It is difficult for me to believe that the Actors’ Associa-
tion has called upon Mr. Scott for an apology in the name
of the profession ! Ibis incredible that any Association
of Actors should imagine for a moment that a demand for
an apology from a critic who has the liberty to refuse to
accept the Actors’ Association’s views upon any question
under the sun should be suggested seriously as an alter-
native to dismissal from his post. ... I decline to believe
that any honorable man in the profession has the arro-
gance to imagine that a critic goes to the theatre like an
ambassador to a foreign State, and that only a persona
grata to the sovereign power can be nominated f o the
post.”
The much-discussed theatre deadhead-tax resembles
the institution known in France as I’assistance publique,
which consists of a tax on all theatre tickets, in aid of
public charities. It is a humane idea to tax us when we
least feel it to alleviate human suffering.
The widow of Gen. Tom Thumb has married again ; her
new husband is just 30in. high and is an Italian. The
lady confesses to 57 years.
Labor Convention in Brisbane is con-
sidering the position of Labor in politics. Sensible
folks hoped things were to be modified in the
direction of more plank and less platform—but it
seems the platform is actually to be extended.
One would think a platform including nine-tenths
of the reforms under the sun was extensive enough.
Ardent Separationist (Rockhampton, of
course) to Premier Byrnes: “We (Centralians)
are being dominated by a foreign power. If we
could only get a leader like Dr. Jameson a hun-
dred would quickly volunteer to fight for their
independence.” Byrnes (unkindly): “Half-a-
dozen policemen would settle the lot of you.” . . .
The Fitzroy Carbonari are busy bomb-making.
Twice already during present sittings of
N.S.W. Supreme Court juries have awarded
plaintiffs in libel; actio,ns—ope against Evening
News, the other against Daily Telegraph— one
farthing damages when the said plaintiffs prayed
for ,£lOOO.
C. S. Dicken, secretary to Queens-
land’s Agent-General, has been offered the Q.
Govt, influence to enable him to obtain a high
post in the Imperial service. Dicken has been the
working Agent-General of Queensland for many
years, and was solemnly promised promotion to
the actual billet by Hugh Nelson a couple of years
ago. Having, to gratify Tozer, broken faith with
Dicken, this influence to shunt him is backhanded
consolation.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Backers had a bad time at Warwick Farm last
Saturday, rank outsiders getting home in four out of five
races. W. P. Crick scored in the Park Stakes with
Aquila, who beat a second-class lot, and nothing had a
chance in the Handicap with the Carbine filly, Raven’s
Plume, who will yet win a big race, and is worth watch-
ing. Lelamine, a nice-looking filly by the Australian
Peer, won the two-year-old race, and St. Francis gave
punters a parting kick by putting down a hot favorite in
Devoted in the last race. i-
• • • •
Savourneen, by Lochiel — Mavourneen, is a fine
and fast-improving mare, but her racing days will soon
be over. At the expiration of her present lease she is to
go to her owner, Mr. L. G. Rouse, of Mudgee, who intends
to breed from her.
* * * *
The fatuity of backers is appalling—no wonder
Ikey Mo and Co. prosper. Already', without any weights
even to guide them, there are gulls eager to take the short
odds of 250—1 about the “two Cups.” Ainberite, Mer-
loolas, The Chief, Syerla, Gaulus, The Grafter and Bobadil
are the “ particular vanity.” Bobadil is at the false
price of 5 to 4 for V.R.C. Derby, and 100-6 has been taken
about his winning Derby and Cup. Considering the
exigencies in connection with the training of a noble
'orse, ’tis nearly these odds against his seeing the post.
• * * •
The “ very naicest ” rolled up in force to the
Polo matches played in Sydney during the week. The
Sydney team went down badly, being beaten easily by
Camden, who were afterwards defeated by Camperdown,
Vic., to the tune of 14 goals to 1. The visitors won by
their combination and unselfish play. Individually, the
N.S. Welshmen play just as good a game as the Vic’s.,
but each Cornstalk plays for himself and makes a
ruffianly rush for the stroke. The Vie. team were better
also in riding opponents off and hooking their sticks.
* * * *
The Polo Gymkhana was held at Kensington on
Saturday, in the presence of “a large and fashionable
attendance,” when Mr. “ Banjo” Paterson had a big day
out, winning four out of the six events. The Polo Scurry
he won on his own mare, Iron Duchess ; the Polo Cup on
H. L. Mackellar’s Sayonara; the hurdles on Tom Wat-
son’s Tanko, with Iron Duchess second ; and the Ladies’
Bracelet on Dinah. He probably had to charter a van to
cart home his silverware.
* * * »
Australians in England no doubt got a bit of
their losses back on Friday last, when Mrs. Langtry’s
Australian-bred mare, Maluma, by Malua from Madcap,
cantered in winner of the Lewes Spring Handicap.
• * * *
It must be rather a “ griller ’’ for the Britishers
to provide stakes to be raced for by Australian and
American horses. Newhaven and the American colt,
Bridegroom 11., contested the March Stakes at New-
market, when Newhaven, running as Australians like to
see him run, making the pace from start to finish, covered
the 1 mile 11yd. in lmin. 45sec., and made an easy' win.
The betting was 9 to 4 on the Australian.
• * * •
The sale of Carnage to the German Govt, for
10,000 gs. recalls the day when, as a foal, he and his dam
Mersey were spiritedly competed for at the breaking-up
of the famous Sylvia Park (M.L.)stud. When 2200 gs.
had been reached there were only two in it—W. R.
Wilson and Dan O’Brien, and the first named got Car-
bine’s three-quarter brother at an advance of a thou.
• • • *
A high-priced quartette, bred at Auckland (M.L.);
Carbine, 13,000 gs. ; Carnage, 10,000 gs. : Nordenfeldt,
5600 gs. ; Trenton, 5000 gs. ; total, 33,600 gs.
• * * •
There was a fashionable crowd on an off-day at
Riecarton (M.L.) to see Champion Fritz break his own
mile record (2.14 4-5) put up at Moonee Valley (Melb.)
He was at top when he reached the starting flag, and,
paced by racer Magazine, bowled off the mile in 2.14J4-
It was a grass track, beautifully level, with a long straight
which enabled Fritz to get in good work. Entertained
prior to departure, Mr. Buckland intimated another inva-
sion in the spring. He swapped two of his team for
Hattie S , who goes back to be mated with Vancleve, sire
by the Champion.
• * • •
Such a wretched display did Sydney trotter
Viva make in an event at Canterbury (M.L.) T.C. meet-
ing that there were only three tickets on her in her next
effort. Div. £l7B 18s. Owner Buckland was astounded.
The trainer risked a pound and scooped a holiday
cheque. Mr. Buckland was equally astonished when
Fritz paid even-money in his first race. In Sydney,
bookies’ pride would have been 50 to 1 on.
* * « •
Waiuku, Maoriland’s present all-round cham-
pion, put in a season at the stud and got twins, both
promising youngsters.
* • * *
An owner, very wroth at the weight allotted his
nag, indited a letter to the local paper giving in un-
measured terms his opinion of the handicapper, but was
persuaded to withdraw it, and finally retaliated per
advt. “ For Sale, the well-known racing mare Tantrums,
Buyers referred to Blank, Esq., Official Handicapper, who'
has a far higher opinion of her merits than the owner.”
* * * *
A well-known steeple jockey, who some time
ago jumped the Styx, was once parading a racehorse with
a lady, in whom reposed (temporarily) his trust and
affection, when a cast-off charmer confronted them, and
poured a storm of abuse on her supplanter. Her scorn
was returned with more than interest, and language;
colored the atmosphere and attracted an interested
gathering, till finally a resounding slap proclaimed a duel
a ioutrance. Though unscientific, the battle waged 1 ,
furiously, for both combatants were “ willing.” The on-
lookers hesitated to interfere, for the cause of the struggle'
stood an interested spectator, and seemingly in medita-
tive mood—not sure on which side to throw his aid. At.
last bis visage brightened, and the anxious crowd felt-
sure he had found his true love, as, with judicial air, his-
gaze sought an acquaintance. “ Blu’ me,” he said,,
solemnly, “ they’re both fair triers.”
» » * *
N.S.W. National Coursing Association finished,
its second annual Waterloo Cop meeting, at Rooty Hill,,
on Saturday last, when Mr. Yates’ Hazel Girl won the
Waterloo Cup from Black Douglas by four points, after
a gruelling' course. Four to one was laid on Bogant
against Pretender for the deciding course of the Water-
loo Purse. Bogan gained the run up, but Pretender
outworked him, and was awarded the course. Mr. Harry
Dawson made a popular win of the Waterloo Plate with
Wasp, who led and killed from Blythewood.
* * ’* *
Peculiar coincidences of the N.S. W. Waterloo'
Cup were the meeting of Herald and Daily' Telegraph,,
Herald proving the winner. Wag—the Christian name of
Harding, the English sculler—was beaten by Hanlan.
Being short of a nomination, a puppy which had never'
seen a hare was entered, and, at Mr. Dawson’s suggestion,,
it was named “ Last Resource.” To everybody’s surprise,,
it survived to the fourth ties, when.it was beaten by Black:
Douglas, the runner-up of the final.
«** . *
The statistics of the winnings of Vic. cyclists;
during the past season show that no less than £6480 125..
was divided among the racing men. Walne, of course,,
takes the biggest slice (£526 10s.) and, with the exception!
of 405., the whole of the money was won in scratch races.
Considering the machine and tire allowances Walne has;
been drawing and the money he has won in other pro-
vinces, if is tolerably certain that a champion cyclist, or,,
rather, the champion cyclist, is better paid than any other
athlete of the day. Green’s £240 was won all but £l9 im
scratch events, and of Megson’s £lll not a cent was-
derived from handicaps. On the other hand, Body’s £2SJ
came, £ll2 from handicaps and £142 from classio races
Of the total expended, £4921 went in handicaps and
£1559 in scratch races, and of the latter, no less tharn
£1431 was appropriated by only 14 men.
Jack Parsons’ flying-start world’s record
did not distress the rider, and the last lap was reeled off
under record by his Dunlop-tyred Swift.
* * * *
“ Swift ” Walne has increased from a lOst. man
to a 114-stoner under the care of Billy Williams. Wil-
liams, it will be remembered, is the ex-Melb. boxer who
numbers a Chief Justice among his pupils in the “ noble
art.”
» * * •
Cape Argus tells of an ex-Australian who,
while cycling in Swazieland, took a header over a stone
and bent his crank. He unscrewed it, and, carefully
putting the ball-bearings into his billy, went off to find a
flat rock to straighten it. Returning, he saw a troop of
silver monkeys admiring one patriarchial simian trying
to make the screw-wrench follow the ball-bearings, which
he had already swallowed. The cyclist pursued, and the
monkey, handicapped by his metallic “ goitre,” went up
a tree tail-first—the cyclist after him. The monkey
backed out to the end of a thin branch 20ft. above
ground. Cyclist shook the branch and bucked the mon-
key off, but as he fell he gripped the branch with his
tail and swung head downwards. By reason of his goitre,
however, he was too top-heavy to get up again. So
down went the cyclist, cut a long switch, rove a slip-
knot on the end of it, put the noose round the monkey's
neck, and gave a strong pull. The monkey coughed ;
something hit the cyclist in the eye. It was a ball-bear-
ing ! Another big pull—another cough, and down came
15 more ball-bearings into the cyclist’s hat.
■ *- * ■ * *
Sydney football grows interesting. On Satur-
day, Randwick (against whom it is apparently almost im-
possible to score) and University played the game of the
season, neither side scoring. University would probably
have got over the line had it not been for an earnest
desire on the part of each individual to get rid of the ball
when approaching Randwick full-back McMahon. Pirates,
with reinforcements from the defunct Paddington club,
beat Wallaroo by 18 to 16 after a good game. In the com-
petition Randwick now leads by 1 point from Uni. and
Wallaroo.
» • * *
“HoldarM.”: Was present at a Sydney foot-
ball-match one recent Saturday. The game was fast and
fierce, and the dead and dying lay at intervals upon the
ground. An occasional lull in the barrackers’ clamor
enabled me to dimly distinguish the sound of murderless
musketry going on close by. Majawbone’s men were
dinging away at rifle-practice, but their hostilities struck
me as a very quiet episode compared to the loud slaughter
of the football-field.
* * * »
Lacrosse is catching on well in W. A. At Perth
and Fremantle there is an association of five clubs. A
Goldfields Lacrosse Association is being formed, two clubs
from Coolgardie and three from Kalgoorlie joining in.
It says a lot for the energy of a few old players to have
started these five clubs in so short a time. Next year
each goldfield town will probably have an association of
its own.
• * • •
Playing for M.C.C. against Sussex, Albert Trott
made 41 on a treacherous wicket and took four wickets.
In same match W. G. Grace baited splendidly for 6b— not
bad for a man who is 50 years old next month (July 18).
* • * *
Thus a Sydneyite to London Daily Chronicle
on the Bannerman-Slorer incident (letter reproduced in
a great number of English papers):—“ I have been %
spectator at most of the games and .... it is singular
that all the questionable decisions given by Bannerman
have been given against the Englishmen and invariably
at a critical moment I am quite sure that the
results of some of the best matches would not have been
quite so startling without his assistanca” This must
have been written by a one-eyed enthusiast. Bannerman
and Phillips made no more mistakes than any other
umpires, but the former’s task was harder through the
eternal wagging of Storer who appealed and attempted to
bluff on every possible occasion. Further, Storer openly
insulted Bannerman on the field in the final match in
Sydney.
• • • •
Bookmaker Deery, who died in Sydney the
other day, accumulated a fortune estimated by hisfriends
at at least £’50,000. He made it an absolute rule to “ lay
to his book,” and he never gambled. Originally a com-
positor, he landed £5OO over a double which he had
backed, and that was the nucleus of his betting
capital. Deery was a most charitable man and
very open-handed to his brethren of the ring.
A big bookmaker once told the present writer that
on one occasion when he had been terribly struck Deery
lent him several thousands without the scratch of a pen,
and more than one stranded metallician he has helped
into the landlordship of a suburban pub., or some similar
haven. And now the burly, off-handed Jack has laid
round on his last book.


Tasmanian Federal-referendum advfc.
Scratch your noes, boys.
The gentleman who is alleged to have got
nearly £1000, which doesn’t belong to him, of the
funds of a Melbourne church is described as hav-
ing been “an exceptionally active member of the
congregation.” Seems probable, too. No slow
member of the congregation would ever have
managed it.
Albert Calvert has, so far, failed to pay the
expenses incurred in the search for the members
of his ill-starred Westralian exploring expedition,
and the result is that several members of the ex-
pedition are in actual want. As there seems little
immediate prospect of getting the money—over
£ 1000—from Calvert, S.A. Govt, will probably
ask Parliament to vote at least a portion of the
amount.
Paragraph from a recent issue of Sydney
Telegraph : —
THE BOOT TRADE.
MELBOURNE, Sunday—The boot trade board has
made a substantial increase in the minimum wage, raising
it from 36s. to 42s. for makers, finishers, and clickers,
and to 37s. for other branches. The piecework rates are
also being revised.
According to Coghlan’s Statistical Register for
1896 (page. 505) the minimum wages in N.S.W.
are: clickers, 30s. ; finishers, 25s. ; makers, 20s.
Other branches range from 10s. to 30s. minimum.
The blessed influence of Freetrade in raising
wages probably accounts for this.
Ballarat Courier last week printed the
following novel letter of thanks : —
Sir,—As I frequently see letters of thanks to doctors
and nurses, &c., will you kindly allow me a small space in
your columns to thank the officers of Ballarat gaol (from
the governor down) for their kindness to me while a
prisoner in their hands. I do not wish to remark upon
the justice or injustice of my committal, as I may have
something to say on that matter at some other time and
place. I am satisfied that I spent a very much happier
night (though in gaol) than did those who were chiefly
responsible for my being imprisoned ; and if ever their
turn comes to test the Govt, hospitality in a similar man-
ner, I hope they will enjoy the experience as I did. The
only trouble to me was that I was not allowed to finish
my' time. I must also thank Const. Smith for his kindly
forethought for my comrort.
The only parallel for this is a proposal once made
by the Pentridge prisoners that they should pre-
sent a retiring governor of the gaol with a testi-
monial.
At present time some 70 German pressmen
are in prison for Les6 majestie. Beneath the rue
of Kaiser Wilhelm the sword is mightier than tne
pen.
J. 0. Haslam, Gov. candidate for N.E.
(S.A.) Leg. Council district, not only lost the
election, but his daughter died on polling-day,
June 4. A sister and a brother died a few weeks
previously, so that his luck is evidently out. d wo
years ago Coneybeer headed the poll for Torrens,
and his wife bore him twins same day.
Of N.S.W. town electorates, Sturt (form-
ing part of Broken Hill) had the honor of most
consistently staying away from the Federal poll.
Only 420 of a total of 2008 votes were cast—and
this alongside a border-fence. The feeling was all
for the Bill, but it was argued that to vote for it
would be disloyal to the Labor-party, of which
Sturt is a stronghold ! So they didn’t vote at all.
The teachers of Tubau College, at Tonga,
the principal and most of the assistants in which
are Australians, declare that the memory-powers
of the Tongese surpass those of any other people in
their acquaintance. Rev. J. E. Moulton describes
them as “ marvellous.” The college is fairly
large, numbering over 140 pupils, and the memory
gift is fairly diffused over all.
At an “ open-air baptism ” recently held!
by the “Christian Army” in a river-pool at
Melong (N.S.W.), only one young man turned up
to be dipped. Bad business !—but wait till the
first young woman comes along to be publicly
moistened in a demure expression and a snowy
night-gown !
One of tbe most amusing features of T. J.
Byrnes’s Northern speeches is the amiable willing-
ness of the Q. Premier to promise any reform
whatsoever, whether he believes in it or not, pro-
vided he receives a mandate to that effect from
the people. “Asa loyal Queenslander I should,
of course, obey the popular will,” is the formula
with which Tomjoe the Glorified usually winds up
his little oration to the Woman-Franchisers and
kindred deputations, Judged by his own recent
utterances, Byrnes has no political convictions
whatever—he is prepared to do anything and
everything the dominant party wants —be that
dominant party Labor, Liberal, or blue-blooded
Tory.
PAINT Covers a Multitude of Sins, but will not insure safety
against flaws or shoddy building.
THE SILVER RIBBON NAME PLATE
on the MASSEY-HARRIS CYCLE
is a Guarantee of Perfection by an old and honorable Company
MASSEY-HARBIS GO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
.Established
1847.
Australasian Branch 5 163*169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 294 Bourke Street. Melbourne; 386 George Street. Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application .
“DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
yoNjjnerican High?|rt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. I3T Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American p^cles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-cl. s Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
(1
MACKLIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
203 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY,
1 gold (Hatch for gadies Free.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE :
T*E N*W^W*M*N.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Ladies’ Solid Gold Watches. Jewelled
Movements, and are Reliable Timekeepers. List Price,
£5 10s. Send your answer at once, with a stamped ad-
dressed envelope, to know if you have won the PRIZE.
If so, and you purchase one of our Real G ol 1 Ladies’
Chains to wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will be
sent securely packed, free by registered Post. Address —
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THE CUESCE.\T,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Ellis’ Kins-strcct Coffee I'alace,” situated 6C
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - GEO. W. ELLIS.
‘ ‘ Imperial ’ ’ Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.,
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
tT. F. McDermott,
Terms oh
Application.
General Agent for Australasia,
48 Clarence-street, SYDNEY.
Here To-day!
!
and To-morrow !
TT7E- are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’ ’ We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estah. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
ffjtf Agent for “Naumann” and “ Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
“BUILT LIKE A WATCH;”
Sterling Cycles!
After Two Years’ Experience STERLING riders
proclaim that the STERLING is the BEST wheel
built—no broken Forks, &e., &e. Why risk your
life on crocks? Westwood, or Wood, rims.
New Haven Cycles!
Country Buyers, where no agents are appointed,
supplied at WHOLESALE PRICES ; money
returned if not approved of.
Cycle Repairs a specialty.
JOHN D. PATTISON,
Sterling Cycle Depot, 73 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
■V?
rs
£
; y
IIMj!
£
Sr
a*'
S ?I,
n .
u.
AN ABSOLUTE FACT.
jA.
PLAY ; In Three Acts.
PERIOD -21st APRIL, 1898.
Act I.—The boss of Mohonga Station put down his paper with an anxious look on his face. Tie was
thinking of his wool on its way to ’Frisco and of the Spanish cruisers on the Pacific. There was
only one course to be followed, and that was to get a wire off to his agent immediately. “ W horn
shall I send with the wire I Of course, there is Bob and the brown mare but, though Bob is
here, the brown mare was turned out into the horse-paddock this morning, and she is always bad
to catch at any time. Then there is Jim, with his brand-new ‘SWIIT bicycle that he is always
talking about. Perhaps it would be safest after all to send them both, and then it will be settled,
once for all, which is the more reliable—the horse or the bicycle.’
Act ll.—Jim gets away at once, and Bob proceeds to try and catch the mare, while the boss shouts
instructions in forcible language.
Act lll.—Jim has returned with the reply to the telegram before Bob is through the slip-rail. However,
as the brown mare is caught, the following wire was despatched the same day to the Austral
Cycle Agency, Ltd., 391 George-street, Sydney
m
r~i
wr
r
a*
tmw
C\irtn fww CTA. 'tux, • $ £u~p <]&tA ■ fc. '^ A -a.-rC
tost office telegraphs, new south wales.
To THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY, Ltd.,
3!>l George Street, Sydney.
From The Manager,
‘ Mohonga,” Bourhe, N.S.W.
0
&
Mv <Wsi 4 a
V ■
‘SWIFTS” FOR SPEED.


Airßflsfimeil
Use it
For Cleansing the B!ood
it has no Equal.
We give l)e!ow the portrait and testimonial
of Mr. Granger Ward of Brisbane, Queensland
5^
m
Some years ago while in America I had
fever and Ague. It left me in a very weak
state and quite done up. I took some of Dr.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and it soon put me to
rights and my strength returned. I can
safely recommend
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
t°. others. While in the bush of this country
• an aUa , ck of scurvy but I soon got free
Sv.ii Co ™P |a 'Pt by using the same remedy.
Bor cleaning the blood and for eruptions of
the skin 1 do not think it can be beat. All
the bushmen use it.”
CjECOND-HAND
ASI)
TVTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georgre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY
Telephone 1023.
THE
DEAF
9EAB
F3F” “Common Sense Ear
Drums" relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scikntific Aural
I Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmkrs, Agent,
229 Collins-steeet, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20'n. lone, s/6, all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
sorted up, per oz.
We are the cheapestin Au9>
tralla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
w. n. Wigzeii,
110 William Street,
norner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Price
Prompt attention given to Country Ordfni
“ When truth is buried in the earth, it
accumulates there and assumes so mighty an ex-
plosive power that, on the day when it bursts
forth, it hurls everything into the air.”— Emile
Zola.
Peel had red hair. Wherefore Queen
Victoria took a violent distaste to him. The
Duchess of Kent wrote to her brother that Peel,
ought not to be allowed about the Court, because'
what a shocking thing it would be if a Prince of
Wales should happen to have “ hair as red as the
sign of the Red Lion, at Brentford ! ”
Some of the old Ballarat fire smoulders in
the manly bosom of Jim Oddie (quaint and stodgy
are the Ballarat names—Oddie, Shoppee), presi-
dent of the local Art Gallery, who lately waited
upon Premier Turner and didn’t get cordially re-
ceived. Whereupon the veteran went back to
Ballarat remarking that Premier Turner was an
autocrat of the 1851 pattern-, and public feeling
towards the Government was “much the same
in the times preceding the Eureka Stock-
ade. Oddie, smarting under a sense of injustice,
is a desperate digger once again. If the Ballarat
Gallery doesn t get an increased grant, or some-
thing, the President will probably convert it into
a fortress and prepare to receive cavalry.
Interesting bit of autobiography told by
Mr. William McLean—head of the big firm of
McLean Bros, and Rigg—to a gathering of em-
ployes who were giving him a send-off smoke-
concert the other evening in the Grand Hotel,
Melb., prior to his departure for England. Just
40 years ago he lived with his parents in a cottage
situate a few feet from where they (the company)
were then assembled. He was but a lad, and one
Saturday morning, on picking up a newspaper, he
noticed the advertisement—“ Wanted, a smart lad
to learn the ironmongery business.” Without
consulting anyone he applied for the position at a
shop in Gertrude-street, and got it. Instead of
going to school on the Monday morning he went
to fill the situation. He had been in the business
ever since. The story is not quite so full of edifi-
cation as that of the Careful Little Boy who began
his business career by picking up a pin from the
steps of a bank and ended by becoming a celebra-
ted banker. But it shows, at any rate, that there
were no truant officers prowling about and en-
forcing an Education Act when Mr. McLean was
a boy.
When David Buchanan was in England,
reading for the Bar, he interviewed Gladstone.
Agreatmon, sir,’’said Dawvid, “though ah’m
not sairtam that he quite realises that these
magnificent cawlonies are of any mair importance
than the Channel Islands. He said that he under-
stood responsible government was a success with
us, and that the kaingaroo was a maist interesting
animal. The G.O.M. seems to have sized-up
Dawvid all right !
Brisbane National Association is a fine,
blue-blooded old Tory society up to its eyes in
debt, it owes Govt, something like £35,000 ; has
an overdraft of .£6744, and has also a £9750 bill
Tor rent. All the men who run the Brisbane
-National Ass are “ whales ” for private enterprise
and denounce State intervention as the very in-
vention of Beelzebub. Nathless, the above-
mentioned Association thinks there are times
when Govt, may step in with advantage. Conse-
quently, Gove, is petitioned to take over the other
liabilities on top of the original £35,000 by way
qt squaring matters. As compensation, the State
is to he allowed to seize the society’s grounds,
buildings and organ—an arrangement which
would leave the State only about £12,000 to the
bad. 1 here is no such raging lion for State aid
ot a kind as your fine old Tory.
jmtjmne
offpimtrer
HAS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SfvlOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUG INESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its lise.
Beware of Injurious Imitations.
‘BEETHAM’S” is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/-& 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham. England.
ELLIOTT BROS.y Sydney. °°" Melbourne
Corset
WiutowAisr
MARK
Corset
the BEST IN THE market.
ONCE WORM, ALWAYS WI LL BE WORN
PERFECT in SHAPE.
LENGTHENS ~t!Te~WAIST.
BEAUTIFIES THE FIGU RE.
W'uuowAiST Corset
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
ASK FOR
W'llowa'ST Corset
mark
OF ALU DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN BY
F. w. LEE, Camden Buildings,
218, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
. - A fcßpipi jj?: ■■■
> I '
m
melting Co. or Australia
(LIMITED),
DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), near SYIDWEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
FINE SILVER.
1
18§
mm
* -j
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of^Bs“s
For all information warding Rates, etc, apply to Th„ Manager. Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., Mutual Life Building,, Martin-place, Sydney.
“ Retained when all other
are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
INFANTS
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
lms by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale, Houses.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medicm. Journat.
AND


Herr Eassmussen, Celebrated Herbalist.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OP THE
Paline Herbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CUBED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS FOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Gases of this
kind occur daily, and an
INFALLIBLE" CURE
is found in taking the
Alfaline Herbal
Remedies.
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging to
Business,
Mwh i
i *
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th > Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pilis, whicu are sold at the small jirice
of ONE SHILLING per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which keeps
them i n d oors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sup-
shine, they espy
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen's Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
nesß than all other remedies put together.
v\
8
HERR RRSSMUSS€N’S Medical Pag?.
Or the man who for weeks has been
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER PELT BETTER in their lives.
A/ 11
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
Ai.rAi.iNz:
Blood Pills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
■ 7*
fJUk
w
w
“HOW CAMEST THOU T<? BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfa'ine
Fat-Reducing Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE ; packets, 6s.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
i Nervous Twitch-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
! qualify themselves
I to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
m
(LX
w-
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfa-
line Worm Fowder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything'
whicfy the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every little
disappointment or tiifL,
their complexion suffer-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselves.
The Alfaline Universal Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are' received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
i
ST
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, banker, expert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MITSSEN’S ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
\
£1
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this lie
offered his opponent (who was a professional) ho
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Rassinus, sen’s Alfaline Vitality Fills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
How to Obtain Free Book.
•ST When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to HERR RASSMU3SEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent PB EE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmnssen
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trip
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaiii-
Remedies can only be obtained from his own e
tablishments, and not from any chemist or paten
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents
m.
N/. ?
Nl
K
vfejgr
7
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent.
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is.; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kimis of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -A Wonder-
ful Remedy for ( oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and fading off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6-*.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion,
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney!
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne—lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade ;
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundlk Street ;
N.Z.— 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A. :
Perth —Hay Street ;
Coolgardie —Bailey Street ;
Kalgoorlie— Hannan Street ;
Premantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOB. FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ADVICE
FREE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply nrMress your Letters tluisfor privacy sake—
“PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General Post Office,
SYDNEY."
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY, W.THOUT JAI .


Judge Boucaut (S. A.) states that the longer
he sits on the bench the more satisfied he is that
a prisoner should be acquitted unless the proof of
his guilt is clear and unmistakeable.
Mr. Arthur Griffith, M.L.A., has been
registered by the United States Patent Office as
an “attorney for the procuring of patents.”*
There died, about 12 years ago,, in Bris-
bane, one George Slater. Nearly 50 years ago,
misfortune brought him down and compelled him
to go insolvent. Slater, however, didn’t believe
that legal white-washing made things square, and
set himself to retrieve his reputation. With ex-
treme care and rigid economy he contrived to get
together another ,£2OOO, and, shortly before his
death, intimated his intention of leaving all his
estate to his old creditors. There were thirty-one
legatees scattered abroad in England, Victoria,
and Maoriland. They or their heirs (with two
exceptions) were finally all found out and paid in
full. It is to be hoped the honest ghost of old
Slater is satisfied.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere. * -
Higgins, the principal anti-Billious in
Victoria, claims the vote in that province as a
personal victory. “Of the ten delegates who
represented Victoria at the Convention I was the
only one who opposed the Bill,” he told a Herald
interviewer. “I polled over 21,000 votes ; divide
the total in favor of the Bill by the remaining
nine, and the other delegates only obtained some-
thing over 10,000 each.’’ But the view of the case
which Higgins quite overlooks is that Graham
Berry is 76 years old and George Reid is two
yards round the stomach, and that obviously gives
a majority of 74 for the Bill. And, if you add on
to that the surplus that Turner expects to have
this year, and Fitzgibbon’s poems, the majority
becomes simply overwhelming.
BEWARE of the Party offering imitations of
MACNIVEN &CAIIERON'S(Ltd.) ItENOWN ED PENS.
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
Sold by all Stationers.
Waverley Works, Edinburgh.
The Papuan grabsters are prospering so
far. Chamberlain announces that he is willing to
ratify the stupendous New Guinea swindle, pro-
vided the British syndicate of snavellers makes
one or two very trivial alterations in the deed.
Prem.cr Turner, who seems to be running the
whole fight -at this end, has replied to this with
another telegram, in which he points out that the
steal is illegal, inasmuch as it is provided that
Queensland, N.S. W. and Victoria are to be con-
sulted on all important matters relating to Papua,
and this huge British snatch of 250,000 acres was
done without any pretence of consultation. Also,
he explains-to Joseph that the three provinces
have spent ,£50,000 on Papua, and, seeing they
have kept their end of the bargain, he wants to
know why Britain doesn’t keep hers. But all
these things have been pointed out to Joseph
already, yet the 250,000-acre steal goes right on.
Judge Holroyd, ivho tried the Snell will-
case (Melb.) was moved to his decision by a per-
sonal opinion as to the alleged signature
of the dead man. He owned up that he
could not form an opinion one way or the
other by the evidence elicited during the
trial. So he got a microscope and constituted
himself an expert, and by comparing the pot-
hooks and hangers of the deceased, as exhibited,
he was enabled to conclude that the will was a
forgery. If it had been a jury case, the verdict
would have been upheld. However, it doesn’t
much matter. The costs have exhausted the
estate, which must be some consolation to the
widow.
The evidence of experts in handwriting is
proverbially unreliable. It carries very little
weight with any English-speaking jury nowadays.
Barristers advance it in a mild manner for what it
is worth, or denounce it in strong language, just
according to how it suits them. Nothing is more
certain in law than the foolishness of asserting the
forgery of a signature on one man’s “expert”
evidence. Hence a general opinion, among the
few Melb. people who troubled about the matter,
that Judge Holroyd’s decision in the Snell will
case was a very bad ending to what had been a
very bad business for all concerned—except the
lawyers who ate up Snell’s estate. The amateur
student in handwriting settled the matter to his
own satisfaction by convicting an unknown per-
son, or persons, of forgery.
TENDERS will be received at our Office up to Noon
of 6th July, 1398, for Purchase of Leases, 30-head
Battery, Engines, Boilers, Pumps, Pipes, Machinery,
Buildings, and Tools, the property of the Colo Creek
Gold-mining Company, Ltd., situated at Mount Gray, 12
miles from Trunkey, and 29 miles from Newbridge station.
Inventory and conditions may be inspected and Tender
Forms obtained at our Office, also at the Mine.
The highest or any Tender not necessarily accepted.
SHENSTONE & SON, Accountants.
359 George-street, Sydney, June 11th, 1898.
WHEN YOU BUY ,
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS. . „
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
A Silver Watcb
ter GIVEN AWAY. in
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every, MAN,-WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
im*v*r b* w*t*o*t a w*t*h.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simple forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir.—Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address- THE MANAGER,
The English Watch & Jewellery
Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney.
ANOTHER, DEFICIT
caused by your purchase of a packet of Ogden’s
Guinea Gold Cigarettes. Never mind, you’ll
enjoy them.*
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
mm
*3: will
MELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “ PEER OR PEASANT.”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. All tastes and pockets suited.
ll'rife for Card of Tariffs.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
ASTHMA CUBE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by Q-rimau.lt & Co.’s
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
N.S.W. Government Railways.
Special Cheap Excursions
to and from the country, June, 1898.
RETURN TICKETS at the specially low rates
of lJ;d. per mile first-class and Id. per mile second-
class will be issued from Sydney and intermediate
suburban stations to country stations as under :
TO THE WESTERN LINE AND
BRANCHES.
To stations on the Condobolin Line at 8.0 p.m.
on THURSDAY, 23rd June.
To Main Line Stations beyond Wallerawang
and to the Blayney-Cowra, Eorbes, Warren and
Co bar Branch Lines at 7.25 p.m. on FRIDAY,
24th June.
To stations Lawson to Wallerawang, inclusive,
and to the Mudgee Line at 8.20 a.m. on SATUR-
DAY, 25th June.
TO THE NORTHERN LINE AND
BRANCHES.
To stations beyond West Maitland and to the
North Western at 4.40 p.m. and to stations Woy
Woy to West Maitland and Morpeth, inclusive,
at 4.53 p.m. on FRIDAY, 24th June.
TO THE SOUTHERN LINE AND
BRANCHES
(Except to stations on the Jerilderie-Berrigan Ex-
tension), on FRIDAY, 24th June. To stations
on the Berrigan Extension on SUNDAY, 26th
June.
TO THE SOUTH COAST LINE
On MONDAY, 27th June.
Stud sheep Show and Sales at Sydney.
Similar tickets will be issued from all country
stations to Sydney by trains leaving different
stations as under, viz.
NORTHERN LINE—
Jennings
Armidale
Moree ...
Narrabri West
Murrumrundi
Newcastle
WESTERN LINE—
at 6.45 p.m.'i
at 11.50 p.m.
at 2.30 p.m.
at 9.45 p.m. i
at 9.0 a.m. I
at 3.2 p.m.J
Monda}’,
27th June.
Condobolin
Bourke
Dubbo ...
Forbes...
Bathurst
Mudgee
SOUTHERN LINE-
at 10.45 a.m. |
at 7.50
at 6.40 a.m.
at 2.40 p.m. >
at 10.35 a.m.
at 7.25 a.m.J
Saturday,
25th June.
Monday,
27th June.
Monday,
27th June.
SOUTH COAST LINE —
Nowra ... ... at 2.30 p.m
Kiaina ... ... at 3.35 p.m
Wollongong ... at 3.35 p.m
Monday,
27fch June.
These tickets are available for three weeks from
date of issue.
SPECIAL ATTENTION IS DRAWN TO
THE REDUCTION OF 25 PER CENT. IN
THE FIRST-CLASS FARES.
Handbills and further particulars as to stoppage
at intermediate stations can be obtained from all
Station-masters.
BY ORDER OF THE COMMISSIONERS,
H. McLachlan, Secretary.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price,
1/-; posted, 1/3.
The Intercolonial Investment, Land, and
Building Company, Limited,
- 309 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1885.
INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT.
ASSETS, i 860,781; LIABILITIES (EXCLUSIVE OF CAPITAL), ,810,013.
CAPITAL PAID UP, ,832,768. RESERVES AND UNDIVIDED PROFITS, ,816,362.
DIRECTORS :
WM. M'COURT, M.L.A. (Chairman). ALEX. CAMPBELL, M.L.A.
G. DYSON. J. T. LAWLER. D. J. MONK.
BANKERS : THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
AUDITOR : GEORGE CHRISTIE, F.5.1.A., Public Accountant.
Balance-Sheet for the Half-Year ending’ April 30th, 1898.
Dr. LIABILITIES.
£ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d.
Subscribed Capital 55,628 0 0 , .
Less Capital unpaid 22,859 15 10
32,768 4 2
Capital Suspense Account .. 2,293 5 4
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 9,200 0 0
Dividend Equalisation Account.. 1,750 0 0
46,011 9 6
Dep, *'ts with Accrued Interest.. 8,840 1 5
Sunl. ,• Creditors .. .. . . 1,172 13 6
10,012 14 11
Balance Profit 4,756 15 6
£60,780 19 11
ASSETS.
Cr.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Freehold Properties and Invest-
ments 24,069 17 9
Borrowers’ and Purchasers’ Bal-
ances (after deducting Sus-
pense Account) .. .. 35,469 19 0
Office Furniture 118 10 0
59,658 6 9
Cash in Hand .. .. .. 206 10 0
Bank of N.S. Wales (Sydney
and Perth) .. .. ’ .. 916 3 2
f 1,122 13 2
£60,780 19 11
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
LOANS GRANTED ON APPROVED SECURITIES, REPAYABLE AS ARRANGED.
The
Austral
Cycle
Agency
B 5 ft
Skill
Wy
>(*• l
Sfylt
Shoddy
A-SWJFT federation
Are you in favour of
riefing Cycles
fitted with Dunlob Tyrs
YES
HQ *
not she 11 shoot you
fof a traitor; *<&©©€»
II Silver Hatch Free.
These Watches are Solid Silver. Cases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with-
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Potosi Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths,
114 A PITT ST., SYDNEY.
3/6
Amusements.
T»OYAL ST AND All D THEATRE, SYDNEY
-*■»* (Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereaeh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
86th \
WEEK f
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
86th
WEEK
MY SWEETHEART.
Wed., N. Sydney ; Thurs., Waverley ; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
TYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY. '
Under the direction of Messrs. J. & C. MacMahon.
The Management chronicle with much gratification the
complete success of the revival of the Drama of other
times dear to the heart of many old Australian playgoers.
£he (Sea of (Ice; or, §reed for §old.
Adapted 50 years ago from the French of M. M. D’Ennery
and Dugue, for the famous Madame CELESTE, and in
which she achieved one of her greatest triumphs.
Always the Unique Lyceum Tariff—2s 6d, 2s, Is, and 6d.
TTER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and MuSgfove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST 2 NIGHTS! LAST 2 . NIGHTS !
THE SI6N OF THE CROSS.
MARCUS SUPERBUS .. Mr. JULIUS KMIGIIT.
MERCIA .. .. .. Miss ADA FERRAR.
Saturday, June 18—“ A Royal Divorce.’
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25.,, and Is.
EJIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
THIS and EVERY EVENING! until further notice,
BLAND HOLT’S
Third : Great : Spectacular : Enterprise,
STRAIGHT FROM THE HEART!
Written by Messrs. Sutton Vane and Arthur SniRLEV.
A Romantic and Picturesque Franco-Algerian
Melodrama.
Prices—3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day tickets at Gunther’s Hotel Cigar Store, King-street.
RITVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
-*• Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Miss PRYDE
JOHN COLEMAN.
FOREMAN and
FANNAN.
MICHAEL
NOLAN.
Miss MARIAN AINSWORTH.
AGNES HAZEL, WALLACE KING, and OUR GRAND
DOUBLE COMPANY.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE. '
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part ol
the World.
3 The Hegelmauns E
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
Miss NETTIE WAITE. Miss ALICE SIMMONS.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. Mr. CHAS. FANING.
POLTJSKI BROS.
And Our Great Double Company.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
mOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
Last Night of Shilling Pops!
SATURDAY, JUNE 18,
NEWBURY-SPABA COY.
GIGANTIC POPULAR PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION • ONE SHILLING.
Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
k|*itliAXßE KOVAL, MELBOURNE.
J- Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Charles Holloway and William Anderson.
SATURDAY, 18th JUNE, for SEVEN NIGHTS ONLY,
The Silver King.
THE LAST NIGHTS OF Mr. GEO. TITHERADGE.
The Last Nights of the Holloway-Anderson Dramatic Co.
SATURDAY, June 25, Grand Complimentary Farewell
to Mr. GEO. TITHERADGE (who leaves for England
shortly), when he will make his last appearance in his
Great'Creation of WILFRED DENVER.
POPULAR PRICES 1 Box Plan at Allan’s.
■pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE. >
Musical : Comedy : Season!
OPENING NIGHT—SATURDAY, 9th JULY.
** The American GJ-irl.”
Libretto by Mr. H. Temple.
Music composed by Mr. Alfred R. Moulton.
COMPLETE COMPANY of LEADING ARTISTS.
Press Representative,
Mr. Chas. W. Taylor.
Stage and General Manager,
Mr. John Wallace.
ALVA-VERNE Concert Tour of Australia
(Under the Management of John Lemmon 6)
Madame Alva, Prima Donna Royal Italian Opera
Covent Garden ; La Scala, Milan ; Opera, Naples; Doni-
zetti Festival, Bergamo; London Philariiionic Society, &c.
Miss Adela Verne, Solo-pianiste, St. James’" Hall
“Pops” ; Queen's Hall Orchestral Concerts, &c. Samuel
Masters, Principal Tenor Ballad Concerts, Queen’s
Hall; St. James’ Hall, &c. John Lemmone, Solo
Flautist. Miss Matilda Verne, Accompaniste.
OPENING NIGHT |,
Melbourne, Saturday,. 25th June.
Sydney, Saturday", 16th July.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
THIS and EVERY EVENING at S p.m.
Dr. J. M. Barrie’s Delightful Play,
“THE LITTLE MINISTER.’’
Characters by Mr. Rickards’s Specially Selected Dramatic
Company, including Miss PATTIE BROWNE.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHERS!
SNAPSHOT CAMERAS
Take Pictures
liin. x lin.
PRICE, 6s. 6d. Complete with Outfit.
CRESCENT CAMERAS
Take Pictures
3Jin. x 3in.
PRICE, 14s. Complete with Outfit, and two
slides. Postage paid all colonies.
Write for Circulars, etc.,
A. J. LAWRENCE,
26 Jamieson St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ Tales of the System.”


MELUN'S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
-strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow's milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of # all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Feckham, London, England.
hollow Grouno
mm
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON. M
Publications, etc.
S 8
r
-Ballet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting- her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
The Lifej
A d v e n!
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madam e’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 3s.—
SECRET
Photos,
(2) Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
•Continental Supply Agency,
Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
&12272
m
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 12 Cuba, 9d.; 50 Spain (fine), 25.;
9 Porto Rico, 6d.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d.;
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. 6d.; 8 New Cale-
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, 6d.;
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10. Brazil, 6d. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets :30 differ-
ent, Od. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d.; 150, ss. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., orstamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
nxns’w music.
“ Rose of the Morn ” Waltz, by Henry Laski, composer
of My Polly Waltz ; “ Tops and Bottoms,” a right merry
Barn Dance, by Theo. Bonheur; “La Gracieuse”
Mazurka, by Emile Larkozy , “ Tootsie Wootsie ” Polka,
by Benjamin Parks. Beautifully' illustrated. PRICE 6d.
EACH, of all musicsellers,. or. the publishers, W.
J’AXTON '& CO., 19 Oxford Street, London, and
203 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Catalogues (post free)
of over 1000 songs, dance music, &c., at 3d. each.
TTENRY FARMER'S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
•EL and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert Ie Liable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William-
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Mascliera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2-i. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
lAMOND SONG BOOK
COO SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National Songs
of every Country, Including WAR, PATRIOTIC, COMIC,
SENTIMENTAL, and other songs. Many old-time favour-
ites long since out of print, priceless on account of tender
memories, and cannot be had elsewhere. Complete list of
the Songs for a Stamp. This wonderful book will be sent (post paid)
throughout Australasia for 2s. Cd, from ANGLO AMERICAN
PUBLISHING- CO., Commercial Chambers, Sussex Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. Stamps 2d. extra. Agents wanted for this and other Fast
Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing.
BOOKS.
Farm Management .. ..
New Enquire Within, 5000 recipes
The Farmer’s Own Book ..
Etery Man his own Medical Adviser
llict'v of Universal Information ..
500 Cloth-bnd. Novels, best authors
800 Up-to-date Novels, 001. Library
Should vou require any Books Second-hand, kindly advise
R. W. SKINNER, New and Second-hand Book Ar-.
cadfr, 105 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Telephone 3043
Published Second-hand
Price. Price.
7/6 Post Free
4/6
4/6
12 6
10/6
1/6
1/3
15/-
7/6
7/6
30-
25'-
3 6
2 6
Apparently the legend that the Turner
Government is owned body and soul by the Age
needs revision. At the beginning of the Federal
campaign the Age was bitterly hostile ; the
Turner Ministry, after a period of silence and
deep thought, announced that it would give a
solid vote and a solid support to the Bill. Then
everybody waited to see which of the two
parties would climb down. And it was the Age
which came down. Its opposition grew feebler
day by day; then it dropped the subject; and
finally it came out with an emphatic “ Yes ! ”
Gavan Duffy first came to Australia with
Wilson Gray in a Black Ball liner, Ocean Chief,
the captain whereof had yarns. One: “ The
captain of a brig put in the log —‘ I regret to state
that during part of this day the first mate has
been intoxicated and disorderly.’ Sometime after-
wards the mate put in the log—‘ lam glad to be
able to state that during this entire day the
captain has been sober, and his instructions for
sailing the brig were quite intelligible.’ ”
Michael Davitt says that when next im-
prisoned he wishes to go to St. Helena, Q. _ (St.
Helena was so named from the fact that a nigger
named Napoleon was imprisoned there in the early
days.) According to Davitt, St. Helena has no
cranks, treadmills, or scientific barbarism. Con-
victs are occupied with agriculture, dairy work,
gardening, saddlery, and bootmaking. The men
work by themselves, and are allowed to talk. No
attempts to escape are made, inasmuch as the
island has an efficient guard of sharks. Very
fe# punishments are inflicted by local autho-
rities, which Davitt attributes to the absence
of irritating discipline. Altogether the tribute is
one the St. Helena authorities may be proud of.
The boss of the'Standard Oil Co. is said to
have nearly dissuaded President M‘Kinley from
sanctioning the ’Murkan declaration of war
against Spain, and probably M‘Kinley is wishing,
by now, that he had hearkened to the greasy
petitioner. In a commercial way of speaking,
Boss Rockefeller is an awful belligerent, whose
career is strewn with slaughter, but he held a
monopoly of the oil-trade with Spain, and the
war has transferred it to a Russian opposition co.
Rockefeller is now understood to be praying tor a
dire defeat of Spain, so that the Russian co. may
make as many bad debts as possible. He casts no
more oil on the troubled waters.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion, It drives' away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
A rather complicated romance happened
at one end of Maoriland towards the close of last
summer. A young couple met and fpll deeply in
love with each other, which is not at' all unusual.
The young lady was just 18, pretty and highly
accomplished, moving in “ society.” The
young man was 21 ; a slim, girlish-looking fellow
with a lot of fair hair and a blush pink com-
plexion. (The Maoriland young fellow isn’t at all
like the sallow Australian). But when the girl’s
hard old father heard about it he was greatly
displeased, and forbade his daughter going out
in the evening, and also ejected the young man
from the house. He thought that this move
would end things, but it didn’t. Just at this time
it happened that the servant-girl left, and a deep
scheme was prepared. Dressed in woman’s attire,
the objectionable young man called round with a
collection of the very best testimonials, and got
the billet. He proved an excellent domestic, and
his name was Mary. The daughter’s name, by
the way, was Dorothy. Dorothy never wanted to
go out in the evening now, retiring always
about nine o’clock. A great friendship sprung up
between her and Mary, who was a very superior
girl as well as a clever domestic. The latter used
to put a particularly brilliant shine on Dorothy’s
shoes; in fact, she would do anything for
Dorothy. Upon several occasions she went in the
evening with Dorothy to the station to see about
some luggage; and it is reported that she also
accompanied Dorothy on a trip of several days’
duration to Stewart Island. Mary and Dorothy
are married now, and are said to be awfully happy.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part, of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
I'l'icc, 10s. )i«I.
Sole Agents :
<9
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-832 George- st„ Sydney
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working machinery.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind Mills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING,
‘‘4 Clarence St.
Sydney.
This well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA. HOARSENESS, &c.
1
COUGH
ST 0 p$
c oJ
£pQQMfiii
DOSE
Gives Immediate henei anti Kest.
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
See that HAYMAN’S is supplied.
m
PMRoT
BR^NE>
\VoOND?
(toUGWJ C°LPS £e
Op
IMITATIONS 1
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
' Ladies should always Knit with
E
WHITTIMG
OOLS
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino,! Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softness and durability.
Estab'ishedl7Bs.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Alsri “ Tteeliive ’’
Hosier.v&Under-
wear mnnulac-
. tured from the
‘Beehive Wools.
Jia J> Baldwin
HALIFAX,
ENGLAND.
M
THIS TRADE /AARKf%V
* - IS ON
Trade Mark Registered.
Col mane’s 1 ;
Eucalypte
Extract
Fo*/^'r;s|§3fe
| Winter CbtMAsi
Colds t
|ChestComplaints|
USED BY
Earl Jersey
ILORDC ARRINGTON
PURITY!
What’B in a nafhe? Every-
thing we reply. For the
last ten ypars Colemane
and Pure Eucalypte
have gone hand-in-hand,
and deservedly so. Instead
of trading on a name, and
supplying adulterated,
cheapened Eucalypte fas
many have done), they
have stuck to the genuine
article and that precious
"""“PURITY!
Madame Albani uses
Colemane’s Euca-
lypte Lozenges, and
recommends them highly
for the throat and voice.
Is. boxes everywhere.
PROVED BY ZOO YEARS USE.
DRROBERTS’
Friend
mi
S/Orf O/JEASfr
AND WOI/A/jDS
or £. ver y
DESCRiPTiorf
Dll I
Alterative rii^
A tß ‘lLa FOR SKIN DISEASES.
AND ALL D/SORDERS OF THE
STOMA CM & L/VER .
OF ALL CHEMISTS /fM X 2/?EACH
BEACH & BARNICOTT L°. BR ID PORT.
o catalocOE?
MTV POST FREE
V/atcHes-Clocks-JeWellery-BirtHdav-
WtDDii\lc £ CHristeivlielg Presents
H NEWMAIVI-1755177-FllZAßFrri Si-
OPPOSITE C:RO.
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re-toned so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain maybe had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. fV ILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vie.
( FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDEBS ST., MELBOUBNE, opp. Station.
'I i -M
fUliliOfi I
• in
frWiiiiii'ii'iiiiti I 0!
;s
' i !! •• ■ 11111 «in■ ■ ■ ■ : \v\ v . .;\
I,: ° ■
iV'vSw
liiliitraniii,
llliiiiiiiiiil,
!!!!!jiijiiim
‘ * 1 * ll • • i
[ilirfiiiiiin
!!!|ili.ifiiiii
INiiiiijiiiii
iiiJiiji!!!!!!®
iiiii'i!!!! 1 ! ;
inliil"!"!
unii';'!!!!j!
)$;•"!'!!!!!•
iiiiiiiiiii!!!!:
iiiiiiii'i!!!!!!
niiiiiiin**!!!'
I ' i
ii
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 Hiding
Breeches, 25/-. Wa te t rpT o o f<
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21 -. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed,
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
E.
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne,
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOHCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, <fec., bears, on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
rHLOROPYN
TJSB
Spooler's
.OONC^
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS St SHOES
OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break uovvn stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that vou
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different, appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY, which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A BOON TO TH€ PEAF.
DEAFNESS, Head Noises,
and Singinp in the Ears completely overcome, and perfect
Hearing restored, by the use of Peck’s Artificial
Ear Drums. The finest in the World. Send for Illus-
trated Book of Proofs and Testimonials, Free.
A. M. NAST, 145 Collins-street.
Melbourne.
f\UTJtELTj’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.


von,
A cup of Van Houten’s Cocoa contains more digestible
nourishment than the finest beef tea.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S i
CUSTARD ;
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER ;
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold.
The best resource for every house- |
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu. (
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird's Concentrated (
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. Cohen & ;
Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
K-0-A.H3
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
m
m
Hi?
v:<
m
■
m
m.
k
; a
w
m
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for tlie “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article— . _ , . _ „
A. Soycr’S BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
how Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
Wasb'iOgtoi) H.SoOI &Co.,msp.s.,
3.58, 160, and 288 Pitt-street, Sydney; and at
OlmrchL-street, Parramatta,.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
rpo DEFY comfetitiokt.
WINES Tta Best Brands Only o) SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.^
YORKSHIRE RELISH
y, THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WOR!,».
192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
6/2,192 BOTTL S, S UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES,
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNITALLV.
beware of substitutions.
Sold In Mottles, 6d„ i -, and 2- each.
Pronrietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, 4 CO ■, LEEDS, Ef\’G
P tsole A treats for New South wales:
XIUOCK & CO. KKm- and SXMfCMXS, SVDNEV,
WHITE HEATHER
CICARS. FREE
CENT
.5 3
DR OP 3? IN THE SLOTpSnpr
miiiimmmiiiiiimimHMimimniiiiiiimMuiiiiuiiUUlliJ
MICK SIMMOIMS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
No Extortionate Prices.
We give Value for Money.
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Yalue
in N S.W.
T ■ A'WTrPiKrCE’S Patent *l* obacco Cutter.
* *
*
A
TJ
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
s
E
L
P
P
E
E
B
I
G
FOR
COUNTER
USE.
Sole Agents tor Australasia:
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush-
ware. Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers Requisites. Send for Price List.
& Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
w
a
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
•with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMSLL POX SCARLET FEVER, PYAEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
rmPENE and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
“1“ of scarlet
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease Curmg tms tfme i
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Enos ™
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recom lfc g
patients during convalescence. Its value as a s
overestimated.”—A Professional Nurse (Qualified). ,
THE EFFECT of ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. His, in ac„
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION -See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ h,
you have a WORTHLESS Prepared only by J.C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the «FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO S Patent.
-\
12 -
OF NATURE
-■ * —AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK POR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical woikcontams such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openh of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language m this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
DAAiro a\t a T7L SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
lend for our up-to-date book lists post
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for You no Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
nost Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
1 PiriNG Hot ; Arise Mouret’s Sin ; Tiie Soil ; Dream
of Love and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d • post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
9 S . p OS k 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, is ;by post Is 2d. Camille post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d , post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
SIB. ROBERT BEAR
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine mustratea
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, pOSfc free IS. J.IIE
Art of Wrestling, post free Is.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette: Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave Dor6. 2s 6d.
Every Man llis Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is ; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed—Guide to 1- cmale
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
Cheara Boolv Depot,
, 16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
PRICE Is.
LAST OF SIX
per Post, Is. 3d.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
THE MOST COOLiIJMGj & iifi AIiTHEUJU BEVERAGE.
Trade Hark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “ We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
t •..
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d>, & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
lueud it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveit a trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO.. KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
m
SEND V<.iLiß ORDER TO-DAY.
We will more than please you.
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 los., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 los. Description: Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, 60 inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-toned r<eds, 13 slops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Refeience, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN
WASHINGTON, NJ.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
<4
Fresli.
C ooling.
Sparkling.
VELTEN LA6ER
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
THE GKAMO PHONE
is the most recently - invented
“Talking Machine,” and far
— e&SjSßmm
excels aiiy other kind of instrument yet invented. Who-
ever buys a gramophone buys a box at the opera, rents
a pew in a city church, secures permanent admission to
the best music halls in the country, can order out the
most dashing military band our army has at a moment’s
notice, can make the great piano-players of the day his
obedient servants, and can do a great many other things
which would have put somebody in danger of being
roasted for witchcraft had they been attempted by our
forefathers.
PRICES :
Gramophones with Six Records and
clock-work motion £lO 10 0
Do. do. hand apparatus 7 10 0
Extra Records per dozen 2 8 0
A. P- SYKES, 227 Little Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
VISITORS
TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
i ; V'. : ,vr ': 'h ■■'•;■.>;» -iv -M
Complete Sanitations
LIFTS,\
Electric Light."'*'--
, Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur*
nished* with all. Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, 1 Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute,
midst of the Fashionable Quarter. ;
MODERATE TARIFF.
Gloucester Road, Londoh, S.VV.
Sydney-Side.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where’s the steward?—Bar-room steward ? Berth?
Oli, any berth will do.
I have left a three-pound billet just to come along
with you.
Brighter shines the Star of Rovers on a world
that’s growing wide,
But I think I’d give a kingdom for a glimpse of
Sydney-Side !
Run of rocky shelves at sunrise, with their base
on ocean’s bed ;
Homes of Coogee, homes of Bondi, and the light-
house on South Head ;
For in loneliness and hardship—and with some-
thing touched with pride—
Has my heart been taught to whisper “ You
belong to Sydney-Side.”
Oh, there never dawned a morning, in the long
and lonely days,
But I thought I saw the ferries streaming out
across the bays—
And as fresh and fair in fancy did the picture rise
again
As the sunrise flushed the city from Woollahra to
Balmain.
And the sunny water frothing round the liners
black and red,
And the coastal schooners working by the loom of
Bradley’s Head ;
And the whistles and the sirens that re-echo far
and wide —
All the life and light and beauty that belong to
Sydnoy-Side.
And the dreary cloud-line never veiled the end of
one day more,
But the city st t in jewels rose before me from
“the Shore.”
Round the sea-world shine the beacons of a thou-
sand ports o’ call,
But the harbor-lights of Sydney are the grandest
of them all.
Toiling out beyond Coolgardie—heart and back
and spirit broke,
Where the Rover’s Star gleams redly in the desert
by the “ soak”—
But, says one mate to the other, “ Brace your lip
and do not fret,
We will laugh on trams and ’buses, Sydney’s in
the same place yet.”
Working in the South in winter, to the waist in
dripping fern,
Where the local spirit hungers for each “sax-
pence ” that we earn —
We can stand it for a season, for our world is
growing wide,
And they all are friends and strangers who belong
to Sydney-Side.
“ T’ul her-siders ! T’other-siders ! ” But we wake
t he dusty dead;
It is we that send the backward province fifty
years ahead ;
We it is that “ trim ” Australia—making narrow
country wide —
But we.’re always T’other-siders till we sail for
Sj duey-Side.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Screen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Harrison saw the banana-peel when he was in
the act of falling: then his forehead struck the
iron dust-bin, and darkness swallowed him. He
was taken to the hospital, where he lay a week
before he knew where he was.
When he did dimly understand, he was weakly
indignant to find himself in such a place. But
his head felt queer, so he tried to sleep again ;
irritably and vaguely wondering what was meant
by the canvas screen round the next bed.
It was just an ordinary screen, and the cheap
canvas stretched tightly over it showed in places
only the weft of the cloth, the wool having been
worn quite away.
Harrison did not like the screen. He dreamt it
was wrapping itself round him ; squeezing the
breath from under his ribs.
When he awakened, the screen had gone, and
some attendants were lifting a corpse on to a
stretcher. It was the first dead body Harrison
had ever seen, and it frightened him horribly.
The screen began to have an awful fascination
for Harrison. Each night, on turning down the
light, he looked for it; each morning on awakening
he looked for it; often he dreamt of it, and would
disturb the ward by calling out for someone to
take it away.
Men came to his bedside every day, and talked
a language of which he understood an occasional
word. But he always felt relieved when the
screen came not after them ; for he had a dim
idea they were in some way connected with it.
As time passed, things grew mistier still for
him. One day, as he was looking at the men
standing round him, their features blurred, and
their bodies became uncertain shadows. He was
not surprised ; rather amused, really ; and when
one of them asked him could he see, he told him
to shut up. Somehow, he realised he ought not to
have said it, and asked the questioner to strike a
light, and then he might see who they all were.
The man’s face got grave.
Harrison saw the gravity, and laughed. Yet he
wondered why the man was grave. He tried to
think it out, and noticed he had a headache. He
seemed to have had it for ages, and wondered why
he did not notice it before. In a way, it seemed
to explain things ; he turned his eyes to the men
for further explanation, but they were gone.
He fell asleep and began to dream ; he knew it
was dreaming, for such things never happened
outside dreams. The shadowy men came and
lifted him upon a stretcher; as they were carrying
him away they hopped up and down, and skipped
from side to side in a most comical fashion. He
laughed and kicked, enjoying the fun immensely,
until they put the stretcher down, and wound
their arms like bands round and round his legs.
He expostulated. He said, “Say, boys, give us
some more dancing; it was fine. But don’t tie
your arms round me like that. And, I say,.do
take that weight off my chest.” He could not see
the weight; but it was always there.
They started again—hopping, skipping, and
sliding; but all the fun had gone, now that he
could not kick to the time of their leaps. They
took him to a room which appeared frescoed with
a thin mist, and reminded him of a largo hall
where a lot of men had been smoking ; but the
shadows who popped in and out of the mist did
not smoke, they only looked at him. When he
was placed on a hard, cold table, he realised for
just one moment that the mist was a white-washed
wall, and that he was in the operating-theatre.
Then he forgot everything as a shadow put some-
thing on his face that smelt strangely sweet.
• • * *
When Harrison awoke, not a vestige of memory
of the past remained to him. He began life over
again, and .the sensation of feeling something on
his forehead caused his first movement. He put
up his hand to take the something off ; but a nurse
beside him put out her hand and restrained him,
saying something which sounded to him like a
mere gurgling in the throat. He looked at her,
not knowing it was a woman even ; looked at her
hand, and then at his own ; seeing the likeness
between them, he established his first relation, and
began conscious thought anew.
The first word he learnt was hand. During the
week he learnt the names of his bed-clothes, his
bed, and that the something on his forehead was
silver-plate—which he found hard to remember.
Also, that he could put his hands on everything
but the silver-plate.
People came frequently round his bed. Those
who had a space below the middle, like the meet-
ing of two unsupported bed-posts at the top, he
learnt to be men, more commonly called doctor ;
and those without the space below the middle he
learnt were women, always called nurse.
Of some of the men and women he was
frightened, because they did not look at him like
the woman who sat by his side. Gradually he
learnt to judge them by the presence or absence
of her expression. Its presence always pleased
him—most of all in his own nurse.
When strong enough, he was automatically
able to walk, but had to learn from experience the
difference between hard and soft things, which
caused the other patients much amusement —that
is, those who were capable of being amused.
With returning strength and strengthening brain
he learnt more rapidly. But all his emotions and
ideas were as primitive as a baby’s, and required
constant checking that he might learn their limi-
tations.
* * * *
Harrison gradually grew better. Then one
morning, for the first time after he came out of
the operating-room, his eyes opened on the canvas
screen. Slowly they grasped its outline. Then
just one flash of memory seemed to shoot out of
his past. It came, and was gone, but left behind
an awful fear—all the more awful because of its
mystery.
Too terrified to move or to scream, Harrison
stared with dilated eves, the fear ever growing
and growing. As it grew it wound Up a spring
in his head tighter and tighter, until the tension
became unbearable. Then the spring snapped.
The nurse whom Harrison liked was away on
leave, having satisfied herself that he was recover-
ing, and for a long time he was not noticed.
When he was, they wondered ; and sent for the
house surgeon, who could only wonder too, but
called it catalepsy.
* • * *
The man behind the screen took three days to
die.
When nurse Marian came back, they told her
Harrison had died of catalepsy ; also that the
man in the next bed was dead. The intuition
that made her the best nurse in the ward told
her that Harrison had died of The Screen. The
doctors smiled at her; but she saw many things
which they had no eyes to see. Hence this record.
Vic.
W.B.
The wide rules for the admission and
government of Maoriland police were made, of
course, to fit the men who fought the Maoris.
Until recent years the force was crowded with
sergeant-majors and other garrulous veterans thus
rewarded for their military services. They were
permitted to maintain the bitterest political and
sectarian partisanships, and their faults were over-
looked for auld time’s sake. But most of those
old fellows are now dead, and with them many
strange reminiscences (seasoned with occasional
fact), and the men in their places perpetuate their
faults, but do not possess the compensating merit
of having stories to tell.
: Be the recent strange death
of a N.S.W. railway officer —two extraordinary
incidents came under my personal observation
while employed on M.L. railways. I had one day
stepped off a moving train on to the platform—as
was the practice of every self-respecting railway-
buck in those days-and, two carriages nearer the
van, a man, seeing his wife smiling a welcome to
him, also stepped off with his back to the engine.
As he staggered and fell between the carriages
his wife shrieked, and, rushing up, I saw him
lying right across the rail. The train was hardly
moving—two rolls would save him—and I howled
to him to roll away from the wheel. But he was
paralysed with fright, and that wheel turned
twice, touched him, and, as I live, rose up over
him as though he was iron and clanked down on
to the rail the other side and stopped. His wife
was down on her knees, crying “A miracle! a
miracle! Thank God.” But, when we got him
out, he was stone dead. We could feel his back-
bone against his chest, and yet his clothes were
uncut, except for about an inch where the wheel
touched him first, and his body showed only a
faint red line where the flange of the wheel went
over him. Some experts say a feather pillow will
lift a 40-ton engine. Again, while riding on a light
engine across Canterbury plains one pitchy night,
a galloping horseman was suddenly seen in the
ring of light before us. Down went the steam-
break, but, even as the driver’s hand touched it,
we felt the shock. When we got her stopped we
went back and found the horse, flung nearly 20
yards, a shapeless mass of bones and meat ; but
never a sign of the rider. Up and down the track,
along the sides and under the engine we looked, but
no sign ; so we concluded the man had got away all
right—afraid that he’d be prosecuted for galloping
across the liiie. The first station we stopped at
for water, the station-master caine to the cab and
snorted : “ What dog’s trick is this ? Carrying a
man’s face stuck on yer cow-catcher ! I’ll report
such damned nonsense.” We fell off the engine
and rushed to the front. One-bar of the cow-
catcher was bent in, and in the space between the
second bar and the frame of the track-finder was
the corpse of the man, with the chin resting on
the knees. The only marks on him were a small
bruise on the temple and a slight abrasion of the
skin on the back. In his pockets a flask of whisky
and an open-faced watch were uninjured, and the
watch was still going 1


It is not generally known that the princi-
pal cigar-factories of Havana, with two excep-
tions, are the property of Liverpool merchants.
Bull usually has substantial reasons for his sym-
pathy. “ Blood is thicker than water,” they say.
And so is business.
Leprosy, dengue and beri-beri are the
most important of Queensland’s Asiatic imports
of late years. Beri-beri is a kind of blend of
dropsy and elephantiasis which seems to flourish
particularly well in Western Q., especially along
railway cuttings. A purely Javanese invention.
Queensland doctors have begun to note of late a
considerable spread of tuberculosis among the
white inhabitants of kanaka districts. Your
bacillus is the true cosmopolite.
Ladies and gentlemen who visit Sydney at
any time are cordially invited to call at our estab-
lishment and leave a record of their measures with
our dressmakers or tailors. And while you are in
ask to see one of the firm. We are always glad to
see our country customers, and talk over the best
way to send goods, packing, etc., etc. Hordern
Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 200, 211 Pitt-street
(only), Sydney.*
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
it
THE CELEBRATED
LOUIS
VELVETEEN.
99
LUSTROUS BLUE
AND
JET BLACK,
AND
EVERY CONCEIV-
ABLE SHADE FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
“LOUIS” Velve-
teen is essentially a
Ladies’ material, and
surpasses all Fabrics
for the adornment of
women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME
i FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
NOTE WELL.—Each yard of genuine “ LOUIS
Velveteen bears the name, and is stamped witli c.
guarantee of wear.
Ladies.shou'd reject a!) Substitutes.
Newest Perfume
AOLINE
IVlost Refreshing.” (Kegd.)
nice always, but
deliciously reviving in
hot or crowded rooms.
A true natural perfume
XT . made from flowers,
Not a Chemical Preparation.
AOLINE” PERFUME.
“Most refreshing.”
TOILET SOAP
For the complexion.
TOILET POWDER
Imparts a delightful bloom to
the complexion.
SACHETS.
Jieliglitful for Handkerchiefs,
. _ Gloves, &c.
AOLINE” TOILET CREAM.
Softening and beautifying for
. the complexion. ■
' ‘ Of all .Chemists ahd Stores. 1
J. & E. ATKINSON, Ltd., 24, Old Bond St., London.
ISVRXTOUS OK rilK CELEBRATED
“WHITE ROSE” PERFUME.
‘ A Charming Scent."—lLJi.U. The Duchess of York.
“ AOLINE”
“ AOLINE”
“ AOLINE”
NEW DESIGNS IN GOLD AND SILVER SLEEVE LINKS.
Quality, Finish and Durability Guaranteed. English Hall-marked. Chain Connected.
■Si 4?
THE ABOVE FOUR PATTERNS—9-carat GOLD, 13s 6d; 15-carat GOLD, 27s 6d ; SILVER, 3s pair.
9c., 10s 6d and 12s 6d,
15c., 255.
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
9t\, 22s ; engraved, 23s 6d.
15c., 37s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d pair.
9c., 11s 6d and 12s 6d,
15c., 255.
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
9c,, 23s 6d; Plain, 225,
15c., 42s 6d.
Silver, 5s pair.
9c., 12s 6d and 13s 6d,
15c., 255.
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
9c., 23s 6d; Plain, 225.
15c., 37s 6d.
Silver, 5s pair.
SOLID PLAIN FLAT,
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ;
15c., 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, 4s, 5s pair.
RICHLY CHASED.
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 255;
15c., 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, 4s, 5s pair.
9c., 20s; Plain, 19s.
15c., 37s 6d ; Plain, 355.
Silver, 5s ; Plain, 4s 6d.
All Articles Sent Post Free
to any Address.
WILD BOARS’ TUSK LINKS.
'Silver-mounted, 4s 6d pair. Gold-
mounted, 12s 6d pair.
BROOCHES—SiIver, 4s ; Gold, 12s 6d,
Please Send for our Illus-
trated Slips of Novelties.
9c., 20s; Engraved, 21s
15c., 355; Engraved,
37s 6d ; Silver, 4s 6d ;
Engraved, 6s.
‘ONE PIECE’
AND CUFF BUTT'
Unbreakable. - PATENTED,
Studs
>NS.
Unbreakable.
Section
Collar Stud
Section
Shirt Stud
Actual
Size
Enlarged
Collar
View of
Stud.
Actual
,S4q.
Gold, Silver, Gold Plate, variety of Patterns
Special Advantages of the ‘One Piece’ Studs.,
x * St f uck from Single disc of metal—no solder,
a. fclegance and absolute uniformity of curve, atidsf
I.—Slipped into button-hole with perfect ease
The World’s Most Serviceable Studs.
SOLID GOLD 9-carat. \ 15-carat. 18-carat.
Suite of 3 Studs 6/6, 9/-, 10/- 10/6,12/-, 15/- 14/6, 16/-, 18/6
(per suite). '
Collar Studs (ea.) 6/-, 6/-, 7/6 7/-, 9/-, 10/6 10/-, 12/6, 15/-
Cuff Buttons 10/-, 13/-, 15/- 16/-, 17 6, 20/- 20/-, 22/6, 25/-
/ (per pair).
The public are cautioned against vamped-up imitations of
these Studs—clumsy—in pieces, soldered together but shaped to
deceive, and sold as the “One Piece.”
Also, a large selection of 15-carat Front Studs, Diamond
■Set, fjom 12s 6d. Ruby, Sapphire, or Opal Set, 7s 6d ; Pearl Set
5s 6d each, ' -if ’
15-carat Collar Studs, Diamond Set, from 22s 6d. Ruby
Sapphire, or Opal Set, 12s 6d. Pearl Set, 10s each.
NOTE-
Art Jcv. ellers and Wat Manufacturers,
-our OXLY A ,stratum Add,>ess— 9Q KING STREET, SYDNEY.
BEST SHILLING MUSIC BOOKS IN THE WORLD.
THE
FEDERAL
Music
Books
WORTH
FOR
51 BOOKS NOW
PUBLISHED
Price
I/-
Postage 2d.
Each Book . . . .
Contains
ONE POUND’S
WORTH
Popular Music in Full
Size Sheet Music
250,000 of the Federals have already been sold,
The Federal Music Books contain :
SONGS—Popular, for all Voices, comic and sacred—Soprano, Con-
tralto, Tenor, Baritone and Bass. Irish, Scotch, American Christy,
Italian, etc. Students Songs and Choruses. v'OCAL DUETS.
PIANO SOLOS.:- Very Easy. Easy and Effective. Moder-
ately Difficult. Brilliant'Operatic, etc PIANO DUETS.
DANCE MUSIC: —Quadrilles. Lam ers. Waltzes. Polkas
Galops. Reels. Jigs, etc
VIOLIN SOLOS, VIOLIN AND PIANO DUETS.
Full list of contents of alt the above Books posted free to any
address. Send us One Shilling, and tell us what Music you like,
and we will for ' ard you a Sample Copy that will delight you.
Obtainable of all Music Sellers or direct from the publishers,
w. H. GLEM co.
Collins St, Melbourne, & 359 George-st., Sydney.
Toronto Hotel,
Lake
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing-, anti Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
i ve prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
THE GRAND CENTRA!.
OPPOSITE G.P.Q.
THE 6RANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
How We Won the Ribbon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come and look around my office—
Floors are littered, walls are hung
With the treasures and the trophies
Of the days when I was young ;
Rusty spur and snaffle idle,
Polo-stick and gun and bridle,
In a sweet oonfusion flung.
There’s my saddle when a rover—-
That’s the bridle hanging up,
Queensland-built —a Lachlan drover
Swopped me for a Kelpie pup !
By the Lord, it makes one ponder,
iVhen one thinks those spurs up yonder
Helped to win the Mulga Cup !
There’s the bar I used on Wyndham
On the day you watched him “ clear ”
With the four-in-hand behind him—
Yet they’ll say it’s too severe.
See that bunch of faded ribbon ?
It belongs to Jack M‘Kibbon,
But he always leaves it here.
And there’s just a little story
Hanging to that bunch of blue ;
I’m not claiming any glory
When I spin the yarn to you—
Yarns go best when pipes are glowing ;
Here’s the “ Capstan ”; set her going—•
And remember this is true.
Pearl of price for hunter’s duty
Was the grey mare Heart’s Desire,
With the Snowdons’ strength and beauty
And a dash of Panic fire ;
And I never knew her failing
At a dyke, a ditch, or paling—
She could jump her height and higher.
Now, the rider courted throwing
Who would touch her with the spurs
When the Snowdon mare got going
With that sweeping stride of hers;
She was restless, hot, and heady ;
She had smashed one man already,
And the fright had made her worse.
But her owner, nothing fearing,
Brave as ever man could be,
3aw the yearly Show was nearing
While he nursed a crippled knee,
So he called me, did M'Kibbon :
'* We’ve a mortgage on the ribbon,
Will you ride the mare for me ? ”
* * •
They had sent their speedy sprinters
Round the fences, one by one,
And the air was thick with splinters
Till you couldn’t see the sun ;
Such a striking, swerving, baulking !
Saddles empty, riders walking !
Not a round was clearly done.
And the grey mare, Heart’s Desire,
Stood and watched and seemed to know;
Fretted when they galloped by her,
Tossed her lean head to and fro ;
Then they called to me, “ Get ready ! ”
And M'Kibbon whispered, “ Steady. . . ”
But the crowd yelled, “ Let her Go ! ! ”
Now, beyond the five-foot palings,
As I set the mare a-swing,
From below the grand-stand railings
Someone’s child crept in the ring,
And we never saw the youngster
Till the mare was right against her
Shortening stride to make the spring 1
So I loosed her head and drove her
With the red spurs ripping wild ;
It was : Take the lot —and over,
Or God help that tiny child !
And I watched as though in dreaming
Where the snow-white dress was gleaming,
And the babe looked up and smiled !
But I knew the mare I rode on—
Could a leap be found too far
For the quarters of old Snowdon
And the heart of Blazing Star ?
Here she had the chance to show me—■
And the shod-hoofs flashed below me,
Half a yard above the bar !
Then the dust-clouds ! Had we cleared her?
Then the light shock as we land.
Then—the crowd stood up and cheered her
On the ring-fence and the stand,
But my brain was sick and spinning
And I slung my chance of winning
As I took the mare in hand.
But they crowded round to hold her,
And they tied the badge of blue
In a knot upon her shoulder
That they dared me to undo !
So I left the prize upon her,
And I think she won the honor
When she saved the lives of two !
* * *
And I joy Life’s merry road on,
But I linger when I pass
Whore the best and gamest Snowdon
Takes her last sleep in the grass
With the wattle-boughs above her ;
And when others toast a lover
Then I pledge her in my glass.
Now, they reckon me a rider
In the showyard and the shire,
But I never faced a wider
Jump, a tougher or a higher
Since I rode for Jack MvKibbon
On the day we won the ribbon
With the grey mare Heart’s Desire.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
From a Guano Island.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a great hubbub on the island ! The
Kanakas, digging in the guano-sand, had un-
earthed the skeleton of a man ! Close by was
found a bag of last-century coin, and, a few paces
on, the skeleton of another man.
I had equal parties of Chinese and Kanakas,
with some few Islanders, working for me, and we
all knocked off and came to examine the “find.”
Life on a Guano Island is not prolific of excitement,
so white and colored alike made the most of this
one. All but the Chinese ; they stood about,
stolidly uninterested.
Even Yaile got excited. Vaile is a bore, with a
mania for collecting curios, on which subject he
is a perfect windbag. Now, this latest turnover
seemed to me to bring fresh proofs of a theory I
had long entertained —that the island had at one
time been a buccaneering station. A rude tower
at the North end, built of guano slabs, a rusty
axe-head, a pewter mug, and a couple of knife-
blades, found at intervals in the sand, all seemed
to point indisputably to a former Island life—
more interesting than ours. However, Yaile
would not give me a chance to air my views, but
kept prosing away about the bones and the coins
till I got sick of the subject, and ordered the men
back to their gangs.
But they had hardly settled to work again when
word was passed round that yet another skeleton
had been exposed ; but this time there was no
skull. Even the Chinese found that surprising ;
but when, about a yard from its neck, a skull did
turn up, to which was attached a pigtail, their ex-
citement became stupendous ! The whole Chinese
contingent escorted the remains to the cookhouse,
to which the other bones had been taken with little
enough fuss, for a mere white man or two is no
great loss. But a is a different matter !
When I essayed, in all ignorance, to continue
working the Kanakas and islanders while the
other fellows removed their friend, I received a
mild remonstrance. To do so, until the evil spirits
attendant on the “departed” were laid, would
bring bad luck on the island. Now, my brother,
a mine-manager in Penang, had once brought bad
luck on a Chinese-manned job by having, in spite
of warnings, a daughter instead of a son for his
first child. He paid .dearly for his mistake, for
the men threw up work, and the mines stood idle
for nearly a year, before new men were brought
from Japan.
With his experience to teach me wisdom, I
buried the European bones, and retired to my tent
and the Xmas supplements of a year back, while
the island was given up for three days to a debauch
of “ spirit-laying.” Night and day, the howling
and yelling, and beating of gongs, and blowing of
extraordinary wind-instruments never ceased for
a moment. ,
In island-life time is no longer a triune of past,
present and future—it is divided into waking and
sleeping hours only, for there is nothing to antici-
pate, nothing to remember. Ho when I had
waded' through all my literature, and smoked my
tongue sore, without getting one short doze in 3(5
hours, I began to feel some natural resentment.
Not so Vaile. On the last day of the obsequies,
when the bones were safely stowed away in a
wooden box to await transmission to China, and
the spirits were being treated to a specially
excruciating farewell concerto, Vaile pranced
about between the cookhouse and the quarters
with the air of a man who had found a gold-mine.
At last, in the evening, his secret came out. He
had stolen the Chinaman’s skull for his collection !
Then I indulged in the bad language of the
just—for I was dog-tired and wild at having had
to knock off work, 1000 tons short of what ought
to have been stored at the time. And I had
always known Yaile was a fool and was glad to
tell him so—but such a blamed fool as that!
For I knew that when the next China-bound
vessel called, and the box was opened, the whole
island would go mad with fear. Not another
stroke of work would be got out of the creatures ;
and we might as well shut up shop and go home
to our mothers.
So it happened that when the feverishness was
over and we were all steadily at work again, a
rumor arose among the men that a spirit with a
fiery head had been seen sitting on the Chinaman’s
grave ; and not a colored skin on the place would
venture on the cookhouse end of the island after
dark. We two grinned ; for we knew that, Yaile
must have been seen as, with a lantern, he sneaked
back to replace his ill-gotten curio ; and we won-
dered what the beggars would have done had they
guessed what he was doing. However, no harm
was done—except that Vaile sulked for a fort-
night. I had hurt his feelings.
At last a north ward-bound vessel called, and
we had another holiday while the box was dug up
and opened for the Johnny’s bones to be further
ceremonised. But when the lid was lifted —be-
hold ! —there was the head squeezed tightly in
between the feet ! Vaile, in his hurry and ill-
humor, had taken the wrong end of the box !
At this amazing sight, the general consternation
was so funny that we forgot discretion and shouted
with laughter ; but we had to take another en-
forced holiday—this time of a fortnight’s duration
—while the place was given up to further “ exor-
cisements.” Even then the ghost of a. Chinaman,
rolling his head along witli his feet, was said to
haunt the cookhouse. And, in the end, I had to
send for Japs ; for the Chows, regardless of agree-
ment, left in a body by next boat.
PARATTE.


DISTINGUISHED TESTIMONY.
Kls Honour, William F. Courtney, Mayor of Lowell, writes unier date October
31st, 1896, of the benefit he derived from Ayers Sarsapanlia.
mm
mm
m
#
'v\\
h.
> 1
%
r
YA
%
4
“I have great faith in the healing virtues of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, be-
cause it has helped me. The medicine cured me of indigestion, which had
troubled me seriously for several years. .
'Since I began taking Ayer’s Sarsaparilla my appetite has improved,
I have slept better, and in fact my health in general has been greatly
benefited.” „
We take pleasure in reproducing above the portrait and testimony of
Mayor Courtney, whose services in the cause of good municipal govern-
ment have been recognized in his recent election to the mayoralty of his
native city for the third year in succession. His experience is the same
as that of thousands of other people, of all sorts and conditions, who
have found freedom from sickness, and restored health and strength in
the use of . Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
“Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.” There are many worth-
less imitations seeking to profit by the world-wide reputation of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
See that the name—Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—is on the wrapper, and blown
in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., TJ. S. A
FOR
23 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
f WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
]
jjungTonic
BE SUKE YOIJ GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Renudy , which saves many live--.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIO ;E’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. ljd., 2s. 9 d., 4s. 6 d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
. and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and A
HmK Colonial Houses.
jM
COPYRUJIBT.
SOLD BY THE LAVERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
FANCY
often plays such pranks with some of us. [here are excellent
people who fancy the earth is flat, and who decline to accept
evidence to the contrary. Others fancy they can run this
journal bet ter than any able editor of ancient or modern times.
•Some folks fancy they are so strong they can never fall ill.
Others fancy they are so ill they can never get well. The
latter class is, in large part, composed of sufferers from pro-
longed nervous dyspepsia, with all its insidious, ever-increasing
troubles. Such people are weighed down by a sense of hope-
lessness. They are the victims of lassitude and headache —
aye, and of heartache, too, for they can enjoy little, and envy
the buoyancy of their more robust fellows. In short, they
endure a life of misery,
MEETING
with scant sympathy, because they are not actually laid on
their backs. To such we can offer the welcome assurance of
perfect restoration to health through the medium of
BEECH AM’S PILLS. In the treatment of those disorders
which involve any failure of nervous force, this medicine has,
during 50 years, built up for itself an unassailable reputation.
Nothing renews the power of the entire digestive apparatus
like BEECHAM’S PILLS. They cleanse the blood of long-
standing impurities, brace up the nervous system to a high
point of vigor, and effectually chase away every symptom of
weariness or depression. And since BEECHAM’S PILLS
have cured tens of thousands in this and every country of
the globe, just ask yourself why they should not equally
prove a boon to
YOU!
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Stop tnat Cougli!
Don’t Delay.
. . . TAKE . . .
P
IRISH moss
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s. Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Box.


JpSlSiSia
WORLD RENOWNED
“GLYCERINE & HONEY JELLY,”
For allaying Irritation caused by Heat.
[t softens and improves the Hands, i ACE, and Skin generally.
Cooling and Refreshing. Still growing in popular favour after
ro years’ use. Beivare of Spurious Imitations. Sold by all
J Chemists and Stores i Metallic Tubes, 6d. and 1/-
“ HEAD (andßath) SOAP,” Begd.
\ Pure, Refined and Perfumed Soap. Cleanses, Streng-
thens and Promotes the Growth of Hair, removing Scurf,
an i producing Healthy Action of the Skin. A Kuxury for
Bath and Toilet. An Excellent Shaving Soap. Price 6d*
Sole Manufacturers:
OSBORNE, BAUER &CHEESEMAN,
Perfumers to the Queen,
L 19, Golden Square, Regent St., London, W, A
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANGE ACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
Wortfeiogtoi) P6ri)pii)g Efygifye Conjpaoy-
(Australasian Branch.) SiHlJiSOn ~Er , Ot.} / l orcj. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTmNGTON
Sydney, JS r .S
*
A.geucies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia : AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in. Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
■W. G- ZEULIDIRIIDGKE] & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
What is Health?
X>heumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PA JtHFH, 145 Victoria Paradb,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free,
Six penny stamps.
“OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S., Botanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure, Self Applied,
3oz. Jars 2/6 By post 3A
OLEAC
a
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE 3
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St
ROBERTS’
Bottle Department, Market St.
CELEBRATED WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS, 4s. and 2s.
TEACHER’S HIGHLAND CREAM WHISKY, 4s.
DEWAR’S SPECIAL WHISKY, 4s.
WHYTE AND MACKAY’S WHISKY, 3s. 6d.
WALKER’S EXTRA SPECIAL WHISKY.
THE FAVORITE “ FOUR CROWN,” 3s. 6d.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
stories), Is. 3d.
N.S.W.
LTD.
PirmPArc oU]n^r y Milk Trade; the Factory System
rioneers OI of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles. MilTr HrPimii Tpa "RitH-av Piah
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES ' DULLer > X iSU >
or Sydney with Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)-—92 KXIZ& STREET, and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note. —Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST
AGENTS EVERYWHERE. SS’sS§f H.
in the WORLD.
PATESON, Manager.
PARKE & LACY CO.
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders (F. & C.)
Ingersoll Compressors •
Ingersoll Rock Drills
•1
*
£
lO
*
$
&
:
Knowles Steam Pumps
Westinghouse Engines
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Hyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Root Blowers
Pulsometers
Wood-working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
Bathos
altin 9 Powder
TNSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
A & Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OE THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, best twist, barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price -t'B, reduced £2’ 17s (id each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price ilO 10s, reduced £3 17s (id each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments, unequal for quality, with cartridge machinesandcleaners complete. Usual price i 21, reduced £7 lOsea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-Loading Guns at (id per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
Bank Drafts, Cheques, or P.O. Orders must be made payable to Weadon, Thomas & Co.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent Spoked (all Nickle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (1 Id. gross),
Dunlop Valves (10 - doz), Brakes (complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s
Saddles 66, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips (10 - doz. pairs), B.S.A. Racing Sets 90-. Send for trade Illustrated Price
List. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to date, £7, £B, £9, £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. it 435 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
BLAKE’S
Steam Pumps
Are -fcla.e Best.
We have them in Stock :
SINGLE and DUPLEX,
up to
50,000 Gallons Imp. per Honr.
SEND FOR CIRCULARS & CATALOGUED
Piping, Valves, Boilers, Hose,
and every other description of PUMP SUPPLI K
in Stock.
