

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.'
LAMB’S RUM.
USE
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
Jb-*TU~ I—e ~m j\.
•A.KTD EXTRACT OF MALT.
107 Kent
Sydney,
_
Mining and j Contractors’ Plant, Engineers r Tnd Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IKONMONGERY. NEW ™ SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER
LOVE
N*
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGES! SYDN
Modern Timber-cutting Machinery.
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR OF LOGS.
Up-to-Date ff IMachinery, 1 Machinery, Engines & Boilers,! Steel X*ri*xcajt**±lls
Mills Erected and .Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
24 Clarence Street,
SYnirmr.
ĥ
INSIDE BEARINGS.
Fitting No. 106 for Fast Wheels.
Axle part round and square
at ends, rivetted.
*' r 'Y
9
JjfOTIOS TO MISJjBOURME VICTORS
irw I:V X V r '’ 'i GEORGE HOTEL, #i»6Slte Sfc.
KUda Railway Station and Cable Trains. tAtyMi Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INUUTSIvfi TAJKlt’t’ for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per VV'tifefe.
GI;
BATTLE & C o ' >Bs Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
are sole agents
SAMUEL OSBORN & CO., SHEFFIELD.
Tool Steel
Boilers,
other
Steel Castings.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
Colonial-made UTire Wetting*.
And. that you get ±-fc.
PROOF
Oui? Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
Large stocks always on hand.
The -Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices -Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER" BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
PRO&F
ħ
Macquarie .
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
HOBART-
JWjW. “
Hadley’s Orient Hotel.
ti/flL&kjj
oo -Ww
/
h
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. G. LUDOWIGT& SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland ; Perth, \V. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
U
Tales of the System.
per Post Is. M.
PRTJE Is.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
erang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
Uigb.es fc A.wardLs wherever Exhibited.
CIGARS
P
tJwsf/rGK/wr
SMOK£
k toJts>: v : jsm% c* Sydney I
©lf 8
Is
The Bulletin
Vol. 19. No. 975. J
[Saturday, October 22, 1898.
£ entered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


RY APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBE RTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. ORUBA.
Hopkins’ Telephone, 2s 6(1, post 3s ; Stonewall Jackson,
by Henderson, 2 vols., 425, post 445; Chamberlain's
Tli nys Japanese, 7s 6(1, post 8s ; Blunt, Wilfred, Poetry,
selected by Henley, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Burchard s Dental
Putuology, 225, post 23s ; M’Cabes Life in a Modern
Monastery, 6s, post- 6s 6(1 ; Biathlon's In High Places,
2s (id and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Causton s ’Twixt Two
Eternities, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Gould’s
Golden Ruin, 2s, post 2s 4d ; Burton’s Pilgrimage to A 1
Madenictt and Meeeah, 2 vols., 7s, post 8s ; Tirebuck Meg
of the Scarlet Foot, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Stephens Mrs. Smytiie, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Blacks Wild Eelin, 6s, post 6s "6(1 ; Zola’s Fortune of the
Ron gons, 3s 6d, post 4s ; Mac Fall’s Jezebel Pettyfer, 2s 6d
and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s.
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS. By Rolf Boldrewood.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.’S SPECIAL
EDITION, Bvo. Wrapper 6d, post Bd.
Just Published :
A HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL CYANIDE
OPERATIONS.
By Wm. 11. Gaze, M.D., F. R.S. Cr. Bvo. 7s 6d, post Bs.
THE HUIA’S HOMELAND, AND OTHER VERSES,
by Roslyn, ss, post 5s 6d.
Now ready : THE AUSTRALIAN FRUIT GARDEN :
A Practical Manual, by J. S. Heron.
Is, post free, Is 2d.
GEORGE"ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
Take the Advice of an Old Smoker —-
STICK
* CAMEOS
THE RED PAGE.
I am a hawker, and I hawk. I peddle laces,
boots, buttons, anything, from Port Darwin to
Port Davey, and back again by way of Albany
and Bundaberg. Order from me a ton of ice-
cream at Georgetown, or' a crocodile at Kalgoorlie,
and you shall have it. Terms, cash in advance ;
delivery any time from Monday week to the Day
of .Judgment ; but 1 guarantee delivery. As a
rule I have no time for literature : it is merely
literature. Hawking is Life. I tell you that
lying near my' horses in a dried-up Diamantina
waterhole, from which I had just dug out the last
quart of mud to make tea th it Scotch Tart never
equalled, and watching the stars glimmer over the
baked plain, I have had emotions higher than
Shakespeare’s. To be sure, Marinoopna’s head was
on my knee ; and she is the best gm I ever had.
Inspector Will shire, who saw her when we were
on the Fink ; River, was mightily taken with her ;
and Wiltshire is a judge. My dog’s head was on
the other knee ; and his eyes are as soft as Mari-
noopna’s. And I felt ... if I could only tell
you !
• • * •
Who am I ? It is no business of yours. Maybe
I was born of poor but unferm mted parents:
maybe I am the descendant of a highly-flavoured
race who habitually ran because the arm of the
law was gesticulating after them. I have danced
at your Government Houses ; I have dined at
your threepenny restaurants ; and —I have re-
flected that your Governors are far less important
than the kitchenmen at your threepenny restaur-
ants. The Governor is a male, fascinating but
useless ; the kitchenman is a male, useful but un-
fascinating. Take away the Governor, and the
metropolitan earthquake of traffic recurs daily as
usual ; take away the kitchenman, and the metro-
polis becomes chaos crying for its dinner.
* • * *
You may think me preju diced ; for I myself
was once kitchenman in a threepenny restaurant.
I took the billet proudly ; for I remembered how
St. Francis was scullion in a monastery, and
scrubbed the saucepans—seraphic St. Francis, who
called the flowers liis brothers and sisters. They
worked me fourteen hours a day for seven days a
week, and paid me os. for the week. But I got
“ board and lodging I fed on the haricots and
the braised steaks ; and slept- -where dial I sleep ?
By the Lord, I don’t know; ani/ichere. They
even tried to ram me into a waste-pipe to rest.
My arms worked like trombones as I played the
symphony of saucepans ; I had no time to'dry the
dishes with a cloth ; it was smack them through
the hot water to dry themselves. I lived in an
atmosphere of grease and grief ; stew mental and
Irish ; steam temperamental and culinary. Ah,
it is a soul-damping trade, this slavery of the sink-
hole ! Yet I have met people tender-hearted
enough to cry over the funeral of a cigarette, and
they never cried over me. When my last molecule
of hereditary pride impelled me to refuse to sleep
luxuriously in the waste-pqie, I was sacked, and
walked about the streets in a weary of days
and nights, waiting for windfalls. My life became
so full of ups and downs that I fancied myself
private secretary to a see-saw.
* * * •
Last spring, on the Russell River, I camped
near the biggest orchid I ever saw in my life.
Honest Jack O’Leary, who was with me, said he
could smell its perfume for a mile and three-
quarters ; and it looked so big that he might have,
though Jack’s sense of smell has been so culti-
vated in smelling out people who won’t pay their
rates that it isn’t a fair criterion. Anyway, my
brain was full of memories of the cheap Melbourne
restaurant; and I smelt nothing but beef-a-la-
mode.
* * * »
The cheap Melbourne restaurant is a phenome-
non unrivalled in its way. It is a dingy theatre
of the threepenny-bit, wherein takes' place an
awful drama of over-feeding. Fancy three courses
all the year round for threepence a meal ! Could
the shade of Luoullus arise, it would immediately
evaporate with incredulity. If I could invent a
patent pig, I would teach him to grunt a fantastic
grunt at some of the frequenters of cheap restau-
rants. Ihess threepenny epicures have as much
sympathy for their fellow-creatures as hot water
has for a bar of soap. Outside each cook-shop
there is generally a board on which is written the
bill-of-fare, comprising perhaps twenty different
dishes. The customers pass by this board, sit
down in the restaurant, and make the waiter call
out. to them the items of the menu. He does so
in a loud sing-song, like a curse that can’t stop.
He seems to utter some prodigious word, which, if
written, would go all round the wall of a workhouse.
He declaim > “ Stewedsteakstewedmuttonstewed-
lamb, ” &c., &c., with such loud rapidity that you
feel he would be clever enough to recite an elec-
toral roll in the time it would take a baby to fall
over a saveloy. He is training himself for recita-
tive in a cantata in hell.
* • • »
The customer dines, as he can dine nowhere else
in this frying-pan world for the money. Then,
like a gasping pair of gorged bellows, he slouches
out mto the street and leans up against a verandah -
post to recover. He lights his pipe and looks
sleepily before him, as if nothing could interest
hmi now—not even the resurrection of his grand-
mother’s old mop-stick, which he used to play
with when a boy. Over the way is a Hungry
Man with a face like a blighted dumpling. He
also leans against a post and makes vain efforts to
enjoy a famine. He inwardly curses the man who
has dined ; he prays that the base banquet of this
bloated crocodile may prove as indigestible as an
antediluvian idol. The Full Man takes no notice;
he may have bowels of compassion, but they have
been congested with threepence. The Hungry
Man continues to curse. 8 J
* * * *
If I had had time to smile, the credulity of our
customers would have amused me. They listen
to the extensive bill of fare, and do not know that
in the kitchen is a Magic Saucepan, out of which
come twenty different kinds of dishes. Some
lumps of beef are smacked into this utensil and
stewed, lhen, by black saucepan magic, its con-
tents are served up as stewed steak, .beef a la mode,
braised steak haricot steak (with a few carrots)
|lle or pudding (with a little
paste oi dough). The restaurant-keeper goes and
chalks up these dishes on his board! and damns
the expense. The scraps that remain from dinner
are paised througn a sausagi-maehine, and figure
on the menu at tea-time a< “ minced veal.” 'The
stale bread is made into puddings of extraordinary
il' Sometimes, to economise space, the cook
bo Is the plum-pudding in the soup. The curses
that frequently resound m a kitchen are enough to
unstiffen the neck of a holy image ; especially
b tter an 1 prolonged is the curse directed against
too customer who sends in for some meat for his
tML u ? wi UJU f h - WI Y do 1 talk about these
things ! Why do you ask me ?
* * » *
Yes, I know your Australia—no man better ;
and I love this sea-girt virgin sprawling under
the southern stars. I know your cities—your
warm genial Australian cities—what crowds and
life-tales pass through them 1 Some, happy as
sun Input on a toy-shop window; some, godly as
the gilt edges of a good girl’s prayer-book ; others
wicked enough to make a town-hall clock wring
its hands in depair. Melbourne, like a stuccoed
sultan in a seraglio of town halls; Adelaide, that
precocious young paradise of amateur angels •
Bnsliane, city of lovely lightnings ; Rockhampton
and lownsYille, like parched mermaids beneath
an ocean of sunlight ; Perth, a handmaiden point-
ing to the great golden spare-room; best of all,
Sydney, the shepherdess of human cities, on a
shore where the sea has wandered inland and lost
itself in loveliness. All health and sunshine to
Australia, and may her evil critics be sterilised !
i e 18 , new-life land, the oasis-country,
the welcomer of all wanderers.
* * m m
The two most typical figures in Australian life
are the sundowner and the larrikiness. The sun-
downer works, hard at being out of employment,
and walks through the country in order to run
i7ri°f l- >rov i f 4 ony - The larrikiness arrays her-
self like a cr.Vexed kaleidoscope in a tit, and her
language is c dculated to make the stoniest-
hearted peach biu ;h itself off the tree. Yet she
can love, and battle for her love like a prize-
fighting duck. She may be as wicked as a cap-
sized angel, but she has wonderful touches of
human n iture. She.sympathises deeply with her
femn.eoomra’os wh‘ii they return from a forced
uat to Cockatoo Island prison. She meets the
boat that brings them from their brief incarcera-
tion at ti o’clock in the morning ; away go a l the
girls to the bnck-parlor of an adjacent hotel; tb -y
rejoice over rum or beer ; then they go home, swop
clothes or hats, and quarrel over their bargains in
the back-yard when the afternoon comes.
* * » *
The larrikiness eats fried fish in bed, and when
her larrikin wakes up in the morning he finds he
has been sleeping on the bones and the stopper of
a vmegar-bottle. Then he curses all the curl out
of her fringe, till she says, “Nark it; you are
ratty, and plays a fantasia of finger-nails on his
cheek. Sometimes at night, after a brawn supper
bought in a Rocks eating-house, she arises in a
frightful nightmare and performs weird in nuta-
tions with her larrikin’s straw hat, shockin'" the
moon, when there is any mo%. Then she Tiiun-
deis back to bed, and lies down like a horizontal
horror beside her paramour, who snores as if ha
had been born in an organ-pipe out of tune.
* ' * * *
When her youthful charms fade, the larrikiness
is often so hard-up that she has to sleep out all
night. Perhaps one early morn she espies an
elderly man who looks as if he hal money and
wis at the fag-end of a nocturnal spree. For fun
he takes her into a hotel. She is so poor that she
is determined to captivate him, so, while he is
drinking and talking to the landlord, she sneaks
into the back-yard to black her boots. The land-
lord comes and yanks hur out. She has another
drink, and sneaks ba ,*k again. This time the
landlord finds her talcing a rouged rag from her
stocking and daubing it over her features till her
face looks red enough to take a first-class prize in
a tomato-show. She is “ making up ”in her
simple, humble, determined way,
* * » *
Much of the bush of Australia may be compared
to a panorama of poles. The wind blows through
the gaunt eucalypti, and, like harps, they moan
back, crying for rivers and waters unknown ; the
axe beats time to the slow, hot anthem of air; and
men and women drink tea as if in a previous exist-
ence they had lived through millions of years of
drought on a waterless planet. As a rule, the
people are kindly and cheerful ; but some of them
keep themselves alive by working their animals to
death; the men cultivate the soil, and the horses
cultivate a fasting capacity superior to Succi’s.
Then there is the laughing-jackass ; he alights on
a branch, scratches his ear with his left wing,
shakes his tail, and cachinnates enough to widen
a cracked joke into a miniature earthquake. Who
knows what the bird laughs at ? The native hear
is an oddity; he climbs up a tree at dusk, and,
like a little fool in fur, lifts up his voice to let
people know where he is. He sings a vesper song
wherein seems mingled the purring of a cat, the
braying of a phantom donkey, and the grunting of
a spasmodic pig, ending with a forlorn suspiration
like a crazy eookmaid sighing through a nutmeg-
grater.
* * • *
Don’t tell me the Bush is the abode of misery
and desolation. I know better. These things are
there ; but they are not all the Bush, are not even
most of the Bush. I know your Henry Lawson
and admire his talent'; but when he talks con-
tinually of the accursed country out-back—
Bah ! A town-man who made one trip into
the back-blocks live years ago, and has
stuck to the cities ever since 1 I tell you
the .. Bush is beautiful and terrible ; but
she is more beautiful than terrible. She has
days and nights of (1 lory. If your painters could
only paint the spirit of Australia with her frown-
lnn eyes and smiling lips—Australia, the mother
of heroes. lor there are heroes among your
drovers and horse-breakers—men who in obscurity
display courage and da.Ji that the most daring
cavalry leader known to history never surpassed.
Did you ever meet Sydney' Bob the Rider ?
What, never met the most famous and capable
bush-horseman in- Australian history! Young
m in, your life has been as much wasted as a con-
signment of patent stoves to Gehenna.
* » * »
For heroism, go to the Bush. And for charac-
ter ! You people write as if Australia was made
up of Spimfex .Tim and Wattle Bill. Why don’t
you tell the stories of the fine old erratic “mullet”
of N.S.W. northern rivers? Why don't you
describe that tribe of long, gaunt timber-
getters and back-country teamsters, hewing logs
away in the gullies. When the rains set in and
tne teams can’t haul, or the bars block the har-
bors and the mills stop, their man-and-beast
perishes ” would stiffen Bill and Jim, of Bourke
and Thargomindah.
* * * *
Go and write up the remnant of the old “ Horks-
borough” natives. Why, I remember enough
good stories about them to cover a bale of
newspaper. Do you know Tom Joyous, or
Dick? Young man, I blush for your ignor-
ance. They’re identities of th ■ W iter the
Brisbane Water, of course—Brokea Bay— the
Water. The “Old Man’’has engag'd, sacked,
and re-engaged them as skippers of trading
scows for over thirty years. Tom is quiet, soft
spoken, and at times very emotional. He has
never ventured beyond the Water. Dick has
traded to the Hawke and the ’Buecra. No one
within the memory of even Al. Settfee, who
caught the heavirig-line when Captain Cook came
ashore, has ever met Dick perfectly solemn. He
ci'it read or write. Grand head; tremendous
logician; magnificent memory. An Honest
Man —the noblest work of God. Fine-
looking fellow ; always neatly dressed, clean
white shirt, no collar; never wore a collar
in his life; lie always wears calf-skin elastic-
side boots, with very small high heels, which
make him walk like a hen going to communion
service. Dick- never had an accident of any kind
with a vessel; he is the safest man at a bar-
crossing on the coast. When he gets too happy to
get round town in comfort, he makes his way to
to ; foot of Market-street and takes the coaster’s
cab.
* ♦ * *
Years ago, you know—or you don’t know—when
trade was better, the coasting skippers never
dreamt of walking anywhere about Sydney ; they
always rode in cabs, and invariably paid gold coin
fares. With the decrease of trade the coasters’
cabs have dwin lied down to one. You can often
see him dow t at the Pyrmont Bridge. Perhaps
it is because o ie shaft [joints in the air and the
other is turned dangerously close to the ground,
and one spring is as rigid as cast-iron and the other
like, wet leather, there’s a kind of roll in the
motion that is particularly soothing to the jolly
mariner. Or, again, the charm might be in
the strikingly nautical arrangement of the harness ;
or in the angularity of the horse, which affords the
wayfarer considerable opportunities of observing
the inner workings of quadrupeds ; or in the crazy
seat in which the driver (whose head comes
straight out from the middle of his chest) hangs
by a hair and one worn bolt to the back of the
vehicle. Anyway, it’s a fact that a jolly
coasting skipper of the old school will pass fifty
nice cabs to enjoy the luxury of reclining in the
wet chaff cushions of the coaster.
• * * «
As soon as Joyous gets aboard the cab he removes
his boots; passes his hat out to the driver, who
carefully stows it under his seat; and lights a cigar.
In idle moments,-waiting for freight, etc., or when
he knows the Old Man is anxious for him to leave
port, he journeys to a well known coasters’ pub. at
Pyrmont, and seated in the bar with his boots
off he’ll play the concertina for hours. I
was with him there about three o’clock in the
afternoon, one day, when the Old Man’s agent
found us. Dick had charge of a big steam scow,
and had been on his best behavior for nearly a
month. The agent told him that a log freight was
ready at the Water, and he had better leave at
four o’clock. He put away the concertina, hauled
on his boots, hailed his cab and drove to the wharf,
where jay the craft. I came along too.
* » * *
At about four o’clock we came dashing down to
the agent’s office, and Dick said it was no
damned use trying to get away that afternoon.
The engineer was the only man'aboard; the rest
of the crew had gone away and got drunk with
the crew of another scow. Couldn’t find any of
them in any of the usual pubs. The agent’s
orders were imperative : the vessel must leave.
“ If you can’t find those chaps, Dick, we had
better make out their discharges and ship another
crew. The Old Man will be mad if you don’t get
away to-night.” So they made out the discharges
and proceeded to the shipping-office to fix up
another crew. They wanted six A. B. ’s, and it
was simple enough to get them. There’s a little
waiting-room at the end of the shipping-office
long-room, and if you look in there any day you
will observe a dozen or so lackadaisical jokers sit-
ting round a deal-table stabbing it with pen-
knives.
* » * *
The old messenger roared, “Six hands for a
steam-scow, coastwise, wanted.” Five or six big
red-faced, yellow-haired flatheads strolled in.
‘ ‘ Come on, you , ” roared Dick. * ‘ Here’s
the articles. Who’s cook ? What ?
Twitcherbitch ? Who the hell could remem-
ber that? Call yourself Johnsen. You the
mate? Right O; you’ll do; that’s O.K. Sign
on.” An official mumbled over the formula,
“Six months Sydney the port of shipment to be
the port of discharge sufficient without waste.”
Then with a pen formed of the rod from a chair-
back, with a J nib inserted and grasped right by
the nib, he signed “Dick Joyous.” Dick put a
cross, and then the crew —Otto Johnsen, mate;
Carl Johnsen, cook ; Gustns Johnsen, A. 8., and
so on—signed on. One Britisher, a little shrivelled-
up looking chap, signed “Charles Jones, fireman,”
and the crew was complete. Dick hailed a
second cab. He and three of the crew and myself
got into the coaster, the rest into the other, and
away we drove to Pyrmont.
When we arrived at the wharf the old hands
were aboard. They had learnt from the engineer
that the skipper wanted to start, and had got
everything ready. They were old cronies of Dick’s
—Trilby Jack, Woodbine Charlie, and so on—and
every one of them could carry a gallon of liquor if,
as they explained, you stowed it well down in
the hold. Dick, with his stilted, dignified walk,
strolled aboard and glared wrathfully at the old
hands as they clustered round the gang-plank.
“You’re sacked, you ; you’d better get
ashore.” Trilby Jack acted as spokesman. “No
fear, we ain’t going ashore. If you bring that
—— cargo of flatheads aboard we’ll chuck ’em
overboard.” “God damn it, here’s your dis-
charges, so you’d better get. I’m goin’ to start.
Come aboard, you ——
* * * *
The new crew jumped aboard. The old hands
blasphemed for a while, and then squatted round
the hatch. Some of the new men had taken their
coats off. One went to put his down in the
quarters. Trilby Jack threw it overboard. The
fellow, a big Swede, rushed at him. Dick had re-
moved his boots and was swinging the wheel over
ready to turn. He rushed at Trilby and knocked
him down the hatchway. Then they all went at
it. For about twenty minutes skin and blood
fl w. At last the engineer, the only man onboard
who hadn’t a black eye,- came ashore and got into
the coaster, who had waited to see the fun, and
drove to the agent’s. The agent advised bringing
the vessel round to the Quay and getting the
water-police to put one crew or the other ashore.
The engineer hurried back. They were all too
bashed and battered to fight much, so he cast off
tii i ropes, went ahead, and got round to the Quay.
When they made fast all hands came ashore to
Danny Lynch’s and had a drink. Then the new
hands were bribed off with a few shillings, and the
shiji went on her way in peace.
* • *
Now, there’s hundreds of yarns like that wait-
ing for you; and you chaps ought to be able to
dress them up a lot better than 1 can. I’m only a
hawker. Let’s get out of this and have another
look at the Harbour. I never get tired of looking
at your h irbour. It is a valley of violet waters
under skies of alluring azure ; an ocean-lake with
an elysium of inlets. It has the beauty of the sea,
the grace of the lake, and the romance of the river
—this perfect picnic part of the world ! You
might call it a big blue tear splashed from the eye
of the goddess of beauty, hey ? Guess we’ll leave
it at that.


R MAN
RS
■ i
0
P-
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
-WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOCJNG MEN.
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER. —A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
committing himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for nearly all the walks of
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, the experience of 20,000 men
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly endorsed the- treatment of
m
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
ar.d, if you have any of them, you require the remarkable treatment
which has made both fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAN &
WALLACE.
0-
In the Laboratory
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued ?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch?
Do your hands tremble?
Do you feel shaky?
Can you walk without halting?
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary?
Does your head swim?
Nervous Debility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak? -
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired ?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating ?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has'the brightness left your eyes
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
ill
All Trams stop at the Door
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thankstothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
<£' <2
y £
7 > PE. H* « r Wi iq(
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
ĥ
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
Rescued at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 1G colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer—in fact, all
classes and condition of men —should purchase a copy.
Price, lOs. ;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l.
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDNEY.
Pl'immention this Pc per ivhcn writing.] Correspondence, P.O. Box 1350.
Wa
ħ
h
137
Elizabeth Street,
2IYONE Y
Da.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the Ejudish and Scottish univt rsil it s, and
completed his studies in the leading Ifpspitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
. has. by diligent research, investigated their; origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, Sr. e., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On, Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
sj^l l diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
“Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
tiie symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
» 1 »
111
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribe Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily,
10 till 5; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRA
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECT
ĥ
and the New Discoveries *..of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showinjr how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,' P.O. Box 163, SYDNEY, t 1.5.77.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring VIGO It and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. I'ee, HI —which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for IV E A I(N ESS, DEBILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer—in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my pow'er.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TRADE
ħ
MARK.
This successful ami highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Uicord,
Bostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and otbeis, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No.l
in a remai ka dy smu t lime, ollen a tew days only,
removes ail discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious ili-ea es.
THERAPION No. 2
for impur.lv . i cite uiood, senivy, pimples, spots,
blo'ches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dly symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &c., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
thewholesystem through ihe blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every p iscnous n atter from the body.
THERAPiON No. 3
for nei Vv.us exhaustion, waste of vitality,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses sui prising power in
restoring strength a id visronr to the debilitated.
THERAPION:?.«
Chemists and Alert liauts throughout the World.
Price in Kiig mil i/d & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the t ree numbers is required,and observe
ah ve Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“ Tueuafion ” as it appears on the Government
Stamp i in white letters red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for Thekapiox— FELTOX, GRIM WADE & Co., and ROCKE, TOMPSITT fc Co.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
dency, etc., are to be found in the
‘‘ Lig'lit and. Lite.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed?) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address— S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, IS llunter-st., SYDNEY.
ATROPHY in iwen\
sfeaafSftfiia&stSsiiss
and vigor by the EJcctl’O-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit. Marital Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send fordes-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address—
,A J. j. HINTON-WILLIS,
$m\ Cor - Bourke & Liverpool Sts , Melbourne.
h
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicoeele and allied troubles should
read my 'l reatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
Wm. LANGSTON, M.E.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WEAK BACKS.
7
irm
LAME back,
RHEUMATIC BACK,
SORE BACK,
LUMBAGO,
PAIN in the BACK,
whether the result of a
strain, cold, exposure,
weak kidneys, riding,
rheumatism j stooping-,
hard work, or dissipa-
tion, are instantly re-
lieved and permanently
cured by
“ Dr. Pierce’s
Electric Belt.”
It sends a soothing,
warming, invigorating
current of electricity
into the body that goes RIGHT TO THE SPOT. More
penetrating than a linament, more potent than a plaster,
it never fails to relieve the pain and take out the stiffness
and soreness, and, unlike other remedies, it cures perma-
nently. It sends a vigorous circulation of blood through
the weakened muscles and cords that builds up the weak
parts and makes the cure complete. It is the one grand
jemedy for weak back. Read all about it in the little
Rook ho. 2,” which we send in plain,sealed envelope by
return of post, on receipt of 2d. in stamps.
Rupture. —lf ruptured, send also for “Pamphlet No.
l. Address:—T agnetie Elastc Truss Co.
pitt F stbect, SYi4 ; iiy! r W ' “ soaL * c0 ' ■*
NERVOUS
In its very Worst Form
Despondency, DEBILITY,
from any cause whatever,
Absolutely and
Permanently
CURED by
EXHAUSTION
Mum ford’s Vegetable Medicated Nervine Tonic Pill*.
Truly a Marvellous Medicine. No poisonous ;no
vexatious disappointments ; simply a Genuine Cine. £1
per COURSE ; Pamphlets Free. F. W. MUMFORD,
Herbal Specialist, 51 Bourke Street,, E. Melbourne,
Established 20 years.
WALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, by
1 Price Waning. Is. 3d.


:
• • Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL,"
care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
Melbourne 0
100,000
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me—
l.
SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
—Shares in the above.
Name _______
Add ress -
Melbourne C. November 1
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 20.
To TATTEHSALL.
Please allot me.
Shares in the above.
Name.
Address
Melbourne C, 100,000 at 5.
i SPECIAL CONSULTATION.
To be Drawn at 10 a.m. on the Day of the Race.
Clients will kindly Note this when applying for tickets.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
—Shares in the above.
Name!
£
Address
s
s
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


h
bC (aIaSS
of FaSbioo
QNTHONV • riORPERN’S
PORTFOLIO OF . . .
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-9.9
IS NOW READY — >
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists—
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &o.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Cuns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Carden Implements, &c
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
wmm
EAU
DE
COLOGNE
THE FINEST ENGLISH MAKE.
More Fragrant; More Lasting;
and very much more refreshing
than all others.
USE ATKINSON ’S ONLY.
AND BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Only genuine with “ White Rose ” Trade Mark.
Of all Dealers & of the Manufacturers —
J. <Sc EL Limited,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, hut nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. ” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
™£ GRAPHOPHONE.
50/-
RE
LBE
The Superior
TALKING
MACHINE
requires
No Needles, and
RECORDS
TOUR OWN SPEECH,
SONG, OR MUSIC.
Price (including Reproducer,
Horn, and Record), £2 IQs.
2 to 5,000 CHOICE RECORD
always on band. Send for
List and Illustrated Cata-
logues of Violins, etc., etc.
ALBERT & SON, I!8 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
agents fob the portable vapor bath cabinets.
Trade Supplied Cheaper than any other house. Largest Importers of
Hi UoIC, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS and NOVELTIES, Goods
forwarded to any part of Australia Duty Faitf
HWIAtiH
[HAtr PENNY
GO TO HELL-
IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
lists gratis.
Australia!) A^OtOal
JUBILEE YEAR.
Established 1819.
Provident Society.
With the close of the year 1898, the Australian Mutual Provident Society will complete FIFTY YEARS of its
existence. Members are invited to make this a RECORD YEAR by taking out additional policies themselves, and by
inducing their friends who are not already assured to become members. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before
the end of the year will share in the division of profits to be made as at 31st December next. Amount of Cash Surplus
divided amongst the members during the 49 years ending 1897 was £7,726,170. The Cash Bonus distributed amongst
the Policyholders for the single year 1897 was £415,235. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Accumulated Funds, £14,479,578. Annual Income, £2,094,706.
Directors I The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Chairman ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq. ; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.,F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
ĥ
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
BST Send for Price List. "ISil
H. HILLIEB, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
E
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street. ;
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
ENO S‘FRUIT SALT’
& Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
ħ
All Functional Derangements of tlie Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYA2MIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its yalue as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.” — A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED,.SLEEPLESS,
and FEYERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARYELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Bose’s Celettd Eye Lotion.
The Summer is upon us, watch your Children’s EYES ;
No house should be without a bottle of the greatest of all Australian remedies.
RoSe’s Celebrated Eye Loti of).
The only practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE
COMPLAINTS arising from Sandy Blight, Sun Glare, Inflammation,
Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, etc.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
m- BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
SOLE PHOPBIETOB :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-street, Sydney.
List of Testimonials Supplied on Application.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
iiiimss
- ;
s
-SB
Telephone, S 6 KOG-ARAH —connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotelßrighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading-
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Hall ivill accommodate 500 persons. Large. Swimmin- Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating;
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation. TERMS MODERATE.
Plum
ĥ
THE
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake,
p . (Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
rnce Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITK.EN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
LOOK AT OUR PRICES !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards , Silver Dash Bail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
ħ
Not Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send for Our 111 ustratedl Catalogue,
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Conversion of Crehazi Brown.
Quite tall he was, and dark and staid, he hardly
ever joked,
And when he did ’twas but a simple, saintly little
wheeze;
He did not swear, he did not drink, he prayed for
those who smoked.
And had a tiny cough, and drooped a trifle at the
knees.
Gehazi oiled his ebon hair, and brushed it very
flat;
His suit was black, his cheeks were lank, he smiled
as if in pain ;
He’d turned his eyes to heaven with such constant
ardor that
They took an upward squint, and never came in
line again.
He’d missions to the fallen, burning brands he
loved to seize.
Slim spinsters called him handsome, and they
spoke of him as pure.
He managed all their Temperance Tents and good
societies,
The Purists’ Band, the Ladies’ Guild, the Mothers
of the Poor.
And when a mission aiming to regenerate the
dears
In curls of gilt who serve behind the wicked city
bars
Was started, he was chosen to invade their vicious
spheres,
And point them to a higher place beyond the
twinkling stars.
He went where men most congregate, and there,
with manners meek,
Besought the barmaids all to leave the haunts
where sinners herd.
Then whispered horrid tales at members’ meet-
ings once a week—
The women called it shocking, and they never
missed a word !
Gehazi said his mission was progressing very well,
But rumors reached the ladies —it was whispered
far and wide
At Brighton in a dog-cart he’d be cutting quite
the swell,
With a peroxided female flaunting boldly by his
side.
The hopes of frosty spinsters to the point of Zero
sank;
They looked well into matters, and emerged with
faces glum.
The funds of five societies were missing at the
bank,
And cash in hand consisted of a single battered
“thrum.”
They called upon Gehazi some sufficient cause to
show,
But none of them could find him, though they
sought him near and far—
He’d wandered to a better land, where good
levanters go,
With Flossy Jones, a frisky girl who served
behind a bar.
SILAS SNELL.
Out Back.
Where the billy and water-bag droop in your hand
And the swag feels heavy as lead,
Where the sun beats down with a cruel hate
And the crows croak the lay of the dead,
Where the flies in myriads swarm around
And the red dust marks the track,
Where “ the Golden West ” is a mocking lie—
That’s the glorious land “ Out Back ” !
Where the rolling downs are a desert plain
With never a blade of grass,
And the starving rabbits in thousands sit
As the weary travellers pass ;
Where the road that leads to the setting sun
Is only a camel-track,
And the crystal spring but a dry clay-pan—
That’s the glorious land “ Out Back ” !
Where the station-hand is a half-crazed man
Who talks to himself and horse,
As he follows the track of a straggling sheep
On the sun-dried watercourse ;
Where “ the forest monarch of lordly mien ”
Is a half-starved, cowering black,
And the squatter king but a banker’s slave—
That’s the cursed land “ Out Back ” !
N.S.W,
F. J. MURRAY.
Markin’ Lambs.
“ All aboard !" The call’s surprisin
When the mornin’ star is risin’,
And it’s ’ard,
With the blanky, bleatin’ chorus
Of the woollies waitin’ for us
In the yard—
jn the sanguinary, dusty markin’-yard.
Bolt yer brekfus-chops an’ damper,
An’ to graft, or be a tramper
Off the track.
“ Whip across an’ block ’em, Bowser ”
“ Speak up Smooger ” —“ Damn you, Towser !
Fetch him back —
Bring the crimson, cross-eyed, wool-bound breaker
back ! ”
Through the force-pens, through the race, an’
Into catch-pens—take yer place, an’
Don yer dress;
Mine’s a chaff-bag, yours a white-skirt,
And the squatter sports a night-shirt—
Nothing less ;
Shepherd’s blood-stained “ Fancy Dress ” an’
nothing less.
Fore an’ hind legs held together,
Dumped on rail to cry of “ wether !*
Or “a ewe !”
Clip go markers—knives are gleamin’—
“Tail off, Gulliver!” —blood’s streamin’
On to you,
Hot an’ sticky, blood is squirtin’ on to you.
Let them out, then count the tails, an’
’Eap ’em up across the rails, an
Rush the dams ;
Thro’ the race again, me hearty—
That’s the way we act Macarty,
Markin’ lambs ;
Jes’ the very way we do it, markin’ lambs.
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


lyV V* ,* » ‘ —' i» ,* *;,*V5— J -**Ul , .‘*'..'/ *.'
»v
BAKING
POWDER.
Hi
vftvl
IMI
-; v
I i»
Washington H.SoulxC°.PittSt. Sydney.
AND SOLD BY ALL CROCERS & STOREKEFPErT"
I
Him
B
Bfl
WM
ill
m
Bra
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
RATES : 12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereajrh-streefc, Sydney.
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. Tis
(3-10ths
railway.
„ . . . cheap, cool, clean; and its
at of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges
Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE
weight
on the
Sx
ffd
HR
E. RICH & CO. Ltd.,
General Agents for Australasia,
211-26 O'Connell-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
—FOB SALE BY—
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st., Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Bose & Jack, Agents, Custom-house Quay, Wellington N 7
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q g ’ Z '
* TT IGG ’ Rockhampton,. Queensland:
Rirk & M Pherson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
CARLTON ALE.
TATTERSAEL’S HOTEL & CAFE,
h
ĥ
ħ
h
SYDNEY.
Specially suited to Families ; Private
Suites of Rooms; Private Drawing and
Sitting Rooms; and all modem appoint-
ments ; attendants throughout day and
night.
Three Minutes to leading Theatres
and Cr.P.O.
Electric Light. Telegraph Office.
Telephone 728.
TARIFF:
Bs. per Day upwards.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
■t'ainleaa Dentistry,
THE ....
[ondon Dental
Institute.
ĥ
Dr. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASHER, Dentists.
Modern. Dentistry in nil its fSnatches
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY— 98 KING ST., SYDNEY —ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates). '
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
CH IYH
LIsG
MPAN
UMTS
EDINBURGH
Trade
Mark
iwtc&yMicS:
* rn opr i crone i
FltenuEßs Company
rniki DiiDru *;
EDINBURGH.
RaVV,''''"- Pa W*-
&fy ifcs
lH' 'A
aft
j)rink
IBoderately.
Take a little Whisky
“ for the stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
'o drink the very best
/ou can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L.’
Ooolg*ardie
International Mining 1
and Industrial
Exhibition.
Q To be OPEHEB on 21st MARCH, 1899.
schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FRED. THOMAS, 86 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
For the Summer
ICED
SYDNEY
LAGER
BIER
refreshing
STIMULATING
NOURISHING
Brewed and Bottled by
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld., Moore Park, Sydney.
a
«
. W
■
/
%
g
m
>
r :V
• ■♦■:
1
$ ,,-^trr.
RfeSSN
in
TF THE ory\liSTKALIA


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper .
VOL. 19.— N0. 975.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1898.
Price, 6d
■-/
V 6 » -t>
/ _/
THAIfKT REFORMATION, lfl
The Rev. C. C. Dunstau said he rose with a deep V
s enae of the responsibility which he had incurred iu
to a request to address the meeting. Still
ire considered it an honour and privilege to be asso-
ciated with 1 the Reformation Festival. To say there
were many in the bonds of common churchmanship
who were trying to lead Anglicans back to the re-
ligious conditions of pre-Reformation times might be
unpleasant; to say that not a few who had been
cradled and nourished in the Church of England
wet q aping and adopting produces and assimilating,
sentences and doctrines against which their own
CJtui'cb protested, or that many were acting traitor- .
ously who were trying to effect a compromise in
which the Anglican Church and the Roman Catholic |
Church could never be united, was also unpleasant,
I but these statements were true. (Hear. hear.) He felt
that that meeting, if it were given the opportunity,
would rise and say, “ Thanh God for the Reform?- I
tion.” "■»
wm-**>}?')
■ * fe l 7
frjetjl' fjai/’t afyoyfycL cl da-j of
ir^' I §7
s
Q.fI.SAIA
D.rfißiJTir f/oftßAy
-i f\Kf H’lfELt.
yVlitlipONf
-\ETC'fr»
ir )f
Sir George Newnes, M.P., tlie proprie-
tor of the “Wide World Magazine,”
says that inasmuch as the “ Daily
Chronicle ” admits that M., de Bouge-
mont was lost tor three years in the Aus-
tralian bush the groundwork Of his Story
is true. n
So ntunw r/w Awe
/rj rffz J /tusfrabci7
fipcef-of /Keifframes
Tj,f ms\ (Jitditjf sonjt atjctetif riuiwj Ad) 1 . A/tiftwife I {post 1 "■
THE CHINESE CRISIS.
f LONDON Friday.— Since the Dowager
Empress of China assumed the Regency the
Emperor has been kept as a prisoner on an
i island in the centre of a lake In the grounds
f of the Palace at Pekin.
4 £7njbePo/'S‘ eenc/ are
k number of ladies, representing the National'
Council of Women, interviewed the Minister for
Education to-day with respect to the questloh ot
teaching cooking In the public eahhblß. '
jr Ca'j feacl) 'tty
J W W h,ae
7l«.
CARTOONLLTS.


We have been requested to state that
Oapt. Vine Hall is in no way responsible for the
publication of anything contained in our article
upon the Marine Board appearing in
week’s issue, and we confirm the truth of this dis .
claimer.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
'* Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black And White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London >
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
| |San Francisco.— Tlie Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa.— B. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith A Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
1 Vest.ralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland)is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be. £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
■postage -1 Id. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
T^'^xxZefxji.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1898.
The State v. Australia.
There is no more important phase of the State right
question than that dealt with last night in the resolution
concerning the alteration of provincial boundaries by the
Federal Government. There can be no right more vital
to the existence of a State than that of preserving its
own integrity, If this goes, everything else that may be
retained is of but secondary consequenoe. The Common-
wealth Bill does not guarantee State integrity, and it is
to provide for this omission that the resolution affecting
alteration of boundaries was brought forward. The pro-
posal of the Government is that the boundaries of no
Staf.e shall he with unless with the consent of
its own people. To that extent the question is put
amongst the list of those covered by State rights. The
mistake was made in giving too much power to the
Federation, aqd too little to the province immediately
concerned, Tlye Convention treated it. as paramountly a
Federal question, whereas its more vital aspect is that
touching the State, Under the resolution passed last
night Hi' B is reversed, It remains for the Federal
Government to enact a law for a change of boundaries
but it can only do so with the concurrence of the State
whose territories are to be trenched upon. This is a
prudent safeguard, which may prevent serious troubles
as the future produces its developments in these colonies.
And there is no State more interested in having such a
guarantee than New South Wales.
As soon as Federation is accomplished the two impor-
tant provinces of Riverina and the Barrier will, to a great
extent, cut themselves off from this colony. Commer-
cially they will come under the domination of Victoria
and South Australia, and the centres which dominate
their trade may he expected to largely influence their
politics. There may be no reason to suppose that any
advantage would be taken of this by the Federal Govern-
ment to s/'cure an alteration of boundaries by which the
present colony would suffer any injustice. Even were an
attempt made to do so under ordinary circumstances, we
might safely rely upon the Imperial Government to frus-
trate it if New South Wales thought the matter of suffi-
cient moment to warrant an appeal to that power. But
while all this is admitted, there st ill remains the fact that
the Bill, as it stands, contains a temptation which, for
the sake of all parties concerned, it is better to have out
of the way. We speak not now on behalf of New South
Wales exclusively. The guarantee of State integrity does-
equal justice to all. It leaves none at the risk of bavin"-
its territories whittled away for the benefit of others, and
ren lers it impossible to use any such threat for purposes
of political coercion.—Sydney Telegkapii, October 14.
* * « *
In the above statement Sydney Telegraph,
the organ of the parochial party in New
South Wales, puts a very important matter
about as clearly as it can be put—from the
strictly parochial standpoint. In the Draft
Constitution—the one accepted by a majority
in New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania,
and South Australia —it was provided that
no province should have its boundaries
altered in any way without its own consent.
That was a large and a very foolish conces-
sion to parochial prejudice, still the clause
dealing with the matter could be altered in
the same way as any other clause of the Con-
stitution if a very large mijority decided
that it was absolutely unworkable. The
alteration demanded by the minority in New
South Wales is that the guarantee offered to
each province against any alteration in its
boundaries shalL be declared to be absolutely
and permanently unalterable under all cir-
cumstances. The New South Wales As-
sembly accepted this idea by a large majority,
and it is quite probable that the other pro-
vinces will do likewise. Yet it is a miserably
unjust and near-sighted idea, and contains
probably more evil- possibilities for the
future than any other item in the Draft
Constitution. The fact that Barton’s voice
was lifted in opposition shows that Barton
is at least a far-seeing statesman. The fact
that it was not lifted a great deal louder and
more persistently than it was shows that
even Barton hasn’t half the foresight that a
Federal leader ought to have.
* * * *
ihe case in this matter has hitherto been
put only from the standpoint of the pro-
vincial capitals, and the provincial majorities.
The Bulletin desires now to put the case
for the minorities as shown in a few in-
stances :
Southern Riverina : This district forms part of New
South Wales, thoug-h its nearest, most convenient and
most cheaply-reached port is Melbourne. A great part
of it is absolutely denied any railway communication
with its natural port ‘2OO miles or so awav, and has to pay
freights for 400 miles to Sydney in order that its trade
may profit the traders and middlemen there. Then it
has to pay 400 miles extra sea-freight to Europe. Another
part of it has no railways at all, because the trade won’t
pay for a 500-mile railway to Sydney, and a short, cheap
line to Melbourne is refused it by the Sydney majority
on pure dog-in-the-manger principles.
VVestern, N.S.W. : Has its natural, cheap, and con-
venient. outlet at Adelaide. It could be developed by
short railways connected with the S.A. system, but most
of it has to do without any lines at all because the Sydney
majority says it must trade with distant Sydney for the
benefit of the Sydney middlemen.
North and Central Queensland : These districts are
governed from Brisbane, at the remote end of the pro-
vince. Their railways, by the exaction of heavy rates,
are made to yield, on the average, a handsome profit
over and above interest and expenses. The South has
cheap rates which result in an enormous loss, and the
North stands its share of the loss. The Central lands are
sold in immense areas to help cover the loss on the South’s
railway business. The North is rapidly becoming an
Asiatic province, but it can’t rid itself of the curse, largely
because the Tory vote of the South won’t let it do so.
The South suffers very little itself from the Asiatic curse,
and its policy is that it doesn’t care whether the North
does or not.
The Westralian Goldfields : Are refused a convenient
trade-outlet to Esperance Bay, and are burdened with
enormous railway charges by the long line to Perth, which
is twice the distance of their natural port, because the
Government party has property there and wants to keep
the city boom going. Also have to pay over 1000 miles
needless sea-freight to the East through going round by
Perth. Have about one-tenth their fair share of Parlia-
mentary representation, and no visible show of redress.
* » * *
In all these cases, and many others which
will probably arise later on, the minority has
a fair claim to be heard. None of these dis-
tricts had any voice in the arrangement by
which they were attached to the capital cities
to which they don’t naturally belong. Of
course, according to the strict logic that the
majority can do what it darned well pleases,
they have no right to kick. Neither, in the
same way, had the Cuban minority when
the Spanish majority (Cuba belonging to
Spain by exactly the same right that North
Queensland belongs to South Queensland)
decided that it should be harried by
Weyler ; or the Christian minority in
Turkey, when the Moslem majority decided
it should be shot or burned ; or the nigger
minority in the Southern States when the
white majority decided that it should be a
spanked and unpaid serf ; or that very small
minority, Dreyfus, when the great French
majority decided that he should remain in
prison without fair trial. The case is not so
aggravated, but the logic is just the same.
* * * *
Under the proposed system there will al-
most certainly never be any sub-division of
the unwieldy provinces of Australia by
peaceful means. The only way they can be
peacefully sub-divided is by the assent of the
State Parliament. It is always the minority
that wants to secede because its in-
terests are sacrificed to those of the majority
and it is exploited for the majority’s bene-
fit: If it, becomes the majority and
cap secure secession then it won’t want
to secede ; it can simply start exploiting its
old tyrants. And the majority never be-
lieves in letting the minority go ; it is the
boss Pharaoh, and the other crowd are the
Israelites. If the proposed policy had been
in force 50 years ago, the almost certain re-
sult would have been a gory civil war. For,
Under it, Victoria, which was woefully neg-
lected and misgoverned by the old auto-
cratic bosses of Sydney, could nor, have got
separation without the consent ofNew South
W ales and the latter province never showed
the remotest sign of giving a voluntary con-
sent. Then when the great gold time influx
made the South for a while vastly more
populous than the North, the former would
probably have ceased to want separation. It
would most likely have simply shifted the
capital of the whole province to Melbourne,
and started misgoverning the subject dis-
trict, of New South Wales from there, and
reduced Sydney t,o the status of (foulburn or
Newcastle. And that proceeding would
probably have driven New South Wales to
assert itself with the first weapon which
came to hand. These are the results which
the proposed policy would have produced in
the past, and, as Australia’s history is only
just started, it will probably produce quite
as bad results in the future.
The Telegraph, in stating the purely pro-
vincial, as against the Australian view of the
case, takes Riverina and the Barrier as its
favorite examples. In doing so, it admits
that they will naturally trade with Victoria
and South Australia, if they are allowed the
much-vaunted privilege of commercial free-
dom. Also, they will naturally take their
politics from Adelaide and Melbourne ; and
it tacitly admits that they may want to belong
politically there also. And its own idea is
all about the wrong which will be done to
the other part—the Sydney part —of New
South Wales if it isn’t allowed to retain them
against their will—if. like the Southern
planter of old days, it is forcibly deprived of
its nigger. The idea that these districts can
have any right to a hearing in the matter is
wholly ignored. The fact that Australia in
general has any right is also ignored. Yet,
it isn’t to Australia’s interest that North
Queensland should remain largely unde-
veloped through Southern mismanagement,
or that there should be a howling desert at
Esperance Bay, where there would be a large
commercial city but for the fact that it is
sacrificed to Perth. Reckoning in North
and Central Queensland, Eastern and
Northern Westralia, and certain small dis-
tricts of New South Wales, the prosperity of
nearly half Australia is liable to be sacrificed
simply in order that Perth, and Brisbane,
and Sydney may gain thereby. And if Aus-
tralia in general has no right to interfere,
what is Australia there for ?
* » • *
Of course there is no reason to suppose
that the New South Wales legislators par-
ticularly want to bind North and Central
Queensland in perpetual bondage to the
South, or the W.A. goldfields to the sand-
groping oligarchy at Perth. They would
probably prefer that Queensland should split
up, for if it doesn't the single province may
grow to such dimensions as to make New
South Wales only the second partner in the
Federation. All they want is to make sure
that their own nigger—Riverina and the
West—is safely chained up, and to be certain
that he will always have to trade with Syd-
ney however much he may lose by the pro-
cess, and that he -won’t have any beastly
rights of his own in the matter of deciding
his own destiny. And as the grievance of
Riverina and the West is, comparatively
speaking, only a small one at the worst, it
would have been much better and more
honest if New South Wales had simply
demanded a perpetual guarantee for its own
autonomy, and let the other provinces take
their chance. It might not have looked so
well, but it would have been better for Aus-
tralia. North and Central Queensland, ne-
glected and exploited and nigger-infested by
the policy or neglect of the ruling gang in
Brisbane, have a genuine grievance. And the
proposal to sacrifice the interests of that and
other vast territories for ever, or as nearly
so as any constitution can get to, merely that
the New South Wales provincial minority,
while seeking to prevent a small patch of
their own territory from finding the cheapest
and most convenient trade-outlet, may look
not quite absolutely selfish, is a mean and
low-down transaction.
» * • *
The Bulletin’s own idea is that it would
be much better for Australia if it were
divided into thirty states instead of six. It
would lead to a more general diffusion of
population, and to the growth of a
multitude of reasonable - sized towns in-
stead of three or four bloated cities and
a wilderness. Therefore it holds that any
region which wants to secede from the State
to which it is attached should be allowed to
do so, provided it can show a certain mini-
mum population, that the population is
reasonably unanimous in the desire for
secession (the unanimity to be ascertained by
a poll to be taken under Federal super-
vision), and that the Federal Legislature can
see no reason to believe that the severance
will injure the interests of Australia in
general. But then this paper reserves all
its pride and ambition for Australia, and so
long as Australia prospers it doesn’t care a
straw that one State should be bigger or
more rampant or inflated than any other.
If any place in Australia can be made richer
and happier and more prosperous by sever-
ance from its present State, and the loss to
the remainder of the State is less than the
gain, then the balance is clear profit to
Australia at large, and the severance
should be permitted. If the preservation
of the alleged rights of “our” State or
any other State to have its boundaries
kept inviolate means a shilling of loss to
Australia, then this paper votes without a
moment’s hesitation that these boundaries
should go into the melting-pot forthwith.
No State has any rights whatever, if these
rights involve a wrong or a loss to the
country at large. The Bulletin has said
all this before, but a thing has to be said
many times before the public begins to have
a faint recollection that it heard something
about it. And as this question probably re-
presents the worst danger in front of the
coming Commonwealth, it takes the chance
and says it all over again while there is still
a hope that the reiteration may lead to good
results.
The Federal City and Other Things.
New South Wales Assembly last week decided,
as one of its suggested amendments in the
Federal Constitution, that the capital of the
Commonwealth ought to be in N.S. W ales.
This doesn’t necessarily represent much pro-
gress; any Government in the Seven Provinces
or in Fiji or Papua could get its Legislature to
feel quite convinced any time that the Federal
capital should be in its province ; the work of
resolving that we should have something valu-
able, and the other fellow shouldn’t have it, is
one about which all parties are beautifully
unanimous. The Assembly decided that the
want of an arrangement for fixing the Federal
capital in N.S. W. was one of the great reasons
why N.S.W. rejected the Commonwealth Bill
on 3rd. June —which statement is a good deal
of a sham and fraud, for N.S.W. accepted
the Bill and agreed by a considerable majority
to leave the fixing of the capital to the
Federal Parliament. Also it held that if the
capital is fixed in N.S.W. that province will
probably reconsider its decision and accept
the Federal scheme—which is also a gross mis-
representation of the facts, seeing that N.S.W.
has already accepted, only Parliament calmly
nullified the popular decision, and, figuratively
speaking, stuffed the ballot-box, and cooked
the returns, and threw the Referendum over-
board. The Assembly decided, by a large
majority, not to imperatively demand that the
Federal capital should be on the unprotected
sea-coast at Sydney, and the exact part of
N.S.W. where it is to be is left for future
decision. But the Reid Government is out on
the personal and undisguised grab, and demands
to have that capital in its own province, some-
where—Sydney probably preferred.
* * * *
Curiously enough, the Cornstalk Assembly
says not a word about the Federal railway pro-
blem, which is the inevitable concomitant of
the other question. It is not the barren honor
of possessing the capital which is in question
so much as the profit to be derived from it.
The Federal city will probably grow, in a very
few years, to be the third or fourth in Australia
so far as size is concerned, and some day it
will inevitably be a place of great size and
wealth and importance. The reasons why The
Bulletin has constantly advocated the creation
of a new capital in the centre of Australia,
somewhere on the highlands beside the M‘Don-
nell Ranges or thereabouts, are that it would
draw this new population to that part of the
country which wants population most, and
would do something for the lean hog instead of
pouring all available blessings on the fat one.
Also it would “develop the interior,” which
every politician is very anxious about in theory
and cares nothing about in practice; and by
planting population and wealth there it would
make it possible and profitable to build rail-
ways right across Australia—a work which is
otherwise likely to be postponed for a century
or two. Likewise, in such a locality the
Federal Government could become sole land-
lord at a very cheap rate of a good-sized
Federal province, and retain all the unearned
increment, and realise a splendid future revenue
out of its ground-rents, and make the grandest
experiment in the way of land nationalisation
which the world has seen for many centuries.
N.S.W.’s demand that it should have all the
extra wealth and population to be derived from
the ownership of the Federal city, because it
has already more wealth and population than
any of its neighbors, ends all these splendid
possibilities. But it starts a new problem,
which is likely to cause a sea of troubles.
* * * •
Said problem is as follows: If N.S.W. is to
have the Federal capital what kind of com-
munication does it propose to allow the rest of
the Commonwealth to have with its own capi-
tal? Of course, it is impossible to plant the
new city in any place where all the provinces
will have an equal chance to get a share of the
trade. But it might be placed so as to give
two or three provinces an equal show, or so as
to snatch all the trade for Sydney alone. Sup-
posing it is planted so as to be fairly equidis-
tant from Sydney, Adelaide and Melbourne:
N.S.W. has already emphatically demanded
that the provincial system of railway manage-
ment shall be continued, and that any province’s
right to shut out the trade of any other province
by its railway charges shall be practically un-
limited. Therefore, the other provinces naturally
want to know if N.S. W. will construct its share
of a direct railway to each of the other capitals,
and if it will undertake to make fares and
freights equal between the Federal city and all
the three provincial capitals. Obviously, if the
absurd and ruinous system of provincial rail-
way control is to be maintained, the province
which owns the Federal city can annex all the
trade and profit thereof. It can do this simply
by refusing to give the new city direct railway
communication with any capital except its own,
or by charging prohibitive freights, except on
the lines that connect with its own ports.
When the selection was left to the Federal
Parliament it was safe to assume that it would
require the province in which the capital was
located to give all reasonable guarantees that
it wouldn’t cut off the rest of Australia from
free communication with its own political
centre. But if one province demands the capi-
tal to begin with, then it is - fair to ask what it
proposes to do in this matter.
* * * ¥
This is a problem which no other Federal
Government has had to face. In the United
States, Canada and Mexico the railways are
private property, and the private companies
build them to make the shortest and cheapest
line from the place they leave to the place they
want to go to. There is no question of pro-
vincial boundaries or prejudices ; no desire to
cut off one city from communication with
another lest “our” trade shouldn’t come to
“our’’port; and no building of 500 miles of
railroad for the sake of mere local animosities
if 200 will do equally well. In Argentina and
Switzerland (where the principle of State
ownership is just being adopted), the Federal
authority is the owner of all State railways,
and again provincial jealousies and petty ani-
mosities are shut out. Australia is the one (pro-
spective) Federation of the crowd which is fool
enough to seriously contemplate leaving if.'


State railways, on which national development
mainly depends, under separate provincial con-
trol. Therefore it is the only one where this
' And the question l’ onerf
great importance. It tne i euet c ,
were located, say, in the west or south-west ot
N.S. W., and it was furnished with the most
direct possible communication with Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide, it would grow o e
great inland commercial centre, as well as a
political metropolis. If it was simp y > e a _
[own on the end of a sawn-off line leading to
Sydney, it would be nothing in particular
And, considering the ways of provincial policy,
the latter is w’hat it most certainly wi e, 1
provincial railway management is let on 1
present basis.
• * * •
The Reid Government makes no secret of its
desire to abrogate that wise proviso in _ie
Draft Constitution which enacts that tne
Federal city shall be located on purely federal
territory. If that proviso is abolished, it
follows that the revenues to be derived from
the capital will be the property of one State
only, instead of belonging to all in common.
The capital will be built up by the expenditure
of the money of all the federated States; anr
if the land values which they all help to create,
and the incomes which they all help to P a y
to public officials, and the incomes derived
through trading and other pursuits in the city
which owes its existence to Federal expendi-
ture, are taxed for the benefit of one State
only, that State, the richest in the Confederacy,
proposes to do a very hungry reach-out at the
expense of his poorer neighbors. If the capital
is placed on Federal territory, this difficulty
will be averted, but the railway problem
remains. The Reid Government makes very
little disguise of the fact that it wants the
Federal city, in any case, so near to Sydney
that it will be entirely surrounded by N.S. W.
territory. The Federal Government will then
be able to construct lines inside its own little
scrap of territory, but it can’t connect its capi-
tal with any of the other provinces except with
the permission of the subordinate State, which
blocks the way. The Federal city problem and
the railway problem are very much mixed up
in many ways. Obviously, any State which
starts, as N.S. W. has done, by demanding pos-
session of the capital, all on its own, should
also explain what it proposes doing with the
capital when it gets it. -
Those “Sacrifices.”
The debate in N.S.W. Assembly on that pro-
posed Federal amendment which demands that
the capital of the Commonwealth shall be in
N.S.W. territory, was a long, shriekful reitera-
tion of the old lie about the special “ sacri-
fices ” which the province is making for the
sake of Federation. It was declared over
and over again that the capital must be in
N.S.W. as a small measure of compensation for
those sacrifices, which nobody could define,
because N.S.W. has, so far, flatly refused to
make any sacrifice at all; and the Assembly
took quite a s'erious view of the subject. This
same attitude on the part of a small section
of N.S.W provincialists is about the worst
stumbling-block in the way of Federation.
The whole story of these alleged “ sacrifices ” is
this: N.S.W. keeps its railways, its public
lands, and all its other assets, just like the rest
of the provinces. It keeps its debt also ; if any
other province has a bigger debt N.S. W. doesn’t
go shares any more than anybody else. It
agrees to pay exactly the same rate of taxation
as the other provinces, and not a penny more.
If it pays more in the aggregate because it has
more people it gets as much more for the same
reason. It keeps its rivers. Despite the fact
that much of the upper waters of the Darling
come down from Queensland, and that prac-
tically all of the Murray, till near the place
where it quits N.S.W. territory, is made up by
the influx of streams from the Victorian Alps,
N.S.W. claims the absolute ownership of both
rivers, and the Federal Convention made no
serious effort to dispute the claim. It is dis-
tinctly provided that the Federal Parliament
can make no law which will deprive N.S.W. of
the reasonable use of these rivers, and unless
it wants the unreasonable use of them that
should be sufficient.
* • * •
As regards the struggle of Victoria for the
Riverina trade and that of S. A. for the trade of
the W T est and South-West, N.S.W. makes no
concessions whatever. These remote places, be-
ing far nearer to Adelaide and Melbourne than
to Sydney, only trade with the latter city under
compulsion ; the commerce is, as far as possible,
forced Sydney wards by the construction of roads
and railways in that direction only, and by the
levying of high freights on trade which
goes away from Sydney and low ones on that
which comes towards the N.S.W. capital.
N.S.W. got distinctly ahead of its principal
rival, Victoria, on this point, for it induced the
Convention to prohibit the carrying by any
State of goods from another State at specially-
reduced rates, and thus clause 103 abolishes all
the vast system of reductions (ranging from
5 to 66 per cent.) by which Victoria now carries
off the Western and South-western trade. At
the same time N.S.W., according to its own
railway officials’ reading of the clause, re-
tains its right to cut rates in the Riverina.
It is done by a simple application of
the “zone system.” For instance, a six-ton
truck of chaff is carried at these rates:
100 miles, £1 Bs. Id. ; 200 miles, £2 Bs. 6d. ;
300 miles, £2 18s. 6d. ; therefore it can be
carried from Sydney to Junee, half-way to Mel-
bourne, for £2 18s. 6d. The same truck, coming
from Melbourne, would pay £2 Bs. 6d. to
the Victorian Government for the 200 miles to
Albury and .£1 Bs. Id. to the N.S.W. Govern-
ment for the first 100 miles on the N.S.W.
rails to Junee ; therefore for the same distance
the VicLorian would pay, not £2 18s. 6d. but
£3 16s. 7d. If the railway arrangement in the
Draft Constitution holds good, N.S.W., in-
stead of giving up, in a commercial sense,
large tracts of her territory,” as alleged by
Premier Reid, will, to a great extent, recover
large tracts that are already lost, as the worst
form of Victorian competition will be shut out.
As regards the tariff question, N.S.W. makes
a very good bargain. It is at present r leetra e ,
the other provinces are mainly .
They definitely give up one-half of their policy
by establishing interprovmcial Freetrade. s
for the other half, the Federal Parliament has
to decide, but the Keid policy wins the first
half of the battle to a dead certainty. JN.b. W.,
with its huge land-revenue to fall back on, is
financially safe in any case. The other P lo '
vinces, having no such land-revenue and being
dependent on customs revenue instead, take the
risk of insolvency if the Reid policy is carried in
the Federal Parliament. And if that policy is
carried, and the other provinces go broke,
N.S.W. doesn’t promise to assist them by a
single penny per annum. The only sacrifice
N.S.W. makes is the concession to the small
provinces of equal representation in the senate,
and on that point Victoria loses very nearly as
much as its neighbor. All these things, of
course, are no reason why N.S.W. should not
have the Federal capital if it can get it ; but
the eternal wail about the special “sacrifices
made by N.S.W. in the cause of Federation is a
very mean and maudlin way to get it. Besides,
the old brassy lie grows wearisome. Apart
from the bogus “sacrifices,” the capital is
claimed as the inalienable right of N.S.W.
because it is the “ oldest and richest and most
populous ” of the provinces. As regards its
age, N.S.W., Victoria, Queensland, and part
of S.A., and the Northern Territory were all
lagged together on the same day, and the whole
territory, as a British possession, is the same
age. As regards the other things, the Federal
capital will bring population and wealth wher-
ever it is located, and if the right policy is to
bring these where they are least needed there
is no more to be said.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Age’s” Beautiful Dream.
The Victorian House of Landlords cast out
another democratic measure or two last week,
and the Age again weeps a little about the al-
leged impregnable position of that great un-
paid snag. If the powerful Syme organ, instead
of sitting on the public soul like a cubic mile
of wet blanket, and depressing the Victorian
people by fairy-tales about the impregnability
of the 48 old Bogies, would tell the people that
the House of Landlords is only a house of
cards after all, it would do a lot more good.
And if it would show them how that ancient
snag could be blasted out of the way, and
would crusade against it with the same ferocious
vigor that it showed when it pursued Speight
in the old days, the snag certainly could be
shifted. Nowadays the Age tells the public to
wait and hope. When Federation comes the
local Parliament will have less to do, and
in the natural order of things a Bill will
be passed reducing its numbers, and alter-
ing its constitution generally, and then
the long-delayed reform will happen along,
quite naturally. Which is about the weak-
est kind of comfort imaginable. The
Council may agree, when Federation comes, to
a reduction of the numbers of both Houses, and
again it may not. Quite probably it will say
that it is an unpaid House, and obstructs re-
form gratis, and therefore it doesn’t need to be
reduced, but that the Assembly, being a paid
institution, had better be cut down one-half in
the interests of economy. Quite probably, too,
it will insert an amendment making its own
franchise still narrower, and increasing the
property qualification for members, and making
itself a more bigoted and awful House of Land-
lords than ever, and will offer to pass the
reduction measure on these terms, and no
others. The idea that Federation will make
the present 48 dreadful old proprietors volun-
tarily surrender one iota of their authority is
more wildly improbable than Rougemont’s dog
anecdote.
Sarg'ood’s Snuffle.
Frederick Sargood, who, when any progres-
sive measure is before the Victorian Council, is
the boss Solomon Eagle of that sad congrega-
tion, was very, very deeply grieved at the pro-
posed abolition of the multiple Property Vote.
He asked the Council, as the boss Tory always
does, to consider the awful risk of putting the
w'harf-loafer on the same voting-level as great
minds l.ke Pitt, and Peel, and Oladstone,
and the like. And then, by way of setting the
matter right, Sargood implored the House to
give a double vote to any boor, or publican, or
swindler, or illiterate bottle-gatherer who had
Property, and leave the man who has only
Mind and no Property down on the intellectual
level of the wharf-loafer aforesaid. This is the
sort of thing which makes the Vic. M.L.C. look
such a mean, degraded, crawling hypocrite as he
unfortunately does—though it may be that ap-
pearances are deceptive, and he is only a preju-
diced and benevolent numskull after all. He al-
ways begins by asking why the man with a great
Mind—the scientist, philosopher or philanthro-
pist-should be left, by the pernicious One-
man-one-vote idea, on the same grade as the
unclean lingerer on the Yarra bank. And,
having worked up his fellow-fatmen by this
tearful tale of w'rong, they all quietly plant the
scientist and philosopher and philanthropist
right down on the same grade as the dirtiest
loafer in the crowd, and give the extra vote to
the person who owns a slum property let to
Flossies and Chinamen. Even in its professed
yearning to give an extra vote for thrift the
Council is a very great fraud. If a man has
been so thrifty that he has reduced himself to a
skeleton, and has thereby acquired £30,000 in-
vested in State securities, the Council doesn’t
offer him an extra vote —not much. But if he is
a drunken spendthrift who has inherited a house
which is let to a Chinaman and the Maly Ann
to whom the Chow should be married but isn’t,
and he only keeps that house because it is so
strictly tied up under the will that he can’t sell
it —then he qualifies for the double property
vote advocated by F. Sargood. The Vic.
Council never inquires about the Thrift of the
dual voter. It doesn’t care a farthing either
for Thrift or for the intellectual person whose
degradation to the voting level of the wharf
loafer gives it such a severe grief ill the stomach.
It always comes back to the old point and gives
the extra vote for bricks and mortar, no matter
how acquired. Its one god is bricks and mor-
tar ; the rest is mere snuffle and hypocrisy.
Beak Vagaries.
At the quarterly meetings held last week the
two Sydney licensing-benches gave further
proof of their determination to defeat the in-
tention of the Legislature with regard to
Australian wine. Many years ago Sir Charles
Dilke wrote that Australia was destined to
become the vineyard of the world. As tending
to show that the prediction will be fulfilled
when the law is improved and, what is more
important, intelligently - administered and in-
terpreted, the oldest and, perhaps, the largest
firm of London winedealers, Sandeman, whose
continental dealings are colossal, recently in-
structed their Sydney branch to give the
hitherto despised “ colonial ” article a
trial. With that view, several new re-
tailers’ wine - licenses were applied for,
but proceedings in court showed that the
licensing-benches were in no way inclined
to encourage a native industry. The Sydney
magistrates have made a law of their own that
no more new wine licenses shall be granted
except to restaurant keepers who wish to supply
the liquor with meals, or to grocers who sell by
the bottle. A substantial baker was accordingly
refused, and, in another case, the bench de-
creed that, while grocers were recognised, they
drew the line at greengrocers. Owing to a
vagarv of the law itself, one applicant was
refused because his premises were assessed at
,£49, whereas the Act prescribes an assessment
of <£so, though he promised to improve Ins
premises so as to increase the assessment, ihe
absurdity of the situation is shown by the
nature of the perfunctory objection put forth
by the police on such occasions, namely, “ That
the proposed license is not justified by the
reasonable requirements of the neighbourhood
and that so many hotels are within a certain
radius.” But Bung’s own solicitor, Mr. Bull,
showed that not one hotel in a hundred sold
native wine, which should have squelched that
objection in one act. However, the bench up-
held the absurd objection in most cases. The
Bulletin hopes tliatM.L.A. Crick will carry
out his expressed intention of bringing the
matter before N.S.W. Parliament.
Gov. M'Gregor’s apology for the New Guinea
concessions is to hand, and very lame it is.
The doughty Administrator is particularly
entertaining when he asseverates again and
again :
Not the slightest step was taken by the Administrator
in regard to the syndicate without the usual and neces-
sary concurrence of Queensland.
“Concurrence of Queensland” signified, of
course, concurrence of “Ugh” Nelson and
nobody else that we can find any record of. In
answer to the late Premier Byrnes’ strictures
“ On the Administrator must also be laid the
blame for not having the other colonies con-
sulted ” — M'Gregor remarks that he never
knew they had to be consulted. Unfortunately
for this last statement we have all a very clear
recollection of the wily Papuan Governor’s
presence at a certain conference of Premiers
down South, where he was much interrogated
about the future prospects of the Possession by
the heads of certain Governments that had no
business to do anything at all beyond putting
their beastly hands in their vulgar pockets.
In another remarkable passage
admits that he discouraged previous appli-
cations for land, inasmuch as the granting
of concessions “ could only have resulted in the
creation of open racial hostility,” etc., etc. . . .
If that reason applied when an Australian
syndicate wanted to buy land, why doesn’t it
apply when an English syndicate wants to buy
land ? Altogether, the document is very pretty
reading !
John Collins, the man whom N.S.W. Judge
Gibson sentenced to three years' imprisonment ,
for the theft of half-a-tin of baking-powder,
given to him as rations, has been released, after
serving 20 months of his sentence. Evidently,
Mr. Gag Gould has really left the Ministry for
Justice. Collins’s case has always appeared
to The Bulletin one of the most disgraceful
on the long list of N.S.W. judicial miscar-
riages. He was employed to erect three
miles of fencing for an out-back selector, and
was to be paid a small sum and furnished
with rations. The selector stopped the job
before completion (owing, says Collins, to the
difficulty of getting materials to the ground) ;
they squared up ; and Collins, as he alleges,
returned the remains of the flour and baking-
powder given him. The selector and Collins
apparently parted good friends ; but eight days
later Collins was arrested—charged with
having stolen the remains of the baking-pow-
der in the tin. Collins says he returned the
tin ; the selector says he didn’t; the tin was
never found ; and Judge Gibson actually
awarded three years’imprisonmentinthis appar-
ently wretched squabble, where there wasmerely
one man’s word against the other, and the whole
cause of the trouble wasn’t worth 6d. ! Was
there ever such asinine administration of jus-
tice outside N. S. Wales? The Bulletin
considers that the community owes Collins a
re-hearing of his case, and would very much
like to deduct the costs of such a re-hearing
from the irritable Judge Gibson’s salary.
+
The N.S.W. coal-weighing difficulty is gradu-
ally coming to a head. All along it has been a
remarkable proceeding and full of instruction
to an alleged self-governing community. The
law, enacted by the combined wisdom of the
people’s representatives in Parliament, enacts
that all coal must be weighed as it comes from
the mine, and the miners be paid for the exact
amount extracted. So far, no one has taken
any notice of the law, except by letting it slide.
The mine-owners simply ignore it. The
Government has made no attempt to enforce
it ; that GoD-fearing institution took it upon
itself to tacitly cancel the law on its own re-
sponsibility. It didn’t profess that the Act
was bad and attempt to procure its repeal ; it
simply allowed the employers to break it at
their own sweet will, and winked at their
doing so. In fact, it, to all intents and pur-
poses, conspired with the mine-owners
in their illegal acts ; if it didn’t con-
spire actively it did so passively. Now
it is announced that the long-neglected
statute will begin to be put in force at.some
date a little way ahead, and the Government
will then cease to be a passive accomplice. Ah
of which is very interesting. The law for
giving a poor man three years’ gaol for taking
6d. worth of baking-powder is in force all the
time. Why shouldn’t the law which is sup-
posed to protect him from possible fraud by
the mine-owner be in force all the time also ?
In view of the frequency with which meat in-
tended for human consumption is in N.S.W.
detected as tuberculous or cancerous and the
probably much greater frequency with which
it isn't detected, The Bulletin can’t see what’s
the matter with official exhibition of specimens
of meat in the various stages of the various
diseases, so that the large fat-headed public
would learn to recognise these pleasing con-
ditions when it saw them. Or, as said speci-
mens would necessarily need continual renewal,
the purpose might be even better served by care-
fully-executed pictures and diagrams. The
Public Instruction Department lias already in
this way supplied much gorgeously-illustrated
information about venomous snakes, the danger
from which isn’t a circumstance to the 'post-
mortem, capabilities of tuberculous, bullock or
cancerous pig. Snake-venom, at the worst, slays
but one person, and that with merciful
despatch; whereas “ cronk ’’-meat-virus means
a long-drawn horror that the affected individual
may scatter broadcast amongst his family and
the community. The State is always cheer-
fully swallowing its camel 1
According to the Government returns just is-
sued, Victoria, at the end of 1897, had 52,701
persons employed in factories as compared
with 50,883 in N.S.W. Since 1894, when
both provinces had about struck bottom,
the employes in factories have increased by
11,428.’ The increase in N.S.W. during the
same period has been 8132, and most of this
has been an apparent increase only, caused
by the change of system in ’96 when places em-
ploying only four hands were first reckoned as
factories. The two provinces now estimate on
practically the same basis and have done so for
two years ; but if they had done so all along
the number of N.S.W. factory employes in
1894 would have been about 46,000 instead
of 42,751, and N.S.W.’s increase for the three
years would be about 4000 against Victoria s
11,000. In his last electoral campaign Premier
Reid stated that N.S.W., by reason of its
Foreign-trade policy, had 5000 more hands em-
ployed in factories than Victoria, but that was
merely the podgy man’s usual inaccuracy. The
province with the smaller population and the
miserably deficient coal supply—though coal is
the great essential in almost all manufactures
still keeps persistently ahead of the one with
nearly four times the area, with the larger
population and the abundance of coal and the
50 years start, and all the other advantages.
+
The idiots of the Tory press who used to rave.
about strikes, labor-in-politics, and agitators
“driving capital out of the country, are
seldom heard from nowadays. Yet one occa-
sionally bobs up to remind us of the good old
faith. For instance, Hobart Mercury, be-
moaning the lack of manufacturing industries
in the Land of Sleep-a-lot, remarks
Sad to say, but true, the selfishness of the labor-classes,
the constant hunting and harrying of capital as the enemy
of labor, has much baleful influence in turning away
“ enterprises of great pith and moment.”
Hobart hasn’t seen an eight-hours’ demonstra-
tion for nearly 10 years, no strikes ever happen,
no aggressive labor organisations exist, starva-
tion wages are meekly accepted, the average
worker habitually raises his hat to his boss and
fairly grovels before priests, parsons, and (ye
gods !) M’sP. The “enterprises of great pith
and moment” ought surely to happen under
these circumstances, but, somehow, thev don’t.
The fact that the Dukes of Clarence and York
planted trees at Kernell, Point Solander, the
south head of Botany Bay, will probably
make the “ naicest ” people support the
N.S.W. Minister for Lands in his action
in reclaiming, and dedicating as a public
park, the spot whereon Cook first put foot
on the shores of Australia, much more than
the historical associations that cling to this
classic ground. It is noteworthy that Clar-
ence’s tree is dead, like its planter. York’s
still lives, and has a wind-tortured being. By-
the-way, it is proposed to resume at present
only ten or twenty acres. • But it should be
remembered that, besides such ancient memo-
rials as Cook’s first landing-place on Aus-
tralian soil, Banks’ and Solander’s botanising
arena of first research among Australian plants,
Forby Sutherland’s burying-place—grave of
first white man, so far as we know, interred in
Australian earth, there is in the neighborhood,
and about a mile south of Point Solander, the
most interesting spot to Australians (and, inci-
dentally, to Australasians) to be found on Aus-
tralian soil, to wit, the spot whereon Capt.
Cook hoisted the Union Jack for the first time
on the shores of the Great South Land, thus
taking possession of a continent, and uncon-
sciously laying the foundation-stone of what
hereafter will' be Federated Australia. The
resumptioh should include this almost more
than historical locality.
For a marvellous transformation-scene, com-
pare the reception of Hori Grey’s one-man-
one-vote speeches in the ’9l Federal Convention,
and the reception of Edward Braddon’s de-
fence of one-man-more-than-one-vote in Ade-
laide at the opening of the ’97 Convention.
Compare, too, the old man’s plea, received with
guffaws, for one-man-one-vote in one House in
’9l, and the little-contested adoption of the
principle in respect of the two Houses in ’9 l.
Also compare the actions of those who cheered
the Grand I'. l Battler in ’9l with their action
in ’9B in cursing the makers and supporters of
a Bill which gives a more liberal franchise thap
even Grey ever asked for. a


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1898.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1897 ...
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1897
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGE
any other Life Ofhce in the World.
£49,349,231
4,187,992"'
10,508,995
1,513,749
198,159,549
7,513,284
R than that of
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq. M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, MLC •
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. H’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & c r>. 5
Agents, SYDNEY.
ħ
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY : 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, <fec.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand,
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Simplest—Most Durable —Best.
’RUNNING
I
-^1
s\machines
Write for our il ustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
h
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-, Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ The Dovecote.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Gondoliers ”
Lyceum . “Mv Jack "
Tivoli. Rickards Co.
Palace Dante, the Conjuror
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess.. “ Lady of Lyons."
Theatre Royal “ Fl.vinr Scud.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Town Hall Saturday Pop Concerts.
Some remarks which The Bulletin made
a few weeks ago about the Incriminating Docu-
ment in melodrama receive further endorsement
from the weird ways and proceedings of “My
Jack”—now in possession of Sydney Lyceum.
“My Jack” has the Document breaking out ali
over it, or, rather, the Birth Certificate, which is
brother to the Document, and an even more
illogical stage fiction. It has somehow come to be
a recognised legend of the “boards ” that no man
can prove his identity and come into the property
—now unlawfully collared by the wicked baronet—
unless he has his birth certificate. Also, that
there is only one copy of it extant—therefore he
fights like a bag of lions to recover it, and pursues
it all over the earth, instead of simply going to
the registrar’s office and getting another. Also,
when he has the certificate, he comes into the pro-
perty immediately. In real life you can get a
copy of anybody’s birth certificate for 2s. 6d., and a
barrow-load of them assorted for £lO, and they are
valuable to wrap up meat in; but on the stage it is
only necessary to show the document to the proper
authority—who is generally the policeman—and
he hands over the estate at once. The amount of
property which changes hands in this way on the
edge of the pavement on a wet night in London is
tremendous. Also, he sentences the uncle and
the fraudulent solicitor to a long term of imprison-
ment right there, and then plods On his way trying
doors in the rain at 275. a week.
* * * *
“My Jack " is a long and bitter struggle
for the certificate, by Benjamin Landeck, in five
acts. The certificate is cast up by the sea once
along with a dead drowned woman who lies on the
beach with the sunlight playing on her wet hair
after the eels have got her soul. A Greek of
reprehensible character gets it and keeps it for
many years, while the depraved nobleman rages
all over the globe in search of it. It is buried
secretly at dead of night, like Sir John Moore, and
is accidentally found again, and the finder is
murdered for the sake of it, and then it
isn’t on his dead body after all. The real owner
carries it about carelessly for a while and gives it
away ; and finally, the Greek (every stage Greek
is an awful character) explains all about it while
perishing frequently in a red red desert by the
Nile, and the red sun listens to the story, and the
giraffe makes the quickest retreat he can in the
distance. Then the birth certificate being restored
the hero goes home, and on its sole evidence
he seizes the property with a strong hand
and appoints himself to be baronet in place
of the other man. The scene is laid partly
in the weary old Soudan, where Rignold and
Baker and Diver and Norman and Plimmer
and Bland Holt and Holloway and many other
stage characters have rallied round the old
Flag so often that it 1 is about worn out
now, and there are holes in it large enough to
throw a goat through; and where every breeze
turns over the leaves of some big warlike drama or
other. Also it is partly on the deck of a man-of-
war where the British sailor revels in dance and
song and leads an idyllic existence; and partly in
a lighthouse which is blown up ; and partly out on
the wet, wet sea, hanging on to a spar ; and partly
everywhere.
** m &
Dante, who commenced to rather doubtful
business at Sydney Palace—the community being
dubious about conjurors and one-man shows, and
the Palace being a luckless house at the best—has
now settled down to be a solid success. The
gorgeous little theatre is full every night, and
seems likely to remain so for a while, and the
Professor spreads himself in new marvels so
rapidly that the public has indigestion trying to
assimilate them. All his tricks are neat and
clever, but some of them are actually flabber-
gasting. In the presence of a committee of well-
known, affluent, bald, respectable citizens, he
plants a youth in a chair on the stage and wraps
a curtain round him, and in about ten seconds it
is withdrawn to reveal that youth securely tied
hand and foot. Then the wretched victim has
his mouth filled with water as a guarantee that he
doesn’t blow on anything, and five coins balanced
on his .fingers to prevent him grabbing at any-
thing ; nevertheless, when bells and trumpets are
dropped over the curtain the trumpet is blown
upon and the bell rings furiously, and both are
hove ten feet in the air. The committee snatches
furiously at the curtain, only to find a bound
boy dozing in the chair with his mouth still
full of water and the coins still balanced on
his fingers. After about a dozen attempts the
committee retires sulkily. Probably the most
remarkable rio : of the list, however, though not
tj is prettiest, is in old card dodge with variations.
It is the ancient device of a pack of cards on a dish
under a glass cover, out of which pack certain
cards selected by the audience rise one by one, and
show themselves, and then drop in a ghostly
fashion into the dish. Dante’s variation is that he
lets anybody in the audience hold the dish, and
that person’s eyes bulge out till umbrellas could be
hung on them trying to discover the spring, and
the hair attached to the card, and the other
properties. But he never discovers anything,
except that the cards rise up one by one. An
individual who was once an expert in the conjuring
biz. himself held the dish one night, and he got no
BuStS 0f ths “ T >“
** * *
CO^ C °P era co - closes its season at
-Her Majesty s on Saturday, the ever-green “ Gon-
After tint fh® 1 m - tbc J. ast few nights of the season.
After that there is a hiatus till the ensuino- Satur
fa a il s du, ob S t 29) ' Whe ", th * &Bo£”
little nor ° me rem ? l<:s A way of rousing up a
and the reS^W ll^l^ 1 ° Ver Gil ,le
and the rebel CocheforSt and the row in Zaton’s
eating-house, will be worked up for next issue.
** * *
Miss Pattie Browne has so far recovered
short her Melt? 081 * 1011 which , 80 lamentably cut
annetr n t M | lb a ne^ eaS ° 1 n thatshe w billed to
‘‘Dovecote °- n Saturday in the
dronned ont ef J fi ™ aBthe P lece which had to be
to the 5 V fc u f Melbourne programme owing
weets onW breal Mo Wn W- The Sea Son wi]l two
end of hir’ T d f th f n Mlss Brow ne comes to the
Leslv The™f trahan Se u son - • The eo - includes
iS (a f ui n°ur has arisen that his name
hv R T th a o P - aft ? r a 1 1) who was detained
AGo^Wh tlSm rn Urm ? , the last Sydney season.
Also the three elders of the “Little Minister ” will
fev.ho ,!®’ llk ,° W ', se Mlsses Edith Barrow, Noni
xtichards, and other attractions.
** * *
Sydney Criterion re-opens on Saturday
under the management of Alfred Dampier, with a
new play, and a new company, and new scenery.
Sydney is very much overcrowded with shows just
now but The Bulletin trusts that there will be
standing* room for the new venture somewhere.
** * *
Warren and Bristol’s “great Eastern
Variety and Circus ” came to Sydney unobtru-
sively last week and pitched its tent on the usual
site adjacent to Redfern railway station. It is a
very respectable circus as circuses go; about as
great as could be expected, and moderately Eastern
—quite sufficiently so to satisfy anyone who isn’t
an unreasoning hog for Orientalism. Professor
nstols end of the show is somewhat discounted
Dytheta ct that Sydney has seen most of it before,
at the time when the Prof, occupied the Criterion
stage, and the balmy odour of horse smothered the
traditions of the old Brough and Boucicault days.
Still it is good enough (for those who like horse)
to stand many repetitions. The present writer’s
verdict m the Criterion days was that it was very
clever and very wonderful, and that he was weary
to death of horse, and, except in the cause of duty
wouldnt take the trouble to fix his faded brown
eye on the most astonishing mule that ever per-
vaded the earth. Even if he heard that Al-Borak
and Bucephalus and the Centaur were all grazing
on his lawn, he would simply impound these
historic animals (by deputy) and send in a bill
for the grass. And in this frame of mind he
simply desires to say again that the present circus
is a very good circus indeed; and that Professor
Bristol s animals are without exception the clever-
est and best-trained set of horses and mules that
he ever saw or met or heard of. And he devoutly
trusts that they will meet with the great prosperity
they deserve m Scandinavia ; and that the busi-
ness they will do in Peru will be simply enormous,
be doesn t say this in any ill-feeling or disparage-
ment; he is simply tired of horse, and if there is a
profitable engagement sticking out in Egypt or
Guba he wouldn’t ask any horse to miss it on his
account.
** * *
Miss Ada Reeve has quitted the Tivoli,
and Biondi will be gone before these remarks
appear m print. Miss Cora Caselli, who has
brought a graceful leg and a magnificent high-kick
all the way from London, fills the gap to some
extent however, and Lottie Moore and the
tremendous electric organ are still present, so
there is nothing particular to complain of. The
organ is a bulky mystery which breaks out in ex-
plosions all. over the place, and arouses great
enthusiasm in the soul of the infant upstairs.
** * *
John Coleman and the rest of the new
Alhambra co. have galvanised that old riotous
haunt into something like prosperity again. Time
was when you could lose most of your clothes in
the Alhambra inside five seconds if you even
looked disrespectfully at a local “gun” on Satur-
day night, but those days have passed away, and
the ancient house is almost a quiet Christian
establishment now. Coleman himself is good
value for the money, and his name alone should
drag the enterprise along for a while.
** * *
If Brough made a lob of money in India
the profit was fairly earned. The co. had to work
hard, and the managerial portion of it—i.e., Mr.
and Mrs. 8.-—must have slaved like niggers.'’ At
Calcutta, where they boomed for three months
and put the financial success of the tour beyond
all doubt, it is the rule for visiting companies to
play three nights a week only. The Broughs
played six nights a week, changing the bill every
Wednesday and Saturday. In Hongkong, they
did equally big business, and barring a brief “off”
period m Shanghai the show was coining money
throughout a season of some 150 nights altogether.
At the Melb. Bijou the Vic. Operatic
Society is giving a sweet, clean and crisp musical
performance of “The Bohemian Girl,” a better
performance in its semi-grand opera character than
one would expect from an ordinary professional co
these times. “ The Girl, ” regarded as a story for
grown-up people, is about fifteen times more ridicu-
lous than Maritana, ” and no Australian manager
is hjply to produce it at vast expense ever again.
In the hands of the Y.O.S. amateurs the book of
the opera becomes a painful joke, although they
are a smarter dressed and less angular crowd than
amateur actors in general. If it could assist the
maintenance fund of St. Vincent’s Hospital to tell
the V.O.S. warblers that they score a dramatic
success in this old-fashioned show, The Bulletin
would stretch a point—several points— to flatter
them; but seeing that “The Girl” travels solely
on the musical score there is no reason for over-
stating the truth. All the principal parts and
choruses were well sung on Saturday, and with
the exception of a tiresome minuet the perform-
ance didn’t provoke any bad language in front.
Horace Stevens, J. Goudy, Miss Millie Chapman,
William Neilson, A. W. Pitt, and Miss Layton,
took musical honors at the first attempt. During
this week the cast will be sometimes different in
three places, but even if the new people are a little
weaker than the originals “The Girl” will be a
deserving effort, and the balance-sheet ought to
show a profit for the Hospital aforesaid.
** * *
The season at Melb. Royal has begun to
hang out signs of approaching dissolution. On
Saturday a misguided management put up “The
flying Scud ” in a sick and sorry style, with the
idea of catching a horsey public on the hop. Two
previous shows at the Royal had some expensive
teatures to recommend them, anyway; also they
were rather new and peculiar in their foolishness,
rioucicault s drama is neither new, nor spec-
tacular, nor foolish, and the people who
play it are expected to give the author a chance,
the author has a pretty bad time at the Royal.
Jt. D. Haygarth is an effective Nat Gosling, but
the rest of the co. ranges from moderate to worse.
Charles Maurice, the Franco-German manager,
whose foreign accent and cheerful self-assurance
qualified him for the first character he undertook,
tt't , s * ars ” himself as Mo Davis, the Jew.
Unfortunately, he doesn’t shine.
** * *
Another leading lady has been indisposed—
Miss Ada Ferrar, this time. Her part in “ Under
tne Red Robe ” was filled for two or three nights by
Miss Terriss, the little lady who used to gnash her
teeth at the “Chrwistian” girl in “ Sign of the
Oross. Save for her Jewish turn of the tongue,
which compels her to say “ trweasure, ”
prwomise, ” &c., Miss Terriss would have
been an improvement on Miss Ferrar. She
was not so stagey a heroine, moreover she
tended to wake up Julius Knight. “ Red Robe ”
goes rather more buoyantly than at first, and may
be further enlivened by the substitution of a
younger man for old Gladstone in the part of
Louis the servant—but no matter. On Saturday,
the lirm will stage “Lady of Lyons” at the
Princess s on account of an alleged feminine yearn-
ing to behold Julius Knight as Claude Melnotte
before he withdraws his fatal beauty from Mel-
bourne. Three performances of “L.0.L.” will
close the season, and on Wednesday (26th) the new
Comic Opera Co. make a first appearance at the
Princess’s in “LaPoupee.”
** * *
Business at the Opera House abafceth not,
and Peggy Pryde stands where she did. Like-
wise Ajax, the Flexible Marvel, is now added to
the bill, which is to say that his marvellous con-
tortions were due on Wednesday. At the Town
Hall, a new serious of “Pop” concerts made a
very promising start last Saturday, and will be
continued once a week until further notice. A
benefit concert to Mrs. Palmer is to happen at the
same spot on Wednesday (26th).
At Poverty Point.
? rs^"c^asa actor (Anson was a notable case in
point) returns to London after a long time in Australia
the cockney critics reprove him for a tendency to ex-
aggeration. Australia is referred to as an unculchawed
country, where imported “stars” must play down to
tr,?ih h^ a f n fn' read 'L aU u le - nces in comed y and drama—the
truth of the matter being that a clever actor out here
i e A rn ® t 0 s f lke a fairly happy medium between the tame
and the robust styles which flourish at the West and East
ev n e d r S / a I SP i eC f tlVe ./' But „ can,t sa y that Australia has
ever asked for “pepper” with its Gilbert and Sullivan
operas. Some of the Firm’s most prosperous productions
have erred on the side of tameness—in the acting depart-
ment. Little bits of the original Gilbertian business were
lost in transit, seemingly. Our old friend, Elton, is iust
now appearing as the Duke of Plaza-Toro in London,
and the critics remark that he under-plays the character.
If the Firm “bags” Mrs. Langtry, the Australian
behold 06 " t h e p rtalnly • V ll nofc , (as . was late 'y printed)
b .. mf he ex< l uls ‘te complexion of twenty years
ago.” That vanished very soon after the TMy
went on to the stage under the tuition of Mrs
Labouchfere. An intimate friend of the writer’s had
some talks with Mrs. Langtry at her house in Pont-street
w P s P °\ a " d i th ! n ’ lf the ex( l uisite skin remained at
»ti fc fu 1 "! -'’’ *° c l’ lote a hne from Omar Khayyam,
Hnirn h f ld /i en far beneath and long ago.” The chalky
■Rnt ti? ° f women of the sta ff e was hers even then.
But the matchless grace, suppleness, flexibility of figure
Glen e n-, a i S r^ be '>j tChln "-' V ?u n the writer saw her last—as
Cleopatra. Never mind her acting ; she was good to look
at, to feast upon, and to dream of afterwards. The
tt°" s ? eaU y.° f her Cleopatra - a " d the grace of her
Kosalmd, are undying possessions of the memory.
: ?, ber , e seems little luxury about the Austra-
lian ballet-girls lot. A sample case. For a fortnight
a i C< ?? t £! llpla . ted . season of three months,
the Baldheads delight puts in hard, gratuitous work
from about 11 to 4 daily, being allowed a very short spell
is readv h to' f 6 l th ° ’Tn knocks off for tucker a next boss
is ready to take up the running). These preliminary
llnnn P I H ay e ? U *l e h ? r tO , one ’ two or three weeks’ wages
to . t t le P lece ’ s run—at the weekly rate of 12s.
■ b talent. Should her services not be needed
in the following production she rests for perhaps a corres-
poniJing period without salary, until a play is staged that
affords another opening for her business. Then after a
which S a S hont- sb ? dl ' a ws pay for a possible month,
w hich about completes the engagement as far as salary is
concerned. The three-months’ engagement that entails
so much hard graft with so little pay scarcely seems to
suet/billets perfeshnal ’’ competition which surrounds
A well - informed correspondent: “ The mystery that
of d ! sa PP earance .Louis Poussard, the 11-
year-old son of the eminent violinist, was cleared up on
Saturday when the bright little fellow returned to
Sydney with the devoted nurse who took him away three
fishm,rs e e for th a tm h 1 a S - pl ? did wouldTal’unseL
hsn nurse—that modern instance of the constant service
of the antique world-have been for Ponssard’s f a vnU° P
novelist, Balzac ! And Elizabeth Boutcher was not only
the foster-mother of the son, she was stove - lighter,
washer and wringer, cook, errand-maid, and general
lion’s provider to Poussard himself. Her w eekly wage
was only PI, but, unfortunately, she did not draw this,
and when the old artiste died, all she held was a piece of
paper acknowledging that £230 was due to her. It is not
the fact that Poussard left nothing. Including a little
money in the bank, his violins and furniture, and money
owing to him, he was worth about £4OO. But the faithful
housekeeper never troubled about her wages. Her whole
thought centred in the child she had reared from infancy;
and she took him to Melbourne, in the hope that R. S.
Srnythe, her employer’s oldest friend and manager, would
arrange with the guardian, appointed eight years before,
for her to have the child with her. That was impossible.
But Srnythe did his best. Despatching the nurse back
to Sydney, he sent the boy to a station on the Murray,
thinking by this temporal separation to render the final
parting easier ; and he then visited Sydney to press on
the executors the exceptional claim of Miss Boutcher.
Talkipg about benefits, let M. Poussard’s many artistic
friends give a benefit for his unselfish and unworldly re-
tainer. Where could there be found a better cause ? ”
“Buskin”: “Stroller” is quite right. With one ex-
ception, all Australian actors copy, slavishly, the imported
mummer. Barrett, the raucous, is in Scotland, but I
heard him at a Sj'd. matinde only t’other day. Cart-
wright is also far away, but he can be seen and heard at
two Sydney theatres any night. But there is an ex-
ception. Australia possesses one native-born actor
(possibly the best she’s got at present), who copies no one,
walks naturally on the stage, and talks as if he were a
man, and not a phonograph. This rarity lets the wordsconie
out of the mouth that God gave him and doesn’t harpoon
them with his nose, after a prevailing fashion. Judging
by samples to hand he is fully up to compete with any
English actor, and do a lot better than most that are now
blazoning their antipodeeds. To disclose the name of the
only natural Australian actor w'ould be to invite an
avalanche, therefore it must be left in oblivion. Queerly
enough, Tub Bulletin, that earnest “barracker” for
all Australian products, seldom mentions the name of the
only native actor it is not wearisomeness to listen to.
Therefore note those who are constantly mentioned, and
the one who isn’t is the missing word. [N.B. — The Bulle-
tin gets lots of letters like this. Generally, the “ only
actor” writes them himself in a poorly-disguised hand.]
A woman lately lost her husband by an accident; and
to give her a start some kindly-disposed persons raised
£5O for her by means of a benefit performance at an
Australian theatre. This lasted her two weeks, £25 of it
going in a tombstone for deceased, although it was all she
had between her children and the Benevolent Asylum.
How characteristic of the best old aboriginal kind of
woman !
Australian artistes who have gone to England declare
that it is impossible to get a hearing there unless one is
prepared to pay about £5O down to an agent, who will
then “ run ” you, and afterwards square the press not to
give you unfavorable notices and so on, ad infinitum.
Arthur Deane affirmed that ’Gustus Harris was kindness
and hospitality itself to him on every point but one—he
flatly refused to hear him sing. After three months’
weary waiting Mr. Deane contrived that Sir ’Gustus
should hear him accidentally, after which the great man
at once gave him an engagement.
Are the street minstrel and pub. serio-comic recognised
as legitimate members of the “Perfesh?” These night-
pavement performers are to be daily seen sunning them-
selves at Poverty Point. They are equipped with Talent’s
conscious smile, and the more-or-less clean shave; while
with arms haughtily folded across their geui-laden shirt-
fronts, they exchange business aboriginalities and other-
wise obstruct the side-path. Of course, should they prove
to be bona fide “ pros. ” this scribe anticipatively apolo-
gises and withdraws any offensive observations prompted
by an inadequate understanding.
The second revival of a certain comedy was expected, at
time of writing, to yield an interesting libel case. An
actor who had taken the name-part a wdiile ago, ventured
to say (or so the story goes) that his successor couldn’t
play it “for sour apples,” whereat the other fellow was
naturally indignant, and threatened legal proceedings for
defamation of artistic character.
Dead—John Hennings, veteran scene-painter, all-round
clever man, and right good fellow. Came hither in the
fifties, and had ever since been connected w’ith the Aus-
tralian stage as scene-painter. He and Pitt were con-
temporaries. Hennings was for years in partnership with
Coppin, Stewart and Harwood as lessees of Melb. Royal.
They all saved their coin save Hennings, who came out
best, after all—since the others dropped their hoards
when the banks broke in the Boom. Hennings, the best*
natured of men, would nevertheless chuckle over this
fact, and point the moral, corner-stone of Bohemian
philosophy, that money saved is money w'asted. It W'ould
have been better, however, had the old man been more
worldly-prudent. Of late he has had hard times. But
he was always cheery and full of pluck.
<< “ s ! lifter ” ; Hennings demises just on the revival of
Flying Scud,” which established the firm of Lambert,
Vincent, Harwood, Bellair, Hennings, and Stewart, the
only survivor. C. Vincent, the strongest of the lot, was
the first to die, through a horse accident. Lambert went
to his native Norfolk. Bellair became boniface. Har-
wood Mo-Davis’ed a good deal more
The name George Coppin aga n appears as manager of
a dramatic co. in Sydney; this time, however, it is
Coppin, junior. Fifty-four years ago the father first
appeared at the old Vic., Sydney.
George Rignold’s Adelaide season of four weeks was
very unsatisfactory, although he had no opposition to en-
counter most of the time.
Cabled that Australian songstress Ada Crossley success-
fully replaced rival Clara Butt in “ Elijah,” and is also to
sing before Queen Victoria. The Bulletin now expects
to hear that fair Ada contemplates an earty visit to her
native shores. These little cable-puffs—and especially the
clincher about appearance “ by royal command
generally indicate that, at the very least, managerial
negotiations are actively under weigh.
“ Thorold Consumption seems to be a natural con-
comitant, not only of ’cello playing, but of mastery over
all kindred instruments. Most violinists seem to be
affected I can only remember Musin as a glaring excep-
tion. Lung trouble probably springs from the constant
work required by stringed instruments, and the case of
the ’cellist is aggravated, perhaps, by the necessity for
handling more instruments than one—for man cannot
live by violoncello alone.
The public must be rather sick of hearing that two
leading actors of a certain co. are at daggers drawn, and
don’t “pla3 r up to one another” with enthusiasm. The
management pays them to make the best of their parts,
and the public pays to see them do it, and, if they were
true artists rather than petty-minded mummers, they
would do it. Being merely mummers, they never get
away from the thought of their private antagonism, and
they act accordingly.
( Continued on page 28.)


LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A pare Carbolic Di^infectanb.
FOR GENERAL USE.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38% E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litbarsre,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st Sydne y; 68 Cuvrie-stAdel .; Queen-st. , Brisb.
MERCHANTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining' Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
“Tbe R6ALMACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood,, Sole Proprietors.
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
assay ores, and treat samples up to 5 tons, by chlorina-
tion, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet or dry crushed.
Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp Batteries, Roast-
ing and Smelting Furnaces, and General Mining
Machinery.*
» * » *
Long Tunnel (Vic.) Sept, yield, 21430 z., bring-
ing the half-year’s average to loz. per ton. Divs. to date,
£1,208,400, equal to £503 per share, and there is a reserve
fund of over 110,000, and development-work shows many
divs. to come. Long Tunnel Extended, Sept, yield,
20440 z. Both returns above the average —cause, the half-
yearly clean-up. The N. Long Tunnel has still over 500 ft.
to sink before it can reasonably expect to get into the
same country. South Long Tunnel, after a long bad time,
has struck gold, and has recently acquired some ground
from the parent mine, giving it an increased prospective
value. New Loch Fyne, another big producer of this dis-
trict, has had a big drop—monthly output about one-half
what it was, bringing down divs. and price of shares, and
causing many people to curse themselves for not jumping
at the offer of £2l a share made for the mine about a year
ago. Working its tailings by cyanide so far shows profit.
* * * *
Stated as a humorous fact in Ballarat that the
manager of the Black Horse mine is also the proprietor of
a local sausage and baked-pertater stall. According to
latest reports, the “ Horse ” is panning-out splendidly —
seven sausages to the pound, or thereabouts.
* * * *
The new battery of 40 stamps lately started at
the Galleymont gold-mines is one of the finest gold mill-
plants at work in N.S.W., and is well worth inspection by
parties contemplating erection of similar machinery. The
ore is fed automatically through rockbreakers and feeders
without shovelling, and the whole is most substantially
built. The engines are a fine pair of horizontal compound
type, driving the battery with ropes. Mr. M. Eissier,
the managing engineer, speaks in the highest terms of
the construction and design of the plant, which was built
by the Austral Otis Engineering Company, of South
Melbourne.*
**. • *
Lord Kilmorey’s Largs Bay harbor scheme, to his
great chagrin, was blocked in S.A. Leg. Council owing to
an irregularity in connection with the deposit of £25,000
required under the conditions. The failure of the scheme
may be a blessing in disguise as its opponents had become
so strong that its defeat was pretty certain. The Bill
provided for a Govt, guarantee of £30,000 a year for 10
years and valuable grants of foreshore frontages. Kil-
morey introduced the Bill in S.A. Leg. Council owing to
the strong opposition threatened in the Assembly.
To Fruit Growers, Orchardists, and
Amateur Gardeners.
The DISCOVERY of the NINETEENTH CENTURY is
geresford’s
CAUSTIC
SPRAYING
SOLTUION.
Guaranteed to Destroy and Eradicate all Parasites, Aphis,
and Scale in Fruit Trees and Roses.
The Inventors of BERESFORD’S CAUSTIC SPRAYING
SOLUTION have, after years of practical experiments,
produced this most effective solution for Spraying Fruit
and Other Trees, by which Professional and Amateur
Gardeners may save themselves thousands of pounds by
having clean Orchards and Gardens at a small outlay.
Descriptive Pamphlets free from E. ATK.N, Eulalia
Nursery, 399 and 401 George Street, Queen Victoria
Markets, and Ermington, Agent for New Smuh Wales.
Sole Agent for Australasia, E. A. DAW BARN and CO.,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A. E. (SOLDSTEftI,
(c/0 S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires i» the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Fichl.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
When Melbourne sets to work in real earnest
to amalgamate its 20 municipalities, it will come on some,
surprising bits of information. For instance, the 20
municipalities spent among them last year £32,8/7 in
salaries alone. Melbourne city, with 17,830 ratepayers to
look after, spent • 12,081 in salaries. Prahran, South
Melbourne, Fitzrov, Richmond, St. Hilda, and Col-
lingwood, with over 43,000 ratepayers, blevved only £9944
in salaries among them. If Melbourne city would cast
its glittering Fitzgibbon traditions overboard it would be
a good beginning in the way of municipal reform.
* * # *
Perth (W. A.) city council offered 4 per cent.,
the other day, for a loan of £BO,OOO at par, and only got
£26,500. Since then it has placed some more fragments
of the loan here and there, but the episode is another sign
that the slump is bad in W.A.
• * * •
The Permanent Trustee Co. of New South
Wales—the joint-stock trustee which doesn’t do the
Pacific Slope with the property of the widow and the
orphan, and which offers the security of £975,000 uncalled
capital as a guarantee that, if some official does embezzle
the orphan’s patrimony and loses it on a horse, the loss
will be made good—sends along its balance-sheet for the
year ended 30th September, 1898. This is the eleventh
year of its existence, and the net profits (£2250) are the
best up to date. They compare with some previous re-
turns as follows :
September, 1892 .. £147 September, 1896 .. £1035
„ 1893 .. 1358 „ 1897 .. 1671
„ 1894 .. 764 „ 1898 . 2250
~ 1895 .. 1007
Up to 1891, the third year of its existence, the Permanent
Trustee 00. was a losing speculation, the business, in
those early days, being insufficient to cover working ex-
penses. Since it turned the corner, however, its progress
has been very steady. It paid its first dividend of 4 per
cent, in ’95 ; another 4 per cent, in ’96, and 5 per cent, in
’97. This year another 5 per cent, dividend is paid
absorbing £1250, and the other £lOOO, with previous
balance, leaves 4.2251 to credit of profit and loss. The
profits are equal to 9 per cent, on the small paid-up capi-
tal of 4 25,000, but the co. is well-advised to keep its
dividend down to 5, and it should continue leaving a
large margin between profits and dividends for many
years to come, and start to build up a solid reserve out of
the balance of the profits. At present, the Permanent
Trustee Co. has no reserve. Its £5 shares are only 2s. 6d.
paid-up, so they carry the enormous liability of
£975,000, and if some unlooked-for loss or disaster comes
along, and there is no reserve to meet it, this liability of
£4 17s. 6d. for every 2s. 6d. paid is full of possibilities for
the shareholders. Moreover, a trustee co., like a govern-
ment, and a bank, and a rat-trap with a bit of cheese in
it, and many other things, has to live on public confidence,
and a strong reserve does much in the way of inspiring
that valuable object.
* * • •
The Royal Bank (Melbourne) for the half-year
ended 30th September, 1898, shows a still further improve-
ment. The net profit is £4OBB, and compares with some
previous profits, as follows :
March, 1893 .. .. £2510 March, 1896 .. £2099
September, 1893 .. 1901 September, 1896 .. 2044
March, 1894 .. .. 3258 March, 1897 .. 3398
September, 1894 .. 2875 September, 1897 .. 3625
March, 1895 .. .. 2136 March, 1898 .. 3864
September, 1895 .. 2038 September, 1898 .. 4088
The profits are equal to £5 9s. per cent, per annum on the
written-down capital of £150,000, which is remarkably
good as present rates go, or £2 14s. 6d. per cent, on the
original paid-up capital of £300,000. A half-year’s
dividend at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum uses up
£2250, and the other £lB3B, added to previous balance,
leaves £5976 at credit of profit and loss account. Under
these circumstances, it is certainly time the Royal was
starting to build up a new reserve, by way of replacing
the £170,000 of the shareholders’ money which dropped
overboard in the late crisis. This little institu-
tion, the only Melbourne bank of issue which
didn’t suspend in 1893, begins to wear a decidedly pro-
sperous aspect. Its deposits (£280,575) are £38,000 more
than they were six months ago, and are larger than they
have been since September, 1893. The cash reserve
(£86,522) is equivalent to over 27J per cent, of all liabili-
ties to the public, which is solid enough for all purposes
and rather above the average. Barring the absence of
any reserve-fund, and of any reserve of State securities as
a desirable second line of defence, the balance-sheet of
the little Royal is an eminently satisfactory document in
every respect.
* * * *
“Ordinary”: Colonial Bank preference shares
are probably a good investment at present rates if you can
afford to wait some years for a return. Considering the
low prices now ruling the return is likely to be a very
good one in the end, but it may be long before it arrives.
• * * *
The depositors of the Premier Permanent Build-
ing Society (Melb.) wisely rejected the scheme for the
sale of all their remaining assets to an English co. Said
assets were alleged by the liquidator to be worth, after
liberal deductions, £173,600, and the co. offered only
£113,750 for the lot. Also, it only offered a part in cash
and the balance b3' gradual debentures at very moderate
interest, and the security for payment of these debentures
was to consist, apparently, in the fact that the purchasing
co. had a paid-up capital of just £30,000. In face of these
things the P.P. depositors resolved to keep the whole
£173,600 worth for the present, and think of forming
themselves into a small co. for owning the property, and
collecting the rents, and realising the bricks and mortar
when the proper time comes. Most of them are weary of
the very name of the Premier Permanent, but the grab of
the English shindykit was too vast and impudent for even
a very tired depositor to endure.
* * * *
The Trustees, Executors, and Agency 00. (Mel-
bourne) has made a call of 10s. per share. This co. has
got into a serious difficulty over the deposit of its clients’
money in hanks which have since reconstructed and
locked up the cash. According to a certain clause in the
Act, any trustee co. doing business in Victoria was em-
powered, among other investments, to “deposit any
moneys of which it has control . . . with any banking co.
or banking corporation having a subscribed capital of at
least £300,000 ; a paid-up capital of at least £150,000, and
a reserve of at least £50,000, and which does not, as part
of its ordinary business, buy and sell land or shares or
other property.” This looks clear enough, and the T.E.
and A. 00. invested largely in fixed deposits accordingly.
But after the smash came the Victorian Courts decided
that the clause only referred to current accounts, not to
fixed deposits, and that the trustee co.’s were liable for
any loss incurred by their clients in the fixed deposit
business. As the Trustees, Executors, and Agency Co.
pathetically states, it is thus compelled to take over from
its clients £'60,000 worth (nominal) of deposit receipts
which are now worth only £30,000. Hence the call of 10s.
per share = £30,000.
The question is left—what receipts are they
that are only worth on the average 10s. in the £ ? The
clause prohibiting deposits in banks that dealt in land
should have made it impossible for the Trustees E. and A.
Co. to drop its clients’ money in any of the mass of mush-
room institutions which are dead and gone. Among the
legitimate hanks the City of Melbourne, Mercantile, and
Federal are the only ones which went actually broke in
Victoria. If the money, or a part of it, was in these, then
the co. ought to state not merely that its £60,000 worth
of deposits have a “ present market value ” of only
£30,000, but also that a lot of them will never have any
better market-value than they have now, and that the
consequent loss is going to be faced and written off. If
the co. had no clients’ money in these three banks, or in
some of the utterly rotten land banks, then it is difficult
to see how its deposits can be worth only 10s. in the £
all round, for reconstructed Victorian bank deposits now
range in value from 15s. to 20s. 2d. in the £. Moreover,
they all seem reasonably certain to be paid in full by-and-
bye, and they pay fair interest in the meantime, so
there is very little to complain of after all. So far as Tiie
Bulletin can see, there is no way in which the deposits in
question can be down to 10s. in the £ as an average unless
a good part of them are in banks that are utterly dead.
And, in that case, it should be clearly stated that there is
a permanent loss to be faced, and the shareholders should
be informed of the probable amount thereof, and how it
is to be provided for. Anyhow, if the co. did risk its
clients’ money in either the Mercantile, Federal, or City
of Melbourne, it says little for the management, for they
were all small affairs of very moderate repute at the best.
The Trustees, Executors, and Agency Co. has a
nominal reserve-fund of £40,000, but £32,000 of it is re-
presented by the badly-depreciated securities of the
Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank, and apparently
no attempt is made to square up the depreciation by writ-
ing these securities down to their present value. Yet if
the co. proposes to face the situation by writing-off the
present loss, whatever it may be, it ought to have a general
cleaning-up at the same time. And if it doesn’t propose
to write-off the loss —well, what does it propose doing ?
* * ♦ *
The Coalmines Act regulating the weighing
of coals at the pits and otherwise determining contested
points was passed by N.S.W. Parliament two years ago.
The clause relating to weighing was, nevertheless, treated
as a dead letter by Govt., and when, after a year and a
half, pressure was applied, the Govt, found that the
Supreme Court required to be consulted. In 1898 the
Supreme Court decreed that the clause was operative and
clear for all purposes. Then again Govt, held back.
Finally, on the application of more pressure the Govt, has
decided to put the clause in operation in February 1899.
That is, in the third year after it was passed by both
Houses. How does that compare with the oft-repeated
Govt, statement that while the law is law it must be
strictly enforced ? Would not that clause have been en-
forced years ago had it, instead of favoring the miners,
favored their employers ?
* * * •
S.A. Govt., whose balance-sheet was disturbed
last financial year by a miscalculation with regard to the
B.H. ore traffic, puts up the price for carriage Is. 6d. per
ton —change to date from January 1 next. Block 14 will
pay 13s. to Port Adelaide; B.H. Proprietary, 10s. 6d. to
Port Pirie ; and Sulphide Corporation, 11s. 6d. to Port
Augusta when it uses the route. The Wallaroo rate will
be 12s. 6d. These rates do not include carriage over the
private line from the Hill to Cockburn.
* » * *
“ P.” : Now, I thought Bedford was no longer
“ Randolph the Reckless.” What does he mean, then, by
recalling, even in verse, Waukaroo ? It’s a reckless scari-
fying of a tender spot in the memories of thousands. For
Waukaroo (it was in the days when Randolph blossomed
into a mining expert at Broken Hill) was the centre of the
tin-boom. Some hundreds of leases were taken up, some
scores of co.’s formed, some hundreds of thousands of
pounds “invested,” and not a ton of tin was put on the
market. To-day there isn’t a single inhabitant; there
isn’t a more forsaken spot in all the droughty west of
N.S.W. It’s name was always the best part of it; but B.
might have let us go on forgetting it.
* * • *
Negotiations between Mr. Bennett, the big
English copper-expert now visiting Australia, and the
Great Cobar tributors, for the purchase of the latter’s
Cobar and other interests, seem to be “ off,” neither
party having had the nerve to name a price.
* * * »
“E.W.”: Anyone who knows about N.S.W.
railway freights will fully endorse “ J.P.’s” remarks. To
drag a truck of stuff 501 miles costs £7 10s. less than if it
was taken only 424 miles. Sugar is also charged higher
for the 424 miles. Jam (a local product) is carried at the
rate of 1965. 4d., while canned milk, currants, etc. (im-
ported articles), are carried at the rate of 141 s. One
truck (say) of N.S.W. produce pays as follows Potatoes
and corn 315., oats 315., with 20 per cent, added (why ?) ;
brari, pollard, and wheat 20 per cent, added (why?).
Why don’t they charge a freight without any added
percentage ? The railway, instead of being a benefit to
some towns, is indeed a curse. The Commissioners make
periodical visits, but the only satisfaction one gets is—
“ Haw—the subject of freights—haw—is too large—haw,
haw—to enter upon—haw.”
9 * * *
The mostly-English B.H. Consols sends out still
another European manager to succeed Mr. George Smith,
who goes to mine-manage for the big Chillagoe concern.
This co. has hitherto rubbed along with Australian-
trained men.
» * « *
The directors of Cobar Great Western are ask-
ing the shareholders to take up shares in the Federal
G.M. Co., which property they acquired in making addi-
tions to the Cobar plant. The winding-plant was taken
away, and the battery and (perforce) the mine left behind.
Now proposed to re-open with a co. of 5000 shares issued
as paid up to 12s. Chappie, boss of the Great Western,
gives a very encouraging report, but the chances are that
the whole of the money would be frittered away before
the co. knew where it was. Anyhow, the writer advises
the Great Western directors to devote their time to the
G.W. They are not so overburdened with mining ability
as to have any to spare for the Federal Co.
* * * *
Lake George Mines: Extraction of sulphide
ores abandoned, involving the closing-down of one of the
world’s finest and most complete copper pyritic smelting-
plants. Hundreds of men thrown out of work, for the
more destitute part of whom work has been found by
Govt. Proposed tq cyanide the gossans overlying the
sulphide zone—a doubtful proposition, and a short-lived
one, anyway. A horrible collapse in values—from 60s.
and 705., at which figures many thousands of shares were
sold. They can now be got, also in thousands, at from lOd.
to Is. 2d. Though probably the cheapest-worked copper-
mine in the world, allowing for distance from a railway
and other conditions, it was too low-grade to pay. It
started at about 3 per cent, copper ; then, as the output
increased anil the lower levels were opened, it fell to 2 per
cent. Even had it remained at that a fair profit could
have been paid ; but when it dropped to lj per cent, the
co. cried go. And for this unfortunate mistake in spend-
ing big money on a poor mine N.S.W. copper-mining has
to bear some of the burden.
* * * »
The interim report issued by Mt. David Co.
clearly shows that this N.S.W. mine has pulled itself out
of the mud more bv good luck than good management.
First crushing* were a great disappointment, and when
some heavy contributing shareholders found the co.
encumbered with a debt of £BOOO, and fully realised the
extraordinary way in -which it was floated; many nasty
things were said and some big threats made. A new
manager came along, and practically found a new mine.
He has taken out upwards of £20,0.10 i i gold, cleared off
the big debt, and left a substantial balance towards divs.
For every ton crushed, he says, three have been de-
veloped, and speaks well of the future generally; and,
inasmuch as a good mine acts like charity in the covering
of sins, the Mt. David crowd now seems to be a happy
family. Writer regrets having to say anything that
might disturb this harmony. By the statement of
accounts, over £5OOO has been spent on battery account,
about two-thirds of it on a new 20-head mill, which is up,
but has never been used. This report says : “ For various
reasons the completion of the erection of the 20-stamp
battery has been delayed.” What are the reasons? Has
not. the mill been put in a place where it is useless, and is
it not a fact that, much as the mine has been developed
this year, it is not yet ready for 30 stamps ?
“ Mac. ”: That Mt. M'Donald yarn is slightly
“off.” The man got drunk at Milburn Creek pub., and,
coming home to the Mount, lay down near a quartz-built
forge, at a copper-mine. In the morning, seeing the stone
was golden, he traced it, and the first crushing from “ the
Block claim ” went 6oz. to the ton. The temperance
moral still remains.
* * * •
W.A. gold-export for September was 89,1790 z.
Total for first nine months of 1898, 720,2560 z.
* * * «
Westralia has had the sense down to date to
hang on to some of its most promising coal country. But
the Govt, seems almost inclined to repent, and has had
specifications drawn up for the lease of “ the Government
colliery at the Collie for a term of seven years, with a
right of renewal for seven years.”
• * * •
Coolgardie miners are kicking against the use
of cyanide tailings for stuffing stopes, alleging that pot.
cyanide poisons the atmosphere, so that miners have
occasionally to knock off and go to the mouth of the drive
for fresh air.
* * • »
George Brookman, chairman of the last meet-
ing of Coolgardie Mining and Prospecting Co., held in
Adelaide last week, mentioned that originally the syndi-
cate consisted of ten contributing shares of £l5 each and
five fully-paid. These shares now represented, in one
form and another, a capitalisation of £9,275,750. The
share-distribution represented £3,421,000, and £950,000
cash. The co’s working the ground pegged out by the
original syndicate had produced 17 tons of gold, equal to
£24,000,000. The meeting expressed satisfaction at the
management of the syndicate, and it was agreed to give
the liquidator an extra £l5O. We should think so. The
writer adds a few facts. George Brookman was the pro-
moter of the syndicate. He had made some money at
Broken Hill and by running a store in Adelaide. W.G.,
his brother, had tried to make some and had failed. He
was one of the prospectors. Pearce was the mining man
of the crowd —for it was a common or garden sort of expe-
dition, anyhow. Charles De Rose, a brother-in-law of the
Brookmans, joined them. He had been working at the
Broken Hill smelters. They were all shareholders,
the balance of the shares being held by Adelaide men,
except Colin Templeton, who, the writer thinks, held
one, and soon sold at a small profit. The prospectors made
for Hannan’s, which had just broken out, and, being un-
able to peg anything in the immediate vicinity, and hav-
ing no money or inclination to buy anything, they made
towards the lake. Here, acting under the advice of
Pearce, they pegged leases galore on ground now occupied
by the Great Boulder, Ivanhoe, Lake View, Associated,
and one or two other mines. From time to time the
syndicate had to be enlarged to keep things going. It
was in these enlargements that some men, to their ever-
lasting sorrow, dropped out ; and it is to the great credit
of George Brookman that he carried through all these
changes without involving himself or the co. in one law-
suit. That is a big thing to do when the history of other
great, though much smaller, mining concerns is remem-
bered. The millionaires of the £250 syndicate are the
two Brookmans. Whether by good luck or judgment, this
very ordinary party of prospectors pegged out the richest
mines ever located by one crowd in the world. Or if they
didn’t The Bulletin wants to hear of richer ones.
* » » *
It is long since a Westralian mine was floated in
Melbourne, and the last that was has been knocked end-
ways—the Kanowna, promoted by one or two persons who
hail scooped the pool before Mt. Lyell slump. They lifted
the shares to £1 and thereabouts, and it was not hard to
find a man in Collins-street who said they would go to £5.
They are now down to 55., and what they will go to no-
body knows. The new mill and the first crushing started
recently, since which the mill has shut down for want of
water, and the market has shut up for the want of con-
fidence. Same old moral: always sell before the crushing.
• * * *
The number, size, continuity, and richness of
the lodes worked by about a dozen Kalgoorlie mines finds
no equal in any known part of the world. Westralia had
a boom with mines that produced no gold, and now,
having a number of mines producing gold by the ton, it
has no boom. So bad has been the stump that, in the
face of tons of gold, regular and even yields and divs.,
it is doubtful if the market has taken the right measure
of values. Over a year ago, when the Associated Mines
had not reached one-fourth their present developments,
the shares were about their present price ; and a few
months ago, when the richness and permanence of the
mines were established beyond any possible doubt, the
Bottomley collapse sent them back to less than half their
present value. The first and second levels on these phe-
nomenal ore-bodies were so rich, and the formation so
strange to Australia, as to create suspicion of values
deeper down. The first shaft to reach 400 and 500 ft. was
that on a mine that had no surface gold. The others
were in no hurry to go down. Some were afraid
to sink. The lodes are going down as rich as ever.
Probably some of the rich chutes will be carried
into adjoining claims by the strike they are known to
have, hut lasting richness has been established. The
marvellous development which took place recently in
Lake View mine is richer than anything before seen in it,
and is probably the reason for Manager Callahan leaving
so mysteriously last week. He was first going to Perth
for a few days, then to Albany, then to Colombo to meet
Whittaker Wright, who was coming as far to save time.
Now stated that he is going right on to London. He has
got the mine in shape to produce at least 10,000 oz. a
month for years to come. The Boulder keeps up its
3000 oz. a fortnight. The Associated, when it gets the full
plant going, should turn out as much as the two. The
Ivanhoe is doing over 5000 oz. a month. The Brown Hill
will, perhaps, have a shorter life than the other big pro-
ducers of the field, but the first yield from the new plant
indicates from 6000 to 7000 oz. a month for some time, at
any rate. The Horseshoe is running 20 stamps on rich ore
and should have about 4000 oz. a month. The, Persever-
ance is now well-controlled in the shareholders’ interests.
The Kalgurlie seems to be the coming big producer of the
camp.
* • * *
Esperance (W.A.), which should be a large and
prosperous commercial town, has dried up. It has a good
harbor, and it is the natural outlet for Coolgardie, Kal-
goorlie, Norseman, and other goldfields. But the Govern-
ment resolved to build the railway to Perth instead—it
was about twice as long a railway, and needless extra
mileage cost an enormous amount to build, and the extra
interest is a heavy burden, and the extra freights over all
these needless miles are a tremendous handicap. Then
almost all the trade is with the eastern provinces, and
Perth is 1000 miles further from them than Esperance, so
there is 1000 miles of sea-freight added on as well, and the
whole thing is like Sydney having to import its potatoes
from Melbourne via Brisbane, and then bring them
back by rail. Through this disgraceful effort of
the ruling gang to boom Perth and their pro-
perty there, Esperance has practically faded away. A
recent telegram reported: “Nearly all the leading
business people are closing their establishments. Amongst
those who have announced their intention to close are
Mr. Bond, tank manufacturer, who is closing both his
Esperance and his Norseman factories ; Mr. Howard, tin-
smith ; Mr. Dickinson, jeweller ; and Mr. Elston, stationer.
On Saturday the Chronicle announced that its publica-
tion would be temporarily suspended. Messrs. Parker
and Co., tailors, are also closing. Messrs. Wills and Co.,
merchants, will close in another month, and many others
have decided to shut their business houses here, but have
not yet formally announced their determination to do so.
About half the'buildings in the town are already empty.
Nearly all the people are leaving for Adelaide, Mel-
bourne or Sydney. But few of them are going to
Norseman. The population of Esperance two years ago
was 1500, but now it is merely about 400, and by the end
of the year it is considered that it will be reduced to less
than 200.
• * * *
Prosperous Perth ! Recently a resident called
for tenders for a job of building a shed; worth about
£5 to the successful tenderer. Over 140 tenders were re-
ceived. As it would take a good man three weeks, the
contractor made about £ll3s. a week, and had to provide
his own nails, &c.
• * * *
Just at present, the ghost of C. H. James is
understood to be applying for a certificate in Melb. In-
solvency Court, and,' although the hairy boomster’s
wraith has no apparently improper purpose to serve in
asking for a “clean sheet,” there is certainly no good
reason why the spectral applicant should get it. James
went bung under peculiar circumstances, and when the
Law ordered him to come forward to explain some of the
circumstances, and throw light on certain settlements,
the Law’s order was persistently disobeyed. James, in
fact, was a scandalous insult to the Law during the last
year or two of his life. The mere fact of his happening to
be dead doesn’t qualify him for a certificate. Why this
attempt to whitewash James’s ghost ? The matter is to
be carried to the Full Court at considerable expense, and
the F.C’s learned opinion will be worth hearing.
* * • »
Although Victoria has probably produced more
alluvial gold than all the other Austraiias together, it has
been left for Bull to find nearly all the money needed to
prove the existence of well-known leads into the deeper
and more expensive ground. Several Bull co’s are at
work, and the principal—the Vie. Gold Estates—has a
working-capital of £lOO,OOO, and is preparing to lift up to
five milliou gals, of water a day. Three other co’s are
combining to provide electrical power for all.
* * * *
Gilfillan and McCreery, mining engineer»
metallurgists and assayers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
* * * *
Tiie closing scenes at Mt. Deddick, Vic-., are
pathetic. The railway scheme is still agitating the souls
of shire presidents and councillors of little hamlets like
Orbost, Cunninghame and Buchan, and the schemers are
making catspaws of the whole boiling. Considering the
large number of men working on the field— i.e., six— it
looks like a screaming farce, but the public loves to be
gulled. The field’s name is suggestive of a funeral, and
its demise is approaching. There is a postal service over
the mountains twice a week to a field where nearly every
lease is jumpable, but the owners know that nobody out-
side of a lunatic asylum would attempt anything of that
sort.
* » • •
Another attempt being made to resuscitate
Clarkville (Vic.), just across the N.S.W. border. It had a
mild boom some six years back, when inspection revealed
some fine bodies of quartz, little or no gold outside of a
few very short chutes, an abundance of water likely to
cause some trouble at small depths, and a magnificent
forest of timber.


CL
ORIENT
' —-s CLOTNIN<S
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOE
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
ħ
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY,
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SOCIETY
The drought has settled down again on
N.S.W., and that province proposes to pray and
humiliate for rain next Sunday. That is to say,
it will stalk haughtily to church in its best clothes
and its most insultingly-expensive hat—or be
driven there by its proud, Sabbath-breaking
flunkey. If N.S.W. believes there is anything to
be got by humiliation then there is no reason at
all why it shouldn’t humiliate. Let it put on
its oldest clothes, and go to church humbly bare-
foot and in its worst hat, and let its wife and
daughters go barefoot also—with their hair hang-
ing down, and let everybody be really and obtru-
sively ’utnble all round. A community which
professes to believe it can avert a great calamity
by being ’umble, and yet flatly refuses to be ’umble,
is simply reckless.
» * * *
S.A. barmaids anticipate being extin-
guished at an early date, as O’Malley, M.P.,
wants to remit his abolition of barmaids proposal
to a Referendum. This can only have one result.
The average woman regards a barmaid as a home-
wrecker, and the S.A. female vote will therefore
go solid for abolition.
* * * *
At a recent South Australian agricultural
show, the ladies’ hack-race (lady riders only) was
won easily by a very tall, ungainly female, whom
nobody was acquainted with. The judges took
stock of her suspiciously. They discovered, among
other things, that she wore large bluchers, and had
tweed pants under her skirt. She wouldn’t take
off her veil, so they couldn’t inspect her back-hair
properly, but they asked her to step over and col-
lect her prize, and the way she fell over her skirts
as she stepped made them more doubtful still.
One judge thought of asking her to light a match,
to see if she would strike it on the back of her
skirt, but a brighter intellect asked her for her
ticket, and when she tried to put both hands in
her pants pocket in search of it, they told her she
was a man and a fraud, and bade her light her
pipe and get out. Then she gathered up her
skirts and “ scooted ” for it.
* * * *
From time immemorial woman has been
looking under the bed for a man, and hasn’t
found him. The other night a Melbourne cab-
driver looked under his bed for a woman, and
discovered her at the first attempt. She flatly re-
fused to come out, so the cab-gentleman dragged
her out and tried to stand her up, but she insisted
■on going at the knees, and flopped every time he
let go. Then he carried her into the yard, and as
she declined to shift any further he stepped out
for a policeman. When they came back the
woman had returned to the house and was under
the bed again, and as she hung on to the bed-post
with both hands, and the constable dragged with
all his might at her heels, she was very much in
the position of a lady on the rack. She warned
the constable that if he kept dragging like that
she would burst, but the officer held on and at last
tore her away. Then she used language. The
man under the bed generally ran as soon as dis-
covered, but the woman under the bed evidently
means to take the "bed with her when she departs.
* * » »
The MeagKer-Nortdn cowhide episode is
not the first of its kind in Sydney. Many years
ago the smellful Major Mudie, of Castle Forbes,
in his (now rare and expensive) book, “ The
Felonry of N.S. Wales,” sneered at poor old Judge
Kinchella for his deafness and other infirmities.
The blood of the Kinchellas was aroused, and a
son of the Judge, meeting Mudie in George-street,
gave him a very bad thrashing. The Major sum-
moned his assailant and had him fined. In 1860
Dr. Lang in his paper, The Colonist, made some
rough remarks about the family of Capt. Malcolm
McDonald, and the latter severely flogged the old
doctor in Hunter-street. Dr. Lang prosecuted his
assailant, who was committed to Quarter Sessions.
Before acting-Judge Holroyd he pleaded guilty
and was fined <£s, through which unpardonable
leniency Holroyd lost his chance of a seat on the
bench.
* * * .
A historic building will be offered at
auction in Nov. On Macquarie Fields estate near
Liverpool, N.S.W., are two large brick buildings,
formerly the residence of Gov. Macquarie. As
Macquarie left in 1821, these must be about as old
as the country can boast of.
* * * *
“Tan. T.” to Bulletin: —Was in a
country chemist’s shop, the other day, when a
man came in for some arsenic. Questioned as to
what it was wanted for he said it was to put upon
a cancer on a cow whose milk went to the local
butter-factory. The chemist advised him to shoot
the beast. Some people allege that N.S.W.
Health Act unnecessarily interferes with the
dairyman’s occupation, but the fact is that inspec-
tion is altogether too lax in most country districts.
PROVOKING MAN!
MISS LACKLORD : “You bachelors should be
taxed.”
STERN EVADER OF MATRIMONIAL N OOSE: “ I agree
with you perfectly, madam; bachelorism cer-
tainly is a luxury.”
Chow greengrocer to our “ lady-help ” :
“You welly ni wummin. How old you?”
‘‘Twenty, John.” (She’s 40 if she’s a day.)
“ You Ingleese?” “No, John, me native ;my
father Scotch, my mother Irish.” “Ah ! ” said
John, contemplatively, “me see, allee same half-
caste.” Then there was an incident with much
broom-handle and astounded Chinkey in it.
• * * *
An old lady and her daughter were walking
one very hot day to Sydney Coast Hospital, when
Chinaman comes along in sulky, and seeing ex-
haustion of pedestrians, pulls up. “ You go Little
Bay?” “Yes, John.” “ Too faar ” (sympatheti-
cally). • “Much better you lette me lidee you
Little Bay.” They thank him, and as his sulky
will only hold two, the young woman suggests
that John shall take the matron, who is badly
exhausted. “No planky fear! ” says John.
“Old woman no good. Y"ou young and plitty.
You lettee me lidee you all round and get plitty
flower, O, welly ni ! ” And then he had to drive
on disgusted.
» * * *
An opinion gaining ground on the tiresome
Sunday pub-opening question takes the novel
form of advocating a special licence for Sunday
selling. Thus many pubs would remain closed,
and those that opened would contribute an extra
fee to the Treasury, while those caught selling
without the special Sunday licence would be
heavily fined as sly-grog sellers instead of lightly,
as at present, as mere breakers of a regulation.
* * » *
“ F.C.” : Had quite a breeze this morning
with the local fish-hawker. He was singing out,
as usual, “ Fish O ! Rabbit all alive,
O! ” I showed him a few recent news
pars, re condemned bunnies from Melb.
Freezing Works being sold, and compli-
mented him on his honesty in proclaim-
ing so loudly and widely the “liveli-
ness ”of his wares. Then he got nasty.
“ Huh ! Think yer smart, don’t yer ?
Why, y’ll eat wild duck an’ hares wot’s
jumpin’, and crawlin’ down yer throat,
an’ yer buck over a bit of a bunny wot’s
just gettin’ tasty. Yous blokes make
me tired, yer do. Git up, there ! Rab-
bit O ! Fish 0 ! Fish O! ”
* * m *
Dear Bulletin. —A warning to
teachers who meditate taking State ser-
vice in W.A. The specious promises
that lure don’t pan out beyond .£125 p.a.
If you lay to your book and don’t bite
when you’re bitten, a favorable “re-
port ” might get you ,£l4O ; but the only
power outside Tophet to raise you above
that is one Cyril Jackson, and he—well,
we know him over here. Longest hours
in Australia; stiffest programme ; lowest
pay.—Y.
Vic. Full Court has remitted to Melbourne
City Court the question of expelling the “gay
houses” of the metropolis. This means prac-
tically a hint to Mayor M‘Eacharn and Panton,
P.M., to reverse their decision allowing Lonsdale-
street to continue the same old Lonsdale-street of
yore. But luminaries like these, with the back-
bones of stone-walls and with strong convictions
of their own infallibility, will have little difficulty
in reiterating their decision if they feel that way.
Such men, since they can hardly commit Judges
Williams, a’Beckett, and Hodges for contempt,
may, with perfect ease, find for the defendant on
the facts in a way that no Full .Court even will
care to interfere with.
* * * *
The Scotch “ expert ” who recently stated
that, in his opinion, the best way to reclaim a
drunkard is to flog him within an inch of his life,
is probably an old navy-surgeon. An ex-R.N.
sawbones, formerly medical officer to a big Austra-
lian gaol, held the same opinion ; and, though he
wasn’t allowed to flog, he had a way of douching
drunks that left little to be desired in severity,
and prevented many a toper from getting run-in
again. Also, it sent some to the lunatic asylum
and others to the grave.
In the course
of a walk of 300
yds. along a main
Sydney street,
the other day,
writer met no
less than four
separate and in-
dividual young
Hebrews, all
praetising as den-
tists. In the days
when the world
wasmiddle-aged,
the robber Chris-
tian baron lay in
wait at his castle
porch and snap-
ped -up uncon-
sidered trifles in
the shape of peri-
pa teticmerchants
of Jewish race,
and forcibly in-
ducting them into
the crypts of his for-
tress drew their teeth
with huge pincers before
blazing fires in order to
make them disclose the where-
abouts of their hidden trea-
sures. The modern devotion
of the descendants of Abraham
... to the science of dentistry is a
subtle revenge on the Gentiles.
* * * *
Tradition dies hard. The other day Mary
Richards was committed for trial by the Ballarat
Bast (Vic.) magistrates on a charge of stealing half-
a-pound of butter, valued at sixpence. Which is
worthy of the cruel days of George the Third.
The recent big blaze at Redfern, Sydney,
once more, demonstrated the iniquity of building
alleged dwellings without a rear exit. Many
people narrovvly escaped cremation through houses
catching fire in front, and rear-escape being cut
off by high broken-bottle-topped walls.
* * * *
Fine mixed metaphor. Sydney D.T. on
the big Sydney fire :
A boisterous westerly gale set its malicious eye on a
trifling flame by the side of the wall of Mr. Hudson’s pre-
mises, and, gleefully bursting upon it, fanned it to wrath.
* » » •
Parson Kirby, of Port Adelaide, who is
always writing about the Social Evil, or some
such attractive theme, has found a new subject.
He wants to seduce the S.A. Acting-Governor in-
to taking a title, and thus pours out the rancid
grease •’—
Nobody is more popular, and worthily so, than His
Excellency the Right Hon. Chief-Justice Way, D.C.L.,
who is also one of Her Majesty’s Judges in the Supreme
Court of Appeal for the whole Empire of Britain. Now
it is an open secret that on more than one occasion the
right hon. gentleman could have received the honor of
knighthood, but declined. That was all very well when
he dwelt alone in splendid isolation and single misery,
but now that a kind and gracious lady has smiled upon
him, and he has attained to connubial bliss, it seems to
me a lack of the fitness of things that the husband should
abound in titles of honor and the wife be called plain
Mrs. Way. Do you not think, sir, that the ladies of Ade-
laide should put on their best bonnets and interview the
Right Hon. His Excellency the Acting-Governor and ask
him to agree to be knighted, and that, having secured
his consent, the ladies might then, in the same splendid
bonnets, visit the Premier, and ask him to bring the
matter before the Queen, and secure an early knighthood,
so that we all might have the pleasure of saying “ Lady
Way.”
Some peopffi affirm that the parson was “put up ”
to write in this odious vein so as to make the
way smooth for Way’s knighthood.
* * *
The price of broken limbs is, apparently,
going up in Melbourne, or else the supply is not
equal to demand. A fortnight ago Bulletin noted
cases of 40s. fine for breaking a man’s leg and 20s.
THE LOCAL STANDPOINT.
PARSON : “ And why was there no room in the inn
for Joseph? ”
MADGE: “Dunno. P’r’aps it was Cup-time? ”
for fracturing a woman’s jaw. Following Monday
a man was fined ,£lO at South Melb. for smashing
a man’s arm—but, then, he broke it in two places.
At this rate breaking a man’s neck should cost
about <£s—which is just about what the hangman
gets.
*** < •
Recent M.L. advt. :
•VTrANTED, Elderly Gentleman, for housework,,
small wages, good home.
Logical correlative of the New Woman.
• • * »
A lecture was given in a certain Brisbane
church building a little time ago. The lecturer
was a big, burly pietist—church militant incarnate.
Behind him in big letters was printed “Nemo me
impune lacessit.” Queer motto for a building
dedicted to the worship of the meek and lowly
Nazarene ! Fortunately, the congregation was
equally guiltless of humor and Latin.
GOODY TWO-SHOES
(AN AUSTRALIAN VERSION)
FOR THE BULLETIN
Among our dear Austral girls
Her like was never seen -
Aeat and petite, from sunn curls
Down to. her tan bottine
when she whispered jester nidht.
In accent's like a lutes
How Somethino ‘oave me sucK
a ■fright' ° °
heart sank mmtj boots.
■A e Said -. If’f sank, so low, tis
clear -
( uou should not need be told
if)
dainkj liftle shoes,
mcj dear
Would never, never hold it/
N b.W
The Breaker


MnAvE You
11 Forgotten
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
K. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
Vu? Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
ate highly recommended.
33 /- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOTJNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
A deputation of parsons called on the
N.S.W. Lands Department the other day, to ask
that the churches should be empowered to take up
lands here and there all over the province for the
preacher’s horse to graze upon while the preacher
himself is administering ghostly comfort to the
adjacent parishioners. In other words, the
churches desire to become non-residential selectors
on a very large scale. The tale the deputation
had to tell was a trifle complicated, but the bones
of the narrative, when they had done bleaching in
the sun of inspection, were these : The Cornstalk
reverend, in by far the biggest part of the coun-
try, has to go round his parish on horseback in
order to admonish the pastoralist and the cockatoo.
Many of his flock are so stony broke that they can’t
give his horse a feed when he arrives (how they
feed the preacher himself doesn’t appear), and
apparently they are even so hard-up that they
can’t let his horse stand in the paddock. Be-
sides, in many cases, there is very little
except rock for the horse to eat if it is
allowed to stand in the paddock. Therefore,
the churches want to take up paddocks for the
preacher's horse to stand in while its owner is con-
soling the agricultural cockatoo. The situation is
a trifle hazy, for, in the dry season, when things
are so awful that the cookie can’t stand the
reverend’s horse an oat or two, there will be no
feed in the church paddock, and probably no water
either, and the good man’s saddened beast, will
simply have to stand there and wither in the
blaze of the sun. To all intents and purposes, it
might just as well stand in the selector’s paddock
or evaporate on the highway. According to the
deputation, “the minister does not like to cast
himself on the hospitality of those who have so
little to give that they cannot spare food for the
horse,” but, if the country is so dry that the
animal can’t snatch a mouthful off the face of the
earth for itself, it is difficult to see how any grant
of land to the church will improve its condition.
And, if the preacher doesn’t mind casting himself
with a thud on the selector’s hospitality, he couldn’t
make a much louder thud by casting his horse also.
As a rule, it is much harder for the selector to find
room for a reverend inside his little bark shanty
than to let a horse have the use of the globe out-
side. The preacher’s horse looks a rather emaciated
excuse, somehow.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE. .
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Largo
bottles Is. everywhere. *
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Maikwald,
178 William-st., Melbourne
11 Pitt-street,, Sydney;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane.
An inquest at Gulgong, N.S.W last week
produced as witnesses two girls, of 11 and 13
years, who stated they had never seen a parson,
and knew nothing about God or heaven or hell.
Happy mortals ! Er —beg pardon, dear berro-
thah ! Yes, it is, as you say, a truly lamentable
state of ignorance not to know all about the devil
and hell; and—we will now take up a collection m
aid of the Chinese inland missions.
• * * *
At Sydney, Mrs. Quong Tart, of a daugh-
ter. Scotch papers, please copy.
Among what the Reid Cabinet call minoi
reforms in court procedure,” to be submitted to
the present Parliament when business permits, is
a short measure dealing with juries in felony
cases. A N.S.W. Judge cannot discharge a jury
in a felony trial, however clear it may be that
they will not agree, until they have sat 12 hours,
and'he cannot accept a verdict or discharge the
panel on Sunday. It thus happens that if jurors
are locked up on a Saturday they may have to
wait till Monday for release. In England the
Judge can call the jury into court after a reason-
able tune, and if, on questioning the foreman and
other members, he is satisfied that they are not
likely to agree, he can discharge them and turn
tjie prisoner over for a fresh trial. The Cabinet
favors giving this discretion to N.S.W. Judges.
It would, at any rate, stop Saturday-night scan-
dals.
• » * *
Councillor Carter, grog-merchant, M.L.A.,
Melb., again bobs up with a demand for Sunday
street-sprinkling in the city of dust and smells,
because superior people going to church get
covered with grit, and filled with gin and bitter-
ness. and are “ unfit for worship” when they
arrive in the sacred edifice: —
The way to heaven may be narrow,
And rocky, too, it would appear ;
But C. would send a man and barrow
The rocky road to trim and clear.
He’d lay the dust with lots of water,
And plant two rows of shady trees,
That Grundy and his wife and daughter
May go to heaven at their ease.
Aid. Carter aforesaid thinks the streets should be
sprinkled on Sundays by godless men, that the
godly may not be discomfited on their way to
kirk. Fancy going to Sheol on a water-cart! And
again :
This proposition very well
The divers tastes should suit;
We’d then see bound the rough and swell,
For heaven one and one for hell,
And by the self-same route.
“Constance Clyde”: Your
"‘Red Page” dictum which
awards the palm of genius to
the small woman is worthy of
comment from the fact that
novelists invariably do the re-
verse. The story-writer makes
his large woman original and
strong-minded, his little hero-
ine timid and clinging. In
real life the contrary is the
case. Four-foot-ten has all the
independence, while the woman
who really wants to be a cling-
ing vine is the sort of woman
that if she did cling would
send the male support to earth
with a dull thud. As for
genius in the way of story-
writing, Charlotte Bronte, with
some score others, was small;
George Eliot was large. Per-
haps the moral is that the
little woman is, in general,
cleverer, more vivacious, has
more of the essential genius
temperament, but that when a
large woman has brains, she
has them, and no mistake.
* * *
Talk about British phlegm!
In an Australian country town
recently a certain industrious
and unsuspicious Teuton had
the conclusion forced upon liifn
that his “colonial” Katrina
was not all a wife should be,
and accordingly varied the
hour of his diurnal return,
with the result that he ob-
tained ocular demonstration
of the truth of his suspicions
and of the identity of the co-
offender. Long must he have
pondered his ghastly revenge,
for it wasn’t till late that
night that to the local humor-
ist and sup posed Bulletin cor-
respondent he came with the
story of his wrongs—finish-
ing up with —“ Und now,
Shack, you shoost gif dot
a tarn goot rub in der
Bulledin ! ”
* • *
The harbinger of rain—
the city water-cart.
“Hermes”: Was recently on a ’bus
crowded with women, when a cab ranged up and
the jehu poured out a torrent of filthy observa-
tions about a wild burst of immorality which
Bussy and a lot of Chows and certain other devils
like unto himself were alleged to have had a few
nights before. ’Bus-man told me afterwards that
to complain to the Transit authorities would in-
volve being “dealt with by the push ” later on.
In S.A., the Governor of the province
makes an annual inspection of the Stockade —the
one general prison for long-timers—and hears com-
plaints and applications. It was about the last
official act which Gov. Buxton performed before
quitting on his English jaunt.
* * * *
Two mad-drunks recently took charge of
the town of Forbes (N.S.W.) for over two hours,
galloping too and fro, swinging stirrup irons, and
filling the air with curse till the scared population
shut itself in and through the key-hole of its barri-
caded door watched the wild men of the west lay
out with a stirrup-iron the only living thing that
dared to remain in the street—a greengrocer’s horse,
to wit. In the bad old days of the Men-who-
Went-Before, it would have taken a lot of search-
ing to find a community that would allow two
drunken ruffians to terrorise it for two whole hours.
* • * *
Apropos “Scotty’s” reference to the in-
dignation of the Connemara man, when told that
the ancient Irish wore saffron-colored shirts. The
50th Regt. was stationed in Sydney, when Dick
Lee, boss joker on a weekly satirical paper, stated,
in answer to a correspondent, that it was known
in the service as the “Dirty Half Hundred.”
Also, that this nick-name had been applied to the
regt. because the soldiers only washed twice a year,
and the officers once a quarter—-with the added in-
formation that only the colonel and adjutant wore
socks when on duty. When the soldiers read
this, they sent a fatigue party to remonstrate ;
"and it did its work well. The printer was
chucked down stairs, and his compositors kicked
after him ; after which the office was wrecked.
Then the remonstrants got hold of Lee, and
ducked him in the horse-trough opposite the old
Exchange. The following week an apology was
published, to the effect that the writer had con-
fused the 50th with another dirty regiment. And
after that the paper died.
* * * »
The Sydney Methodist, a model bit of
piety generally, heads the announcement that
Sister Elbe and Sister Helena, of York-street
Mission, have taken a holiday with “ Out at
Grass.” Yerily, the trail of the horse is over us
all.
• * * *
Most of the prominent artists, musicians
and pressmen of Sydney assembled at dinner on
Saturday last, and decided to a man to club
together on a Bohemian basis, and to rigidly keep
out the moneyed persons who might like to dis-
port in an atmosphere conducive to the growth of
long hair. Artist Tom Roberts presided ; the
movement received cordial support from Educa-
tion Minister Hogue, and speeches in more orD"
JACK’S TROUBLES.
“ What’s the matter, Jack ?"
"Boo-hoo, mother. I’ve bin fiddling — boo-hoo—ever so long with
this horrid old blouse, and — boo-hoo —I can’t get it on.
Boo-oo! ”
"Never mind; you’ll never be a man if you cry like that.”
“ Hoo-boo! I don’t think I ever shall, mother. I’m no use — boo!
I shan’t ever be able to be a cabman —I shan’t be able to
be anything. Oh — booo —I shall have to be a plain man
and do nothing, like father.”
plain English were given by representatives of a
variety of nationalities. Dutch artist Van der
Velden orated like a politician barracking for a
portfolio; conductor Hazon explained that he no
speaka ver mooch; and Sun Johnson, of the
Chinese Herald, gave out that Bohemia was a
land situate somewhere in the Orient. The jour-
nalists present were so overwhelmed by frequent
references to “ literary men ” that they hung their
heads in blushful modesty—or else reserved them-
selves for the next Bohemian shivoo, which will
happen in a few weeks time.
« » * *
“Adenoid”: lie par. by “Peritonitis”
(Bulletin, 8/10/’9B), I quite agree that sweating
of medical men by Friendly Societies should be
the subject of legislation, but consider that
doctors themselves are essentially to blame for the
present state of affairs. Any medico, under pre-
sent conditions, who cannot exist without the aid
of a Society should shift his shingle to a more re-
munerative spot. There are, I know, a number
of good districts in N.S.W. without a doctor.
The one who does a decent private practice and
AN AUSTRALIAN VENDETTA.
HE: “I went to Mac's funeral this afternoon.”
SHE: “ But I thought you and Mac were had friends.”
HE: “ We were —that was why I went.”
„akes club work at 10s. to 14s. per member per
annum has sacrificed any claim he may have at
any time possessed to be classed amongst the
human species. Working men have unions to
protect their interests ; why not a live medical
practitioners’ union to protect them being imposed
upon by Friendly Societies ?
* * * *
The chairwoman at Miss Tilley’s woman-
hood-suffrage meeting in Sydney t’other night gave
it as her opinion that, so far from being recruited
from the ranks of unhappy wives and disappointed
spinsters, the league was generally composed of
women nappy in their marriages. It is a solemn
fact. The woman who has to help hubby’s fal-
tering footsteps from the adjacent gin-house, and
take off his boots, and chase away snakes, is gener-
ally too much occupied to worry about the wrongs
of her sex in general. It is the good, kind, easy-
going husband who gives a hand with the dishes
at night, and doesn’t object to wheeling Mamie in
the go-cart, that is responsible for the mischief.
» * * •
Chowland having passed a whole week
without its usual “discovery of another leper”
now makes up leeway by announcing two—a half-
caste woman (from Charleville) and a white boy
of 12.
* * * *
At Sydney Hospital Dispensary last week
a mother, with an unruly brood, caused much
amusement by filling the dark, cavernous passages
withfrantic yells to Jersey (his hair was fiery red)
to keep quiet, and threats to whack Carington’s
ultimatum, and loud requests to Kintore to pass
Hampden’s feed-bottle out of the basket.
* * * *
Sydney dailies, referring to a recent
George-street burglary, observe that “ the robbery
was characterised by a certain amount of daring,
inasmuch as the shop is kept brilliantly lighted
throughout the night.” This is a non sequitur.
The thief dreads the light, but the burglar of
more than average observation soon discovers
that the police delegate their duty to gas or
electricity, and that places lit up at night are
practically undefended. Wherefore, worthy
tradesmen, veil your premises in outer darkness,
provide a promising crop of spring-guns, and
chance shooting the friendly policeman who
“ didn’t know it was loaded,” as he tries the door-
fastenings in his early-morning tramp.
* * * *
A touching item for the education of
parents. A young man in our street was hope-
lessly mashed on the girl next door, and, as usually
happens, the maiden was grateful, and did her
best to aggravate the ailment; but her pa, a
prosaic Scotch person with a passion for “siller,”
hoped for a more profitable son-in-law. So the
fond pair spooned surreptitiously in the back
garden over the dividing wall and through cracks
in the fence. One night the old man charged
down on the lovers when the tabooed suitor had
his right arm wound round the girl’s neck to
shield her from the blighting blast, and the two
males fought a busy little mill all over the cabbage-
patch, whilst the girl stood by bewailing her sad
lot. Result: the maiden contracted a bad batch
of influenza germs, and a pulmonary complaint
followed, and came within an inch of killing her.
The doctor told the old man that the hasty re-
moval of the suitor’s arm from the neck of the
damsel had induced the complaint, and he charged
the disgusted old Scotchman £53. May this
warning not be thrown away upon Australian
parents !
1 * * * *
Melbourne breweries have struck a new
way of ad vertising their connection with “tied”
public-houses. They provide nice new mats for
the front-door—or wherever most noticed—with
the name of the brewery worked thereon. These
mats, by the way, are made by prison labor, at
Pentridge.
“ Bures ” : Bulletin
says that a mixture of Jew-
ish and Irish blood is a good
cross. A while back, whilst
living in an inland town-
ship, I became friendly with
the local tobacconist —a Jew.
Yarning with him one day,
he suddenly changed the
conversation by remarking,
“ I’ve been going to ask you
several times how are you
bred. Your name’s un-
doubtedly Sheeny.” Told
him my father was Jewish
and mother Scotch. With
hands stuffed in trouser-
pockets, and pipe tilted up
towards his hat-brim, he
walked about four steps
away, then stopped, and
with lowered head surveyed
me critically. Finally, ap-
parently as the result of much
cogitation, he said, “My
word ! but that’s a terrible
thieving breed, aint it? ”
* » *
A man of humorously
cynical turn t’other day called
at Melb. Post-office to ask if
any letter rested there for
him. The sweet young crea-
ture to whom he applied
was reading. She slowly
rose, running a finger along
a line in the page, evidently
absorbed in the interest of
the book. “My dear young
lady,” said the applicant,
“I am truly sorry to drag
you from that interesting
story. Mine is such a trivial
business. But I can boil-
down the yarn for you if
you like. The wicked noble-
man, who seeks the ruin of
the beauteous and virtuous
maiden, is shot by the game-
keeper, whose wife, you know
—but I pass that over. The
heroine weds the sailor boy,
who turns out to be the
wicked nobleman’s son, and
inherits his title and estates.
As for the comic tinker and
the money - lender my
name is Brown, Thomas
Brown. No letters ! Thanks.
Good morning.”
* * * *
S.M. Herald advt.: —
T ADY compelled to sell Piece of China, once used
by Queen Victoria. Apply, &o.
Present scribe also desires to raise the price of a
decent drink on the walking-stick of Nebuchad-
nezzar. Intending buyers will please call at this
office.
» • * *
Melb. Baptists educate the Australian
Chow. The Anglican Church has a home mission
for Hindoos, &c. The Quakers instruct the simple
Syrian that 18 pence make Is. 3d., to fit him for
the profession of hawking; while the Jews and
Roman Catholics are the only religious bodies who
properly look after their own poor.


The
Summer
Boot
which does not tire the foot
is
the Callaghan Boot .
Our experience in fitting feet
is a perfect boon t-o our customers
during the hot, exhausting summer.
Cool, Easy, Pliable.
That’s
the Callaghan Boot.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-street, Sydney.
Tan or Black at 225. 6d.
Add Is. for postage.
The Approaching Hot Weather.
Now that the hot weather is rapidly approach-
ing in this colony we want to lay in a big stock of
Bile Beans, as these little beans have a peculiar
effect on people who are troubled with the heat.
They appear to brace one to face almost any
degree of heat. This is caused by their action on
the liver and bowels, for if these organs are
inactive a great quantity of waste matter
remains in the blood, and all sorts of serious
complications follow, such as bad heart’s ac-
tion. But if Bile Beans are used during the
trying hot weather there will be very few deaths
from heat apoplexy. For all such ailments as
Indigestion, Headache, Piles, Debility, Languid-
ness, Lack of Energy, and Physical Tone, that
tired, weary, worn-out feeling, and want of desire
to move, Bile Beans will prove an undoubted
specific, for they have been used for years by the
first physicians in America with most excellent
results, and to-day their sale is probably greater
than any other pharmaceutical preparation in
America. As the price is only 9Jd. per box, and
they are such an undoubted remedy for hot-
weather ailments, they will undoubtedly score as
great a success in Australia as elsewhere.*
CATAPHORESIS
St. James’ Chambers, King St., Sydney
(opp. the Queen’s Statue).
To xnE Readers of “The Bulletin.
It is with pleasure I inform you that I have
secured a N EWLY-I N VENTED PROCESS.
by which Teeth can be prepared for filling without
causing the slightest pain whatever, no matter to
what extent they may be decayed, having already
proved beyond doubt the efficacy of this treatment
on some of our well-known citizens, whose names
can be ascertained if necessary.
That this is an immense boon goes without say-
ing, as by its adoption there is happily no room to
doubt that the Temporary Deadening 1 of Teeth
is possible; and you need not, therefore, be deterred
from having your teeth attended to on the plea of
the pain, which has hitherto been inseparable from
having a tooth filled.
In conclusion, I may add that I do not propose
to charge any extra fee 'for this treatment.
I have the honor to remain, yours truly,
Note.— The various methods adopted for Saving the
Teeth are duly explained in my Little Book, a copy of
which will be sent free of cost upon application.
GLOBE TEAS haTe w °
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 2 57 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 18, 1898.
My Dear Myef.—
Don’t you think it a little bit artless of the
jfrational Council of Women to describe its en-
deavours to further the teaching of cookery in
imblic schools as a “ subject that more particularly
nterests women ’’ ? If the National Councillors were
all “unappropriated blessings,” who had never
ministered to the wants of a hungry hubby, there
might be an excuse for this naive remark, but most
of them are matrons who know the suffering an
ill-coolted dinner can cause a man, to say nothing
of his wife.
Cookery in public schools wants a big, strong,
helping hand. Our servant girls all come from
public schools, in spite of their veiled hints about
“ma being a lady” and “ladies’ schools” and
“better days,” and to give them a sound, sensible
education in roasting and boiling would be to turn
the servant question topsy-turvy, for the servant
trouble nearly always starts with the cooking. No
self-respecting “general ” ever swallows a slur on
her method of boiling potatoes, or rolling “piestry.”
“Mrs. Othermissus never come outinthekitching
interferin’, and her pertaties always pleased every-
body else, ” and she gives notice and goes, and the
next girl boils potatoes, but can’t boil a leg of
mutton, and so the servant question is swelled by
one more weary querist.
The deputation waited on Mr. Hogue, Minister
for Public Instruction, lately, with a view to
snaring his support. Quite a large gathering of
chiffons went into the sacred room, where the
minister received them with a rose in his button-
hole, and a scare in his eye that betrayed his new-
ness to deputations of this gender. Mrs. Renwick
played spokeswoman and put the matter briefly.
The National Council wanted all the public school
children to learn cooking as they learned their
Euclid and Algebra. Then sweet Rose Scott rose
up like a Machiavelli and drew pictures of good
dinners until the Minister’s mouth must nave
watered. And she did so hope that the cooking
would be sensible. Jam sandwiches and sponge
fingers were all very well for women, but for
men—and left the Minister to fill up the pause.
I thought the cause must be won then, but perhaps
a culinary speech is a little tantalising to a mere
man. Anyway, Mr. Hogue made a guarded reply,
and said he would do what he could, and compli-
mented the Councillors on their practicality and dis-
trust of jam sandwiches, arid left them wondering
how much forrarder they were. Which is quite
the correct impression for a Minister to leave on a
deputation, don’t you know.
How the hash-house would prosper under the
proposed regime ! For if resurrection pie can ac-
quire different grades of horror in the hands of
different slaveys, why shouldn’t it be made a
well a thing of moderate beauty? There’s no doing
away with it, you know. Not in the present lively
state of things, at any rate. A Sydney woman
advertised for board and lodging the other day and
received no end of offers from respectable neigh-
borhoods like Darlinghurst at eight shillings per
week. Their pie couldn’t offer much hope of
resurrection, but even then the mystery of such
things baffles one.
Another sign of the times lies in an ad. from S.
M. Herald : “ Wanted small office boy, must use
typewriter and shorthand.” From man to boy.
From boy to small boy. The only other line of
retrenchment Gouli can foresee will be ‘ ‘ small girl. ”
I have just been looking at a portrait of De
Rougemont, and surely that’s the phiz of old hum-
bug. Eyes that have driven deep, extraordinary
lines into the high forehead in their long efforts to
keep up a sincere expression, while the yams
flowed forth, —all the garrulous old story-tellers
I know have just such eyes. _ Louis Becke
is stirred to a scornful article in the Daily
Chronicle, in which he wants to know, on behalf
of Australia, who are the two English girls De
Rougemont rescued from our aboriginals, and
why Australia has never heard of them before.
Which reminds me that an English novelist
once tried her hand at a somewhat similar yarn,
and laid on her colors with liberality that puts De
Rougemont in the dark altogether. I speak of
Helen Mathers, authoress of “Cornin’ thro’ the
Rye,’’-who let her fancy air itself in a 3vol. novel
called “Sam’s Sweetheart.” Eheu! They sail
from Bathurst in that book, I remember, and used
to drive from Bathurst to Melbourne for a pound
of sweets. And there was a beautiful black-gin-
heroine who called herself Sweetheart, and turned
out to be an English girl, daughter of a duke, who
had been dyed by the wicked Australian blackies
with nut-juice. They took it all for gospel in
England, but the Sydney School of Arts sub-
scribers used to vent their outraged feelings in
agonised pencil-notes on the last page. “ This
book is dammed rot ” was about the mildest com-
ment.
The latest dusky arrival in Sydney is a small,
bright, little 10-year-old Fijian princess, who has
come to live with Prof, and Mrs. David,, of
Funafutan fame, until she is old enough and wise
enough to go to Sydney University to study
medicine.
Hostesses at garden parties wishing to be con-
sidered right up to date might originate amongst
their guests a competition search for the planet
Yenus. Our beautiful neighbor (approaching
conjunction) is now so brilliant that it can easily
be found at 3 p.m., due north, in the full sunlight.
Very few people can say they have seen a star in
broad daylight.
The whole world has as yet not found its way
about the new Markets. I made a voyage of dis-
covery up there, the other day, and noticed that
the chief visitors were dogs and friends of the
shopkeepers, and women with large assortments,
of children. The tiled floor shrieked to be swept,
and the general air was quite out of keeping with
the domes and carvings and that golden key and
gaudy opening ceremony. Greengrocers and
fruiterers flourish freely, but everyone’s wares
suffer from sunburn. However, now that awn-
ings are promised, and water is being laid on, the
market people say that biz. begins to look up. I
was much taken with Singer’s room, decorated by
Phil Goatcher with a wheel-pattern of dull red
and gold pickings on a dull green wall. A com-
plicated ceiling held up every soft blue and yellow
and green and chased them all with gold, and
people waiting for their Singer can feast their eyes
on all sorts of nice harmonies.
Phil Newbury’s first Sydney Bobular (according
to a Frenchy trying to put on a little Australian
slanguage) drew a nice, comfortable house to the
Town Hall on Saturday night. And the greedy
glutton who never gets enough bang-dash, and
curly-wurly trills, and straight-out shrieks for his.
money came away with a satisfied smile and a full
feeling in that part of his anatomy marked
“ Music, One Shilling.” Phil, in good voice, can
give points to all our other tenor visitors, and if
he hadn’t played down as much as he did on Satur-
day the back-seats would have been much offended.
For the back-seats know what they want, and'
they’ll have it, or they’ll never come again. So-
they get it, all the head notes, and the sostenutes,
and the sotto voces, and the made-up turns that
finish away in some undiscovered part of the vocal:
region.
On the whole, the concert was remarkably good.
After Newbury, the chief note of musical culture
was lent by Madame Spada, who carolled “ Bel
Raggio, ” and wouldn’t take an encore. A happy
little sketch by Miss Rose Musgrove and Mr.
M‘Nicol Turner quite revolutionised the ordinary
concert programme. Minuets, skirt and step-
dancing, and a kissing duet were thrown into this;
travesty of a Christmas pantomime, Miss Mus-
grove acting with lots of go and grace.
Everybody will be sorry to hear that a certain
handsome, full-chested baritone is having a bad
time with paralysis of the throat. Over-work of a
kind he was not used to is the cau&e, and there is.
a sad question whether the boards will ever ring
again with that fine voice.
From Paling and Co. comes the final burst of
this season’s music—and a good burst it is. Two-
songs of Ugo Biondi’s, “Dear Little Saint” and
“ The Continental Waiter,’’show what a long way
beyond them Ugo goes. On one’s own piano these
songs haven’t a kick in them. The “Victor
Waltz,” by Ludwig Schliebner, is like so many,
many waltzes, except in its dreamy second move-
ment ; and the “ Mia Bella Gavotte,” by Theodore
Tourrier, is so like so many more Gavottes. A
gentle little tinkle that wouldn’t scare a fly is the
well-named “Tyro ” Gavotte, by F. May Lewing-
ton. Maud Fitz-Stubbs’ “Orlando Waltz” an-
nounces on its cover the ninth edition of her
Premier, which proves that somebody buys local
music. W. H. Glen sends Mdme. Kellerman’s
new song, “Dear Old Home,” introduced here by
Mr. Burns Walker. The music does its best, but
never gets over the words, which ring with such
moral lessons as “True love, it is better than
gold,” and “Be manly, be brave, and be true.” A
different kind of moral lesson—a much more per-
suasive and friendly one—is preached by a giddy
waltz with a picture of a bottle on its cover. I
was just beginning to play this over when I
realised that it was an ad., and hadn’t the heart to
go on with the champagne, in music.
I have received from Messrs. David Jones and
Co. an artistic little booklet, “Shopping by Post.”
Country cousins can keep themselves up to date
with the aid of this guide to fashion, and no back-
block belle need have any doubt of what’s worn,
with all these pictures of hats and frocks and capes
and stockings to tell the story so carefully.
Verily the way of the reformer is hard.
Some soft-hearted University woman recently
complained that the inmates of Newing-
ton Asylum didn’t get enough beauty sleep
o’ mornings. So they agitated, and persuaded
the authorities to give the old ladies an extra
half-hour in bed. Result, much chagrin and
hauteur among the old ladies, who now decline to
wait for the bell, and insist on their right to rise
at the old hour, quite satisfied with having dis-
turbed the asylum routine.
Talking after the recent big fire at Redfem, a
fireman said that he rushed into a room where a
woman was in her bed, in order to save her.
Turning on him, she indignantly asked how he
dared to come in. He told her that, if she wasn’t
out quick, he’d have to drag her out, so he waited
outside the room door while she climbed into a
wrapper. They were scarcely in the street when
the flames burst into the room. Even then, the
lady wasn’t quite sure whether she oughtn’t to
have reported the fireman.
A benevolent-looking old librarian, at the recent
Sydney congress of bookworms, mentioned that he
had known a young man who changed his book
once a day for three years—all fiction, too. But
what the librarian couldn’t quite understand was
the devotion of the young man to the golden-haired
Gwendolines of fiction, when he had but just mar-
ried a young and pretty wife of his own. And
the old gentleman sighed a far-away reminiscent
sort of sigh, and left the conference to puzzle
it out.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Acting-Gov. Madden ‘and suite’ have left
Govt. House and taken rooms at the Grand Hotel.
The official residence had to be given up that it
might be got ready for the returning Brazen
Image, and as the Madden suburban residence is
let for the season, there was nothing for it but to
eat the temporarily vice-regal morning egg and
munch the official toast at the hotel in Spring-st.
“ By the way, a flag has blown from the tower
of the Grand Hotel since the Maddens have been
in residence there, but the terms for other boarders
have not at present been increased. Doubtless
the Madden arms will be hereafter placed over the
hall door —moustachios rampant, waxed : a bald
head proper, and the motto ‘ I like 'em plump.’
‘ ‘ Society rolled up to that Children’s Hospital
matinee at Princess Theatre (Oct. 13), while over
and above legitimate Pure Merinos came hordes of
would-be ‘ naicest, ’ anxious to please ‘ dear Lady
Madden ’ by support of the cause so precious to her
‘kind, motherly heart.’ Said heart, by the way,
was solaced at the matinee by the society of all the
owner’s daughters, down to Baby Beatrice with an
•ostrich-tip plantation on her white satin straw hat.
“ Small girls no longer minimise their apparent
ages by baby-bonnets, patty-pan hats, pinafore
frocks and touzled thatch. At present their long-
ish skirts are gathered neatly on to close-fitting
waist bodices, and, what with smooth hair and
•sober-minded millinery, the fashionable child of to-
day suggests her mother’s maiden aunt cut short,
rather than a belated baby. Probably the thick
ankles and would-be saucer-eyes of grown-up
Greenaway girls sounded the knell of the pictur-
esque juvenile. At all events, Missie of the
moment is dressed to look precise and ‘ lady-like.’
"‘Miss Leslie Madden’s flowery muslin, worn at
the matinee, was built with small chemisette of
pink satin, and dog-rose sprays lay flat on her
white chi)) hat. Sister Ruby sported pink roses
on the tilted side of her Tudor cap ; and, unwilling
to hide her adorable neck ‘ under a bushel, ’ substi-
tuted turned-down lace tucker and pearl necklet
for a dress collar.
“At the matinee, Mrs. Maesmore Morris trotted
weary miles carrying tea-cups. Stage beauty in
Melb. apparently can’t command a sovereign a
smile, or twice as much for a word. The fragile
belle in question gave good value in tea, cake, and
attendance for every shilling she took, and was
taken as calmly by her customers as the ordinary
bazaar-syrefi. She seemed extra-ethereal that hot
afternoon in black and white muslin and floating
pink sash-ends. Even the stole capes falling over
her sleeves failed to make her look a comfortable
armful, but when she tripped on a step in the
dusky d.c., the ensuing thud was surprisingly
sufficient and satisfying. Florence Terriss, too,
in one of those Tussore washing silks and snowy
cuffs, did good tea-tray service, and, seen at close
quarters, proved to be far more shapely and restful
than she appears on the boards, where she’s so
dreadfully animated as to convey the impression
of a bundle of angles, joints, muscles and vitupera-
tion.
“A squad of Cliveden Clarkes patronised the
matinee. Miss C., with Honiton lace applique on
her green frock and rose-trimmed hat, brought
along younger sisters, small nieces and kilted
nephews. Urchins, at present, are debarred till a
comparatively mature age from the dignity of out-
ward and visible pants, with the accompanying
delights of trouser-pockets. When too elderly for
belted tunics, kilts answer well to stave off as long
as possible the unfashionable knicker.
“Mr. and Mrs. Vallange chose honeymoonish
pieces to act both times, so they’re not a bashful
couple, evidently. In ‘ A Breezy Morning ’ the
bride wore white blouse and skirt, while her lord
affected tweeds and ostentatious up-stream boots ;
the black skirt in conjunction with shirt bodices
has had its day. But to return to the honey-
mqoners. They quarrelled, and the bride invited
a widow with cats and parrots to come and stay
with her, engaging the only spare room on her be-
half. Hubby meantime wires on the quiet to a
brutal bachelor-chum addicted to bull-dogs to run
down and occupy said guest-chamber. Conjugal
recriminations ! Bride weeps at thought of mad
baying of dogs and death-shrieks of cats. Her
tyrant uses big d’s and swears expected guests will
have to share the contested apartment. All ends
happily.
“In ‘A Cup of Tea’ Miss Vallange’s ivory
satin ball-gown had a deep lace flounce laid on flat,
a black satin waist-band, and scattered black
trimming devices, presumably ‘ lovers’ knots ’
though more suggestive of small pairs of scissors.
Further, her decorations included a big pendant,
a bracelet and unobtrusive hair ornament. No
gloves, of course. Few ‘naicest’ wore them at
Mayor’s ball t’other night. At any time, Mr.
Vallange walks exactly like some bird or other,
with very short stilted steps. As his angry stage
passions rise, his pace grows faster and more
staccato, till you’d swear he was a reincarnated
minah. Neither of the young things attained a
convincing stage laugh. Hubby satisfied himself
with smiles—and such smiles ! Wide white park-
paling affairs, calling up thoughts of dentists and
sich. At the matinee, Julius Knight was on show
in the d.c. after he had done his turn. A fallen
idol these times, perhaps because of that Gil de
Berault costume, which just shows the worst part
of the wearer’s legs—and he always expressed his
stage emotions in those eloquent limbs of his.
“As Gil de Berault, Julius K. affects the funni-
est little mouth. It looks as if he primmed his
lips into a tiny round C in front of the glass, and
then painted the result bright red. Girls rather
like it, I understand, because it enlarges the ap-
parent size of his eyes.
“The splendor of Mayor M‘Eacharn’s hospi-
tality induced an alderman, at his re-election the
other day, to style him M ‘Eacharn the magnificent.
Certainly, the Mayor is ‘ going it. ’ His lavishness
is in such contrast to the way things are done at
Govt. House that even the most loyal make rude
remarks. Anyone can be a ‘ good fellow ’ who
can afford to spend as the Mayor does, but, apart
from that, there is a deal of native goodness and
human kindness about him, and nis wife is a
woman unspoilt by success. Their family are not
all at home to participate in their parent’s enter-
taining. Two daughters are in England wi th
their governess, and are to finish their education
at Girton.
“As an instance of the Mayor’s lavish ness, the
quadrangle of the Town Hall basement, where all
the big ball-suppers are held, has an asphalte floor
covered in time of festivity by carpeting. But
Mayor M‘Eacharn, in his desire to outdo every
predecessor, would have none of asphalte, and had
a wooden flooring laid over the whole area at a
cost (to himself) of nearly £3OO.
“It is said that the ‘Magnificent ’aforesaid will
be a grass-widower before Xmas. The Mayoress
has kept pace with her tireless Donald Malcolm
until she feels ready to drop. Another 12 months’
strain of continual smiling, hand-shaking, and
official graft would be the death of her, therefore,
as she isn’t prepared to perish in duty’s cause, and
throw the City Council into mourning, she intends
to sail away presently to see her boys in England.
“ If the state of the matrimonial market be the
true index to the commercial prosperity of a
country, then it may really be believed that Mel-
bourne is at length emerging from the boom
depression. Miss Madden, Miss Newbigin and
Miss Jenkins are to be the three next fashionable
brides. But stay ! None of the bridegrooms-elect
was found in Victoria. Mr. Osborne is from
N.S.W., Capt. Parker from India, and Mr. Wal-
doclc from Colombo.
“One of Melbourne’s leading lady doctors ap-
pears to be in the way of having ‘physician, heal
thyself,’ written over her portals. She has, per-
haps, the second largest practice among the female
physicians, and, sad to say, is down with tuber-
culosis. She is an energetic, solemn-faced, little
person, who has made rapid headway in her pro-
fession, and has a large run of patients. She was
teaching all the time she worked for her exams.,
and has deserved every bit of her success. And
now the remorseless germ comes along making a
bad choice, for there are plenty of useless women
who could better be spared from the hurly-burly.
. “Ex-Gov. Loch’s only son, who has been dis-
tinguishing himself in the Soudan, is now a lieute-
nant in the Grenadier Guards, 6ft. 4in. tall, broad
in proportion, and further remarkable for his
‘silky’ white hair. The said Douglas, when he
arrived in Melb. with his parents, was an ex-
tremely ‘pretty,’ fragile-looking lad, with his
mother’s delicate complexion and wavy blonde
locks. He was something of a juvenile exquisite,
too, and when he escorted his little sisters and
their governess to prize-distributions, &c., was
adored by young lady pupils for his broad, snowy
collar, trim Eton jacket, flaxen hair brushed
carelessly, off his white forehead, and a languid
way he had of fanning himself with his gloves.
His sisters were more like their father, sturdy
romps with masses of tawny curls and healthy
roundabout faces. Young Loch was in charge of
a tutor in those days, but on certain afternoons he
went by arrangement to play cricket at the C. of
E. Grammar School. Prior to his first visit his
festive companions were instructed by their
masters never to swear in his presenceon pain of you-
know-what. In response, the lads of course went out
of their way to use horrid language in their inter-
course with the vice-regal sprig. But he took it
without winking, and in a week or two the play-
ground vocabulary was back in its ordinary
grooves. When he grew older he joined the
Grammar School cadets, and was present as a pri-
vate in the ranks when his father inspected the
metropolitan battalions, 1887. Later on he joined
the militia at the Cape of Good Hope, and has
been five years in his present regiment.
“Hair has gone down from the crown to the
nape of the neck. It’s still crimped, but quite
smoothly. Some heads look as if they bad been
well oiled before the hot wavers went to work.
For evening wear, blossoms nestle innocently be-
hind the ear, just at the side of the coil. The
Madden girls affect two pink roses, and what with
this touch of color and the abandonment of tbe
Jap top-knot, the debutante daughter promises
fairly to put the beauty of the family on her mettle.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


OIESLIE
THREE CASTLES
CaMps_Cii!aretfe-
O
CIGARETTES.
o
(U .
_ I-in
z .coin
< wince
Ottl-LL
h
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Paper.]
The Famous French
Chocolate.
CHOcor.nT-fnEniER
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale „ , 7
Agents: JF. M. Cameron rf? Co.,
240 Georye-st., Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The present Premier of an Australian
province was a working shoemaker in Melbourne
over 30 years ago.
Dr Crane, R.C. Bishop of Bendigo (Vic.)
entered his 81st year last week. The Bishop has
for many years been blind.
Mount Barker (S.A.) possesses a lady who
has had 25 children, and who has not necessarily
yet completed her public benefactions.
One Aikenhead, M.P., was lately unseated
in Tasmania on account of “ corrupt practices
his agents having given some electors beer. They
now spell his name Achin head.
Mr. Justice Stephen, senior N.S.W.
Puisne Judge, who had to return from circuit
through ill-health, is within two months of com-
pleting his 70th year, having been born in Hobart
Town in 1828.,
NOT GOOD ENOUGH.
CHOW PATRIOT : “ Here, keep quiet ; that’s a
German.”
CHOW ENTHUSIAST : “ Well, I'm going to have a
cut at him.”
C.P.: “ Don’t be a fool; look at this map—we can’t
spare any more provinces. ”
Vic. Commandant Holled Smith, who will
be 52 this month, served in the Soudan from 1885
to 1887. He is very familiar with the country, and
has naturally followed Kitchener’s advance on
Khartoum with intense interest.
Dr. Crooke, now practising in Darling-
hurst (Sydney) at the venerable age of 86 years,
was the first to introduce into Melbourne the Irish
“ side ”or jaunting car. The doctor’s big fortune
was lost in Melbourne boom-time.
A jack-tar of the Jewish faith is a novelty.
Jack (one of the crew of the Royal Arthur) turned
up at Sydney Synagogue services in uniform, the
other day, and is the only Hebraic man-o’-wars-
man (with bell-bottomed pants and a roll in his
walk) ever heard of locally.
An attorney who had put some mortuary
business in the way of Gus Sleight, Melbourne’s
boss undertaker—now undertaken himself—meet-
ing him soon after, suggested commission. “ Can’t
stand that!’’said Sleight, “but tell you what—
I’ll put you on my free list! ”
Now they are trying to make out that a
curse rests on all associated with the resistance at
law in N.S.W. of the Cyanide co.’s application for
leave to amend its patent. And they point to the
daily-paper’s obituary-list and other circumstances
in confirmation of their theory.
Sydney, Goulburn, Bathurst, and New-
castle have adopted the proposal that C.E. clergy-
men in charge of parishes shall be called rectors.
It is expected that the rest of N.S.W. will follow
suit, and the wives of several parsons will feel
even more respectable than heretofore.
On the (Macleay) coastal steamer. States-
man, sitting on one of the after seats in his normal
condition of doze, periodically emitting spasmodic
grunts. Agricultural passenger, after watching
him long and earnestly, with a sigh, as for some-
thing lost: “Blow me! what great bacon he
would make ! ”
Judge Boucaut was recently described by
an Adelaide lawyer as “S.A.’s wholesale judge.”
He wiped off the October criminal calendar—over
40 cases and the biggest on record—in seven days.
Whereas Way, C. J., makes big and prosy speeches,
Boucaut rarely talks to his juries for more than
20 minutes in a case.
Melb. demise, Kitchen, big soap and
candle-maker, a worthy man and open-handed
Evangelical. He was the very bore of the China
mission, vvith its enthused young women ; some
hold the idea that most of the Providentially-
sent money came out of K’s soap and candles.
If so, there’ll be a squeal, maybe a squash.
The kaleidoscopic character of N.S. Wales
Supreme Court may be gauged from the fact that
four of the eight Q.C’s have been acting-judges,
and of the seven Judges on the Bench three held
acting appointments before gaining the per-
manency. Likewise of the seven D.C. Judges,
four have held acting appointments on the higher
bench.
Only one member of the present N.S.W.
Supreme Court Bench —Justice G. B. Simpson—
has held the office of Attorney-general. Years ago
the Attorney-General was supposed to have a lien
on any Supreme Court Judgeship which fell vacant
during his term of office. The late Parkes in the
Butler, Foster, and other incidents, practically
killed the assumption.
Don “Billy” Lane’s recent mission to
England from Rue Australia was a bad failure.
Great things were expected from William’s jour-
nalistic alchemy. The English press was to be
electrified ; a stream of immigrants was to arrive;
the Cosme treasury was to be filled to overflowing.
Then Lane came back .£2OO in debt; and the
colony sadly shouldered the swag.
The Rev. P. Dunne, now of Albury, added
over 10,000 to the population of Queensland. He
was stationed there about 30 years ago, and spent
all the money he could raise in paying the pas-
sages out of South of Ireland emigrants. In
addition to planking down cash, he wrote thou-
sands of letters urging people to avail themselves
of the free immigration terms that then obtained.
S.A. democrats foretell the early end of
the Kingston Ministry, for the reason that Chief
Sec. O’Loughlin is dallying with an eye-glass.
As politics are in S.A. just now, the least little
thing tells, and the sudden appearance of that
eye-glass (S.A. is just on the eve of a general elec-
tion) may convince the workers that the Kingston
crowd has at last become too arrogant and respect-
able.
Our titled insignificances are forgotten
even in the country that bebaubles them. Here
is London Times, the most accurate of papers,
recording that Mr. Duncan Gillies has been
appointed leader of the Opposition in Victoria in
succession to “Mr. MTntyre.” Not even an
initial, to say nothing of the title. The Times
cable editor had clearly never heard of M'lntyre :
small blame to him.
Young Bernard Ingleby, whose marvellous
adventures and feats of derring-do at Mt. Kos-
ciusko while acting as a meteorological observer
have been so well advertised, has resigned. For
which relief, much thanks. It has not been easy
to pick up Sydney E. News during the past four
or five months without colliding with a neatly-
worded paragraph regarding some thrilling adven-
ture of Mr. Ingleby.
Mrs. West, relict of Major West, died last
week at Bathurst, aged 86 years. She had lived
in the district close on 80 years, having gone over
the mountains with her parents when the century
was in its teens. Her husband was not an army
man, “ Major ” being his Christian name. Very
few of the old Western pioneers now remain,
about the last of the wealthy ones being Charles
M‘Phillamy, of Orton Park.
Paris Nesbit has just been appearing in
his first big law case since his recovery. It is a
family will-suit, in which Mr. Nesbit, for plaintiff,
argues that testator was of unsound mind when
he did things. Only .£5OOO is involved ; yet
along with Mr. Nesbit are John Downer (who
leads) and S. J. Mitchell; on the other side, J. H.
Symon and J. H. Gordon. And the quarrel is
exclusively between brothers and sisters.
HIS TROUBLES.
WILLIE: “Pa, what’s the meaning of a man suffering
from a domestic affliction?”
PA: “It means, my son, keeping two servants to do the
work of one. ” (Goes on drawing cheque for
wages.)
A somewhat unsuccessful “journeyman”
lawyer and politician has just gone over in Mr.
Stuart Cansdell, whose family claimed for him
the position of “ father ”of the N.S. W. bar. Mr.
Cansdell was called at the Inner Temple, Nov.,
1858. In ’6l he arrived in Tasmania, where he
acted as Crown Prosecutor and Solicitor-General.
He was twice member for Hobart in the Leg.
Assembly. He went to Queensland in 1874, and
was Crown Prosecutor at Bowen. In N.S.W.,
for 2J years ('B2 to ’B5) he was an acting D.C.
Judge, but the Govt, would not make the appoint-
ment permanent. One of his great regrets was
that when offered the Chief Justiceship of Wes-
tralia in the sixties he did not accept the offer.
“Melb.”: It is remarked even in religious
papers that not one of the religious bodies was
represented in the miserable tailing at C. H.
James’s obsequies. What is a religious body:
James gave them hard cash, not promissory notes,
like G. W. Taylor. Maybe the bodies were afraid
of being asked for a bit back. One of James’s
chums gave. .£lOOO to thekurruk, and died, leaving
his daughters in dire financial distress. No money
returned —as the profane play-bills say.
Rev. John Watsford, now visiting Syd-
ney, was born in Parramatta in 1820, and is a
living history of the early people and events of
that classic borough. But his description of the
Walkers, the Byrneses, the Hunts, and the other
old identities would lead to the opinion that in
the last 50 or 60 years the world of Parramatta
has gone greatly to the bad. There are no such
men and women now. Mr. Watsford was an
evangelist among the Fijian cannibals 54 years
ago.
A.n Australian politician who has just lost
his seat after having been 12 years in Parliament,
spreads himself out thus in beginning the world
afresh : “ Advice 2/6 by letter or personal—Ac-
countant and Auditor —Parliamentary, Financial
and General Agent—Advice given and questions
answered on matters of business —Law —Politics
or General Information. Private or business
advances arranged promptly and privately.
Dealer in Pianos and Musical Instruments —
Cigars—Wines and Spirits, &c. Bureau of
General Information.”
Old W. J. M. Larnach, who shot himself
in the Wellington House of Representatives last
week, was another of the diminishing band of
politicians who fought with or against Hori Grey
in the old days. As Treasurer under Grey, Lar-
nach went to England to float a loan or something.
Afterwards he joined the second inglorious Stout-
Vogel combination, and helped to burden M.L.
with debt and the Midland land-grant railway
shindykit. Larnach was the only man in Aus-
tralasia who called his residence a “ castle ” the
rival Cargill’s Castle, also in Scottish Dunedin,
having been demolished by fire a few years back.
Dr. Nicholson, baronet, who will attain
his 90th year next month, sent a parcel of valuable
books, last mail, as a gift to Sydney University
Library. The venerable doctor has been making
presents to that University for half a century.
While he has been an absentee, his first thought
on encountering a curio has been to attach it and
transmit it to Sydney. He was University Chan-
cellor in 1854. He was also a politician in his
early Australian life. He was a member of
N.S.W. Leg. Council, and Speaker of Queens-
land’s first Parliament. But the passion of poli-
tics long ago burnt out. On the other hand,
his love for literature, or rather for the curios of
literature, and especially for the advancement of
high-class education, has renewed its youth again
and again.
John Hunter Baillie, whose will
after 44 years comes before N.S.W.
Equity Court for interpretation as to
certain educational bequests, carried
about early Sydney a full charge of
theological odium. His wife survived
him till last year, and as she had a life
interest in the property the question of
turning the bequests to educational pur-
poses did not arise earlier. Now St.
Andrew’s College and Scots College both
claim the money, and the trustees seek
the Court’s advice. But the point that
illustrates the old identity’s dogmatic
disposition is that the will provides that
the professorships are not to be held by
any priest or member of any religious
order of the Church of Rome. Another
part of the will, providing for a ragged
school in or near Sydney, also lays
down that no priest or member of any
religious order of the Church of Rome
shall be eligible to any office in connec-
tion therewith.
The night before the suicide of
Detectiye Lomaine in Melb., a couple of
years back, he was in the muster-room
with several other officers when the
talk turned on the suicide of a constable
who had just been inquested. The old
contention that a man was a coward to
suicide, inasmuch as he feared to face
the music of life, was advanced by one
of the men, and Lomaine immediately
“took him up,” roundly averring that
the suicide was an individual of far
more than average pluck and intelli-
gence. He carried the day by his argu-
ments, and 24 hours later was found
standing dead with a bullet through his
skull against the wall of Russell-street
barracks
A very distinguished N S. Wales
Q.C. not long ago successfully appeared
in Court to demur to a certain declara-
tion. “ But you drew that declaration
yourself ! ” ejaculated an astonished lawyer after-
wards. “ I did,” replied the perky Q.C., “ and
yet it is bad.”
In April last, the train by which Chief-
Justice Darley travelled to the Hay Assizes met
with an obstruction near Junee. In June, a
similar incident in the same quarter took place,
and again the Chief-Justice was a passenger. In-
vestigations on both occasions showed that an
attempt had been made to wreck the train. A week
or so ago, a third attempt was made near Junee,
and a man has been placed under arrest. On this
occasion, the C. J. was expected to be in the train,
but was delayed.
If Premier Braddon takes the Treasury he
will then, it is expected, come under pay from the
Tasmanian exchequer. As Premier he has not
drawn any salary these five years. He is in re-
ceipt of an Imperial pension.
“ Curra Ourra” : Valentine Plattfuss,
who lately died at Echuca from snake-bite, was
always regarded as a dexterous snake-killer. He
often fearlessly seized a venomous snake by the
tail and broke its back by flicking it in the air.
The other Sunday he tried this trick once too
often, was bitten on the arm, and died ere medical
assistance could be obtained.
A characteristic of the Turner Ministry is
its backwardness in turning up to Executive
Councils. Quite recently only one Minister put
in an appearance, and he had the task, no easy
one under the circumstances, of entertaining the
Governor for half-an-hour, after which they gave
up hope. In the time of Gov. Hopetoun it was
remarked that Councils were always fully at-
tended. But then—well, the rest is a State
secret!
“ SAME OLD GEORGE.”
GEORGE (ex-shearer , eloquently) : “ Yes, boys, the
night afore I was saved I , ad a dream. I
thought I was hanged with a trumpet in me
’ and —not one o’ yer little tin trumpets, but a
blanky great big brass one.”
The Romance-Rougemont started in the
Wide World Magazine with an assurance that
the editor had “absolutely satisfied himself of the
truth of the story,” and now Newnes climbs down
to a contention that, it Rougemont-Grein was lost
for three years in the bush,- the (jroundwork of his
.story must be true. Why must it? Besides, it was
the trimmings of the yarn that got the Wide
World by the wool. According to Melb. Argus, a
lady formerly resident in Australia states that she
was astonished to run against, at Tit Bits office,
in the person of the famous De Rougemont, “ that
busybody, Grein, who was So continually boring
us with his spiritualistic experiences, and who
never returned the photo. I gave him to enlarge.
Some of his professed Australian experiences are
identical with the book I gave him to read on
‘Travels in the South Sea Islands,’ especially the
story of Yamba.”
When Rougemont first started off on his
career of “kid,” his geographical (i.e., his lati-
tude and longitude) facts being accurate gave an
air of verisimilitude to his tale of wonders. His
fount of knowledge has, perhaps, been discovered.
A certain surveyor, with an extensive grip of Aus-
tralia, ranging from Adelaide right across the
continent northerly to Port Darwin, &c., used, ’tis
said, to be constantly in Rougemont’s company
when the great romancer lived out Newtown way.
Said surveyor had been employed by S.A. Govt,
to run the overland cable line, had found gold and
rubies a hundred miles or so from the McDonnell
Ranges, also large mica beds. The mica beds,
anyhow, were all right, and so were his surveys.
He is now in England, and if, as is stated, he and
Rougemont continually met in Sydney, it is not
impossible they have since forgathered in London.
At any rate, whilst Rougemont was gaily panning
out from his inexhaustible mines of romance, said
surveyor could easily supply him with necessary
local color, and likewise lats. and longs, beyond
refutation.
Old Tom Monahan, who made and left be-
hind him the huge estate concerning the adminis-
tration of which they have been battling in the Vic.
Courts, was typical of the bard, grasping, Irish
money-grubber. He started in Melbourne as
keeper of the livery-stables attached to the old
Port Phillip Hotel, and saved every cent he could
lay hands on. This he invested in land close to
his stables. He got hold of a big frontage in
Swanston-street, and a good slice in Flinders-lane.
The writer once rented an iron store from him at
a good deal per month, and a creepy feeling
comes over him, to this day, when he recalls
the hideous punctuality with which Monahan
used to ride up to the door on the 3rd of
every month. If the 3rd happened on Sun-
day, he was there on Saturday. Rode a good
horse, and had a neat seat on the saddle.
Wouldn’t take a drink, and wouldn’t offer one.
The piling-up of coin was the one pleasure of his
life. It is a sort of satisfaction for his erstwhile
tenant to reflect that, though old Tom succeeded
in his ambition, he is probably no better off now
than the man who didn’t.


SafeKCESTERSHIBI
EBIZEffIHEPMfIMIfe
*•>. C URR| E S CBAVIff,,,!.
FRANZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER.
Aboriginalities.
Tassy ” : Near Lake Darldt, not far from
Cue (W.A.), two white women are living, ap-
parently in contentment, with a tribe of abori-
ginals. They are, presumably, “ gropers,” for the
Jarrah seems to have a great fondness for black
beauty, hardly ( week passing without some of
bhem getting “sent up” for camping with the nigs.
First time I have ever known white women volun-
tarily to live with blacks, though it is common
enough with men in all the Australias. Up near
Coolgardie there was, a short time ago, a Chow
travelling round with a tribe.
* * « *
In a Northern police-court. Kanaka,
who has been given a Bible to swear on, attempts
to bite a bit out of the sacred volume. P.M. : —■
“ You savee God ? ” Tommy Tanna :—“ Me no
savee that p’fellar ; no sit down ’longer Hamble-
don ” ! Perhaps, after all, the Kanaka was right.
• • • •
“ Edsor ” : Glad to see that Vic. Educa-
tion Minister Peacock ukases that sewing be
taught to male State-school pupils. Every boy
who is born to battle should be taught the noble
art of stitching. He’ll find it useful when he gets
out-back, where skirts are scarce. Should also be
taught washing, darning, and elementary cook-
ing. For honors he might qualify to half-sole
boots, make cabbage-tree or kurrajong-bark hats,
and roll up a swag to best advantage. Many
men, after years in the bush, can’t put a patch
on their pants. Pretty tough, too, when a man
THE FOOTBALL FIENDS—THEIR LAST APPEARANCE IN ’98.
can’t make his own ration-bags, and has to take a
tied-up old sock for his pinch o’ tea.
* * * *
“ Piripi ” : Let us have a little talk about
edible grubs. Don’t know what the Australian
variety tastes like, but I can answer for Maori-
land huhu, which, the human repugnance to in-
sect-eating having been overcome, is a perfect
gastronomic delight. A good eatable huhu must
be a finger-length, and should be spitted on a
finely-sharpened ti-tree stick, and gently roasted
before the embers. It tastes like barcelona-nuts
boiled in cream.
* * * *
“Timi”: Was once seated in Stewart
Bates’ store, at Opotiki, East Coast, M.L., study-
ing the idiosyncrasies of a recently-arrived Mile-
sian cow-puncher, when a Maori beachcomber en-
tered and offered for sale a few ounces of amber-
gris which he had been so fortunate as to find on
the beach. “Poor sample,” said the storeman ;
“how much you want, Zhack?” “Rua pouna
tekau herene,” said the Maori. “ How much did
the naygur ax fur the sthuff ? ” asked the new-
chum. “Two-pounds-ten,” said I. “Fur a
ton ? ” further queried Pat. “ No, for an ounce,”
said I. “An’ pfhwat is the sthuff at all at all ? ”
said Pat, strolling over to the counter to obtain a
closer view of the mysterious substance. I ex-
plained in a manner suited to his comprehension
that ambergris was understood to be a biliary
secretion of the sperm whale. He followed my
explanation with widening eyes, and at last
gasped out : “ Howly fly ? Two-pound-tin an
ounce—an ounce, moind ye fur MANURE !
Lookit here, sir—an’ pfhwat price do they be
chargin’ fur praties in this counthry ? ”
* • * •
“ Fivecorner ” : “ Warrigal’s ” four pet
birds (8., 10/9/’9B), which are “only capable of
getting outside of an Bin. lizard,” are not jack-
asses, but very ordinary johnny-bottoms, and have
no right to be introduced under the heading of
“ Aboriginalities.” When Eurumtah station (Q.)
was changing hands, some years ago, the seller
laid the buyer a fiver that during the last hour
before sundown he would kill IQO snakes, and did,
in the horse-paddock between the river and the
lagoon (of barramunyip fame), kill 86 black snakes
in the given time, thus losing his bet by only 14.
* » * *
“ Fico ” : Once saw a 561 b. Murray cod
caught in the Macintyre River with, inside him,
another cod, 41b., previously hooked.
* ♦ * «
“ Ellam ” : Driving with a N.S.W. wool-
king, we came on an employe of his taking it very
easy over cleaning out an irrigation-channel. Mao
hopped out with “That’s no way to work —see
here ! ” and, seizing the shovel, he set-to with a
will. The man calmly lit his pipe, put his hands
in his pockets, and, after watching the perspiring
pastoralist for a bit, observed, “ Go it, you bald-
headed old i ! you wouldn’t keep that up all
day.” He didn’t get the instant sack that I ex-
pected for him, either f
“ Long-
’Un”: “The
M‘Cooey ” re-
viles the asser-
tion that the
bell-bird is a
m onotonous
warbler, and
alleges that the
presence of the
bird is an in-
fallible indica-
tor of spring-
water. Rats !
Why, some
years ago when
the writer and
party were
camped in the
dreariest, san-
diest spot im-
aginable— and,
owing to the
capsizing of the
waggon and
tank of water
(it had to be
carted 25 miles),
had to wait
about a fort-
night—the only
living thing in
the vicinity was
the bell - bird,
and he belled
us within a
week into a
wild desire for
his blood. “The
M‘Gooey ” says
“he never fools
the thirst-
parched bush-
man.” Well,
he didn’t fool
us, beca u s e
water was never
found in that
country except
at a depth of
at least 150 ft.,
and then gener-
ally stock-water
—and well we
knew it.
“ R.W. : Re Poynton, M.P’s, assertion, at
Adelaide Interprovincial Labor Conference, that
he knew 28 men to eat and sleep in a 28ft. x 14ft.
building. If you arrange the berths three deep
round the walls, and put table in centre, you have
it. Three berths deep is not uncommon ; Burra-
wang (Lachlan’s biggest station) has a hut so
arranged. Wasn’t The Bulletin ever in the rush
for a “ bottom bunk ” after a shearers’ roll-call ?
* * * *
A canny N.S.W. station-holder tells how
he was getting a demijohn of brandy with other
loading, and, fearing the teamsters might sweat it
en route, had it invoiced as vinegar. On the track,
the bullockies ran short of vinegar, and, thinking
a little would not be missed, broached the demi-
john, with the result that they emptied it, re
filled it at a wayside store, and delivered it as per
invoice.
* * * *
“Jack No. 1 ” : How is this for a cham-
pion grafter? Runs a store six days a week;
works a sawmill on Sunday. Has this year 600
acres under wheat, all ploughed and sown by
moonlight and lamplight. Is also fulfilling the
residence-clause on a selection. Sawmill ten miles
from store. Farm three miles from selection.
* * * *
Sassafras, formerly considered useless, is
now being sent from Gippsland to Melbourne to
be made into bicycle rims.
“ Darkie ” : The Queensland bower-bird,
at all events, is an accomplished mimic and ven-
triloquist. Camped near Aramac, I was
going to the creek for water, one day,
when I heard what seemed to be a dog
barking in the top
of a sapling, but,
on looking up, I
ON ST. HILDA BEACH,-HE TOOK
NO BISKS.
STRANGER : “ Why didn’t you. take your bools
off before paddling in the water, sonny? ”
KID: “ An’ get ’em stole? Not me!”
could nob see the bird,
because he wasn’t there—
but in another tree, 30
yards away. He is also
an indefatigable thief, es-
pecially of anything
bright and shiny,
for the benefit of
his “ playground,”
which displays a
curious collection
of artistically - ar-
ranged odds and
ends.
* *
“P.G.S.”: “Steele
Rudd’s ” assertion (“ 8.,”
10/9/’9B) that kangaroo
doesn't wallop ground
with tail will be contra-
dicted by any bushman
who knows a ’roo from a
hollow log. A’roo, when
travelling, will almost
always vary his jump—
say, first hop 16ft., 2nd
about 9ft., and, on the
first, always grounds tail.
Let “S.R.” track ’roos
over sandy ridges or
spewey ground and he’ll know better; though
about broken tail he is right. ’Roo can’t get a lift
on the spring, and hence can’t travel so fast.
* • * *
“You can’t eat your cake and have it.”
Writer did once, though. Took up a sack of
potatoes for a winter’s chopping; pared them
pretty thick (bush fashion), and threw the peelings
away. Next autumn went up to burn bush,
noticed a lot of shaughs in ground around whare,
kicked loose earth away, and took up a sack of
potatoes.
* * » *
“R.E.D.” : One Q. squatter had for ear-
mark, an equilateral triangle ; his next neighbor
a circle, and the man beyond him a square. In-
crease of B’s flock was beyond the average, and
C’s also throve apace, till, on one of C’s “strag-
glers ” B found the arc of a circle chorded by the
side of a square ; and on another, A (called in to
adjudicate) found the apex of a triangle project-
ing from the arc of a circle which subtended the
side of a square. Moral: Always use the ear-clip
yourself !—“ station-hands are so careless.”
» * * *
“Milky White”: That Wodonga “egg-
offering ” item (l/10/’9B) brings recollections.
Years ago, in an out-of-the-way Vic. township, a,
similar offer was made to the slenderly-stipended
parson. The first eggs deposited in the receiving
vessel came from the X s—a well-to-do farm-
ing family, twelve in number. In packing the
eggs in the basket for the home-taking these
naturally were the uppermost. I was in the habit
of haying tea with the parson every Sunday, and
on this particular evening some of the “ offering ”
boiled formed portion of the repast. The cleric
was the first to chip an egg. He chipped and—
paused. The others of us at the table chipped
and—followed suit. Then we looked at each other
anxiously and the silence couldn’t have been lifted
with a crowbar. But the preacher was equal to
the occasion. “Verily,” he said, “I asked them
for eggs and they have given me meat.” There
was a chick in every one of them. It remained
with the cleric’s wife to put on the finishing touch,
however, with the naive remark, “Mrs. X
told me this morning that she had had such bad
luck with her setting hens this season.” How is
this for a champion mean-man yarn, anyhow ?
• * * *
“ J.E.”: Self and two others once came on
an old man kangaroo in a paddock with dog-proof
fence with barbed-wire on top. The ’roo hopped
away along the fence till he came to a corner ;
when, expecting him to jump, we were astonished
to see him spring up on the barb wire, stand erect
on it and calmly survey us, till we came close,
when he jumped down and made off. Anybody
else ever heard of a kangaroo acting Blondin ?
* » * *
“Richard,” on animals’ methods of inter-
communication
White cockatoos, when feeding on a wheat-field, never
fail to post a sentinel on an adjacent tree to give due
screech of approaching danger, and the common rooster
anxiously summons his wives to his side at sight of a
hawk. Following experiment also has convinced me that
fishes are able to warn their fellows of danger. Fishing
once on the Darling, I found a hole abounding with
small bream, which I was able to pull out as fast as I
could bait my hook, but after one had contrived to get off
the hook and wriggle back into the water I never got
another “ bite ” that night. Next day, in same place,
they were biting as freely as ever, but as soon as I had
caught enough for the party’s breakfast I put a just-
bream back into the river, and not another
“ bite ” could I get at that place, though further up and
down I could get plenty. Tried same experiment again
and again, with same result. The liberated fishes had
evidently warned their comrades away from the endan-
gered hole. What have your fish-liars to say to this?
“ D.” : How is this for nerve" Foung
fellow, working at sawmill, gets three fingers
sawn off, and other two fingers and
hand badly mangled. Gets his
horse, and rides six miles, to have
hand bound up ; then 17
miles to hospital. Night
pitch-dark, bitterly cold,
and raining torrents.
Sulkies and other con-
veyances at sawmill, also
plenty of “men,” but
the poor chap had to do
the journey in the saddle,
and alone.
* *
_ “ F.H.” : The scar-
city of marketable tim-
ber in a N.S.W. district,
once famous for its hard-
wood, has put timber-get-
ters tosome pretty dodges
to secure good “sticks.”
In a recent case, a big
landed co. prosecuted a
man who
had fell-
ed a fine
log on its
land dur-
ing the
night, and
got it on his
waggon for re-
moval, but, whilst
coming down a ridge, the
waggon overturned, and
was seen by the co.’s in-
spector in the morning.
In his evidence, however,
the inspector swore that
he saw the log on the
waggon, whereas in cross-
examination it appeared that the waggon was on
the log. Case dismissed. Have often seen the
bush wag have his little joke by chalking on the
stump, “ Too late, Charles or whatever the in-
spector’s name might be.
» * * •
Yon Kotze protests on behalf of the poor
Far Northerner’s stomach :
While on the subject of diseased meat and similar
horrors, I should like to draw attention to that tin of
kippered herrings. It was manufactured sometime in the
middle ages, and after a varied and eventful career and
many ignominious ejections from more particular pre-
mises, turns up invariably in North Queensland. Every
bushman knows it, also its mate, the ancient pot of con-
densed milk, the contents of whioh many summers and
many climes have turned a rich, fruity-brown color. A
distant cousin, the antediluvian luncheon-beef, has lent
a hand to ruin Westralia. It is not always the fault of
the storekeepers who retail this refuse from the table of
civilisation. The tins bear the labels of first-class firms :
but the stuff has been lying about in different wholesale
stores till it has gone bad. Tinned food, especially milk
and fish, will not keep long in a hot climate ; and so,
when a parcel has been left on hand, it gets shunted to
N.Q. “ Good enough for the bush 1 They know no better!”
There is a simple, a very simple, remedy against this evil,
and which I ask you to kindly patent for me. A Bill
should be passed compelling the manufacturers to
plainly dote all their preserves on the label with the year
of bottling or tinning. [When it got old, of course, a fresh
label of recent date would be put on.—Ed. B.] Such a
measure would not only safeguard the consumer and the
retail-merchant against buying a deteriorated article, but
it would also protect the reputation of the producer, who
in many cases loses considerable custom through no
fault of his own. The only people who would object to
thi3 measure would be the wholesale houses. Somehow,
every progressive and desirable law seems to hurt the
middle-man. At times, there lurks a blasphemous sus-
picion through my brain that the middle-man is an
abomination and a curse, and ought to be sat upon.
But, of course, that is only a temporary aberration !
« * • •
“ Blister " ; Have never seen an authentic
portrait of a bunyip, but the apparition I recently
met one morning on edge of a little reedy bay in
Lake Wellington (Gippsland) was unlike any
beast or bird I ever saw before. I was sneaking
on to duoks, and was about 30yds. in among the
reeds (up to my waist in water) when I nearly
ran against the stranger. Could not see his feet,
but he obliged me with the view of a most con-
vincing set of teeth. He’d had a rough time some-
where, for one eye was gone, his ears (long as a
spaniel’s, and quite hairless) were badly chawed,
and his long, pointed nose was severely torn.
Piebald he was, and a repulsive, mangy-looking
brute. Couldn’t swear to size of his body, but the
long hair floating out from his sides and back
made him look as broad as a house. He was about
4ft. long, and stood comfortably enough in 3ft. of
water. I suppose to him I was a still more fear-
some object, as, before I recovered enough to flee,
he disappeared under water (I found a deep
channel there later on by falling into it) waving a
farewell with his tail, a flat, hairless handle which
I was very pleased to see. When I reached open
water he had come to the surface, and was swim-
ming off and making very good time. Evidently
a resident, too, for my ducks took no notice of
him, though he passed close to them. He was no
liquor-bred beast, for it was last day but one of a
three weeks’ camp, and all our fire-water had been
finished long before. I can’t place him among
crossbred dogs ; too big for any known breed, and
his long coat doesn’t match with his hairless ears
and tail and pig-jawed head.
• * * •
. “ Rover ” : “ Jinda’s ” adventure on Nar-
ran Lake recalls a story told to me : “ I was cross-
ing a viaduct one dark night, when I heard
a train whistle. The danger flurried me so
that, while yet undecided what to do, the head-


THE “F x AND R” WATCH,
0
0
* .W
0
E
2m
“THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY WATCH OF THE
AGE.”
The movements are on the Lever principle, have
Brequet Hair-Springs, are jewelled in 10 holes ; have
expansion balances, are Keyless. In SOLID SILVER
CASES, which SCREW together, thus making them
dust-proof and practically watertight.
42-
The same Watch in Oxydised Metal Case, 25/6
THESE WATCHES ARE GUARANTEED FOR 15
YEARS, AND KEPT IN ORDER (BREAKAGES
EXCEPTED) FOR 2 YEARS.
They go with profound accuracy, and stand hard
riding and knocking about.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
25 Hunter Street, Sydney (only).
man, often condemned to wear it for some trifling
offence, is turned adrift for weeks together, dur-
ing which period he can neither lie down, nor con-
vey food to his mouth, whilst flies and other in-
sects alight with impunity on his face. In respect
of food, he is entirely at the mercy of the charit-
ably-disposed, who have not only to give the food,
but to do the feeding as well. Sympathy in mis-
fortune not being reckoned first amongst Chinese
virtues, it can easily be imagined that “ the
wooden collar ” may occasionally mean a lingering
death for the wearer.
Do you ever have a headache 1 Would
you not have a cure —simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets—
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post.*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WHITE LABEL LAGER
America’s Finest and Lightest Beer.
lights of the train loomed up not 200yds. away.
Suddenly it occurred to me to get over the
side of the bridge and hang on by my hands
till the train had passed. Over I got, but,
being a heavy man, and the train being unusually
long, my strength failed just as the last carriage
passed, and, with a despairing yell, I dropped
about 3ft. on to a bank ! ”
* * * *
“ E.S.S.” writes re Australian birds’ nests :
The exposed eggs of Australian birds are never inter-
fered with by crows. The reason is because they are
always under the watchful eye of the parent bird. 1 n the
laying season such birds as the curlew, plover, emu, &c.,
iro in pairs, and may always be found feeding about in
the vicinity of the nest, which is of the most primitive
kind. The bird simply scratches away the few leaves
there may be on a spot the size of a dessert-plate, and
deposits the eggs on the bare ground. But there is this
much in favor of self-protection : The emu’s egg is dark-
green in color, and the prevailing hue of the surround-
ings where laid is the same ; while the brown spots on the
eggs of the other birds resemble the russet leaves and
herbage around the nest. So, though no pains are
taken in nest-making, there is sense displayed in choosing
a laying-place. I have frequently been attacked by
plovers when I have come, unconsciously, near the pre-
cious eggs; and it is no laughing matter to get a blow
from that formidable horn on the point of its wing. The
magpie is another bird that will fight a horseman under
the same circumstances. The “black our” has little
chance against these, when almost any harmless little
bird can drive him away. Coastal settlers erroneously
believe that a crow’s nest is seldom, if ever, seen, and
that it is built in the loneliest wilds and at the top of the
loftiest tree. In reality there are snores of nests in sight
of western homesteads, built in mulga trees. And where,
in all Australia, is there a mulga tree 50ft. high ? lie Mrs.
Foott’s poem, “ Where the Pelican Builds Her Nest,” one
hasn’t to cross the bounds of the Never-Never to find out
that. There is a pelican’s nest on Woodlands estate, two
miles N. of Casino, N.S.W. It is in a small tea-tree at
the end of a reedy swamp, and is composed of a fairly-
large dray-load of sticks and twigs. There were two
young ones in it when I found it, and they pecked at me
so viciously that I very quickly retired.
* * * *
Scattered remarks concerning aboriginal
mothers-in-law, by F. J. Gillen, natives’ protector
of Centralia (the references are mostly to the
Arunta tribe, now about 1000 strong) The
members of all Australian tribes, or nearly all, are
divided up into two or more groups, to which dis-
trict names are given ; and the organisation is
such that the men of one particular group may
only marry the women of another particular group,
while the children belong in some cases to the
mother’s group and in others to the father’s. In
the Urapunna tribe descent is counted in the
mother’s line ; in the Arunta descent is counted
in the father’s. In the Arunta tribe if a man is a
Pinunga his wife must be a Parula woman, and
the relationship between them is called unawa,
which includes the English terms husband and
wife. Not only does he cal) a particular woman
unawa, but he so calls every woman belonging to
her group—that is, every woman whom he may
lawfully marry. All women whose daughters it is
lawful for him to marry he calls mothers-in-
law. If a father is anxious to get a wife
assigned to his son when the latter shall be grown
up lie goes to some man who has a daughter stand-
ing in the relationship of possible mother-in-law
to that son. The son and his possible mother-
in-law are approximately the same age. The two
men arrange matters, and in future years, if the
female child when grown up and married has a
daughter, then that daughter—the one first born—
becomes the wife of the boy. The boy’s particular
mother-in-law (of approximately his own age, as
aforesaid) is his tualcha mara. He may never
speak to his mother-in-law (tualcha mara), nor she
to him, but she has to periodically present him
with hair cut from her head, with which to manu-
facture a waist-girdle—mostly, with a few head-
THE LATE REV. ZACHARY BARRY.
Photo., J. Hubert Newman.
bands, armlets and necklets, the only clothing
worn, winter or summer. On the other hand, he
has to keep on good terms with father-in-law—not
only with the particular one whose daughter he
is to marry, but with all his tribal fathers-in-law,
any one of whom has the power, in punishment of
any infringement of tribal custom, to take away
the wife-that-was-to-be and present her to some
other man to whom he is also tribal father-in-law.
Also, the son-in-law has to provide the father-in-
law with food.
* * * *
“E.F.G.”: Must challenge “ P.M.D.’s ”
par. (l/10/’9B) re bower bird. I have a bower bird ;
got him a nestling two years ago. He is an excel-
lent mimic, can do dog, cat, goat, fowl, duck, tom-
tit, crow, and adjacent sawmill. Also under-
LUCIFER , THE ATHLETE.
stands fitness of things ; mews when he meets the
cat, and barks at sight of the dog. If “ P.M.D.”
doesn’t believe this, you are at liberty to give him
my address (herewith).
♦ * * *
The champion N.S.W. cane-crop this sea-
son was grown by Joseph Kenny, Chatsworth,
Lower Clarence —yield, 111 tons per acre for 1J
acres. Figures verified fry Colonial Sugar Co.’s
returns, and land measured by go’s inspector.
Said to be the record crop for N.S. Wales.
• * « •
“ Rick,” on cows :
Have been told by cow experts that they (cows, not ex-
perts) will eat anything. I believe it. About a fortnight
ago there was not a blade of grass to be seen on the pad-
docks along the Williamstown line, and have seen cows
lick the rocks till they were polished and worn away.
Will undertake to say that one cow I noticed particularly
lived on rock for a fortnight, but was in very poor con-
dition at the end of that time. I saw one enterprising
dairyman put his cattle in on to the Melbourne city tip,
at North Melbourne, and, being of an enquiring turn of
mind, I went over and examined the shepherd in charge
as to what they ate. He said they would eat anything,
and just bit into things as they came, making no assort-
ment.
* * * *
The murderous whip-the-cat economy of
Westralia, the boom-country. From a letter
from one of the Bangemall (W.A.) gold centres :
A good many natives have come into the camp, and a
more wretched lot of scarecrows I never saw . . . They
are principally old men and women. All the younger
and stronger natives have either been sent to gaol or are
working on the stations. A lot of these poor wretches,
until the new regulations were issued, were being fed by
one of the storekeepers on the field (on 9d. a day), but
now amount has been reduced to 3d., for which no one
would pretend to feed them. Instructions have been
:nt to the police to drive them all away to the bush,
where, it is said, they could get any amount of bush food.
But the only part these natives could be driven to has
not had any rain on it for three years, so what chance
have the wretches, too old to hunt, of procuring seeds or
roots !
♦ * * m
“ Wallaroo” : The morbid-mindedness of
Australian bush-dwellers is most apparent in for-
lorn, stranger-shunned districts where curlews and
other night-birds make night ghostly with wail-
ings and screechings. The least hint of pathos in
the voice works on the dog-like sensibilities of
such people, and, dog-like, they whine without
questioning the wherefore. They weep over their
quarrels, arguments, births, deaths, marriages,
farm-troubles—everything and anything. The
unfortunate finder of the victim of a recent shoot-
ing accident has “acted queer” ever since. A
young fellow who watched through a window the
exit of an old fellow into eternity has since been
gazing stonily into space, unconscious of all
around him. Another young teamster went, full
of love and grog, to see his girl, but found his
rival flashing his teeth and wit with evident suc-
cess, and sank a moaning wreck to the ground.
When he was found, whisky was sent for, but
meanwhile the sufferer mysteriously disappeared,
and it was not until they investigated the source
of a weird, dog-like howling that they discovered
the stricken one thus venting his feelings under
the shelter of a big log.
* * * *
Reported by a Southern paper that a
Maryborough (Vic.) resident recently killed a
snake that had whiskers. Maryborough “ hard-
stuff ” always had a deadly reputation.
■* * » *
Letter of excuse received by N.S.W.
public-school teacher: —
Plees Mis elen as a bad coaid and coff she cant get er
breth sometimes. Plees ablige Mrs Blank.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will he taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
C.W.S. : From a Bulletin point of view, the
proper attitude of the press with respect to proposed
amendments of the libel-law is that a newspaper should
have exactly the same rights with respect to free-speech
as a private individual—no more, no less Meroa :We
can’t possibly “keep our eye on paying” all Bulletin
contributors. When your matter appears, claim for it.
If you send anything very striking, then we’ll chase you
with money, not otherwise W.S. : The S.M. Herald
people couldn’t help it. It was a malicious joke—if you
can call that sort of thing a joke. Such things occasion-
ally sneak into even the best-regulated paper R.T.
(Charters Towers): Heavy joke, like humorous crusader
in armor Ireland : (1) Better try the ironmonger’s
office. (2) If you are coming to Sydney would recom-
mend Riccardi Mundarrah : You say “ My theme is
now exhausted.” So are we W.M.F. : “ Bush steeple-
chase” rather dull horse-yarn Cricket: Unimpor-
tant Chey: Great hunk of obscurity to hand
Zuna : Sorry the horse didn’t kick W.J.R. : Thanks.
A.F. (Yass) : Expectit’s a mare’s nest, for the N.S.W.
public isn’t such an ass as to accept Vic. notes (worth
only 19s. 6d. outside Vic). Send particulars A.S. :
“Of no account,” crude, cheap, red melodrammer
Peter Simple : Very weak Irish bull Rick : The gentle-
man who was so thin that he could wipe the perspiration
off his brow with the slack of his stomach is under con-
sideration Subscriber (Mungundi): A M.L. A. is not a
civil servant E.D. (Melbourne): “ Memory ” too thin.
J. J.H. : Immense dusty poem with :> weary sag in
the metre J.A.P. : But, then, the China-grabbers
don’t mean to drive the Chinese out of their country.
Much better to make soldiers of them, and use them to
fight the other grabber with Bogan : Received ; other
item will probably turn-up in print Thor. : “On the
Margin,” just on the margin of being good enough
T.D.S. : Sorry not usable ... Pandolfo : Fun should flow ;
yours is obviously pumped Cec. P. : Too tall and weak
in the back Sis. : Wobbles at first, then steadies up a
bit, but finally flies clean off the handle . Heobean :
“Confusion worse confounded!” A.J.G. : “Day-
dream,” too slender. Other, quite undistinguished
Mick: No account! Ariel: But the proposition cuts
its own throat; because, if nothing is certain, then it’s
not certain that nothing is certain P.H.S. : Not ill-
written, but too trifling. Might try us with some of what
you mention A.B.M'C.: “ Dreams,” wooden verse
J.W.T. : Not Marlowe —Massinger... Walter E. : “ Pass ”
—we do! Xerxes: “Ninth Beatitude,” various ver-
sions. Best —“ Blessed is the man that expecteth nothing,
for he cannot be disappointed.” Tookarie : Well-meant,
but not skill enough W.M.F. : “Steeplechase,” may
use Hal U. : Fairly well-handled, but theme
■ hardly presentable Paul B. : Too small a peg
on which to hang so much story .... Barnaby : Bar-
naby Fudge ! Lux : Promptly extinguished
W.L’E. : Will consider Lewker : Yes—filthy Lewker !
No fun in mere dirt G.B.S. : Personally very curious,
but not general interest enough Sabrina : Like small
white kitten mewing in large dark cellar A.H.T. :
We prefer that, “soiled dove” to that “ good young man ”
who (unfortunately) didn’t die. She, at least, was no
hypocrite .... A.E. : Rickards was a well-known music-
hall singer in London 30 years ago, anyway Back :
Why this eternal striving to advertise Marshall Lyle?
Vic! : An utterly uninteresting lawyer is not improved by
the fact that he was cuff out for a parson Derf
Rachetts : So your 15 verses about the small boy who
swallowed the glue-pot were “For The Bulletin.”
Thanks, awfully ... F.B. (Windsor): If it is your very
first attempt it might have been much worse E.H. :
The Bishop’s utterances attract no attention outside the
church circle, and don’t count for much with the taber-
nacularians. No man so unpopular and dislikeable as
His Nibs could have held a boss billet for years in any
other profession. The term “ Missing Link ”is an awful
satire in his case. He wouldn’t be missed if he
went away, but. the trouble is that he doesn’t go
P.Z. : Unsuitable; returned M.K. : On consideration,
regret unable use O.P. : Can’t use “ Woman ” par
Carini : “Pegasus” good idea; poor execution
Adlyb (W.A.): Worthless Onlys : “Death" declined.
iC.P.Q.C. : There is always a limic in such topics.
If we were millionaires our independence and origi-
nality would astonish you. As it is, we’re just as
independent and original as we can be without taking all
the butter off our bread Aletes : The “ Pan ” defence
isn’t up to much. By the way, The Bulletin hears that
instead of carrying out the proposed exchange, Sydney
Art Gallery trustees are paying Mr. Long his full price of
£lO5 for “Pan.” This after heating Longstaff’s “Lady
in Black ” down to £52 10s. ! If the Board doesn’t make
a voluntary change in its personnel after that, Parliament
ought to thump it with a club H.G. (Brisb.) : Hope-
less Kiavvarra : Some points; not enough Sambo:
Unusable A.H. : Pretty maudlin T.L.M. : The teeth
question is settled in the text-books. Teeth are bones ;
bones are made of lime; if you want good bones see there’s
a reasonable amount of lime in your youthful dietary
T. : No, but. we have heard of a legend current, among
the King George’s Sound aboriginals that, long before
the whites settled in that district, a large ship anchored
in the Sound and stayed there some time. These men,
the natives assert, abused their womankind, and they
state, if asked, that they were not Englishmen .. Via-
tor : Summed-up—man is invincible by woman at lawn-
tennis, as in operatic composition Cantle : The book-
maker never can afford to give anything like genuine
odds. Because (1) he has to make a good living.
(2) Those who pay must pay for those who don’t. So the
cert, is the book wins Quando : There are on record
many breach of promise of marriage actions brought by
men against women. Such actions nearly all fail ; but
with women jurors they mightn’t Hiero : Capt. Law-
son’s book on New Guinea exploration, published 1875,
was apparently the fount and origin of De Rougemont.
Yet there were lots of people, who should have known
better, to maintain the veracity of that monstrous lump
of lies. Lawson’s trick is simply Brobdignag. Moun-
tains higher than the Himalayas, tigers bigger than the
Bengal, lilies as large as cauliflowers J.F. (1) :An old
yarn. (2) Vincent Pyke got his early political training in
Victoria. In 1859 he was member for Castlemaine and
Commissioner for Trade and Customs in the Nicholson
Cabinet, an office which he exchanged afterwards for
“ Lands,” vacated by James Service. The latter and J.
D. Wood are the only living remnants of that Ministry.
Bill M. : Surely it was reasonable to suppose that a
fireman found in possession of hairpins and face-powder
had stolen them. Face-powder for a fireman ! .... Alter
G. : One of your friends ate 42 eggs at a sitting as against
the other gentleman’s 38, and the victorious one is still
ready to eat against all-comers. Alas for the good old
days of N.S.W. porridge-eating matches ! MTher-
son : The names spelt Gray, Brown, and White, as well
as Black, are very common in Scotland, and just as un-
common in England. They have Grey, Browne and
Whj/te in England. Scarlett and Green are entirely Eng-
lish Kimi : Ruby lips are stale. Make ’em gamboge
or sienna Greywacke : For verse address Room 2198,
Tophet. Query held for answer Paul Less : Very
much less His Chum : He has our sympathy Some-
thing M‘K. : Verse a weak collection of w'orn echo and
senthnent-tags Briob : Is Minister Philp still a part-
ner in Burns, Philp and Co. ? M.P. (Kal.) Infantile
V.K. : R.P. comment merely dulls point of original
Ambrose : Dull. D (Sydney) : Yes, it will do
E. Marshall: Unavailable W. Morrissey : One may
serve as illustration idea Melb. : The last revivals of
the “Lady of Lyons” were respectively for Warner and
Bellew. C.W.S. : Which proves simply nothing, as,
queerly enough, most drunkards are early risers ... G.M. :
Received X.C. : Writer knows a lady who is a con-
firmed camphor-eater. If she falls short of it, she goes
nearly crazy. Why this craving? Camphor is a tem-
porary nerve and heart stimulant, but its habitual use is
very injurious to both. A.W.O. : “Atacama” is a
desert-district of South America, in crossing which many
persons have perished for want of water F.B. : Artistic
or literary? Don’t remember it? L.E.D. (Reich.):
Please call Quando : Bulletin doesn’t want any pic-
tures the legends for which “are enclosed in separate
cover.” The “gag” must in every case accompany the
drawing A. Bryett: Unsuitable; haven’t your address.
Frank K. : Insinuation would justify us in shutting
dead-down on you, but we’re fair enough, at all events,
to still judge anything you may send us strictly on its
merits Ephesus : Pooh ! Alone : No*. 15. Ends
well, but otherwise rather weak Long-un: To hand.
J.M.I. : “Slug” pretty fair, but too late and too
long C. and K. : Received J.A.E. ; Will par.
“ Drunk." .... Ben Sun ; Yes; but two sent no good
K. : Marriage is merely a question of locality. The
American lives with his deceased wife’s sister, and she is
his wife. The Englishman does the same, and she is
“ that creature ! ” What is one man’s wife is another
man’s Tottie ! Dun E. : Thanks. Often hear about
higher pay of servants than of “lady-helps,” but what
the l.h. prefers to the difference in money is the associa-
tion of people of much the same upbringing as her own.
She can stand the imprisonment with hard-iabor, but not
the solitary confinement T.B.P. : One injury the
Chinese do the community is to make despicable certain
occupations. Because gardening, for example, is mostly
done by Chows, a white gardener is despised E.O. :
Yes, rabbits climb trees in Australia to feed on the leaves
and bark. The ferrets will no doubt soon learn the same
trick, for the sake of feeding on the rabbits and their
eggs W.T.E. (B.): Remit to Bulletin W. Grant
(L.): Not bad drawing, but pointless Puyyaka : Will
print “Lodge D.”.,.. P.D. : The gentleman is suffering
from a disease so terrible and loathsome that this paper
has some hesitation in naming it. It is Swelled Head ...
C.P. : Lot better than the thing it refers to is :
A WAIL.
Go, little verses, go—
And get your blooming gruel
From him whose tender mercies are
Invariably cruel.
The hostile sanctum seek,
And get your measure reckoned ;
I’ve toiled at you a cussfed week —
He’ll drop you in a second !
Merodo : We don’t encourage as contributors people
who write such hideous scrawls ... Coro: But the Cardinal
should say nothing about the marble man. Didn’t one of
the Cardinal’s own doctors think theM.M. was genuine?....
J.P. : Chinese opium-smokers in Australia who are desir-
ous of combatting the craving for the drug invariably use
aKwantungpreparation known as “chan tuck hin.” They
say the use of this compound enables them to reduce the
number of their smokes considerably, and that the Euro-
pean doctors have not been able to give them anything
that will meet the case at all J.M‘I. : Out-of-date —
and useless anyhow C.L. : You write a most unin-
teresting—yea, repellent hand. Your only hope of news-
paper salvation lies in a type-writer . Jack S. : Don’t
care for “The Dolls.” E. E. Taafe : Of course, if it is
yours, you will be paid for it Alex. F. : Hori is the
Maori pronunciation of George. “ Hori Kerei ” —George
Grey L.B. :If you are going to represent him in
Australia, then, judging by your MS., we are very sorry
for the gentleman......R. Hartley (Den.) : Excellent style,
but too weak for direct reproduction A. Mach. H. :
Not enough point in sketch T. Cleary (T.) : Letter
posted E. Mac : Not one of the whole lot available
Fred. Bradshaw: D.D. accepted Caro : And yet 25
per cent, of the executions in N.S. Wales in the last 25
years have been for offences other than murder .... A.G.
(South Australia) : “ Scent of Violets” hardly up. Don’t
cut quite all the meat off the bone of your narrative.
And don’t call yourself “ Sappho ” —for various reasons.
J.A.D. (Adelaide) : Federation will survive even your
poem ; but don’t do it again Stylus: Bosh. Just
plain bosh Murra : Much obliged.
It was lately cabled that “ Several of the
assailants of foreigners in Pekin had been con-
demned to wear wooden collars with the inscrip-
tion, ‘ Punished for assaulting Europeans.” 1 The
accompanying photo, shows the wooden collar as
used by the Chinese for a punishment. It is a
more severe infliction than may appear at first
sight ; for, apart from the mere weight of the
collar, which is considerable, the unfortunate
THE CHINESE MASHER COLLAR.
Photo., Afong, Hongkong.


Department
of ’ Htiuxliation and Prayeb.— At a
■ meeting of the Executive Council held yesterday
the matter of the drought was debated. It was';
, eventually resolved to set aside a day as oue of
humiliation and prayer. A proclamation to that]
effect wap issued, and it was resojyed that the
attention of the clergy and ministers of . religion
should be called to the same. Mr. Brunker,
Colonial Secretary, states that he had no doubt
that the intimation would be readily aeoepted by
the different churches. The proclamation is as
follows Whereas in consideration (?f tha
very serious calamities from which the colony is
now suffering, by reason of the protracted
drought, it is proper that a day should be set
apart on which all persons may unite in hurailia*
tion and prayer to Almighty God to obtain,
through His divine mercy, a mitigation or re*
moval of these calamities : And whereas it i#
right and expedient that an opportunity should
be given to the clergy and ministers of religion of
all denominations, and all others her Majesty’*
subjects in the colony of New South Wales, to
observe Buch a day of humiliation and prayer ;
Now, therefore, I, the Governor of New South
Wales, with the advice of the Executive Council,']
'do hereby direct that Sunday, the 23rd day of,
October instant, he appointed for the purpose
aforesaid, and express the earnest, hope fiat all
classes of the community wiU join with reverence
and humility jn tbie_aolemn__appeal the Divio#
mercy.*’
PRAYERS FOR RAIN.—A HORRIBLY IRREVERENT SUGGESTION.
WEATHER CLERK: “You unit take up a collection after you have finished praying?"
THE SHEPHERD : “ Why, certavidy! ”
WEATHER CLERK: “ Then, why not devote the proceeds to Water Conservation,, Irrigation, Artesian bores, and all that sort of thing?"


SCARCITY OF SLEEPERS.
""rSili
'i-sSi'SSsj,
<«- sts itre urgent «
jdjtKß
Cfay'cJ)iJl (%(oyn?'jS/ojcrAfe(lpejo V :-
''Jy.&ss, l/eVe,
to); ip r'efei'epce-
f 7? urQepjpeec) J:.‘
J& of" s/eeferj ?P „ 'jKmlm
W pe Jep^-rfyepf 7 Mm/pm
,\\
**<* *» e T V s =, »*•
* <*e .(sc*, \o b -vv'^ 9 . \V\ .. .
!V
)
%>/e fay e jpy
Voifced- fakfa /
■JftZqriU°y
&frv<rp oi * t Sjr
id?"
aT the “ zo °”
A rA VISW '
S£-» by the fber M—
\ Pr “eci a rthe r suggestions r* i
raiding an additional subsidy to the Gar- |
the Minister made a lew humorous g
a remarks He said that the gardens bad-
-1 ly' wanted a rhinoceros, but Probably I
1 '=t3sl=r=l
in favor, providing funds ,„,, -v
w ‘M‘l i
iffy***?
%*T aJI a/e \*
caMMe *S .
Orfbell?
VsJhce & fe)Ml.rt-U
(ji7 ChorusJ ;-
'•Too
- .
C UI
y
OUT'
fas offey fa ~fa e
iTpjbeyer/ryiJe faufafa/
c| r-fayocetb^.
astern,
o e „ «', e »'- ,xw' \W
x.< 6 '%! *& X V;
-v%,
*•& '
\% vr-
An
m)\ *m
\i- W&pfe
y yfeVfofU Garter - W 5
wW? Ifiusr /
ould- 4 Tjje dusT. ' /
•'vlfo Sb^K? y „
J / agjp oy'l?Xg ) 0 f gtS3i»'§] oolM^-
MELBOURNIANA.


The championship tourney just concluded,
after many months, at Sydney Chess Club, has
resulted in a brilliant win for E. N. Wallace, for-
mer Australian champion.
Mrs. Maclurcau’s cookery book is having
an excellent sale, and the first edition is almost
exhausted. The book, which can be bought from
all the local stationers, only costs 2/9, and as it is
suited to Queensland and contains over 750 recipes,
the value given far exceeds the sum necessary for
its purchase.*
Line upon line. A common remark on entering
a well-stocked ironmongery store is—■“ What a number
of lines you keep.” This is true, but the art in keeping
a stock is just to keep the very lizie your customer wants
at the price he wants. In McLEAN BROS. & RIGG
LTD. Melbourne and Sydney warehouses you will find
the very article you are looking for. Implements for the
farm, ironmongery for the house, guns for the sportsman,
fishing tackle for the fisherman at eye-opener prices. If
you can’t inspect write for quotations.*
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously-, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the.result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S. W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
A. Saunders.
8-Heart Amethyst Bird and Cha ; n Brooch, 16s.
AMY
A. Saunders.
Gold Name Brooch, 9c., 7s 6d ; extra strong-, 10s.
15c., 15s ; 18c., 20s.
Any Name or Motto free.
A. Saunders.
8-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch, 15s.
Strong and Pretty. Silver, ss.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Ivy and Pearl Gold Brooch, 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 25s ; 15c., £2.
Diamonds, £2 los and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Six different Patterns similar.
A Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Red, Blue and White Stones,
Bell and Chain, 12s 6d. Silver, 4s.
CT©
CTo
200®
cTO*-
f
W
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold ~ ~ 455.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Diamonds, £2, £2 los,
£3, £4.
Send for Size Card.
• •
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 & £4.
Send for Size Card.
A. Saunders.
Solid Gold Buckle
Rings.
9c. Gold, 17/6; 15c. 30/-
15c. Gold,
4 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, or
Rubies, 255.
Send for illustrations.
Solid Gold Bands,
12s Od, 15s, 20s, 255,
30s, £2.
Any Name or Initials
Free.
18c. Gold, 6 pure
Diamonds,
£4 10s and £5.
3 Sapphires or Rubies
and 2 Diamonds,
£3 10s.
Send for Book.
I
O'
G \0
f.O
A. SAUNDERS’”
Strong Reliable English Levers.
Hand-finished, full-capped English Levers, £3 10s. Strongest, cheapest,
and best time-keepers ever made. Extra quality, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6 10s,
£6, £7, £B—3, 4,5, and 6 years’‘written guarantee. Silver Hunting Key or
Keyless, £2 and £2 10s. Open-face, 355. Short-wind Keyless, 7s 6d, 11s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 16s 6d. Extra quality, 20s ; guaranteed. Gold, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Direct Agents for Rotherhams and Waltham Levers. Send for
Price List.
The 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases, £4 4s, 16 years’guarantee;
ditto, 14c. Gold, patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “the same strength
as a £3O watch.” Ladies’, “beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
A. Saunders.
Do. Chased Links, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold, 40s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 10/6,12/6,
15/-, 20/-
Send for Illustrated Book.
_JI
Heart and Dumbell.
Plain, 10/6; Eng., 12/8
15c., 22/6
20 different patterns, same
price.
Gold Horseshoe Locket,
255. Silver, ss.
Silver and Gold, 7/6 & 10/-
9c. Solid Gold
Diamonds, 2 Red
or Blue Stones,
10s 6d.
Send for Price List.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Kubies and
Sapphires, £2 ; 15c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Gold,
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; ISc. Gold, 20s ; extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send tor card.
SEND FOR OUR
Beautiful Illustrated Book
—OF—
Silverplate, Watches,
. . and Jewellery,
WATCRBURY . .
. . . WATCHES
FURTHER REDUCED.
Quick-Wind, 10s, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d, 20s.
Silver, 355. Gold, £2 16s.
We Are the Direct Agents.
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, 12 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, to 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
Gold, Pure White Pearls, 10s (id ; worth 20s.
0~0
St s£ss^
A. Saunders-
Gold Love Bird and Chain, Pure White.
Pearls, Amethyst Heart, 21s. ; 15c. £2.
a &
ofFm.
A. Saunders.
2-Bar Horse Shoe Gold Brooch,
9c., 12s 6d ; 150., 22s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Wish-Bone Heart and Arrow,
Redstone, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold-Mounted Boar’s Tusk Chain and Bell, 15/6.
Without'Bell, 12s Cd. Silver, 4s.
A. Saunders (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13/6. 16c. Gold, 25
A. Saunders.
2 Love Birds Pearl Gold Brooch.
Pearl Set and Chain, 15s 6d and 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS’
Display of Watches, Jewellery, and Silverplate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
judge for yourself. The finest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
Try us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney
A Voice from the Yukon.
Prospector ” writes from the Yukon:—
Dear Bulletin.— ■lt’s 11 months since I left Westralia
for the Yukon, arriving at Vancouver in 0ct.,’97, since
when I have not seen a Bulletin, though I have tried to
get it. B.’ was my bread-and-butter 18 years ao-o
when, as a youngster I sold it on Sydney streets. For
13 years since then I have lived almost entirely in the
back countries of the various provinces, mining and well-
P° r ‘ n f >?'!■?/ which time I have never been without The
Bulletin till my arrival in Vancouver.
Those Australians here who are now waiting for
the Yukon to open for navigation will never forget
their experience from the time they left Ska-
gway or Dyea and crossed the White or the Chil-
koot Pass. A little of my own experience.
After paying our last dollar to the American customs
ivJu 6 ™ . on Canadian-bought goods, we (3)started
March to hand-sleigh our outfits, aggregating close
on 50001b5., from Skagway and did not reach our present
camp till May 20-71 days doing 60 miles! When we
reached the summit of the White Pass, after pack-
ing our outfits over Porcupine Hill, we were dis-
gusted to be informed by the Canadian police that our
outfits, though purchased in Canadian territory, and
being of Canadian manufacture, would have to pay 25 per
cent, ad valorem duty because they had been shipped from
a Canadian port in an American ship. So there was
nothing for it but to return to Skagway and earn the
money—over 100 dollars.
From “Tagish Lake, where we are at present, we
expect to start in a few days. Have met on the trail
Australians from every province and they—even the
N.Q. s stand the cold as well as anybody ; nor do any of
them seem to regret their venture. Still, apart from the
experience, which is altogether new to the Australian
miner, I think, when the numbers go up, it will be found
that many of us would have done more good with our
energy, time and money, in prospecting various parts of
AUSl)rAll9i>
JOSEPH KNIGHT, Prospector.
John Norton has a Melb. double in
“ Tom ” O’Callaghan, Inspecting Superintendent
of Police and Chief Commissioner presumptive.
“C.S.” : In the bad old days when 400
Chows was a common shipment to Australia, and
Spring Cove, Sydney, looked lonely without a
yellow flag flying on the Faraway hulk, slant-
eyes with their piles were ever journeying home-
wards, and every China steamer carried its com-
plement of coffins in readiness for celestial occu-
pants. The manner of preserving the rice-fed
remains was effective, if crude. Also it was
lucrative to the doctor. The sea-Galen—often a
hospital hard bargain—having disembowelled the
corpse, stuffed the emptiness with tow saturated
with carbolic acid and jammed the body into its
Chow casket, which was filled up with more car-
bolic and closed with pitch seams. Queer tales were
told, too, of some of these embalmings(?) One doctor
became beastly and unaccountably affluent after a
return voyage. All the home-going Chows had
sovereigns, and those from Queensland gold-dust
as well, concealed next their hides. Ah Hing,
say, would one morning feel poorly—a sort of beri-
beri was rife amongst those who ‘had been on the
Palmer—and Ah Hing would see the “ doctor,”
who would kindly allow the invalid to remain aft,
away from his noisy fantan-playing compatriots.
Then Ah Hing would get worse, and do the rest of
the voyage dead, and in pickle for planting. And,
somehow, when Ah Hing’s sorrowing friends came
aft to view the departed, his bowelless cadaver was
always minus the gold-belt. And such a hustler
did the eminent scientist become at packing away
his lost patients that an envious skipper and chief-
officer insisted upon coming in for shares. For, as
they said, what was the good of turning over the
estate to Chinese officials, when such deserving
residuary legatees were on hand.
A working man in China earns not more
than 3d. a day, but on that he can marry and live
as well as a married man and family can in Aus-
tralia on the lowest living wage. Thus, if he can
make the lowest living wage for a single man in
Australia, plus Is. per day, for each year he keeps
at it, and saves that Is., he acquires enough to
keep himself and family for four years in China,
whereas if the single white man works for the
same wage and saves the Is. per day, at the end
of the year he has =£lB 5s. —not more than lowest
living wage for a man and family in Australia for
12 weeks. And it is this fact, independently of the
Chinaman’s personal characteristics, that makes
him and his kind such undesirable immigrants.
The Government of the egg-bald Dickson
is starting badly in Queensland. When the Bill
abolishing attachment of wages got into commit-
tee, Drake’s amendment extending the operation
of the measure to both sexes, and to clerical as
well as manual workers, was carried by 35 to 8.
Then the Government’s Officials in Parliament
Bill was thrown out by a majority of seven.
Dickson goes right on despite these defeats, but,
obviously, the Continuous Ministry which has
been bossed successively by Griffith, MTlwraith,
Nelson, Byrnes, and Dickson is growing shaky at
last. It is now in its ninth year, and a Govern-
ment is usually very ancient and toothless at that
age.
Mrs. MACLURCAN , Queen's Hotel, Townsville , authoress of “ Mrs. Madurcan's Cookery Book.’
The Papuan Land Steal.
A WELL-informed correspondent re the Papuan
land grab :
Tub Bulletin (24/9/’9B) tears that it may cost the Ad-
ministration of British Papua more to acquire the 250,000
acres for the Somers Vine crowd than the contract price
of 2s. lam sure it will, and I claim to have some know-
ledge of Papua and its inhabitants, notwithstanding the
Governor’s self-sufficient utterances in Brisbane recently.
Moreover, my Papuan experience extends over the whole
of the island, and for several years, with survey and
exploration parties, I was brought into close con-
tact with the natives. I am certain, as far as the
coastal regions and lowlands —especially well fitted for
tropical cultivation—are concerned, the land will
come to very much more than 2s. per acre. The
whole coast is densely populated, and the Papuans are
not only an agricultural people, but their laws of land-
ownership are well defined. No chief can sign : w i}', in a
state of cheap trade-gin elation, whole kingd mi. The
aboriginals are a very democratic set, and spin up into
numberless small tribes, the whole available ground is
divided and sub-divided into countless tiny blocks, the
owners of which will have to be individually satisfied —or
despatched. The latter alternative has been a very good,
time-honored South Sea fashion, and 1 cannot disabuse my
mind of the suspicion that the expediency of this scheme
has recommended ilself already to the grahsters. There
are so many and quite respectable ways of despatching
the savage. Where there are eoenanut-groves or planta-
tions the land will be doubly dear, in many oases abso-
lutely unprocurable. The large valleys in the interior
are also densely populated, and the uninhabited back
country is too unspeakably vertical, and inaccessible
generally, to be of any use at present, while the eleva-
tion will not allow of cultivation of high-class tropical
produce. The cost of transport, moreover, would compel
the syndicate to stick to the coast. The whole scheme —
from the ethical point of view Gov. MacGregor claims to
regard it from—spells simply wholesale eviction and intro-
duction of forced hard labor among the lazy, easy-going
Papuans. (By-the-bye, they do remind one of the Irish,
with their insular proximity, their little potato-patches,
their thriftlessness, their fighti ig proclivities—and then-
probable fate shortly). More or less compulsory baptism,
I suppose, will also be thrown in as a sop to the mission-
ary influence.


The Boston Shower.
The greatest luxury one can wish for after a day’s
work on the farm or among stock is a good bath.
Unfortunately, in few rural dwelllings is the water
laid on so that on returning from the fields at
night the wished-for bath may be indulged in.
The Boston Shower has been invented to meet
this want, and it has many and great recom-
mendations. It is ready at a moment’s notice;
easily put in operation ; can be used, with either
cold or hot water, and, above all, it is extremely
cheap. The Boston Shower (of which Messrs. M.
Moss & Co., the old established merchants of
Sydney and Melbourne, are the proprietors) may
be set up by anyone, and any corner in a shed
will serve for the purpose if there is no bathroom
on the place. All that is wanted is a bucket of
77T
...
cold or warm water, and the bath is ready. The
block showing this patent shower illustrates how
it is set up. The patent consists in a most in-
genious pumping arrangement, enclosed in a metal
disc about 4ft. 6in. from the ground. A short
handle projects from this disc, and by working
this backwards and forwards a continuous shower
is produced. The action of the pump is remark-
ably easy, and requires scarcely an effort to force
the water into the shower ; at the same time it is
so powerful that it will throw water 150 ft. This
means to comfort and health is within the reach
of the smallest selector in the country. The price
of the “Boston Shower” is only 375. 6d., and
when packed weighs 451bs. Messrs. M. Moss and
Co. will, on application, be pleased to forward
further particulars.
N.S.W. Government Railways.
MELBOURNE RACES.
Holiday excursion tickets to
Melbourne will be issued at Sydney by the
ordinary 9 p.m. Mail Train from MONDAY/
24th October, to FRIDAY, 4th November, in-
clusive, available for return within three months
from date of issue by Mail Train leaving Mel«
bourne at 6.15 a.m.
FARES:
First-class Return, £5 | Second-class Return, £3lss
These Tickets will not be available for return
by Express Train, except by payment of the
difference between the Ordinary and Holiday
Excursion Rates, viz., 21s. 6d. First-class and 16s.
Second-class.
At all other stations Holiday Excursion Tickets
will be issued from MONDAY, 24th October, to
FRIDAY, 4th November, inclusive, available for
return for three months, at the local Holiday Ex-
cursion Rate to Albury, plus the Excursion Fare
Albury to Melbourne, viz., 38s. 7d. First and
255. Bd. Second-class.
On the Southern Line, in cases where the two
local fares (viz., to Albury and thence to Mel-
bourne) amount to more than the through rate
from Sydney to Melbourne, the Sydney rate only,
viz., £5 First-class and £3 15s. Second-class, will
be charged.
On the Western Line passengers will be charged
the Holiday Excursion Rate (via Blayney) to
Albury and the Local Excursion Fare Albury to
Melbourne (as shown above) added ; but when
the passengers from the Western Line travel via
Sydney Holiday Excursion Fare to Sydney plus
the Holiday Excursion Fare Sydney to Mel-
bourne will be charged.
On the South Coast and Northern Lines
passengers will be charged the Local Holiday
Excursion Fare to Sydney, plus the Holiday
Excursion Fare Sydney to Melbourne.
BY ORDINARY EXPRESS AND SPECIAL
EAST EXPRESS TRAINS the Fares from
Sydney to Melbourne will be <£6 Is. 6d. First-
class and £4 11s. Second-class, available for re-
turn by any train within six months from date of
issue.
A SPECIAL FAST EXPRESS TRAIN,
composed of SLEEPING CARS ONLY, will
leave Sydney for Melbourne at 7.50 p.m. on
THURSDAY, 27th October, 1898.
The PULLMAN VESTIBULE and NEW
CORRIDOR CARS, which are replete with
every comfort, will be run from SYDNEY to
ALBURY on the Ordinary Express.
A SPECIAL CHEAP EXCURSION TRAIN
will leave Sydney for Melbourne at 9.20 a.m. on
FRIDAY, 28th October, due Melbourne 6.20
a.in. next morning. Return Fares : First-class,
<£3 10s.; Second-class, =£2 10s. Available for
return by Mail Train leaving Melbourne at 6.15
a.m. on any day (Sundays excepted) up to FRI-
DAY, 25th November, 1898, inclusive.
On SATURDAY, sth November, a SPECIAL
EXPRESS TRAIN will leave Melbourne at 11.0
p.m., and be due Sydney 5.50 p.m. on SUNDAY
EVENING, 6th November.
For further particulars see Handbills and
Posters.
By order of the Commissioners.
H. M‘LACHLAN, Secretary.
Gent’s Kid-leg Calf Goloshed 10/6
u „ Patent ~ 10/6
u Glace-leg and Golosh, patent caps ... 10/6
„ All Russia Tan Calf 10/6
„ All Ooze Tan Calf 10/6
By Rail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
are Famous
I ' I
V
w
mm.
. . SEND FOB . .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . OF . .
Ladies 9 , Gentlemen 9 s,
and
CHILDREN’S BOOTS.
Head Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE,
Geelong and Ballarat .
THE LAST_ OP SIX.
PRICE Is.; , . per Post Is. 3d.
World ’ s Racing Carnival.
StainerA Co.,
MELBOURNE.
VISITORS to the MELBOURNE CUP will
find us REPLETE in ALL DEPART-
MENTS with the CHOICEST and MOST
Exclusive @igh-(Ciass Novelties
. . . FOR THE . . .
CUP CARNIVAL.
STAINER & CO.
STAINER & CO.
STAINER & CO.
STAINER & CO.
BEAUTIFUL GOWNS
CHOICE MILLINERY
DELIGHTFUL BLOUSES
CUP DRESSES
STYLISH PARASOLS
STAINER & CO.
Charming BLOUSE FRONTS
STAINER & CO.
DAINTY JABOTS
STAINER & CO.
Lovely CHIFFON and LACE SCARVES
STAINER & CO.
CHASTE BELT SETS
STAINER & CO.
NEW TINTS IN GLOVES
STAINER & CO.
NOVELTIES IN HOSIERY
STAINER & CO.
STAINEK & CO.,
LADIES’ OUTFITTERS,
DRAPERS and COSI UMIERS,
33 and 35 Swanston Street,
MELBOURNE.
Ostrich Tips
Almost GIVEN AWAY
as an advertisement for
TWO WEEKS ONLY.
BLACK, WHITE,
CREAM TIPS, three for Is. 6d., post free. Write now.
This offer will not be repeated. Extra Large Ostrich
Tips, three for ss. ; worth 12s. 6d.
When ordering, send Postal Notes for the amount, and
add 2d. extra for exchange.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP ,
213 Chapel-st., PRAHRAN, MELBOURNE.
Tbs Royal Baok of Australia
LIMITED.
+
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
+
TWENTY-FIRST REPORT, PRESENTED TO THE SHAREHOLDERS at the ORDINARY
GENERAL MEETING on 28th OCTOBER, 1898.
The Directors have pleasure in placing before Shareholders the annexed Balance-Sheet and State-
ment of Accounts to 30th September, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £4137 14s. brought from last half-year) amounted to <£8226 35., of which
the usual dividend at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum will absorb £2250, leaving a balance of £5976
3s. to be carried forward.
. The Directors desire to express their thanks to the Shareholders who have assisted them by bring-
ing deposits and influencing other desirable business to the Bank. With a continuance of their
valuable aid, the Directors feel confident that a steadily progressive course can be maintained on safe
lines, with a corresponding increase in profits, when the present keen competition in rates abates.
By Order of the Board,
H. T. WILSON, Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
Melbourne, 10th October, 1898.
To the Shareholders of the Royal Bank of Australia Limited.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—We report that we have audited the accounts of your Bank for the half-
year ending 30th September, 1898, and that, so far as we are in a position to form an opinion, the
Balance-Sheet and Accounts have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the “ Companies
Acts,” and present a correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs. "
THOMAS KIDD. F.S.A.A. i ...
ARTHUR W. CLEVELAND, F.I.A.V. j Audltors *
Statement of Assets and Liabilities.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE ROAAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
Dr. For the Half-Year ending 30th September, 1898. Cr.
CAPITAL and LIABILITIES.
To Capital authorised—
-600,000 Shares of £4
each £2,400,000 0 0
~ Capital subscribed—
First issue of 150,000
shares £600,000 0 0
~ Capital paid-up ... £150,000 0 0
~ Profit and Loss Ac-
count 8,226 3 0
£158,226 8 0
~ Notes in Circulation 5,042 0 0
~ Bills in Circulation 23,990 16 8
~ Government Deposits Nil.
~ To other Deposits—
Not bearing interest £80,466 17 0
Bearing inlerest ... 200,108 11 6
280,575 8 11
~ Interest accrued on Deposits and rebate
on Bills Current 2,735 10 7
£470,569 19 2
To Contingent Liabilities as per contra ... £90,633 0 0
ASSETS.
By Coined Gold and Silver
and other Coined Metal £34,585 16 0
„ Notes and Bills of other
Banks and Stamps ... 412 18 10
„ Balances due from other
Banks 19,170 15 9
ft Cash at Bankers 32,352 8 4
£86,521 17 11
„ Bank Furniture, Fittings, Stationery,
&c., at costless £391 12s. written off
for depreciation 220 0 0
„ Beal Estate, consisting of —
Bank Premises Nil.
Other Real Estate, at cost to Bank,
after writing off £7437 for deprecia-
tion 12,650 15 5
„ Advances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts 318,301 11 2
~ Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes
discounted, not included above, ex-
clusive of provision for bad and doubt-
ful debts ; 62,875 14 8
£470,569 19 2
By Liabilities and Securities of customers
and others in respect of contingent
liabilities as per contra £90,633 0 0
PKOEIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, Rent, and other charges ... £2,566 13 1
~ Balance 8,226 3 0
£10,792 16 1
By Balance at 31st March, 1898 £6,387 14 0
Less Dividend declared April 26, 1898 2,250 0 0
~ Balance carried down £4,137 14 0
„ Profits for the half-year, after deduct-
ing' interest accrued on deposits and
rebate on bills current, less reserves
for bad and doubtful debts 6,655 2 1
£10,792 16 1
ĥ
idUftiVKTDT’S FA'IJiNT
HAND ICE-MAKER
FOR
HOUSEHOLD
USE.
MAKES
ICE IN TEN (10)
MINUTES !
EVERY WIFE HER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
Prices: 205., 405.. and 50s. Delivered at any Port or Railway Station
in Australia, 6d. and ss. extra.
BKANDT BROS.,
Manufacturers,
236 Pitt-st., Sydney
and 422 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
BRITISH COLUMBlA.—Advertiser leaving
next month, offers from accessible mining
districts, reliable descriptive letters to Traders
and prospectors, subscribing 3to 5 guineas. Ad-
dress, Kootenay, c/o. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
Fremantle, W.A.
Poverty Pointers f
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largesb Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR, HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
KTortli Queensland.
James Watters ... Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
U of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
ħ
COLEMAME'S
EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT
Is indeed “MONARCH” of
all the Eucalyptus Extracts
on the market, as it is ONE
QUALITY onIy—FIRST, and
Guaranteed Pure.
For a COLD, a BAD
COUGH, or any CHEST
TROUBLES, there is no-
thing can touch it. It is
Eucalypte pure and simple
Without Adulterants.
IQUOR
HABIT
Eucrasy will completely fie*
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the known
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
PamphL. on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed
EASILY
EUCRASY CO. F
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
THE
DEAF
HFAB
“Common Sense jcd-
Drums” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Sci entific Aural
(Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER.
IUSSO-
HAS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations,
“ BEETH AM’S" is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/- & 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
<=>
y;
tP
OLD
RMS
IK
SUNBXJ
fing
»>i
uO
CHA
DS
&.c
*y
Y
h
D r • Clarkson’s
lie-Invigor at,or»
We still offer £lOO Reward for any
case we cannot cure.
This Remedy stops all Ailments in
24 hours ; restores Vigor, cures DE-
BILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER, and
all other Wasting Effects. Sent sealed
to any part of the Colonies, 7/6
bottle, 3 bottles £l. Guaranteed
to Cure.
Clarke’s Blood Mixture, 2/8; Eno’s Fruit Salts, 2/1;
Fellows’ Syrup, 4/-; Mother Seigel’s Syrup, 1/11; Pain
Killer (Perry Davis’), 1/-; St. Jacobs Oil, 1/11; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 8/6.
The Owl Cut-Rate Drug Co.,
Sole Agents,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST. (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate Last on application.


Nues Pepery I
“CHRONICLES ” of the “ TIMES.”
Ours are not
Teas of the “ACE.”
It needs no “ARGUS” eye to find that out.
But Billy Tea, Goldenia and liota in Teas.
GRANUMA, FODAH and HOMAH
in delicious Porridge Foods, and WHITE
HEATHER in Whiskies,
are Best Values, Highest Qualities, and
absolutely First of their class.
“ HERALD ” it! “ TELEGRAPH ” it ! !
It’s good “NEWS.” A “STAR” of hope, arid
these brands are the “ STAN I) ARDS ” of excel-
lence to all “DAILY OBSERVERS.”
JAS. INGLIS &. CO.,
Sole Proprietors and Agents. Wholesale Only.
Kuppers Efiberfield Lager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY* CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Flectro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Itooins.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
No sooner is France free than there is no
more France. It recalls the parson who said,
‘ As soon as a church gets out of debt it begins to
wane.”
“ Bildad ” : What is the sex of the sjngle-
tax? Though embraced by Ashton and other
Ms.P., its ansemic condition indicates it a con-
firmed old maid.
Let it be remembered that Kingston and
Cockburn were the only members of the first
Federal Convention who voted with Hori Grey, to
make the Governor elective.
The hilarious humor of Vic. Leg. Council.
Hon. Mick Fitzgerald in reply to Wrixon’s pro-
posals for the reform of the Council:
If you make the Second Chamber—the Chamber of
Review—a body with a basis nearly as wide as that of
another place, you encourage the revising Chamber,
because of its very strength, to be obstructive.
Fancy Vic. Council needing any encouragement
to be obstructive !
During the exciting Stout-Vogel
regime in Maoriland in the mid-eighties
the competition of the press correspond-
ents at Wellington for news led to some
amusing contretemps. Vogel, struggling
for a second lease of power, and know-
ing that the depression following on his
borrowing had greatly discredited him,
saw that a policy of sensation was his
only hope. He took extraordinary
measures to prevent forecasts of his
contemplated coups reaching the press,
and, being an old journalist himself,
was up to most of the tricks of the
trade. His financial statement, for in-
stance, was set up at the Govt. Printing
Office by comps, who were kept under
strict surveillance and were threatened
with all sorts of pains and penalties if
they gave “ the show ” away ; and
Vogel insulted the pressmen by pad-
ding the ceiling of the Cabinet room
(it was immediately under the press-
room) with sawdust, to prevent eaves-
dropping. The correspondents took up
the implied challenge, and all . sorts of
devices were used to get to windward
of the astute Treasurer. A Wellington
scribe made a fair “scoop ” by surrepti-
tiously entering the cabinet room just
before the Ministers met and, connect-
ing the telephone with his office, left
the receiver unhooked and was thus
enabled to catch a few echoes of some
very private matters. But Vogel was
completely out-generalled by the clever
ruse of an Auckland journalist on the
very day on which the mysterious fin-
ancial statement was to be delivered.
The correspondent, playing on Vogel’s
weakness for posing as an Australasian
statesman, wrote the Treasurer a polite
note asking for a 100-word forecast
“ for Melbourne Akgus.” Vogel, keen-
ly watched from the press-gallery, hesi-
tated, read and re-read the missive, and then, with
pathetic reluctance, wrote a note and despatched
it to the anxious scribe in the gallery. Vogel's
reply was, “ Impossible until after delivery in the
House to-night.” But the pressman, having ob-
served the pantomimic irresolution, reckoned that
his fish would rise to a second cast, so he wrote
back : “ Argus wishes to write leader on state-
ment. Please write synopsis on enclosed blank
telegraph-form, which I have signed, and des-
patch yourself.” Vogel this time gulped the bait
whole, wrote the forecast, and sent it by his per-
sonal attendant to the telegraph-room. But the
pressman was there too, and a whispered instruc-
tion to send “ that Akgus wire to my paper in
Auckland ” enabled one happy editor to beat his
competitors by many hours.
Fysh goes to England, after all, as Tas.
Agent-General. As a Treasurer he will be difficult
to replace. As a hard worker and an honest
financial bullock for an uphill road Tasmania has
few like him.
As most of the Australians reckon their
public servants superannuated —if not useless —
after the age of 60, why not apply the principle to
legislators? Victoria might begin with the old
men of the Upper House.
Drake, M.L.A., recently told his Enoggera
constituents that he always tried to avoid treading
on people’s toes if he could possibly manage it.
That’s just what is the matter with Drake—he
doesn’t offend half enough people.
THE VOTE FOR THRIFT.
By law-reports is often shown
The Fat Man’s patriotic drift—
He gets a vote, not for his own,
But for the other fellow’s thrift.
Premier Reid claims to have favourably
considered the sentiments of the publican class by
taking into his cabinet Hogue, Lee and Parkes
instead of Garrard, Gould and Syd. Smith. Bung
will judge his pudding by his eating, however.
Chinese cabinet-makers are not averse to
the special stamping of Chinese-made furniture.
Said one, “Supposin’ Misser Leid, Misser Barton,
stamp tea packet ‘this tea glow in China’ you
think Eulopean no drink tea? Hy yah ? All a
same furniture.”
_ According to a statement by M‘Coll, in
Vio. Assembly, during the Land Bill discussion,
'<!• Government is offering to convey Vic. farmers
and their families and belongings to Leperland, if
they will consent to go there and take up land.
The luck of Hoolan, the loquacious Queens-
land M.L.A., is dead out. For seven weeks of
the present session he kept silent, and refused to
be ‘ drawn ” by friend or foe. When at last he
broke the ice, he was forthwith suspended by the
Speaker for seven days.
Next Q. elections will probably prove that
Premier Byrnes’ death was the biggest slice of
luck ever thrown to Q. Labor-party. Thousands
i j V u* ;es would have been cast for the party
led by a native-born and Irish-Australian Premier
will now go in favor of the Opposition.
Brisbane Courier pours out columns of
wrath on the recalcitrant Q. Labor-members, but
in the matter of “ language ” Battersby it main-
tains a squid-like silence. But, then, Battersby
once saved the Government by tumbling inside
the bar and^ equalising the votes. The “right-
thinking ” Speaker Cowley gave the necessary
majority.
The motion of Labor-member Hughes, in
N.S.W. Assembly, that Sydney should be the
Federal capital, was supported by 12 votes, of
which the Labor-party supplied six. The Federal
capital will bring with it much extra population
and wealth, which means increased land values,
and in Sydney these would all be snavelled by
the private landlord. WherCas, if the Common-
wealth made a fresh start in a new locality, it
could be its own ground landlord on pure Land
Nationalisation principles. This makes the situa-
tion of one or two Land Nationalisers among the
six Labor-men look rather curious.
UP TO DATE.
MR. HANMEDOWN ( to customer) : “I’m afraid we're just
out of our Yes-No size !”
The Kingston Ministry’s only railway
scheme, a line to Innamincka on Q. border to
divert the stock trade, was rejected by three
votes last week. The line which was fathered by
railways commissioner Pendleton and guaranteed
by him to pay from the start, was described by an
opponent as “ commencing in Purgatory and end-
ing in Hell.”
Queensland Speaker recently “ sent up”
some half-dozen members for seven days apiece.
Apropos of which Q. Hansakd breaks out thusly :
“Mr. Hoolan thereupon proceeded to the table,
and, filling a glass with water, said ‘ Here’s luck
all round.’ The hon. member then left the
Chamber, raising his coat-tails as he retired.”
Now this is picturesque !
Had Downing-street incapacity not driven
Hori Grey from his South African satrapy, it is
probable that the race bitterness now existing
there would have been much ameliorated. Froude,
for some time at the Cape as British Commissioner,
has left it on record that all the peoples there—
Hottentots, Boers, Britishers and Kaffirs said to
him, “ Send us back Grey ; he understands us.”
The numerous pocket-handkerchief-allot-
ment owner is not the only objectionable pluralist
in Victoria. M’Culloeh, a Minister supporting the
Plural Voting Abolition Bill, stated in the Leg.
Council, the other day,---
I, myself, because I happen to be a member of several
companies, have votes for 15 or 16 different constituencies
round Melbourne, although I do not own a piece of land
within the city or suburbs.
A list of road-and-bridge grants made be-
tween March and July, 1898, shows that, of all the
N.S.W. electorates, Hastings and Macleay re-
ceived the biggest allowance. And yet when
Potato Young appealed wildly to the electorate to
show its gratitude and its sense of more roads
and bridges to come by electing Pumpkin Smith,
the pampered district refused even to look at
Smith.
A return laid before Q. Assembly shows
that “free” and O.H.M.S. telegrams in the
northern province totalled ,£73,000 for previous
year. Weather-prophet Wragge claimed <£25,000
as his share. If some of the “free” messages
could have been laid on the table as well, it would
have been very instructive. No wonder certain of
the Opposition got weak in their political knees at
critical periods.
The division by the N.S.W. elections com-
mittee as to the legality of Mudgee election is an
interesting study. The four Reidites, Ashton,
Neild, Mahony and Whiddon, all voted for up-
setting the election ; the four Opposition mem-
bers plumped just as unanimously on the other
side. It was left to Labor member J. H. Cann,
to virtually decide the matter, and he saved the
seat for Mr. Richards.
W. J. Denny, editor of the S.A. Catholic
paper, talks of standing for West Adelaide against
Premier Kingston and Labor-Leader Batohelor at
the general election next April. A large propor-
tion of local residents are Irish, and the Arch-
bishop’s palace with the headquarters of most of
the priests, is also within its limits. Denny s
brother is now studying for the priesthood in St.
Mary’s College, Manly.
When little Dr. Maloney introduced hia
clauses for allowing the father of an illegitimate
child to register it in his own name, I rank
Madden enunciated a most astonishing argu-
ment: “ The intentions of the hon. member who
moved the clauses are, no doubt, of the very best,
but when he is making these efforts to remove
some of the stigma attaching to illegitimacy he
has to recollect that a greater than he ” [presum-
ably the Almighty] “ has ordained that all chil-
dren should be born in original sin.”
Tasmania has at last decided to centralise
its police-force. Hitherto, every little rural
council has appointed its own solitary bobby, and
each copper had to have his own officer to look
after him because the officer in the next district
could not interfere. One result was that the force
was wretchedly paid, undisciplined, and greatly
over-officered. Another was that no policeman
dared to seriously enforce the law against any
local dignitary, else he inevitably lost his billet.
Tasmania stood this system for a long time, but
the isle has at long last revolted.
Melbourne Australasian, by way of
showing the utter needlessness of the clause in the
new Vic. Land Bill which provides for the com-
pulsory resumption of large estates by Govt., says
that in M.L., where Govt, has this power, it has
only been used once. Which is quite true. But
then it is only because the State has the power of
oompulsory purchase that the owner generally
comes to terms. The fact that it has only once
been necessary to use the power doesn’t prove that
it should be abolished, any more than the fact that
Australia only once had an armed insurrection on
hand is proof that the laws against armed insur-
rection should be repealed.
N.S.W. should note that it is the dark
Protectionist places that almost monopolise the
W.A. food supply, as witness the labels in Kal-
goorlie stores. Jams, vegetables, fruits, butter,
biscuits, cakes, puddings, oatmeal, dried fruits,
fish and meat almost entirely from Vic., Tas., S.A.
and M.L. ; California and Europe contribute in
fruit, vegetables, fish and jam. Out of <£3,000,000
worth of Australasian goods imported into W. A.
in ’9O (the last year shown by W.A. statistics)
Freetrade N.S.W. supplied only <£287,000 worth.
The Freetrade enthusiast might explain how it
comes about that though tea enters W.A. free of
impost, there appears to be hardly an ounce of
even moderately good tea for sale in that thirsty
land.
Carruthers on the Federal resolution de-
manding increased control over “our” rivers:
“Of 240,000,000 acres in N.S.W. 142,000,000 are
watered by the Dari in g and Murray River systems. ”
Cohen : “ Yes, and in all those constituencies the
Bill was accepted by large majorities.” No-Yes
and co. and the Sydney D.T. tried to discount
this at the late elections by saying these border
voters were ex-Victorians who had come to
N.S.W. Yet the same God-fearing crowd,
backed by the same organ of sudden variations,
has drearily reiterated for years that the farmers
of Victoria, ruined by Protection, were swarming
to N.S.W. to enjoy the blessings of Freetrade.
And these alleged Victorian refugees are voting
enthusiastically for a policy which will probably
bring Protection to N.S.W.
All the arguments advanced against Barton
acting in the M‘Sharry case while a sitting mem-
ber of N.S.W. Leg. Assembly, avail much more
powerfully against a host of other practices in-
dulged in with impunity by Ms.L. A. and Minis-
ters of the Crown. For example, during last
general elections one of Reid’s Ministers was sole
owner of one newspaper and part owner of another,
and while m these relations to them the papers
accepted contracts for Govt, advts and duly
executed them. MsL.A., who are newspaper
proprietors, invariably accept engagements to
advertise for a quarter or half-year Govt, notices.
The Parliamentary law dealing with the subject
of Ms.L. A. working in their private capacities for
the Crown needs modern interpretation, but the
directing of all its extreme pains at Barton, while
cases like those mentioned pass without comment,
proves the virulent animosity of party spirit.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Storey, M.L.A., in N.S.W. Assembly :
“ Suppose the capital of United Australia is
located at Albury, Wagga, Cootamundra, or some
other place 200 miles from Sydney, how will it
be possible for any man to be a member unless he
is a purely professional politician ?” If the capi-
tal is.to be at Sydney it will still be just as im-
possible for any man from Queensland, S.A.,
Tasmania or Westralia to be a member unless he
is a professional politician. (Storey himself, by
the way, is a lovely specimen of the amateur poli-
tician). The trouble .with the Storey kind of
parochialist is that he can’t remember that there
is any place but N.S.W. in the Federation.
IN “PUSH" SOCIETY.—DEGENERATION.
P IPPO: “ Real dog that Bunt Wilkins."
NOBBY: “ Yers; secon' time we've caught him
talkin’ ter Choius!”
With much pressure on their bald pates,
the Tas. Upper House ancients took the tax off
meat; and, though the consumers bet on a drop,
and the butchers shed blood - and - salt tears
in sympathy, beef and mutton are as high-
priced as before. As sweet consolation for the
oppressed poor, the ’aughty Hinglish trout anglers
are advancing stringent measures for running-in
the unlicensed fishermen ; and Govt, is enforcing
the vermin close-season and rabbit poisoning.
Back-country spud-cookies are now spending all
their spare days either stalking protected ’roos or
tickling trout. The great wonder is that there is
not more sheep-stealing.
The story of a round-robin signed by a
number of Q. Govt, supporters against J. R.
Dickson’s assumption of the Premiership. Firstly,
a certain legislator hawked the document round
and touted for signatures. Seventeen members
put down their names, and two of them found (so
they say) shortly after, that their names figured
at the bottom of a paper differing considerably
from the one they signed. Then the gentleman
who had organised the protest backed down and
became a Dicksonite, leaving his supporters to
kick themselves vigorously for a pack of fools,
while the outside public grinned delightedly in
the back ground.
If the Federal capital is fixed in N.S.W.
The Bulletin suggests, as a few promising jilaces,
Ben Lomond (4471 ft. high), Armidale (3264 ft.),
Kiandra (4640 ft.), Cooma (2657 ft.), also Hillgrove,
Bombala and Nimitybelle. In these bracing,
elevated regions the Federal Parliament wouldn’t
suffer from that Tired Feeling. It would be
bright and vigorous. When the inevitable
struggle for supremacy arose between it and the
State Parliaments a Legislature that hung out at
Ben Lomond or Kiandra ought to simply walk
over the tired, perspiring-Parliaments that swelter
in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Perth. The Bulletin wants to see the Federal
Parliament win every time, and the first essential
to that end is to plant it in a bracing atmosphere.
Besides, the Federal city should speedily attract
50,000 people at least, and in these regions 50,000
robust fighting Australians could be grown —not
50,000 pallid weeds leaning up against a public-
house corner.
“ Tay Way ” to The Bulletin :
What is there against Wilcannia as a site for the
Federal capital ? I put the case for it thus :Itis in N.S.
Wales. Inland. On the Darling-. Nearly the same dis-
tance from three of the four capitals. It could be in
direct railway connection with all four in six months by
extending the lines from Cobar and Broken Hill a little
over 100 miles each. And by a direct line from Swan Hill
and a loop from Nyngan to Werris Creek the railway
connection could be made almost perfect in a year or two,
and at the same time open up good country ; and when
the two great lines from Perth and Port Darwin come to
hand pass- -rig-era would rea'-h the Federal capital sooner
than Adelaide, and he in Sydney or Brisbane before they
could get to Melbourne at present. Is it too soon to
speak of another great line of the future! From Nor-
mant.on by way of Gilherton, Longreaeh, Charleville, and
so on to Wilcannia—The Federal Capital. Now let us
hear the other side.
[The main argument against making Wilcannia
the Federal capital is the one which people would
chiefly use against making Hell the Federal capi-
tal. The climate.—Fid. B.]
Re the “ striking-off” of that hatch of
would-be voters at Isisford, Q. Here is the situa-
tion as explained at length in Q. Leg. Assembly.
According to the form issued to voters the attestor
has to sign his name and qualification (J.P., or as
the case may be) three times on each form. (The
Home Secretary issued instructions to Electoral
Registrars that any trifling error should not in-
validate the claim). Well, on these claims the
attestor omitted to add J.P. after the third signa-
ture when attesting. In the interval an intend-
ing opponent of the sitting (Labor) member had
the cast-iron cheek to issue instructions to all
J.sP. in this electorate to be careful as to what
names were added to the roll. This gave the
needed cue, and when the claims came up for
registration the chairman of the bench, the
attestor aforesaid, disqualified the claims he had
witnessed himself owin'l to his own last signature
not havin'i J.P. after it! What can happen to a
man in Queensland if be tries to be an elector.


Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark - -
Fur Skins -
- Monday
- Tuesday
- Tuesday
- Wednesday
Australasian Mortgag-e and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - Friday
Tallow - Friday
Hides - Friday
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchcombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
3. C. Young and Co.
THE UNIVERSAL VERDICT OE ALL HOTELKEEPERS is:
IT IS INDISPENSIBLE ! IT IS INVALUABLE!
THE Wo. 1
The Hotelkeepers’ Special Bar Cash Register.
This Register
HAS BEEN
SPECIALLY . . .
MANUFACTURED
TO SUPPLY THE
. . NECESSARY . .
REQUIREMENTS
—FOR—
HOTEL BAR
BUSINESS.
Mr. W. C. Wilson, pro-
prietor of Scott’s Hotel,
Melbourne, writes:
“ I have much pleasure in
testifying to the efficacy and
convenience of the Registers,
which answer the purpose for
which they are intended most
completely, andl canstrongly
recommend them to any one
conducting a business in
which much cash is handled.”
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
It is Supplied..
with :
1. A Special Arrange-
ment of Keys suited to
the purchaser’s class of
business.
2. A large-sized Cash-
Till with wide base.
3. A Customer Coun-
ter, a Lid Counter, and
Adding Mechanism that
can be reset to Zero.
Full Particulars on appli-
cation to
The National
Cash Register
Company’s
HEAD OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALASIA :
303 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY;
or to 364 COLLINS STREET (Melbourne Office).
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager,
BA
ĥ
★
Cheaper and
better than any
other House in
Australasia
*
Strings & Fittings
For Every Musical Instrument.
Pianos
Organs
Music
Violins
Hccordeons
Hutoharps
Mouth Organs
Polophons
Cornets
Flutes
ħ
SOLE AGENTS FOR
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
BANJOS
ZITHERS,
THE BEST IN THE WORLD!
Used by all the Leading Musicians.
rr
T
0
h
ĥ
Catalogues
Post Free.
W, H. PALING & CO., Limited,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
.A.T BEISBAUE & UEWCASTLE.
ħ
figSTINISSS
fSR£M°Sr
l. since
Y
Dunloptyres\
THE BEST RIM IS
THE DUNLOP,
welch-rjKA
An
Indisputable
Argument
is the fact that this combination
is fitted to 90 per cent, of the
machines running in Australia.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 Kent-street, Sydney ;
and at
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH,
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
/A
Dunlop
tyres
Perfected
wOFALL KINDS.
IOUNLOP
MIDGET
REPAIR,
, OUTFIT
A Plaint from Rue Australia.
The following letter, written on both sides of
the paper, reaches The Bulletin from Rue
Australia, Paraguay. A similar one, which
struck the office in one of its tired moments,
was dropped in the basket some weeks or
months ago :
To the Sydney Bulletin.—
Sir,—l have been imprisoned falsely by the Paraguan
Government. I asked Mr. Holmes, the British Consult,
Asuncion, for protection on March 2 last, on the 3rd
prox. I wrote Mr. Holmes the following- letter :—“ Sir, —I
called at your office yesterday, and asked you, sir, as the
British Consult, for protection from the Paraguan Govern-
ment. As lam a British subject, with hearing my side
of the case you told me that you knew all about
it, and directed me to go down this street, turn to
my right, keep the market on my left, and it would
bring me to an English Bazaar kept by a man
who could speak English and he might be able
to tell me where I could get a lawyer. You
also asked me if I could speak Spanish. I told you
No. I then asked if that was all the British protection
I would get. You said Yes, that is all the British pro-
tection you will get. You would' oblige me by answering
this in writing and let me know if you have any more
protection to offer.” Mr. Holmes said that I could not
compell him to answer this letter in writing. And that I
was an New Australian and had throwing up all alligiance
to the British Government. I told him I had done no
such thing, as I was only a recent arrival in Paraguay.
Charge one of assault on a pretty woman age 32." In-
tendente King laid a secret charge against me to the
Minister of the Interior, and he without making further
inquiries (although the woman was present) sent a war-
rant for my arrest to the Geppe-politico Ajos, a
villiage 130 miles from Asunsion. I was arrested and
taking to Ajos. The prosecutrix had six witnesses
The Judge held an inquirie to see if it was worth a trial.
When he had spoken to four witnesses he dismissed the
case without trial and said I should not have been in-
teredfeared with. The Giffe politico said the warrent
was that stiff that he went himself to arrest me so that I
would not be ill-treated by his men. I was three day
under arrest, and I live ten miles from Ajos (Protarcos),
and the pigs I had fastened up got neithir food or water
whilst I was away. I seen Dr. Aceval, a lawyer and
brother to the minister of the iriteriorir. He told me
there was no such thing as sueing the Paraguan Govern-
ment for false imprisonment. The United States Consult
told me had I been a United States subject things would
be different, but he could not interfear because there
was a British Consul to go too.
Dear Bulletin, I wrote you a letter like this, also one
to the Home Secretary, London, on last March 9th, and I
believe both went astray. Would you please publish what
you think proper of the above if this should reach you.—
Yours truly, Robert Prior.
The Bulletin asks this wild Rue Australian
what he is grumbling about? He was arrested
(apparently on the information of one of his own
countrymen) on a charge of assaulting the nice-
looking brown woman—which is liable to happen
to a man anywhere. This paper doesn’t profess
to know whether he assaulted the nice-looking
brown woman or not, but apparently the
charge wasn’t proved. Anyhow, Paraguayan
justice was so prompt and so fair that he was
acquitted in three days and got back home
again before the pigs were dead. In Australia
it would have taken him at least a month to
get an acquittal, and the pigs would have been
quite defunct before he got back. Moreover,
it is 1000 to 1 that he wouldn’t have been
acquitted in Australia ; the mere say-so of any
nice-looking brown woman in this country, let
alone a nice-looking brown woman with six
witnesses, would have got him seven years and
very likely two floggings as well. In Suf-
field’s case the bare assertion of the
woman, with all the evidence on the side
of the defence, got the accused ten years.
And if the man who writes on both sides of
the paper had been acquitted in Australia, he
wouldn t have got a farthing damages against
the Government. Anyhow, the person who
goes to live in Paraguay, on the land benevo-
lently provided by the Paraguayan Govern-
ment, can’t complain if he has to submit to
Paraguayan law. And Paraguayan law seems
so eminently just and honest, and so prompt in
its dealings, that the complainant ought to feel
more like presenting it with a bouquet than
wanting damages. If a Paraguayan got into a
similar difficulty in Australia— God help him •
the law wouldn’t help him much, and indi-
viduals like the present complainant on both
sides of the paper would remark that it served
the blasted foreigner right. What strikes Thk
Bulletin most was the inhumanity of the Rue
Australian who went away leaving the pigs
locked up. It feels sorry for the pigs.
From a recent N.S.W. Parliamentary re-
tT ?PP ear tha t between March and
duly, (electioneering period), Bowral, repre-
sented by a Govt, supporter, had .£155 road-and-
bridge money spent on it. The editor of Moss
vale Scrutineer, however, asserts that, to his
own knowledge, there was spent in that district,
by the authority of the Minister, between March
and July, 1898, over £5OOO. Enquiry !
The recent demise of medico-clerical Dr.
Zachary Barry recalls the days when an Orange
was an orange in N.S.W.—not a boiled potato !
and when Drs. Barry and M'Gibbon (each worthy
ot each) ran the Protestant Standard with a
blood-curdhng ferocity at singular variance with
the personal dispositions of two specially genial
and kind-hearted men. Their bigotry, in a
word, was purely perfunctory, and official, and
distressed “green” stood as good a chance of
assistance from them as did any other color. Dr.
Barry in particular was, off paper, the mildest of
men, and was simple—despite his portentous
knowledge to the point of credulousness. When
he took over the Standard the doctor already
saw himself another Luther, but climate and
cricket were too strong for him, ahd with charac-
teristic candour he admitted that he would die a
fizzle.”
C. H. James, the “father of the land-
boom,” who died at Burwood, Sydney, the other
day, kept a little “grocery” in W. Melb. in the
late 70 s. About ’B5, Mrs. James inherited some
money, which her husband invested in the pur-
chase of a paddock at Alphington. He promptly
laid out the paddock with streets of high-sounding
names, cut the land into 30ft. allotments, and sold
them, to the accompaniment of free drives and
dinners. James was a long, lanky person, with a
flowing beard, but, despite his appearance, was a
bit good with his hands,” as many know to their
sorrow. When in Queensland, during the shear- ,
ing strike of ’92, he stopped at the house of a big
squatter, but awoke suddenly one night to think
that he was home in his house at Toorak. Hear-
ing a noise in the passage before his door, he
instinctively bounded from bed and, grabbing the
intruder by the throat, dealt out stoush so vigor-
ously that the man fell, “ knocked out.” The
row brought the house out with lights, on which
James realised suddenly where he was, and saw
mthe supposed burglar none other than his host.
The incident was duly published to the world
as an “outrage by unionists,” while the boss
when he came-to, wired all round the Darling
Downs: “Look out for C. H. James; he’s got
burglars on the brain.” James had a let-off
another time. He was ascending the lift at the
Hotel Australia when a beery person lurched in,
and, catching him by the beard, said, “ You want
a shave, sonny ! ” James glared. “ You drunken
scoundrel! ” he roared, “ I’ve a good mind to
knock you down.” The dipso, only laughed, and
when he got out at the first-floor, James asked the
lift-man who he was. “John L. Sullivan,” was
the alarming answer. Personally, James was a I
genial and intelligent man, and, as one who has
had business dealings with him, the writer gives
his opinion that he was the straightest man of the
boom he created. He was a gambler, but not .a
thief, and when one venture, in which he had per-
suaded people to invest, turned up its toes, James
paid everyone his losses in full. Later on his
ventures collapsed so fast that he had to give up
this interesting little habit.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
mill. Ulont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
*74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pawnbroking Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MOATTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
••• AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
jv&uxm*
m
HEAD office
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereach Streets.
• SYDNEY •
Established -1879.
Office ih Austro'* *
Annual lncome and Invested
Funds Exceed^2oo. ooo Sterling.
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & AOGiDESMT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New Sohtii Wales & Queensland:
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Notice is hereby given that the management of
the Company has been transferred to Mr. E. N.
Parker, who will in lnture conduct all business
in connection therewith at the above address.
C. DANVERS, Manager.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
™ E Talking Pcpot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones fr m ,£4.
Berliner Gramophones from £3. Latest Spring 1 Motor
Gramophone, 17 10s. RECORDS, 3s.
Needles, Is. Cd. ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes.
Records, Blanks, and all Accessories in Stock.
Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
ST. PAULI
TRADE Moi MARK
GIRL JH BRAND
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
]| gold Match for [adies Free.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE:
T*E W*M*N.
Ip order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Ladies’ Solid Gold Watches (Open Face or
Hunter). Jewelled Movements, and are Reliable Time-
keepers. List Price, £5 10s. Send your answer at once,
with a stamped addressed envelope, to know if you have
won the PRIZE. If so, and you purchase one of our
Real Gold Ladies’ Chains to wear with the PRIZE
WATCH, they will be sent securely packed, free by
registered Post. Address —
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
TbT Tr6st€€s, €x€QOtorS,
AND
ftgSDCy Conjpaoy Lirpitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... ... ... £60,000
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government' .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4.800,000
Paid-up .. .. .. £2,074,801 10s.
Directors:
ITon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., 11.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; lien. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M’Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Biahopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW COUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 G I'iORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosfonl with agency at Wyong), New-
castle with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'r-THE—>
Colonial Mutual liife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
'- FOR .1
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748 —assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Load on.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiky, L. A. Jessor, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE,. 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
fU ATIO N A L TRUSTEES,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS : Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees.
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices —454 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne.
The |ank nf ffsrtii Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
Cable Address—Riemseil.
Code—Moreing & Neat,, etc.
Telephone No. 095.
Box No. 2:?7, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Clarteze & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ SUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE".
GEELONG
PORTLAND f
WARRNAMBOOL J
Peregrine, Sat’day, Oct. 22, 11 a:tn.
Leura, Friday, October 28, 5 p.m.
Buninyong, Sat., Oct. 29,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Leura, Friday, Oct. 28, 5 p.m.
Buninyong, Sat., Oct. 29,12 Noon.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Sat., Oct. 29, 12 Noon.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 22, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tuesday, Oct. 25, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat’day, Oct. 29, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GEItALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 22, 12 Noon.
-Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 29, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 5, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST <l lii:i:\T FAKES TO ALL POItTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
IT N GLAND VIA AMERICA
A by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
MOANA
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
4000 Oct. 24 Oct. 29 Nov. 16
3158 Nov. 21 Nov. 2d] Dec. 14
3158 Dec. 19 Dec. 24'January 11
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their 'ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide hooks showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
A I D
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
Despatch the following favorite passenger
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & 00., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane,, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
kfkin Wi4ea4e4.
s?leu) Wkcotiery
“*£i(/mo{{iene. ”
The Great Australian Cure.
LTGM LLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OE SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
WoolJo.ston-house, Gastlemaine,
November 30th, 1897.
My dear Mr. Mata on, —
I have used your ointment Ligrnolliene with distinct
success in my own case, but with greater as an emollient
unguent for the face of a young lady suffering from
“Acne,” very common during puberty, and you should
push it in that direction. Kindly send me another box
of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D. WOOLEY, M.D.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit down to record pro-
gress with regard to my old enemy “ Eczema Capitas,”
from which I sutfered, notwithstanding constant treat-
ment for some years under the prescriptions of Pro-
fessor M'Call Anderson and other eminent derma-
tologists, with only partial and temporary relief.
When I met you I commenced somewhat sceptically
your ointment Ligrnolliene, and after about two months’
treatment I may honestly say my enemy is defeated,
and lam perfectly well. I will only add that since I
commenced the treatment of myself I have prescribed it
to others, and am still doing so with brilliant results.
Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours sin-
cerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.R.C.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
William Henry Malyon,
MANUFACTURING CHEMIST, Ballarat.
AH Chemists, ss. and 7s. 6d. per box.
AGENTS
M«SSrS. ELLIOTT BROS.,
Wholesale Druggists,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP C(T
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service "to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
-9.5. Wollowra, Wednesday
October 20.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Wollowra, Wednesday.
October 26.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Buliniba, Saturday,
October 22.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields .
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the'A.U.S.N.
Company at all port s.
G. S. YfJlLl, and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND 6. _ COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Kates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, J 65 to €llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, ±'27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Ifuddart, parker $ go’s Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HOBART,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZKALANI) PORI'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling- at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, ±25 to ±7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
(H‘|luiraith, {lpEacharn 8 (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn k Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from ±l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO.,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S- IN. Coy. Ltd.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane; Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKH AMPTON— Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA-Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
ME’ BOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE--British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.


FEPERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
MELBOURNE.
Conveniently situated close to Station, Steamers and
centre of city.
ROOMS 2s. to 10s.
MEALS Is. and 2s. 6d.
BOARDERS 30s. to £3 3s.
A Silver Watcb
FOE NOTHING-
-1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
T*E T M F* R e* E*Y*Q*Y
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling- Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
“The Manager English Watch Co.—Miss Shellerg
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and chain re-
ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
them. All Saints College, Bathurst, 19th July, 1897.”
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
-A- Solid. Silver Watch.
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY!
Can you read this :
w
M
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions : That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we mav
inform you if correct. Address—THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney.
CSECOND-HAND
AND
TVTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Lju uu\/v/v>
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Sets of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s : 12
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is 6d ; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Roumarna,
(id ; 12 Cuba, 9d ; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Kiea, 6d ; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is •
2s 6d; 150, 5s ; postage, 2d. Remit
P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price Lists,
Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
BUILT LIKE A WATCH.
STERLING CYCLES.
Fitted with MORSE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
h
sium
A. H. MOORE & 00.,
410, 418, 420
George-st., SYDNEY.
A. H. Moore’s . . .
“PERFECT” Racquet
at 20s.
Is for Workmanship and Wear the only
perfect racquet at the price on the Aus-
tralian market.
The “Perfect” Racquet
is of Excellent Balance, Frame and
Gut.
Miss P. HO WITT,
Champion of Australia, says: “No
matter how good a plainer one may
be, one will be placed at a dis-
advantage if the racquet used is of
the inferior qualities now being
imported into the colonies.”
7
TROPICAL HELMET, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
(J. Smith & Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
CELUUI
COOL AND
COMFORTABLE.
Healthiest and
Very Durable.
hiemehr
. . FOR SUMMER . .
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Cotton, Lisle Thread,
Silk and Merino, etc.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
&3T CEXjXjUIsAKi FASBiIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
David graham $ Co.,
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
\ CrampsX \ Croup, \\ Cuts, \
\ Voids, ache,\\ Bruises^
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
'PofmKiUe*
(FERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. NIOXHAM & CO.,
wholesale agents,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
ONC HONEST MAN.
T'jEAR SlR,— Please inform your readers that, if
* ' written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
feet. It has been used (secretly m many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. s Jr.GEOfl LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
le-O-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
ĥ
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO- (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS :
NICHOLSOKT & CO.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VELTEN LASER BEER.
An Ideal Summer Drink. Refreshing, Wholesome, and Perfectly Pure.
ASK ALSO FOR PELICAN STOUT.
The Best in the Market.
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER
FOR MAKING
DELICIOUS CUSTARDS
WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding.
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious alone.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction it the instructions given m
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article; and canrecom
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofagood Cus ard. Giveitatnal
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYD.-..-Y
Dr. TARRANT,
F.R.0.8.E., L.P.C.P.E., L.E.C.5.1., L.M.E.C.P.E.,
j v " wsa
«t
■ : ■■ p
ħ
h
Is a leg-ally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulas formerly in use, and is
known .to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few’ diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answ'ered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
KTo Mian or Woman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable .you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin traced }heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels • Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water. Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely KTo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in vour first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT’S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If von are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who’will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, Gr.F.O., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.


ĥ
Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per J4-clozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
ħ
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE IiKOI'HEItS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Gen line Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
h
ĥ
ħ
“Rsd Bird Cycles”
CONTAIN . MORE ORIGINAL
FEATURES than ALL OTHER
WHEELS COMBINED.
THE FOLLOWING- IMPROVEMENTS were first introduced by us, and are now imitated
and pirated by almost every other maker of Bicycles : .
Large tubing in frame construction. Tempered high carbon steel frames. Solid steel barrel pedals.' Cycloidal
detachable sprockets. Adjusting alignment bottom brackets. Tempered pin, non-stretching chains (J-inch pull).
Wide front hub flanges. Level top frame tubes. Wood handle-bars. Colored enamel finish.
WE ARE STILL THINKING, however, and now produce our Latest Model with Improved
Features which cannot be found on any other Cycle :
New bearings, each ball in a separate steel case—a saving of 40 per cent, friction. New overhanging cycloidal
sprocket. New “B” non-stretching Wilson chain (Jin. pull). New dropped bracket, easy running,-easy steering
(short head). New nickel-steel flush joint frames, proved to be the strongest and .most, rigid: frame' in the world.
New blind nuts, new chain-adjustors, new seat-post fasteners, and other fine points, including the ELECTRIC
TYRE, which has the following advantages, now being imitated by other Tyre-makers :
Double and treble wire-fasteners; herring-bone or basket tread (or smooth to order); rubber surface,
treated to process to prevent rubber cracking.
IT IS NEEDLESS to say why other firms will imitate the above Improvements. It will pay
you, therefore,'to ride a CYCLE which is TWO (2) YEARS AHEAD OF ALL OTHERS, from
Tyres t.o Handle-Bars.
Our CATALOGUE will tell you more about it. Free for the asking.
4.
The Coold Bicycle Company, [imited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES!
64 KING ST., SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
221 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Factories- BRANTFORD, Canada.
Aycnts in Town and Country.
Sunliglit in Your Homes.
TTSIE T ZEE IE
New Sunlight ”
Incandescent Burner.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 46 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burners
Complete, 6s. 6d.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“ The brown bees on Hymettus—”
Let us
See —I'll have to look it up ;
My Mrs. Browning scholarship grows dim ;
This horse,
Of course,
That won the Caulfield Cup—
There may be bees,
But every man agrees
There ain’t-no bloomin’ flies on him l
W. H. O.
* • * *
A field of 33 lined up for the Caulfield Cup,
therefore The Bulletin doesn’t offer an abject apology
for having failed to mention the winner in" nine horses,
one of which (Clarion) was a non-starter. The eight
actual goers—The Chief, Grafter, Clarion, Reka, Thunder
Queen, Acton, Koseberry. Bunyan, and Massinissa —-will
probably be mentioned again for the Melbourne Cup, for
none of them disgraced themselves on Saturday. Mas-
sinissa and The Chief finished second and third .; Rose-
bery made all the running for more than a mile; The
Grafter and Thunder Queen came sixth and seventh ;
Reka and Acton were among the seven that fell. Bunyan
did nothing in particular.
Hymettus —and this truth can’t be too vigor-
ously jabbed into the punting mind—had no apparent
chance of winning Caulfield Cup after his performance in
the Caulfield Stakes. The Age report on that perform-
ance will be found amusing and instructive —“Hymettus,
who was running in a foremost position, was the first to
cry enough Hymettus was distinctly disappoint-
ing, as he failed badly just at the point where a Cup
fancy would be expected to show brilliancy.” But
Hymettus, as everybody now knows, did show brilliancy
in the Coongy Handicap four days later, and three days
after that he became a dazzling hero. The explanation
of his absurdly in-and-out running is rheumatism, or
sciatica. Perhaps it was a sudden attack of pains
in the back, or somewhere, that caused Hymettus
to collapse in the Caulfield Stakes, and finish absolutely
last. There is no suspicion of crooked dealing in this
case. The present writer was not thinking of “ reversals
of form ” through natural causes when he wrote, oh Oct.
8th, “ the orse that runs nowhere in Caulfield Stakes is
quite likely to be a prominent performer in the Cup
race.” But it’s all the same to the public whether
sciatica or get-atiea is the cause of a horse running badly
a week before he wins a great race. In either case the
confusion of “ form ” is the same. And what doth it pro-
fit the public to back horses which come to grief in a
scrimmage, as Reka, Acton, Robin Hood, Majestic, and
others did last Saturday? In England it is a common
prac.ice to follow a jockey’s mounts. In Australia a
jockey runs a considerable risk of being dismounted, if
not dead, before the numbers go up.
Caulfield takes the cake for bloodshed in flat-
races. In ’85, when a mob of 40 Cup cattle came jostling
round the last turn towards home, the central portion of
the mob suddenly dropped out of the running. Seen
from the Grand St md, it was as though the earth had
opened to swallow the oncoming herd. Fifteen or more
horses had fallen. After the race was won the public
found entertainment in watching a procession of hurdle-
bearers down the course. On each hurdle was a battered
jockey, one of them, Donald Nicholson, done to death.
And, as The Bulletin remarked at the time, the bell rang
out whilst the corpse was being carried into the stewards’
enclosure. It was the saddling bell for the next race. A
race-meeting is a show where the death of a leading per-
former makes no difference.
Last Saturday the horror of the hippodrome
occurred in the straight, just past the judge’s box, and
was not due to the sharp turn of the rail that threatens
danger thereabouts. A disturbance amidst the rush —a
shout of “Look out!” —a few screams from women—a
general anxiety to learn which horses had “disappointed
their backers,” followed by a pretty general turning of
attention to the race—Ikey Mo shocked to discover that
Massinissa, Hymettus and other favorites were still alive
and going well. The voice of a metallician remarked
ruefully—“ Did you see Cocos save ’isself by jumping
over some of’em !” Perhaps the gentleman had laid a
lot of money against Cocos. Meantime, it was necessary
to clear the course, for the field would be round there
again in less than two minutes. Two of the fallen jockeys
wi re evidently oblivious to this fact. One of them, in
the black and yellow diamonds jacket of “ Bravo” Jones,
was hastily picked up and carried away by some people
who had ventured upon the field of battle. His limp
form looked as if ithad been trampled upon by many hoofs.
The first man to reach the other motionless jockey re-
coiled at the thought of touching him. Poor little
Flanagan's brains were protruding from his skull. How-
ever, the body was duly shifted before the shouts of the
crowd hailed Hymettus as winner. Then cheers for the
owner.
Caulfield is not the only place where Cup trage-
dies have happened. Aleck Robertson, who won Melb.
Cup on Malua, was afterwards killed in a Sydney Cup
race, in the days when Raridwick course had a name for
accidents. The very mare, Grace Darling, who won the
’85 Cup at Caulfield, got a nasty fall in the Veteran Stakes
at Flemingt.on a little while afterwards, and was no more
good for racing. Her subsequent failures accounted in a
measure for ihe death of her owner. There have been
several falls at Flemington—in Cup races, too—but some-
how they didn’t produce shocking results. On the
slippery occasion of Glenloth’s victory, Portsea came to
grief, but the little horse fell out of harm’s way. The
great Carnival Smash is a thing of the future, and it will
be brought about probably by the foul tactics of some
reckless young blackguard who accepts a commission to
interfere with the favorite, or by the groggy condition of
a rank outsider which goes to the post for the sake of the
“ starter” money in Tatts.’ sweep.
A rather ghastly reminder of the Cup catas-
trophe cropped up a couple of hours later, when Morgan,
the rider of Superb, took the mount on Stand Off for the
Windsor Handicap. His face was damaged in about six
places, and one nasty wound on his forehead appeared to
trouble the lad considerably.
Australian broke down in the Caulfield Cup,
and the winner was dotty on a foreleg as he stood to be
photographed in the Birdcage. Likewise Massinissa had
seemingly knocked himself up, and Reka, in sundry
places, looked the worse for his tumble.
* * * *
Men and women who levelled their glasses on
poor, mangled, 13-year-old Flanagan, turned sick at the
sight. Few backers or bookmakers thus troubled them-
selves. The joy of one bookmaker at the fall of Reka
caused him to see how high he could jump, and another
threw his hat in the air the moment the winner was no
longer in doubt. “My blanky troubles ! ” said another of
the brotherhood in reply to “How many are killed?’*
Nor could many of the backers of Hymettus restrain
their jubilation. “ Put it there !” cried onebell-toppered
Johnnie; and the two richly-dressed “ladies” accom-
panying him made pump-handles of the gloved paws.
Many men were heard to curse Massinissa for not getting
home, and one man explained to the writer that he knew
blanky well, and said so before the race, that “Reka
would either win this time or break his blanky neck, and
it is like my blooming luck.” Anyhow, the race was fol-
lowed by more curses than champagne.
At the inquest on the unfortunate jockey
Flanagan, Coroner Morrison, of Melb., intends going into
the whole question of bantam-weight riders. It’s about
time. Out of the 33 starters in Caulfield Cup, there were
20 whose weight was listed as not over 7st. 71b., and 10 of
these 7st. or under. Which means that either lately-
weaned mannikins are put up to manage big, skittish,
and occasionally 7 nasty-tempered horses, or that the same
animals are entrusted to .youths who have had to sweat
down to a weight that leaves them destitute of strength.
It isn’t as if the 6st. rider is the one who always comes to
grief; as often as not, his horse swerves and plays up,
bringing down a dozen behind.
* * * *
The second (extra) day’s racing at Caulfield gave
punters something to chew. In the Eclipse w.f.a. Stakes
(1 mile), The Chief was backed at even money to beat
Cocos, Wait-a-bit, Lelamine, and others. The son of
Gozo had run clean away from Wait-a-bit at the finish of
Caulfield Stakes (9 furlongs) four days previously 7 , and as
they were now meeting on the same terms as before he
seemed certain (as racing “certainties” go) to score
again. Cocos was penalised 71b., and hadn’t a fairchance
on collateral “form” to heat the favorite. Yet Cocos
won, after a determined struggle, by a neck from Wait-a-
bit and The Chief, who ran a dead-heat for second place.
The distance being a furlong shorter than in the Caulfield
Stakes, would presumably account for some of the
reversal of “ form ” between The Chief and Wait-a-bit.
Cocos’ victory, perhaps, was due in a great measure to
jockeyship. Bob Lewis, a comparatively clever jockey,
rode the youngster on this occasion.
But where does Lelamine come in ? At the
A.J.C. meeting, in Sept., Lelamine heat Cocos for the
New Stakes (IJ mile) bv 2J lengths. They met again on
same terms for the Eclipse Stakes aforesaid, and Lelamine
didn’t make a show against Cocos.
Punters may as yvell note that owner W. R.
Wilson didn’t care to pit Bobadil against The Chief and
The Grafter in the Eclipse Stakes last week, although it
was worth more money than one or two of the soft
things which have been good enough for the Derby
favorite to go for this season. The Grafter would h: ve
gone to the post if “ Bobbie ” had put in an appearance.
But the little ’un was kept out of danger, waiting for the
Derby, presumably, wherein he should only have one for-
midable opponent—Cocos. FairDerhybetting(thepresent
writer reckons) would be 5 to 4 on Bobadil, 3 to 1 against
Cocos, and various long odds against any of the others.
• * * *
At least onoe in each year Melbourne possesses
a fascination that attracts visitors from almost every
quarter of Australia. The season for the annual exodus
is now close at hand, and, within the next week or two,
thousands of persons will, somehow or other, so time
their visit as to be present in the metropolis during
race-week, which opens with the V.R..C. Derby on 29th
instant. Indications point to the present occasion wit-
nessing one of the largest gatherings that has assembled
at Fleroington for some time past.
* * * •
The rush for tickets in Tatt.’s new sweep, draw-
able on Melb. Cup morning, is conclusive evidence of how
the public feels re the “ owners’bounty 7 ” arrangement,
which has come to be regarded as an almost inevitable
feature of the ordinary sweep system. Tatt. questioned
the genuineness of the demand for eleventh-hour draw-
ings, and the answer is an emphatic approval of The Bul-
letin’s suggestion. Or call it a hearty protest against
horse-owners’ claims to “stand in” gratis with those
lucky ticket-holders who may happen to have drawn
valuable chances in a racing lottery 7. Anyone risking ss.
or more in a horsey 7 speculation would prefer to know
before the event the name of- the animal which he hopes
to have going for him, but the result of Tatt.’s “ special ”
sweep experiment shows that thousands of investors would
rather sacrifice their sporting interest in a race than agree
to a 33J per cent, taxation of prizes by owners. For that is
how the system pans out in the ordinary 7 way. Every 7 starter
represents, on paper, three chances of winning big sums.
When you have won your starter through a lottery
wherein the owner of the horse has no honest concern,
you are persuaded to give the grasping stranger a third
share in your paper prospects. It doesn’t matter whether
he persuades you, or you persuade yourself without wait-
ing to hear from the gentleman. He gets there either
way.
Ticket-holders in general begin to feel deeply
that the owner has no right to get there at all, conse-
quently the sweep which doesn’t give him a show to in-
terlope is a popular novelty. Its financial and moral as-
pects are alike beautiful and soothing. And presently,
when the Public learn that the lucky 7 ticket-holders in
Tatt.’s ordinary ss. sweeps on Melb. Cup paid thousands
of pounds to “ensure a run for their money 7,” whereas
the special ticket-holders got the same run for nothing-
well, the Public will reckon that a whole loaf, coming as
a surprise, is better than the two-thirds of a loaf which
was expected. Therefore, the sweep drawn on the morn-
ing of the race is a speculation that has come, t.o stay in
this country, otherwise Common Sense will want to know
the reason why. “ Rough on owners,” The Bulletin
hears somebody say. Rough on rats !
* * » *
Some time back a Riverina resident set several
hens on eggs, having previously 7 written on each egg the
name of a horse for coming Melb. Cup. Out of 117 eggs
so set, the only one not hatched was the one inscribed
“Trapper.” “There,” said this ingenious tipster—
“ Trapper’s the ‘ dead bird.’ I’ll back him ! ”
* * * *
The action of the A.J.C. in resolving that
“ after the end of the year any person employed as an
official in connection with an unregistered race-club shall
not be employed in any capacity whatever by a club
registered under A.J.C. rules,” is a cruel one, inasmuch
as it strikes one man only, Mr. P. O Mara, secretary of
Rosehill and Kensington race-clubs. Moorefield, Canter-
bury, and Warwick Farm easily dropped into the wishes
of the A.J.C., as it has been an open secret for some time
since that the pony-meetings of these clubs were not
financial successes. Having closed the big suburban
courses for pony-racing, the A.J.C. should have lain low,
and if only in the interests of breeders in-making a mar-
ket for their undersized stock have winked at Mr.
O’Mara’s excellent dual management of Rosehill and
Kensington. In the past, Rosehill and Kensington have
been the only clubs, Randwick not excepted, with pluck
or inclination to tackle the “ influential ” owner, and
racing habitues say there is less crooked running at pony-
racing Kensington than on lordly Randwick. The A.J.C.
has absolutely no show of killing Kensington, the only 7
result of its resolution being to hamper and increase
the expense of management of the two favorite courses,
Rosehill and Kensington, and deprive Mr. O’Mara of a
portion of his livelihood. In their own interests, Rand-
wick had better go slow in tackling Kensington, for if it
comes to a battle royal, and Kensington opposes Rand-
wick on the senior club’s “off” Saturdays, which even
now do not find favor with race-goers, Kensington and its
lower tariff will assuredly come off best.
» * * *
Bookmaker “ Miok ” Moloney, of Sydney, who
was one of the victims of the gambling-raid, last Satur-
day, is a very “ slick ” man. A friend who went round to
the lock-up to see if he wanted bail remarked subse-
quently : “ There was Mick looking through a little hole.
Says l to him : ‘ Is there anything I can do for you, old
man ? ’ ‘ No,’ says he ; ‘ but is ihere anything I can do
for you?’ ‘Well,’ says I, ‘what can you lay me The
Grafter?’ ‘Ten to one,’ says he, and booked it right
there.”
• * * *
Barnett and Grant, bookmakers at Christchurch
(M.L.), have published a pamphlet in defence Of Ikey
Mo, as a reply to a vigorous eulogy of the tote by horse-
owner G. G. Stead. The reply is weak in the back and
gone at the knees, as might be expected. B. and G.
cannot quote one instance in which they have offered the
public temptation to turn from the tote and bet straight
out with its natural enemies. A large slice of the
pamphlet is devoted to an analysis of the betting on the
English Derby won by Jeddah, from which it appears
that a layer getting round on his book at published
starting-prices would not make more than 3J per cent.
profit upon his receipts. Jeddah’s Derby was remarkable
for the liberality of the odds at the post, and it goes
without saying that B. and G. quote the longest odds,
which were to be obtained only from the biggest book-
makers, all of whom had, doubtless, a lot of “dead-meat”
money in hand before the day of the race.
But this is not a point to discuss, anyway.
Barnett and Grant do business in Maoriland, where the
tote charges 10 per cent. com. If they can pay longer
prices, on an average, than the machine pays, their busi-
ness will advertise itself ; the fact that B. and G. are
eclipsing their deadly rival will become generally known,
and they will have good reason to bless the tote for keep-
ing private competition out of the field. Meanwhile,
B. and G. are cursing the tote, and the public draw their
own conclusions. The Bulletin hasn’t space or inclina-
tion to deal with all the fallacies in the pamphlet to hand,
but the following bit of protest deserves to be published
—“Tlie strongest argument in favor of the totalisator
is that it supplies big stakes. Why should the public sup-
ply the stakes (and why shouldn’t they?—Ed. B.) any
more than they should provide the pool at aristocratic
clubs for a game of nap among the members, &c., &c. ?
(Rats ! Under the old system of betting the public pro-
vided stakes for Ikey Mo.) It is surely a gross infringe-
ment of a person’s liberty to dictate to him that he must
do his betting through the tote, whether he likes it or
not, and irrespective of the fact that he might invest his
money to better advantage with a bookmaker.” Well,
the M.L. public are allowed to “ invest to better advant-
age with the bookmaker,” if they want to. The existence
of B. and G. proves it. But B. and G. want to grossly
infringe the public’s liberty by dictating to them that
they must do their betting with the bookmaker, even
though they might invest to better advantage with the
tote. That’s what’s the matter.
• * * *
Sample letters received by a big sweep-pro-
moter : “ We are very poor, and have started a Wesleyan
school, and have only got 20 scholars as yet. Do please
send us a prize.” Another: “Am taking this ticket in
the name of my little boy ; he is very anxious to buy a
pony ; please send him a horse.”
* * * *
Adelaide sporting men are so wroth with the
local Council of Churches, because of its crusade against
lotteries, and so much public indignation has been caused
by the suppression of the charity carnival art.-union, that
private detectives have been tolel off to watch the pro-
ceedings at church bazaars and get up cases against par-
sons and their lady admirers who may so far lapse from
virtue as to promote raffles.
* * * *
In Perth (W.A.), lately, after a man had been
fined for running an illegal “ tote” the presiding magis-
trates announced that “ any charitable institution apply-
ing for the implements, seized tote-tickets, &c., could
have them.” Truly, charity does cover a multitude of
sins !
• * * •
How would the N.S.W. lottery-law affect this
case? A number of Sydney residents have lately been
the surprised recipients of blocks of art-union tickets
from a M.L. town, of which some of them never heard
previously. Arc-union is in aid of a local church, and
prizes range from a gold-vase to “three hundred litho-
graphs of his Grace Archbishop Redwood.” Also, a com-
plimentary ticket, alleged to be worth Is., is placed at the
end of the book for the person who disposes of £1 worth
of art-union. If the Crown Law people are not too
utterly flabbergasted by the audacity of the far-away
cleric responsible for this move, writer expects to hear
that some ignorant and unfortunate enthusiast has been
fined £SO for trying to help along some people he never
knew, in a place he never heard of, and for a cause of
which he knows nothing beyond the fact that it has some-
thing to do with the Chur-r-ch.
* * * *
How is this for gambling luck ! In Bridgetown
(W. A.) district 12 timber-allotments were thrown open,
and, there being 122 applicants, a ballot followed. One
man put ill nine separate applications for as many lots.
The chances were 13 to 1 against his getting a single
allotment. As for his chance of winning the whole nine,
Tiie Bulletin has lost most of its remaining hair trying
to calculate what the odds were. Yet he won the whole
nine ; every one of his numbers was drawn, and the other
113 applications only got three allotments among them ! !
And the deal was presumably quite honest—at least, no-
body said anything to the contrary. A man with a
mozzle like that could lay 10 to 1 against the only horse
in a race, and the animal w’ould be struck dead by a
meteor at the starting-post.
* * *, *
Wellington (M.L.) has anew kind of horse-
crank. This individual breaks into stables in the early
morning, cleans out the place, grooms the horses, feeds
them if he can get at the provender, and then departs as
unobtrusively as he came. And as he steals nothing he
is probably a humble, genuine philanthropist. The
species is so rare that when a specimen does come along
he is pretty' sure to be set down as mad.
’* * * *
In Tasmania, a horse (Kimberley) being schooled
over hurdles, developed a habit of baulking, and if
whipped or spurred would lie down. All the jockeys
who took him in hand were beaten, till one Harry Roles,
a well-known cross country rider, one day tied the horse
down and left him so for two days. That cured him !
**‘ * *
After the high-jump at Echuca Show, when
Fairfield and Strathmore tied, the officials made a care-
ful measurement, when it was found the take off was 3in.
lower than where the posts were fixed, so that the actual
jump was 6ft. 9in., equalling Spondulix’s best, made in
Queensland in ’92. America’s record is 7ft. 6J4in.
* * * •
Amusing, to notice the change in the horse-
reporters’ tone as soon as it was announced that George
Gray had made up his mind to sell his blood stock and
take things easily on the Turf. Up fo thefuhe had been
“the plucky owner of George Frederick”—“a rare
acquisition to the little army of genuine sportsmen
“ a gentleman whose successes will be deservedly P°P nl
with the public”—and so on through the whole gamut
of cant taffv-phrases which horse journalism employs to
tickle the vanity of any big fish that goes voracious y
Ike.v Mo’s bait. The moment he gulped a wholesome
dose of disappointment, and fell into a calm, refresnin„
slumber and awoke with his eyes opened to the lrut ,
there was no more taffy for the owner of George r ''Cueric .
Merely this sort of thing—“ Mr. George Gray has had baa
luck during the short time he has figured on the turt as
as owner. . . . Mr. Gray has quickly tired of the game,
and has given instructions to Messrs. Win. Yuule & Go.,
etc. Amen !
* • * *
Melb. pug supporters moot a resuscitation of the
old Melb. Athletic Club. The Chief Justice, Acting Gov.
Madden, is to be asked to accept the presidentship, and on
the occasion of big fights to take bis old position at the
ring-side, watch in hand.
« > * *
Sydney Opera House was packed last Wednes-
day night, on the occasion of the Hajek-Lucifer weight-
lifting and wrestling match. The supply of heavy dumb-
bells was not what it should have been, and trouble with
the audience was only averted by the ready wit of referee
Foley. Hajek looked burly enough to eat the slender
Lucifer, but he lacked condition, and the latter won the
two lifting events. The wrestling was not what Sydney
was used to in the days of Clarence Whistler and Connors,
Lucifer putting a bit more acrobatic work in than is
usually seen in a bout of Graeco-Roman. Lucifer had the
best of the work throughout, and, eventually getting a
half-Nelson on, slowly but surely turned the heavy Hajek
over on his back, and won the deciding event.
There were fully 1000 onlookers, and the pair of
men of brawn must have netted over £IOO. But what a
display ! “ Jack ” Connors could have settled the two of
them inside five minutes, The powerful Hajek knew
absolutely nothing about the game, while the winner
knew very little more. Until Lucifer got on the half-
Nelson and armlock that gave him the fall, not one legiti-
mate hold was secured throughout the 22 minutes.
* » * *
Tom Hope, who aspires to fighting Tweedie fot
the feather-weight championship of Australia, was seen
out, after a long spell, on Saturday night last, when, at
the Golden Gate Club, Sydney, he beat “ Chummy ”
Brown in five rounds. Unless Tom improves some, he
has no hope of hitting Tweedie, and much less of beating
him.
• • * *
Lucifer relates a Charters Towers experi-
ence of his. For advertising purposes he used
to leave his heaviest dumb-bell outside the hall
wherein the company was appearing, and a printed
notice suspended above the implement intimated that £5
would be given anyone who could lift the weight.
Several tried and failed, but one day, much to the
owner’s surprise, the dumb-bell disappeared altogether.
A diligent search of the town was made without success.
Eventually it proved that a young miner had not only
lifted the weight, but had actually carried it away and
planted it, and, what was more, refused to bring it back
again. Lucifer threatened, but the miner defied him,
and a match resulted. The American won after a brief
but hot struggle, and the dumb-bell was returned.
*' * * *
Alick Roberts, one of the smartest men at his
weight Larry Foley has turned out, is off to Brisbane,
under contract to the Queensland Athletic Club, to meet
Jack Tuckwell.
* * * *
Cable tells that the Corbett-M‘Coy affair is off,
and a go between Corbett and Sharkey is on. Corbett
would have had a better thing on with M'Co.v, as Sharkey,
a rushing, hard-hitting fighter with as hard a chivvy as
our own Ironbark Jemmy Burge, is always a bad sort of
an opponent for a good-looking, scientific fighter of the
Corbett stamp. Unless Sharkey throws the fight away
on a foul, he should win.
* • • •
Strange that Fitzsimmons and Corbett have not
come together again. The pair would draw a bigger
crowd than any other two, and if Fitz. really thinks it a
good thing he is scarcely the man to throw a hatful of
dollars away out of spite. Can it be that Fitz.’s “solar
plexus ” whack was a lucky one, and he doesn’t think the
chance of repeating it any too good ?
* * * *
A Bulletin writer attributes Premier Byrnes’s
death to young Australia’s want of vitality. Here are
instances from the world of sport : Searle, in the first
flush of youth, succumbs to illness. Stanbury, in bis
prime, is beaten by old man Gaudaur, who was rowing
when the former was in petticoats. See how the Irish-
born Hanlan and the English-born Beach lasted—till
middle-age. Look at the Australian-born boxers : Jem
Hall, Griffo, Slavic, Jack Molloy, &c., dead or gone to
pieces. Yet old man Fitzsimmons is champion ; and,
despite age and fast living, which tells more on colored
gentlemen, Peter Jackson can still put up a fight. Con-
trast Tom Hales’s retirement with Ford ham’s or John
Osborne’s. Pedestrianisin furnishes best instances of all.
Of the many hundreds of peds. around Sydney some ten
years ago, not one can raise a trot. The present cham-
pions—Rogers, Cummins, the Marshes, &c.—belong to a
younger generation. It is over 20 years since Harry
Hutchens won a couple of handicaps, and proved himself
an athletic wonder. Hutchens is still running so well that
the handieappers keep an eye on him, and no one will be
surprised if he wins next Shrovetide —“21 ypars after.”
Our “ veteran ” cricketer, Blackball), retired years ago,
but Grace, who began at least a decade earlier, is still
going strong.
• * * *
“ Albert Trott is to be the ‘best all-round’ in
England next vear, so a cricket authority {asserted to
me,” writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent.
“ Roche will be the best bowler,” and as the speaker was


The cure of piles by the new “ Oanalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the depdt, 257 George-street,
Sydney.*
The Bulletin tenders to those who took
part in the public meeting at Sydney Protestant
Hall, on sth Oct., its sincere thanks for the kind
resolution of sympathy and support passed in
connection with this paper’s articles upon the
sailing of unsea worthy ships from N.S.W. ports.
The second reading in S.A. Assembly of
King O’Malley’s Bill providing forthelegitimatisa-
tion of children born out of wedlock, where parents
subsequently marry, caused little debate, and it
seems certain that the measure will be passed
through both Houses. Despite the Premier’s op-
position there is a majority in the Assembly, too,
in favor of the Bill for securing a fair share of a
testator’s estate to the widow and children, but
it will not get through this session.
Dowell O’Reilly was beaten at Parramatta
by six votes only and is petitioning against the
return of Major Ferris. During the general
election Mr. Neild was ill in bed and Mr. O’Reilly
syent some time in Paddington pleading for
Jawbone. Hid he stopped at home h'e'mighthave
won over those six votes and so saved his own seat
in the House. Mr. Neild is on the Elections and
Qualifications Committee. However honest he
may be, he should not. under the circumstances
have been chosen to adjudicate on the Parramatta
case.
A very old settler died at Singleton
(N.S.W.), on 23rd Sept., in the person of Peter
M‘Alpine, aged 89i years. This hoary veteran
and his brother, William M'Alpine (18 months
younger), who survives him, arrived in N.S.W. as
children in 1812. Their people settled on the
Hawkesbury, and are related to the Onus family
Peter remembers Muswellbrook in 1825, and saw
some “life” in Melbourne in the forties and
fifties. His last ad venture in the land of Gillies
was a fall of 50ft. down a shaft, accompanied by a
huge inebriated Highlander, who characteristic-
ally was on top. Peter’s legs were shaky ever
after, but his brain was very bright to the last.
There are few older colonists alive than his brother
William, who resides at Bulga, near Singleton
and still actively attends to his farm. ’
WHAT’S YOUR
NECK WORTH?
h
Would you sell it for £ll5 : O : O
OP £18:0:0? Of course you
would not 1 But there are lots of
people who are doing' so; they are
riding the £l5 : 0 :0 and £lB : 0 : 0 kind
of bicycles which is practically the
same thing. They are risking their
necks and courting repair bills to
save the £7:0:0 or £lO :0 : 0 that
would purchase a trustworthy, easy
running Massey - Harris.
It’s not the cheapest in price, but
the cheapest in the end.
Are you an economist of that sort ?
If so, we will be glad to show you
at any of our depjts or agencies the
difference between Massey-Harris
Bicycles and the break-neck kind.
Even if you do not purchase you
will learn something interesting
about High - bred Cycle
Construction.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Head Quarters : William Street, Melbourne
Branches : Dunedin—Sydney—Brisbane
Adelaide—Hobart—Kortliam.
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
N.S..W Branch:
385 George-st., Sydney
(opp. Strand Arcade).
“DOWRIDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
Terms on
Application.
J. F. McDermott,
Genera] Agent, for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
■lx. stories), Is. 3d.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ THU tTMiMTiVI',” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“Kills’ King-street Coffee l’alaee,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
WE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT &. BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street. SYDNEY.
S3T Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE ...
Ujolf American High flrt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-clats Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
{)
MACK LIN
HENLEY
QRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
4k
IS
your
WIF€
PRETTY
nearly tired out after a ride on her cycle ?
What else can you expect if you let her
ride a machine weighing pounds more than
your own ? Get her a
Featherweight
which has many good qualities beside actual lightness. Send or call for an ART CATALOGUE, which will give you
full particulars.
Sole Agents for “SWIFT’’ Cycles with Dunlop Tyres.
THE AUSTKAL CYCLE AGE AC Y LTD.,
391 George Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Charters Towers, Rockhampton, Wellington, Christchurch Dunedin
Launceston, Hobart, Bendigo, Hamilton, Warrnambool, etc., etc.
an unbiassed expert I felt pleasure in believing: him.
With T. H. Hearne and these two bowlers Middlesex
should at least grasp the championship to which they
came second with such a rattle in the closed season. On
the All-England list Roche came fifth with 30 wickets for
15'63 each in the eight or nine first-class matches he
played in, being then eligible only for the M. 0.0. “ A.E.”
finished up better.than he iooked earlier, getting 130 pegs
for 17'94 and bowling over 1000 overs. The
“ King of Mechanists,” J. T. Hearne, topped the averages
with a splendid record—look at it—l73o'3 overs, 768
unders, 2867 runs, 206 wickets—l3'9l.
“ In chat with the two Australians,” continues
our correspondent, “ each expressed his intention of
‘loafing’ the whole winter. Trott has had six seasons
of cricket in succession and will not go to South Africa
this year, whilst Roche fears the cold months, and, sick of
the ‘ national game,’ wants to go to bed and hibernate.
In reply to congratulations on a smartly hit-up 49 in a
recent match, Roche said, ‘ Oh, that’s not much use to me.
I’m there to get men out, and a score —unless at a pinch—is
rather resented. Cricket here is very' different to cricket
in Australia.’ The prospects of Major Wardill’s team
were rather discounted, and Trott thinks Howell and O.
McLeod certainties and the former the best bowler in
Australia, Both players look the better for their English
season.’
* * * *
S.A.’s crack batsmen have begun the season
badly; Darling, Giffen and Lyons made 18 runs among
them on Oct. 8. Jones, however, took 8 wickets for 46
runs. The latter is in wonderful form.
• * * *
Melb. Cricket Club will probably come to an
amicable arrangement with the ruffled Cricket Council re
the control of future Australian Elevens. The players,
anyway', ought to understand that the Council is an essen-
tially unselfish institution, and the only form of Federal
government that Australian cricket, can get—therefore a
Council being very desirable, why not make the best of
this Council ? But it takes the average “ representative ”
cricketer a long time to understand anything except his
own importance. A man who has a beautiful leg-stroke,
or a powerful break on a medium-paced ball, is a painful
tm-god to reason with.
* * * *
The 485 mentioned in The Bulletin’s “ Sport-
ing Notions ” of 15 10/’9B was made by A. E. Stoddard for
the Hampstead Club v. Stoics in August, ’B6, and is the
highest individual score ever made in any match. A. C.
Maclaren’s 424 for Lancashire v. Somerset in July, ’95, is
the highest individual score oil record in a first-class
match; and Murdoch’s 321 for N.S.VV. v. Victoria at
Sydney, in ’B2, is the highest individual score ever
obtained by an Australian in a first-class match. Worrall’s
(not out) for Carlton v. Melb. University, in Feb., ’96,
is the highest individual score ever obtained by an Aus-
tralian cricketer in any match.
* * * *
Two once-famous N.S.W. cricketers, “Tom”
Garrett and Harry' ” Moses, have gone over to the
“ n ' an ’ suame ” —bowls—and as members of Strathfield
and Ashfield bowling clubs respectively, now' trundle the
wooden sphere in lieu of the leathern one. “Tom,” by
the way, is Strathfield’s champion.
■** * *
Brisbane boasts a cyclist minus the right foot,
the want being supplied by a cunning arrangement of
cork. In a recent big competition he won his heat easily
and was just “ pipped ” in the final.
* * * *
n was n °k muc h t° choose between the
Caulfield smash and the Adelaide bicycling crash on
Saturday’ last, barring poor young Flanagan’s death.
Randall had the flesh of his cheek torn to the bone and
received concussion of the brain ; Lykke ran about the
g'ound demented and bleeding from numerous wounds ;
Harris had his arm broken ; Chalk had his neck laid
open, whilst numerous others met with less injuries,
ret if a boxer’s nose bleeds everyone helping to run the
show is locked up.
* * * *
The booklet that is being got out dealing with
M Donald s trip is likely to prove of exceptional interest,
as it not only.describes the overlander’s journey', but gives
a number of illustrations of Central Australia that have
never been published before. Those people who would
like to know what Central Australia really is like should
send at once to any of the Austral Cycle Agency’s Depfits
for copies of the work, and their names will be booked
and dealt with as soon as the little booklet is published.
The A.C.A. has decided to make no charge for this very
interesting work.
■ * * *
The longest distance ever ridden on the road in
24 hours is 428 miles. This was accomplished by F. R.
Goodwin, who thus beat George Hunt’s previous record
by miles ; his mount was a “ Swift.”
* * * *
W. J. Proctor, Australasian manager of the
Dunlop Tyre co., who has been to England on a business
and pleasure trip, is back in Melbourne with full particu-
lars of the new Dunlop tyre. Proctor’s arrival is quite an
event, as the question of the form and nature of the new
tyre is of great interest to every cyclist in Australasia.*
* * '♦ *
A correspondent in one of the English cycling
papers states that Platt-Bet.ts, as the result of his acci-
dents, is now drawing allowances from accident insur-
ance companies to the extent of £lO per week. P»etts’s
example should be followed by all cyclists whilst training
or racing on the track. There are several Australian in-
surance companies that issue cyclists' accident-policies.


GOOD
BLOOD
Your heart beats over one hundred thou-
sand times each day. One hundred thousand
supplies of good or bad blood to your brain.
Which is it ?
If bad, impure blood, then your brain aches.
You are troubled with drowsiness yet cannot
sleep; you are as tired in the morning as at
night; you have no nerve power; your food
does not seem to do you much good.
Stimulants, tonics, headache powders, can-
not cure you: but
AYERS
Sarsaparilla
will. It makes the liver, kidneys, skin and
bowels perform their proper work. It re-
moves all impurities from the blood. And it
makes the blood rich in its life-giving prop-
erties.
For "biliousness take Ayer’s Pirns. They
promptly relieve and surely cure. Take them
With Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
D.S.MAIR
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainsprjng-, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2/6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
2 6-; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D S. M AIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address:6B4 George-
street, Sydney.
ĥ
fringes,
Natural Guriy, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. lones f/o. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 peroz.
AVe are" the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
w. tt.'wigzcii,
110 Wn, 1,1 ah Street,
rornerof Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Train will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe List.
Prompt attention given to Country Oi J.TS,
ħ
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
NKW SOUTH WALES BARBERS SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HITMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites
for SALOONS and
H airworking.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNOE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Rallies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/0 to 30/-each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Seal pets,-&e., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made IJp.
A iS IST A NTS h'mjaqed for Ike Country.
Recent London seizure and condemnation
of a vast quantity—some 14 tons —of rotten ox,
horse, dog’, and other livers intended for use by a
“table-delicacy” firm, gives color to the belief
that the soy so largely exported from China as a
sauce-basis is made principally from cockroaches !
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
For the tenth time, or thereabouts, Yic.
Government is considering the advisability of
building the Mildura railway. There is every
reason to believe it would lie a paying speculation
—all the cheap lines which the Turner Govt, has
built out on the western plains where construc-
tion costs next to nothing per mile, have paid
reasonably well. But Victoria has been afraid of
railw.iy-building ever since its dreadful experi-
ence in the days of Duncan, the Boomer. It has
had to shut up so many miles of Duncan’s utterly
insane railways that, despite a reasonable amount
of construction, it has seven miles less line open
for traffic now than it had in 1895.
‘‘ An Enforced Patron of Sydney Six-
pennies,” to The Bulletin :
For the past two years this class of lodgings has very
much increased in Sydney, and the legend, “ Good, clean
beds for single men, fid. per night, or 3s. per week,” is
very frequent in the western ends of Elizabeth, Castle-
reagh, and Pitt streets, and in every part of Sussex-
street. This pay-by-the-night system is a convenience to
a good many men who would be quite unable to pay the
3<. in advance. There are two or three classes of this
kind of establishment, and at the present time in Sydney
very few small businesses are as sound as this. The capi-
tal invested is trifling, and the spot-cash system is
strictly adhered to, except that in rare cases patrons
are allowed a two-nights’ account, but no more.
I have known this sort of trade to be begun
with £lO capital, and as many as 20 beds erected, a
few of which might be simply a spring-mattress resting
on a couple of fruit-cases. However, the whole thing
was a going concern before the tenner was exhausted ;
and, once started, there isn’t much expense. The wash-
ing is the biggest item ; that with soap, lights and black-
ing, would amount to about 10s. per week; which, with
rent added, would make the outgo about 255. Thus, as
the rooms are, as a rule, fully occupied, a profit is left of
about £2 a week. The Castlereagli and Pitt street houses
are run on a more extensive scale. Usually a former
warehouse is selected, with as many as five flats con-
verted into dormitories containing perhaps 40 beds. No
doubt if a little more privacy could be provided, and a
little more fuel in winter, these establishments could be
made to pay even better. The Sussex-street houses are
numerous, but are on a smaller scale ; in many instances
combined with some other small business, and usually
frequented by men employed in the locality. In the
Elizabeth, Castlereagh, and Pitt-street houses I have met
doctors, lawyers, journalists ; and, in fact, every higher
walk in life is at one time or another represented. The
man who has formerly been running a paying business is
to be met there. The clerk, the shopman, and the third-
rate actor are in evidence ; also, as a matter of course,
the boozing remittance-man who supplements a brief
season of joy with a long wait of enforced penury. You
will also meet the young man with no particular liking for
any steady occupation, and with probably a weakness for
pony-racing. The man who assists at auction-sales is
also there, as is the tradesman who only gets a job occa-
sionally ; and the young man from the cofintrv finds out
these places even before his cheque is done. Often on a
Monday night you have the young man from (say)
Botany, who has been at the Tivoli and missed his tram,
but must be out earfy next morning to work. Pages
might be written about the deadbeats, broken-downs,
and waifs and strays generally, who frequent these places.
The Sussex-street. cribs are also largely kept going by
“ beam-ended ” sailors, who get an occasional job on the
wharf.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rmOROPYHE.
Oantion. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
“M‘G.” jumps with all his feet upon a
distinguished bard :
How Bedford the minester has spoilt the idea of Bed-
ford the poet in “The Star of Clontarf Bill” ! This has
been a marked characteristic of the man since he went
into the share-biz. ; in the old da,\ s, when he hustled
around journalistically, his aggression was devoted
to his work, and the'result of his vehement battling
with an idea resulted in the production of such fine
things as “The Cry of a Clod” and “The Christs of
Trade.” To-day Randolph is no longer the Reckless, ex-
cept in regard to his verse, which is turned out anyhow
with a few excrescences like “ shoon,” “ noctivagant ”
(sic), “doxydaw,” “incension,” “ perpendicles,” “ iso-
toned,” “altisonant,” “ concrescent,” and “ Trisalgon,”
to give it an air of profundity. How many readers of
average education know the meanings of these extra-
ordinary words without consulting a dictionary, and how
many are able to find them there? As “Clontarf Bill”
stands, it is simply a strong idea concealed in a mass of
unmusical lines that bump iike a punctured bicycle on a
corduroy road.
“ A genius is a man with an idea usually
himself.
Death—the distant hill that does not look green.
Self-Interest —-the card we always keep up our
sleeve.
Experience—what you lost everything else in
gaining.
Maryborough (Q.) News asserts that this
is the best season for fruit and vegetables which
the town has known, and that all Maryborough s
green-stuff is now grown by the European inhabi-
tant. Some white men tackled the work scientifi-
cally, and beat Ah Cat at his own business. The
gentleman who writes to The Bulletin saying
that it is a case of no Chinaman no vegetables
might inquire into this.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from. Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales —
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
1
The Australian |{|idouis’ Fond fife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
'T'HIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
1
M
m
Do Yon Want a Pleasant Evening at Home,
or to give an exhibition? The
6RAPHOPNON6,
iMMWs
a most marvellous instrument ; reproduces the music
of great military bands, famous opera singers, and
celebrated comedians in laughter-provoking monologues
produced upon the stages of the great cities of the world
Simple to operate. Will not gettout of order.
Write or Call for Catalogues or any information.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UNITED IMPORTING COMPANY,
ll7 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only oj SPIRITS.
(Sc
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY
BY ROYAL WA.RRA.KfT OF A.FFOIMTMEKTT TO “ THE QXJEEKT.
A&k for
Wbisky a&d
‘Scb^cppc’
SCHWEPPES
SODA WATER, &c-
Ask for
BraQdy ai)d
‘Scbwcppc’
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
(LIMITED)
SMEETERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
or
FINE SILVER.
,PTO (Lake T llawarra), near
SYDKTEY.
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILL AW AURA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER,
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES.
LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP. REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
Foi all information regarding Rates etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


N £rr RaSSfi)(iSS€i)’S Alfalii)€ Herbal Remedies
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc,
A SPECIAL HEM ELY EOB, EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
A. Few of Them.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen. —Dear
Sir, —I think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use. —Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of trie s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady's Testimonial.
It gives me g re at pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. I am, yours
respectfully, Mas. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—ln the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines, When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try y our Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I'am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity'.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and .saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks. —I am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully; J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. C. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERB, RASSMUSSEN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing-
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“Herr Rass-
mussen is a cle\er botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S. A.—“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fide s of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—" Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. —“ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday T.mes, Sydney. “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Here, Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
Ulisslen in the Herbal World.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- •
Patrons of Herr Rasa-
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
]>atrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
ad,dr esses of which
are set out on this
-page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent Medicine
dealers for the genuine
Altaline Remedies.
£5O REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OE THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
RE BISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmuSSeHb
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSHIUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus —“ ILL., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
LIS T
OF THE
ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERE EASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Desp ndency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HEEE EASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying- the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALIIME -
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveifess, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the be st remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cute
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to erne
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for l oughs, Colds, < onsumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Altaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler— A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6-.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica,: Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking 1 Herr Rassmussen’s a t.-fa T.TOE VITALITY PILLS (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening the
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmnssen’s Head Office:
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :
54*7 Georg-e Street, Sydney.
h
ĥ
ħ


m
m
m
iHLBH
i
h
ĥh
ĥ
ħ
h
tftKL tltV/\TOR
'Pitt STRter^g^j,
Victoria Racing Club-
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY .
CUP DAY ...
OAKS DAY...
STEEPLECHASE
DAY
OCT. 29.
NOV. 1.
NOV. 3.
NOV. 5.
LARGEST ENTRIES ever received. Accom-
modation for Thousands. The Conveniences
for the Comfort of Visitors to Flemington now
surpass anything in the World.
Return Tickets at Holiday Excursion Fares.
H. BYRON MOORE,
Secretary.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.,
Melbourne.
A SIEUER WATCH FREE-
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Oases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with-
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address —
SPINES & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Handsome Nickel Puzzle Matchbox.
Exact Size and Design as Illustrated.
C ~a\
y
A
With Name Engraved on Reverse Side
NOVEL, USEFUL, and AMUSING. Post Paid, Is. Id.
Extra Good A 1 Quality, Is. 7d.
OUKJMONSTEK GIFT PARCEL.
100 ARTICLES for ss.
To introduce our Illustrated List, to obtain new Cus-
tomers and make ourselves talked about, we will SEND,
Carriage Paid any Colony, our Monster GIFT Parcel, con-
taining all the below-mentioned articles (100) for Postal
Note 55., or Three for 14s. Money returned if not satis-
fied : One pair Handsome Motto Pictures, 24 x 10, look
and wear like oil paintings ; 1 Beautiful Pure Silk Hand-
kerchief, with Worked Flowers in Colored Silk ; 25 Asstd.
Xmas and New Year Cards, sold retail 3d. and 4d. each ;
1 Bottle of Good French Scent; 24 sheets Ruled Note-
paper; 25 Square Envelopes; 1 Penholder; 1 Pencil,
Point Protector, and Indiarubber ; 6 Ball-pointed Pens ;
12 Self-threading Needles, asstd. sizes, a wonderful inven-
tion—a blind person can. thread them; 1 Oval Pocket
Mirror, in Polished Case; 1 Japanese Cabinet Photo.
Stand ; and our Illustrated Price List.
SEND for this GOLD-MINE Early (Carriage Paid), ss. ;
or Three for 14s. In return for the WONDERFUL VALUE
we give you, we certainly expect you to show your friends
the whole lot, and give our name and address.
H. POT IE R & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
AN AUSTRALIAN AGENCY. - HOLDS-
WORTH & CO.’S Missing Friends and
Next-of-Kin Agency traces missing persons, in-
vestigates claims of next-of-kin, obtains copies of
wills, letters of administration, certificates of
births, marriages, deaths, etc., etc., and makes
general searches and inquiries.
Offices : 101 SWANSTON STREET (oppo-
site Town Hall), MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY-
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutne.
Last S Nights of the Opera Seasov, and Farewell
Performances of the Royal Comic Opera Company •
THIS EVENING, at 8.
“TN€ 60NP0LI€RS.’
Gilbert and Sullivan’s Most Popular Opera.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
TWO FAREWELL PERFORMANCES
BLAND HOLT’S
Popular Dramatic Organisation, and TWO FINAL
Representations of the Great Melodramatic Novelty,
Sporting Life. Sporting Life.
PRICES—3s., 25., and One Shilling. Plan at Elvy’s.
Town hall, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Director ... Philip Newbury.
Next Saturday, at 8 o’clock.
I/- TN€ “POPS.” I/-
NEW ARTISTS and NEW ATTRACTIONS !
Miss Katherine Hardy (of the Brough-Boucicault Co.),
Mrs. R. J. Riley, Miss Maud Dalrymple, Mr. B. Hollander,
Miss Lily Juncker, Mr. Saxby (male soprano), Mr. Rodda
Perry (male alto), Mr. Tralford Foster, Mons Wiegand,
Madama Spada, Mr. Philip Newbury, and t he Biographe.
Plan at Paling’s. Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COO-€€
COO-€€
COO-€€
COO-€€
I have a STORY to TELL
... ON ...
SATURDAY , 22nd Inst.
ALFRED DAMPIER.
PALACE THEATRE. EVERY EVENING!
Matinees Every Saturday and Wednesday.
Hundreds Turned Away Last Matinee. Children 6d.
gante, flfhe Juggling §Jeniu6.
A New, Novel, 19th Century Up-to-date Entertainment.
DANTE IS THE GREATEST MAGICIAN LIVING.
He begins where others leave off. The things you
know can’t happen do happen, and though you don’t
believe them, you see them.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Alhambra, Sydney.
Lessees ... St. John and W. J. Wilson.
W CONTINUED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS '.
Charles— THE KEENANS— Harry.
America’s Greatest Comedians, Buck and Wing Dancers.
Miss EMMIE SMITH, Balladist and Speciality Aitist.
A Perfect Furore Created by
Mr. JOHN COKEMAN. ‘Fancy Meeting You!’
And our Colossal Alhambra Company.
New First Part ! New Olio ! New Burlesque—“ CINDER-
ELLEN. Popular Prices—2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Elvy’s.
Matinee this Saturday Afternoon, 2.30.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
SUCCESS ! UNPARALLELED SUCCESS ! OF
Miss CORA CASCLLI.
Absolutely the Champion Exponent of all that is great
in the Art of High Kickihg.
Continued Success of JULEENE’S ELECTRIC ORGAN,
FOREMAN and FANNAN, BELLMAN and MOORE,
SISTERS TERRY, ALICE SIMMONS, FANING and
DEVOE, and our Grand Double Company.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
ajax.
Miss Peggy Pryde
Miss ETHEL YOIIKE.
Mr. GEO. BEAUCHAMP.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN.
EP” PRICES AS USUAL.
AJAX
Mr- G-- H- Wood
SYDNEY DEANE.
Miss NELLIE WILSON.
WALLACE KING.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrovb.
LAST NIGHTS !
LAST NIGHTS !
UNDER THE RED ROBE.
SATURDAY, MONDAY and TUESDAY, Oct. 22, 24, 25,
Last Three Nights of the Season,
T3o.e Lady of Lyons,
Box Plan at ALLAN'S and MENZIES’.
JjXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYOLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
M
ELBOURNE TOWN HALL.
Lessee :
The Popular Concert Proprietary Registered.
SbiNiOS PopCilar Cooccrt.
Every Saturday Night.
Absolutely the Best Concerts ever given in Melbourne for
ONE SHILLING.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
O. J. FRANK, Manager, 31 Queen Street.
IHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
, Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Bateman and Maurice.
LAST NINE NIGHTS!
THE FLYIN6 SCUD.
THE MOST SENSATIONAL SPORTING DRAMA EVER
WRITTEN.
Hr. CHARLES MAURICE as MO DAVIS.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES —3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and SIXPENCE.
VARIETY ARTISTS.
TITANTED VARIETY ARTISTS of all Kinds-
Lady Vocalists, Dancers, Full Ballet, etc.
Apply by LETTER ONLY to
Walter Beotfey,
O/o W. H. Paling & Co., George Street, SYDNEY.
Stating full particulars of hours and terms.
Interviews after 23rd inst.
REAL German Hollow Ground
j(£opp Rttob
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
tiADB IN VABIOU3 WIDTHS OF BLADES
BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wkolefiftl* i OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LONDON. %
4 vr
«fSg»fr
sP
The stalwart Kins Hedley, now performing at Melb.
Royal, was originally a Bairnsdale (Vic.) boy. Growing
up, he entered N.S.W. mounted police, and was under
fire at the capture of Capt,. Moonlight, at> Wantabadgery.
Afterwards, he left the police to journalise in Gippsland,
abd eventually departed for Yankeeland, to return to
Australia as the “ Great American Actor.”
Carl Hertz on the Indian fakirs “ After I got my
reputation among them the Indians trotted out the best
they could do. I found out that the mango trick is done
by substitution. As I have said, they are far ahead of us
in ’sleight of hand. Then they have cloths that help
them, as they are much bigger than the handkerchiefs
used by our They begin by planting a mango
seed and covering it with a cloth. They work under
the cloth with their hands, and then remove the cloth at
intervals, showing you the mango bush growing larger and
larger. At last they show you a large bush that has
fruit on it. It appears to have grown from the seed, but
it is all a trick, done by substitution. The mango is as
tough as whalebone, and can be crumpled up in any-
way and packed into very small compass. Working
under the cloth with his hands, the magician straightens
the leaves out.
Mr. Rodda Perrv, the phenomenal male contralto whom
Mr. Newbury “ discovered ” in the wilds of Bendigo, is
certainly astonishing, but his voice already sounds as if
it were going to crack. Cyril Monk, who went to Europe
to be trained for a soprano, has suddenly developed a rich
tenor with which he is shortly to paralyse London audi-
ences
L. L. Lewis, who makes a hobby of charity-amateur-
theatrical work, paid most of the expenses incidental to
the matinee at Melb. Princess’s, in aid of the Hospital for
Sick Children. The best kind of benefit-promoter is the
man who burdens himself with a particular anxiety to
keep the exes, as low as possible.
“ Curra Curra ” : At Echuca Show I saw snake-charmer
Davis allow one of his tiger-snakes to bite a chicken in
the breast. The chicken went “groggy” at once and
soon died. Davis says the Australian tiger is the most
venomous snake in the world.
“P.A.” : A true story of the stage. Heard, a vocalist
render. 11 My Old Dutch” with tremendous pathos; lots
of people wept, and the mummer himself shed a few
drops. Next day, while his wife was at her lodging-house
window, nursing her first baby, a smart drag whipped
past. It contained her husband, a male friend, and two
Flossies, who, with a well-filled hamper, were going to
the races. They laughed loudly as they passed the lonely
woman at the window, and the vocalist yelled, “Hello !
there’s my old Dutch,” and the whole four roared out the
chorus as they sped on. 1 Then, strange to say, the woman
at the window cried.
The prettiest, most brilliant, most fascinating actresses,
whoever they may be, are preparing their usual annual
lies for the social-paper gobemouches about winning
immense sums by miraculously spotting the Melb. Cup
horse. They all do it.
The latest wizardry to puzzle England and America is
the cricket-bat trick. The operator gets three ladies to
pick cards out of a pack. Takes them back. Then a
gentleman throws all the cards at a cricket-bat in the
wizard’s hand : the picked cards alone stick to the bat.
Explanation : The cards are forced on the ladies by a
device familiar to conjurors. Similar cards are face-
downwards on the green cloth of a table, their backs
being undistinguishable from (he cloth. , They have
sticking stuff on the backs, and adhere to the bat, casually
laid on them. The cards thrown at the bat are a substi-
tuted pack. The wizard turns the bat round while meet-
ing the cards.
“H.M.”: Too sweeping is “P.A.’s” assertion that
Sig. Hazon can conduct everything. What about a
Beethoven symphony or a Wagner masterpiece ? Ilazon’s
style of conducting is thoroughly Italian—always directed
to effect upon the beholders. Just the same as if a stage-
manager should work up his supers to a sensational
climax in sight of the audience. Both conductor and
stage-manager should achieve required result in rehearsal-
room. Manns, Sullivan, Moskowski, Richter and Nitsche
follow this method, and, beyond an occasional vigor
for a crescendo, nothing is perceptible save the plain
beat. Costa, who made the “Tell” overture a great
speciality, was absolutely passive throughout, but the
effect was there—so much so that Rossini rushed up once
and, bowing to the orchestra, exclaimed, “ Merci! Merei!
C’est magnifique.” Let “P.A.” read, in Mackenzie’s
“ Art of Conducting,” his abhorrence of what he calls the
clap-trap style.
“ P.A.” : This business of making people laugh from the
stage is only a fool’s game, anyhow. I saw a bill-poster
put on the stage in an emergency. He was made up as
a juggins and had to say a few words, but he never said
them—firstly, because he forgot them ; and, secondly,
because the audience roared so at his appearance that no-
thing else could be heard. The performers were equally
affected, and he literally broke up the show. A man
with brains enough to learn to talk a comic song would
have made a pile vvith such a start, but our man never
got beyond it, though for years he boasted of his success
on his first appearance. With such a look of woebegone
idiocy, it’s hard lines that he should have had such a
narrow escape from being a “ great ” comedian.
The editor S.A. Critic, Grenfell-sfc., Ade-
laide, invites prose and verse contributions for
Xmas-nutnber ; to be received before Nov. 11.
The famous wethers which the late Prof.
Pearson asked Yic. Parliament to import for
breeding purposes, were repeated in Melb. Age
last week, when it stated, without a smile on its
face, that several splendid “ stud bullocks ” were
being purchased by a prominent citizen. And yet
David Syme is himself a cow-breeder between-
times.
The Alba Studios, in the Strand, Syd-
ney, with Bert Levy, the well-known black-
and-white artist, in charge, are a new de-
parture in photography. The word “photo-
graphy,” however, falls very far short of what
the Alba Studios- set themselves to do. Their
aim is to produce art-studies in character and in-
dividuality, and to altogether dispense with
theatrical accessories and devices of background.
The new studios have caught on with signal
success, and celebrities who are anxious to appear
at their best in the public eye have had themselves
“studied” in innumerable poses. The proper
course to procure an “ Alba ” portrait is to make
an appointment for a sitting at least three days
previously. Ladies are simply charmed with the
exquisite work of these studios.*
There are five little books which have been
carefully prepared, and explain in clear, simple
language the cause and cure of various prevalent
maladies. Each of these popular Medical Guides
deals with a different subject. No. 1 with gout,
No. 2 with headache, No. 3 with indigestion,
No. 4 with constipation, and No. 5 is for ladies,
and deals with neuralgia and periodic headache,
and their cure by means of Yamba. Either or all
will be sent post free to any address by A. Bishop,
Ltd., Mile End New Town, London, or from
their Australian Depot, 18 O’Connell - street,
Sydney. When writing please say which booklet
is required.*
After a blow-out on chicken and cham-
pagne at Athol Gardens (the Sydney picnic
ground of some Irish societies) the other Satur-
day, some ultra-loyal yachting johnnies had their
patriotic susceptibilities wounded by the presence
of a green bannerette, which they promptly hauled
down from the cross-beam in the pavilion, on the
ground that it was “the rebel flag of Ireland.”
Curiously enough, at the luncheon immediately
preceding this injudicious exhibition of Jingoism
a M.L.C. had fired off a martial speech at Gov.
Hampden, in which reference was made to Kip-
ling’s poem about the flag of “England”—the
poem that was inspired by the cheering of an Irish
crowd when the Union Jack on top of Cork
fourthouse waa burnt in a big fire.
W.A. Government’s vigorous attempt to
gaol the owners of Kalgoorlie Miner for reporting
an alleged fight between two legislators at the
back of Parliament House fell through badly,
the result being an acquittal. Certain Ministerial
papers published the same cheerful yarn, but
none of them were interfered with. The Miner
is a somewhat independent and disrespectful
organ, and if it could have been gaoled there
would have been joy in many affluent circles out
West.
Mr. Nelson Illingworth has done in terra-
cotta a bust of Edmund Barton, Q.C., which is
undoubtedly one of the most successful hitherto
essayed by its author. It is an admirably “con-
densed ’’ portrait of the subject. Mr. Barton is a
difficult man to pourtray. His right and left pro-
files are utterly dissimilar, the eyes are unlike in
expression, and even the lips are “out of draw-
ing.” Nevertheless, the full face is strong and
harmonious in character, and gives one the im-
pression of complete unity. It is not too much to
say that Mr. Illingworth has seized upon the
veritable Bartonian characteristics of poise, fea-
tures, and expression, and that the bust repre-
sents a truly faithful portrait. The composition
embraces on the pediment a scroll on which is in-
scribed “ The Federal Leader.”
Ridiculous as is the cry of “ Vote for the
Native Born,” that political slogan got the dapper
little lawyer, Davenport Hoggins, into Tas. As-
sembly. At the recent bye-election one of his
opponents was the present Mayor of Hobart, a
harmless old grocer - person known locally as
‘ ‘ Honest George. ” The barraclcers were on the
job at the door of the booth. “ Give Honest
George a vote,” pleaded a committeeman to an in-
telligent elector. “ Not me,” was the reply,
“ I’ve ’ad enough of ’Onesty ; I’m goin’ fer ’Og-
gins. ” And ’Oggins got in.
The most humorous feature about Mel-
bourne, now that the Presbyterian Assembly isn’t
sitting, is the great anxiety of the gipsies showing
in Exhibition-street to be regarded as Greeks, and
the pains taken by the old oyster-shop Athenians
to prove that they aren’t. The Greeks swear
roundly that the gipsies are rank impostors. The
oystermen of Melb. turned up at the Greek church
last Sunday to find that the unspeakable gipsies
had jumped all the reserved seats, and were re-
garding the words of the priest with rapt atten-
tion. This was more than Hellenic blood could
stand. The Greeks left the building, consulted
one of their number, who consented to act as
oracle, and when the gipsies came out of church
full of pious musings on the hereafter, a dark,
thick-set gentleman named Deepoulopolottsco, or
words to that effect, gave a war-cry, and the
Greeks swept u pon the interlopers. The conflict
was short and decisive the descendants of
Leonidas “ dealt it out ” to the unskilled progeny
of Rameses in a way that caused the crowd from
St. Pat’s to grab its bit av a shtick and evince a
desire to chip in. Eventually a horde of battered
gipsies struggled in one by one to the ground
where they are showing, and sent out for huge
pieces of steak.
From S.M. Herald, Oct. 4 :
THE REPUBLIC RETURNS TO PORT.
Newcastle, Monday.
The ship Republic, which left for Honolulu on the Ist
instant, with a cargo of 1580 tons East Greta coal, re-
turned to port to-day in an apparently sound condition.
An air of mystery has been adopted by all those con-
cerned, and the real cause of the vessel’s return cannot
be definitely ascertained. The press representatives were
debarred from boarding the ship, and the officers refused
to be interviewed. It has, however, transpired that Cap-
tain Jones informed the authorities of the port that when
the vessel rolled she made a little water, and that it was
considered advisable to return. The Republic had pro-
ceeded 300 miles on her voyage when the decision to
again make Newcastle was arrived at, and she was picked
up by a tug 35 miles off the coast. Anxious inquiries
were made as to her condition, and, in reply to questions
put to the captain as she entered Nobbys, the fact was
elicited that she was practically dry, the pumps having
sucked. The water was never at any time beyond con-
trol, and, judging from the information at present
obtainable, it would appear that there was never
any need for apprehending danger. It seems that in
smooth water the vessel was dry, and that it was only
when rolling that she made a few inches of water. It is
pointed out that the majority of wooden ships leak to a
slight extent, and that masters generally expect to find a
little water in the hold. The fact that the ship is in a
safe condition may be judged from the fact that the
harbor-master allotted her a buoy in deep water in North
Harbor, and that the pumps were not used in port. It is
understood that arrangements have been made for an
official inspection of the Republic by Lloyd’s surveyor
to-morrow. The prevailing opinion here is that other
causes, as yet unknown, contributed to the decision to
return to Newcastle.
The Republic was originally owned in Chili, and was
recently sold at Port Pirie by order of the authorities for
port dues. She was knocked down at auction for £350, and
was privately re-sold a few hours afterwards for the sum
of £450.
Evidently, the sooner Premier Reid hurries up
with that reform of N.S.W. Marine Board which
is to establish supervision over vessels leaving
Newcastle, the better. The Bulletin will watch
with interest what happens in the case of the
Republic.
Solicitor P. A. 0. O’Farrell is dying in
Melb. Hospital. What a story of legal, judicial,
ecclesiastical and political high and low life in
Victoria his memoirs could reveal if he had
written and any publisher dared print them !
Once the solicitor for all the ‘ ‘ Irish business ” in
the province and the legal confidant of Robert
Moles worth in the famous divorce-case; now poor,
almost friendless, helpless in a hospital. What a
type of much of the rushing glamor of pioneer
life in a new continent ! O'Farrell is the wild
Irishman who created so much excitement in
Melbourne a few years back by shooting at R.C.
Bishop Goold, and he is a brother to the crank
who was hanged for shooting the Duke of Edin-
burgh at Clontarf. In the early days of Melb.
the massive attorney was one of the biggest land-
owners in the town, but in a few years all
had left him, and he has since lived on
his previously neglected law-practice. O’Far-
rell accused Bishop Goold of having swindled
him, and from being a dutiful R.C. he became
a most bitter opponent of the priesthood.
He entered into extensive litigation against' the
Bishop, but had not a legal leg to stand on—
because, he averred, he had trusted the head of
the church over-much. Failing in the courts,
O’Farrell took the law into his own hands, and,
meeting Bishop Goold in a quiet suburban street
one day, he drew his “ gun ” and waded in. For
this he was sent to gaol for an indeterminate
period, as he could not find bondsmen to guarantee
that he would not repeat his attempt; and it was
only when the Bishop placed himself beyond the
range of O’Farrell’s revolver by dying that the soli-
tor was released. A glance at any of the maps
of the Lands Dept, which show the original
holders of tho different lands surrounding Melb.
gives startling evidence as to his position in the
early times, for a straight line can hardly be
drawn for half-a-mile in any direction without
cutting, (iome block marked “P. A. C. O’Farrell.”
The value of the land he owned would
pay perhaps a quarter of the Vic. public debt.
Yet the erstwhile owner has been found penniless
and taken to a hospital to die
One of the respites Premier Reid finds in
censure motions is that from the time they are
tabled till they are determined aspirants for em-
ployment at the forthcoming Paris Exhibition lie
quiet. The wise billet-hunters cautiously with-
hold applying influential pressure till they find how
the cat jumps.


Puo.icatlons, etc.
A. CAPITAL IDEA! and
Something QUITE NEW!
W. H. GLEN & CO.
The
HOME
BINDER.
The
HOME
BINDER.
The
HOME
BINDER.
Call the attention of the MUSICAL
PUBLIC to their
PtrfectioQ . . .
MUSIC BINDER,
which enables you to BIND YOUR MUSIC
AT HOME Cheaper and Better than in
the Ordinary Way.
A CHILD CAN USE IT.
Old Music Can he Removed and New
Pieces Inserted Without Any Trouble.
Testimonials from all the Leading
Musicians.
COMPLETE OUTFIT (including
MUSIC FOLIO), Price
Postage, Sixpence Extra.
26
W. H. GLEN & CO.,
Sole
Proprietors,
272 and 274 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE ;
AND AT
359 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Songs .. .
that Everyone
.. Like.
PRICE "2M3ACH.
LULU. Sung by Ada Reeve.
IN the CATHEDRAL. —Philip
Newbury's Greatest Success.
THE SONG THAT WILL LIVE
FOR EVER.
LITTTLE DOLLY DAY DREAM.
SOLDIERS of the QUEEN.
I HAPPENED to be THERE.
THE TIN GEE-GEE.
I WANT YER, MA HONEY.
All the Above
Successful and Popular
. SONGS ..
ARB PUBLISHED BY
W.H.GLEN&CO.,
MELBOURNE
and
SYDNEY.
Mrs. MACCLURCAIM’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED and ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s. 6dL.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
I
-Ballet girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictihgher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
Thfe Life,
A d v e ri.
hires, and
Confes-'
sions |
bf a I
Barmaid.
Post Free), i/6.
to be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
PIANO or ORGAN PLAYING
I LEARNT IN ONE DAY.
PRATT S CHART of CHORDS for PIANO and ORGAN.
A QUICK ME rilOD of learning to play the piano for those
time or unable to engage the services of a teacher.
With it an* one can become an EXPERT pianiSt accompany-
Songs and Dances. Useful to the advanced Musician.
it IS the NEAREST APPROACH TO A ItEAtJY MADE KNOWLEDGES
ini OF MUSIC YET Revised b* the human mind.
184 frPP 7° intr to every home PRATT’S CHART
, Published at 5/, we will send the Giant Album
f J! 1 s 9 n i; 8 > Words and Music FREE, together with Pratt’s Chart
of Chords for only 2/6 post paid 2/8. Stamps 2d. extra. Address:
anglp American Publishlng Co., Commercial Chambers, Sydney
Mention this paper when writing. AGENTS WANTED.
Mai)dolii)! Mai)dolii)!
Vivacity, Scherzo Spagnolo, Passione, and many
other favorite compositions, by Marchisio , Venanzi,
and other eminent composers for this Popular
Instrument.
W. Pa*toi) * Co.,
203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE:
And 19 Oxford Street, LONDON.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London
and 203 Swanston Strebt, MELBOURNE. ’
BOOKS.
ißooks
Published Second
Price. Hand.
Science of ljife, Sexual Physiology (Fowler) 25/-
Picturesque Atlas of Australasia, 3vols. comp. £l6
Manual of Freemasonry, by Oarlyle 6/6
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk 1/6
Insects Injurious to Fruit and how to destroy 21/
Gordon’s Poems, 3/6; Kendall Poems ... 7/6
The Popular Educator, 6vols. complete . . .80/-
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 2s. cloth-bound Novels by the
best Authors for £l. All Books sent Post Free.
xsooks Books Books
15/-
70/-
3/6
5/6
12/6
5/6
15/-
The Notorious Mrs. Merry vale: Her Adventures and Con-
fessions ; Miss Skittles, the Girl with Six Husbands;
Ovid s Art f Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very racv,
each post free Is. 6d. The New Receipt Book, and How
to command the Love and Admiration of the Opposite
Sex; The Ballet Girl,: Gay Life behind the Scenes—each
post free Is.; The Lady of the Camellias, bv Dumas, very
racy, post free Is. 6d. R. W. SKINNER, New and
Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereaeh-st., Sydney.
Telephone 3043.
ĥ
FfIRTIINF TELLING Cards (Mdme-
l un I UIIE Lenormand'e ; celebrated
french Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 ol the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 3s.-
SECRET
Photos,
(2. Is.
LOVERS l ; aßkace
Supply Agency,
I Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAII CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Doughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes, Sold by all Chemists.
Investigate before Purchasing.
WRITE US AND WE WILL SEND YOU ABSOLUTE
PROOF THAT
turn#
Is positively the best remedy for RHEUMATISM,
LUMBAGO, ALL ACHES and PAINS, WOUNDS,
BRUISES, etc. For Stable Use, it is the best Embro-
cation in the world. We cannot publish all the testi-
monials we are constantly receiving from grateful sufferers
who have been cure'd. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to
S. COX & CO.,
PATENTEES and SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
422 Hour he Street, Melbourne.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d. extra.
Owl Drug Stores,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY
Being direct importers and cash
BUYERS, our Drugs and Toilet Requisites
are of the BEST QUALITY and sold at the
LOWEST PRICES. Prescriptions Dispensed
by first-class Registered Chemists, and faithfully
prepared.
ECONOMY, EXCELLENCY, & FIDELITY
—Our Motto. Call and inspect our Store, and
you will be satisfied.
Telephone D. COBCROFT, Proprietoi.
2636. W. E. ARNOLD, Manager.
- Medicines carefully packed and forwarded to
all parts of the Colonies.
Married Ladies.
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “ Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 2/0,
post free.
The [atest Insect pouider
KILLS AIiL INSECTS.
THE MARVELLOUS INSECT POWDER.
NO VEXATIOUS DISAPPOINTMENTS.
ħ
KILLS FLIES, THE CARRIERS OF DISEASE GERMS.
KILLS MOSQUITOES, AND ENSURES A NIGHT’S REST.
Harmless to Animal Life.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
IELLII'S
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
"When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
couverted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
hidy be obtained of-all Dealers throughout the;
trorld.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
I’ll Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand, j
I'rieet 10s. 0«l.
Sole Agents :
lhe Result
Craig & Aitlsen, 680-332 George* st„ Sydney
Jack : I hear the Yankees are ffoing to
give over using powder and shot
in their War with Spain.
PoM : How are they going to win,
then ?
Jack: With St. Jacobs Oil. It
CONQUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET.
IN LARGE AND SMALL OAKES,
EVERYWHERE.
A CART-LOAD OF COLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatmentthat
has re tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers, Pitt-st., Sydney.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing’ in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary laimited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. a’Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 fi. Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding
Breeches, 25/-, Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
I and other Uniforms, RidingHahits,
; Ac. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21 Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 211. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 '6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10'-, trimmings included.
m
i i i
iiiiiii!!!!!!!! 1
ili«*
i ii'l ! i:
BKPH
»psR¥W|!WI«SS«sBB
Cvv®'" vB I!! 1 ;!! it,
blffisa
.
Sals
1 " »' I'ia.ii, i
m
Hiiijjiiiiiiiiiij
"HH'iiiiiiiili!
fill ;;;;; j
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
h
grift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE, Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
tree), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL'ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
The Lowest Prices—
The Highest Testimonials^
The Pinest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recom-
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
Minerva peptonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, has been reduced to the
public from 2s. Cd. to Is. !)d. The high quality of
the preparation lias not been reduced.
Minerva Peptonised Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s. (id. to 2s, 9d, large size, and to Is. 9d,
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street, by enclosing with the above
price Gd. extra to cover postage. Sample bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Co ,
Manufacturing Chemists Sc Food Specialist*.
LONDON : 15 and 17 Fore-street Avenue, E.C.
NEW YORK : Kemble Buildinsr, VV'hitehall-street.
SYDNEY : 56 M^r^aret-street.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE.
jr 0 /{
fm
SK/tf t>/f£ASEf
AND WOI/A/JDS
or /£ V£R Y
DESCR/pr/orf
D-ROBERTS
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
A/vdall d/sopdersof the
STOMA C/Y <g L/VER .
or ALL CHEM/STS /fji & 2/?EACH
BEACH & BARNJCOTT L". BRIDPORJ.
MELBOURNE.
fjO YOU WAN‘t a
POST FREE v^>
watches-Clocks-JeWellery-BirtHday*
weddii\!c z CrißisTEiJdc Presents
1755177-ELIZABETH S t *
OPPOSITE G:P.O.
MELBOURNE.
CEB
DEAF
ran
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
|and Heap Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
"to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Idyllic—and Otherwise.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Idyllic.
Charles Biedermann rose, as Helena —the peer-
less, spotless Helena—propounded her question.
“You ask me, Helena, if there is anything in
my past I could not tell you ; if I can honestly
come to you and offer you a life as untarnished as
your own has been ; if I can he as perfectly candid
with you as you have heen with me.”
“Yes, Charles, I think I have a right to ask
the question. My friend, Miss Virginal, for
whom I have the highest respect, has talked the
matter over with me, and I have come to the con-
clusion that I am perfectly justified in asking the
question.”
Biedermann compressed his lips “The truth
is,” he painfully beg ui, “my life has not been so
good as it might have been. I have heen tempted
and I have fallen. I have struggled after the fall
and have risen again, a better man for both fall
and struggle Your case is entirely
different. Absence of temptation, a life passed
almost in seclusion, have made virtue compara-
tively easy, and I protest against your assumption
of a right to judge me by a feminine standard.’
He looked at her anxiously. Her face was
averted. His doom was sealed. He turned to go,
butjustashe was reaching the threshold of the
cottage a tender voice rang out behind him, all
tearfully dulcet: —
“Come back, Charles; come back! Who,
indeed, am I that I should judge you 1 ”
* * • *
And so it ran, a little Nineteenth Century
Idyl, tenderly,touchingly idealistic. The variant
subjoined, however, is painfully, practically,
realistically Otherwise.
Othenvise I
A dark-eyed, handsome, full-lipped woman, all
gracious curves and feline lissomeness, stood
regarding a tall, square-built, somewhat pallid
young man, whose physiognomy, whatever else it
wanted, certainly did not lack intellectuality.
“ You want to know, Margaret, have I been
perfectly frank and confiding with you. Have I
not, after the manner of my sex, maintained a
politic reticence towards you regarding my pmt, in
certain particulars. ... I am proud to be able to
say I can bare my bosom for all men to read. . . .
I have striven to keep the narrow path of purity.
I have always treated the women of my acquaint-
ance with chivalrous respect, and can honestly say
that, in this matter at least, I have kept myself
‘unspotted from the world.’ ”
He looked up. A curious, little disdainful
smile was cur Lug her lips—her eyes laughed out
in limpid amusement She turned away and
muttered quietly, “ What a milksop it is ! ”
The Immaculate rose slowly, left the room, took
down his hat, found the street door and departed.
Nobody called him back!
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
On the subject of women workers (in
other than the matrimonial sphere) a solemn daily
journal reckons that “the triumph which leaves
them at life’s close without the love and sympathy
of husband and children has the taste of Dead
Sea fruit.*’ The fruits of marriage, of course, are
invariably sweet. No woman at life’s close ever
has Cause to regret the drunkeii husband who
whops her, or did whop her until she got her
divorce. And children, the dear children ! —they
are unmixed blessihgs in every case.


At MICK SIBIBIONS’.
A NEW
DEPARTURE.
CASH TRADE ONLY.
Cut Prices to the
Trade . No Travellers Employed*
NO CREDIT. NO RISK. RESULT : BOTTOM PRICES.
Cherry wood Pipes.
Cherrywood Pipes.
Cherry wood Pipes.
Briar Pipes.
Briar Pipes.
Briar Pipes.
Silver-Mounted Pipes.
Silver-Mounted Pipes.
Silver-Mounted Pipes.
T H^rL R v U3K are advised orLargc Shipments of the above, which are JUST OPENED. The
same being quoted at UNHEARD-OF PRICES, and would recommend Tobacconists and
storekeepers in the Country to send for Sample Orders. Satisfaction Guaranteed
CIGARS. Special Value to the Trade. CIGARS.
La Parold, box of 300 10s Od
High Life, box of 100 13s Od
No. 1 MANILA, box of 100 11s 9d
No. 1 MANILA Heavy Weight, box 100 13s 9d
FLOR-DE-S ANTI AGO, box of 100 ... 15s Od
NIMROD, box of 100
IRABACO, packets of B—per 100
LA HOF A MEXICAN, box of 100 ...
LA HI.IA DE CUBA, box of 100 ...
MADONNA ROTHSCHILDS, 25 in
box—per 00
13s Od
8s Od
20s Od
20s Od
24s Od
FLOR-DE-HENRY NEVARRE, Heavy-Weights,
5? Bouquet
EL MUNDO, Heavy-Weights, box of 100 ...
FLOR-DE-TORELL A, box of 25—per 100
Havana, box of 100
» »
... 33s Od
... 33s Od
... 24s Od
... 33s Od
The Trade Supplied Cheaper and Better than any other Wholesale
Establishment in the Colony.
your Goods direct fromour Warehouse, and save TRAVELLERS’EXPENSES
being added to the prices of your Merchandise. ALL LETTERS ADDRESS to
|l|ick Simmons,
Tobacco Merchant
. . . and Importer.
Haymarket, Sydney.
4
forri.il
IMITED
m
C#
X
%
«' THIS IS WASHING PAY!
HOYLE’S PRINTS me FAST COLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day.
If our name is stamped on the piece vve guarantee that the color will stand boiling. If you can show
any Goods bearing our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will get for
you from us the price of the material, and
WE WILL PAY THE COST OP MAKING UP A NEW DRESS.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Summer Days are coming—You will want a Washing Dress .
YORKSHIRE RELISH
i THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
6/2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i and 2/- each.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEDS, ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIIJ.OCK & CO., KENT and JJVERPOOI, STREETS, SYDNEY.
ĥ
T*OOK OF NATURE
' * " —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything- is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding hack of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain m everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugli prosecuted
book, Is ; by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post'4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty's Secrets, post free Is; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How to become a Ventriloquist, post'free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the Drench unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book
l 16 PARK STREET,
Depot
SYDNEY.
Mr. W. T. ROSE
DOES NOT THINK, HE IS SURE.
HE CANNOT PROPERLY PICTURE
The Horrors of his Illness.
The Case of
Mr. William Thomas Rose
[From the “Nepean (Penrith, N.S. W.)
Times.”)
(BY OCR SPECIAL REPORTER.)
A report having reached this office to the
effect that Mr. W. T. Rose, of High-street,
Penrith, had some time since established
himself in firm health by the opportune use
of a certain remedy after suffering for a long
time from a stubborn and dangerous illness,
our reporter called at Mr. Rose’s house, and
asked him what ailed him some time back.
“ Well,” replied that gentleman, “Iwas
afflicted with
A Terrible Nervous Complaint.
It came upon me when I was weakened, and
my Constitution shattered by a long con-
tinued internal complaint. I caught cold
when out on an all-night fishing excursion,
and on returning home was seized with
griping cramps at the bottom of the
stomach. While it lasted the pain was
simply excruciating. I was bent double
with pain, with my two hands pressed upon
my stomach. I changed to a deadly colour,
and couldn’t utter a word. It felt as though
my bowels were tied in knots. Gradually
the cramps subsided, and left me free for
two or three days. Then the spasms came
on again. The torment was worse than
before. Once more I slowly recovered, but
only to be seized again and again with these
racking spasms. Often in the height of the '
anguish I positively thought I should be
snuffed out. ‘One minute more of this
agony,’ I said to myself, ‘ and I shall be a
dead man.’ I slowly got weaker and weaker.
Every seizure left me worse.”
“ Did you get no advice ? ”
Mr. Rose laughed at the question. “ I
should think I did,” he replied. “ I tried
everything, but nothing I used at that time
could ward off the cramps, or even give me
relief.” . 1
“ I suppose you had other symptoms ?”
“ Yes, my one-time splendid appetite
deserted me, and whatever I did eat gave
me a
Painful Feeling of Oppression
right here (Mr. Rose placed his hand on
the lower portion of his chest to indicate
the spot). Wearisome headaches troubled
me, and a sharp, twinging pain between the
shoulders frequently made itself felt. In
the morning I found my tongue thickly
coated with a disagreeable substance. My
breath was foul, and after every attempt to
eat, wind would generate in my stomach.”
“ Your liver was affected, perhaps ?”
“ Yes, very badly; but I hardly know
what portion of my body was not afflicted.
Then my nerves began to go. That was the
last straw. I had battled as cheerfully as
possible against my disease, but now this
new infliction made me
Downhearted Beyond
Expression.
When I stood up I was so giddy and shaky
that I had to take hold of something to
steady myself. I was frightened to walk
across the road. All night long I lay in bed
all of a shake, and twitching frightfully. All -
sorts of
Foolish and Unwarrantable
Terrors
Would crowd into my mind. I had to sit up
in bed, I really dare not lie down. My
despondency increased day by day. I
can’t describe the awful nervousness that
was upon me. I went into a shaking fit
through nothing at all. The blessing of
sleep was denied me. My nights were one
long misery, and I dreaded the approach of
bed time. Sometimes I was unable to get
out of bed, and at other times I sat up
brooding over my misfortunes, trying to
imagine what it would be like to be well
and strong once more.”
“ I suppose you had the attention of, a
doctor ? ”
“ Yes, I had as many as five different
doctors, but none of them could cure me.
Some slight temporary relief was all that
I ever obtained from their medicines, and
I was soon as bad as ever again, if not
worse. I also obtained all sorts of physic
from the chemists, and my wife bought me
many medicines which were warranted to
cure me straight off.”
“ But they didn’t do it ? ”
*’ They were all rubbish,” said Mr. Rose,
emphatically just new-fangled catch-
pennies; but you know how a sick man
clings to the weakest hope.”
“ I threw them up again often as not;
they wouldn’t stop on my stomach, and I
spent pounds and pounds on them, and all
for no result. When I now look back and
think of the
Miserable State I was in
then I truly wonder I survived. Why, do
you know that I fell away from 11 stone to
8 stone odd. .1 was a mere shadow of my
once strong and robust condition. My
bones were almost coming through my skin.
I was come to the
Last State of Misery.
The present was full of gloom and suffer-
ing, and the future held out to me little
hope of recovery. At last I gave up all
hope of ever getting better. I was as bad
as a man could be and still live. In fact, I
no longer cared what happened to me.
Hope was quite dead. Then my wife came
to me with Clements Tonic. ‘ You must
give this a trial,’ she said. ‘ It’s no use,’ I
said to her, ‘there’s no medicine in the world
that can lift me up again,
I’ve Sunk Too Low.’
She pressed me to try just one dose, and as
it was easier to take a spoonful than to
argue, I took some. My wife then insisted
on me taking the doses regularly.”
“ What effect did Clements Tonic have?”
“ Marvellous—it was like the touch of a
magician’s wand. You never saw a man get
better so quickly as I did. The cramps in
my stomach entirely ceased. My liver
began to resume its proper functions. My
digestion improved, and the food which
formerly caused pain, wind, and distress now
began to properly nourish
My Worn Out Frame.
A new hope sprang up. I began to bestir
myself, for I felt I had found a remedy to
which I could pin my faith. My nerves
became stronger, and I had no more nervous
twitchings. I had deeper and longer sleep
every night. Under the invigorating in-
fluence of Clements Tonic
I Threw Off My Nervousness
altogether. It was just like getting rid of
a heap of cankering chains. Instead of
being despondent I was now hopeful, if not
cheerful. I came along astonishingly. I
was always hungry. I never seemed able
to get enough to eat, and, naturally enough,
I began to put on flesh. My nerves con-
tinually improved. I laughed at being
nervous now. I soon regained my lost
weight, and was able to go about my work
again as well as ever. It was as though
years had been put on my life. ”
“ You think Clements Tonic did this for
you ? ”
“I Don’t Think—l’m Sure.
Plainly speaking, Clements Tonic dragged
me back out of the very jaws of death.”
“ About publishing this—you don’t
object?”
“No, on the contrary, I wish it to be made
public, and if you hadn’t called upon me, it
was my intention to make a special journey
to Sydney to put my case in the papers. I
wish to make the means of my miraculous
recovery public as a duty
I Owe to Mankind,
and may it bring hope and health to others
as it did to me.”
As our reporter was turning away,
Mr. Rose called after him :—“Now, don’t
you imagine I’ve exaggerated my sufferings
as some people think I do, for the fact is
that 'I was
Worse Than I’ve Described,
and lack of words alone has prevented me
from properly picturing to you the
Horrors of“ My illness,
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, William Thomas Rose, of High-street, Penrith,
in the colony of New South Wales, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the an-
nexed document, co sisting of eleven folios and
consecutively numbered front one to eleven, and that
it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness ami cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish the same in any way;
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
- provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
' “An Act for the more effec ual abolition of Oaths
■ and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
: and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for
the suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits. ’’
✓ f / fioM i
Declared at Penrith this eighth day of August,
one thousand eight hundred and ninety-eight, befoi-
me,
W. FULTON, J.P.
Ask for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.


Baby
11l
m
m
iW^Sj®
SSfcSv
llitel
jwS
SSB
if*
<*%
MMssjaf
Ssc
m
:Z»Vk*J,
I-" *» #< /
m
*<##*<#£
SCwSg
Fed on
Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits.
The
Celebrated
PURE
Biscuits.
it . •
Read the Mother’s Testimonial:
Sydney, Sept. 28, ’9B.
Mr. A KNOTT.
Dear Sir.—l have enclosed a photo of my
baby boy: he is six months old, and weighs twenty-
four pounds. He is as healthy as he looks. He
has been fed on Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Hiscuits j
since he was twelve days old. I believe it is the j
best food to be given to infants. I think every j
mother should try them. 1 try to get all friends to
us them I remain, yours obediently,
Mrs. EVANS.
No. 9 Chandler’s Cottage, Newtown Road, Sydney.
ARNOTT’S Milk Arrowroot Biscuits.
Take only ARNOTT’S. Refuse Imitations.
DIRECTION 8 : For Infants, grate the biscuits to powder; mix and stir with boiling water. If milk agrees, add it. Lut the biscuits are made with milk. Give by feeding-bottle or spoon.
° jDlder children may eat them when and how they like. J 6
Stolen Kisses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Yes, so I imagined !
And still all is silence—
Not a board creaks now;
It seemed but a while since
We, listening intently,
Heard soft-footed noises,
The sound of doors swinging,
And whisper of voices.
Guilt made us sensitive :
Bodies a-quiver
With passionate lightnings
Made every nerve shiver ;
You breathed and I shuddered,
I sighed and you started,
We dreaded no dagger,
But feared to be parted.
How shall I meet him,
At breakfast behold him ?
With inward derision—
A white cheek uphold him,
Dissembling, as though his
Were welcome caresses:
But all the while thinking
Of you and your kisses 1
What shall I tell him,
If he discover ?
Why, flirt a fan—this wise—
And own you my lover !
But let us be secret
And hide our love beautiful:
You, the friend Faithful,
I, the wife Dutiful.
A sin—nay, to beauty
All tribute is given,
The right to fall sweetly
And still be forgiven : .
The Innermost Voices
I mock with light laughter,
My heaven’s my Lover :
For fools a Hereafter.
A truce to your banter ;
Love swells in a tidal
Resurgence, and all but
Love’s converse is idle :
My lips have a question,
Regards stolen kisses,
And yours—can they ansvver?
And—Love is delicious.
RODERIC QUINN.
Delightful notice in a Thursday Island
paper:—
“Please, gentlemen, anyone who wants to get printer
man, who has just come from Port Darwin, boat Captain
Rana Roderico, she leaves Port Darwin- 21st July and
arrived here on 19 August, and brought a printer man :
who is able to do printer your name in any letters on
your window or sign,’.’ &c., &c.
And this is how they babble in the Northern
Babel.
Cooktown.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
This is a description of the far Northern capi-
tal, as it was evolved from my mind. I have often
visited Cooktown, and here is the result of a num-
ber of aggravated impressions—or, better, depres-
sions.
■ • » • •
After the wet season, Cooktown is rather a
pretty place—a white patch nestling between
green hills and blue water, overshadowed by the
dark grandeur of Mt. Cook. The latitude is indi-
cated by here and there a graceful cocoa-palm
(strange how a single palm will give the most
commonplace landscape a dreamy tropical appear-
ance !) But, in summer, the town is truly awful
—a mere colony of redhot iron boilers, that have
scorched the vegetation off the surrounding coun-
try, The nakedness of the hills reveals only
empty jam-tins and lean goats, the two main
characteristics of a N.Q. settlement. During the
midday heat, the goats take their siesta on the
verandah of the local bank.
• * * •
Cooktown lives by spurts. It was born with a
spurt; and the Palmer, the Annan, and Papua
have at different times provided the “ready ” for
a royal burst. But between spurts Cooktown lan-
guishes exceedingly, and lives only by wharf-
lumping and playing in the Chinese lottery. A
stranger can find his way into town simply fol-
lowing the track of ancient tickets to windward.
Cooktown’s glories are its harbor and the Cook
monument. A monument in a galvanised-iron
town looks about as relevant as a crinoline in
Heaven. As for the harbor—the stranger has to
acquire a taste for it. But, after that, like man-
Soes, it is very nice. My first experience of the
arbor was on a fishing expedition. I sailed right
into the.centre of the basin at high tide and cast
my line. I had to walk back, and the boat was
pulled into the channel by a couple of horses. It
was very depressing.
* m m *
Ever since the days of the Palmer, Cooktown
has been the head-quarters of Queensland-China.
Cairns isn’t in it! There is a Chinese Consul,
and a brass joss of very considerable sanctity—
for an outside place like Australia. When this
eminent idol arrived in town, some years ago, the
slant-eyed residents celebrated the event with
much pomp and a champagne banquet. All the
local white celebrities were invited, and turned up
punctually. The time was Sunday, during church -
service, and the Christian temples were commen-
surately short of elders and wardens. Which
appeared quite a matter of course to the inhabi-
tants, and would never have penetrated to the
outside world but for the editor of the local paper.
He, being an enemy of the Chinese, wasn’t in-
vited.
■ * . * * ‘ * ’
There is a railway to the Laura. This terminus
consists of the station-shed and a small bush pub.
Some miles further on there is an iron bridge ;
but they forgot to lay the rails up to that. It does
not matter, anyhow. Nobody ever travels on the
line. When people are in a hurry they walk. I
made one trip up with the bi-weekly mail-train.
At the 7-mile a vegetable-Chow stopped the en-
gine and got on board with: his baskets. ' Ten
miles further on there was a 15-minutes wait,
while the driver and the stoker went to stalk a
plain turkey. They bagged it, and for the next
few miles the feathers whirled into my compart-
ment as they plucked the bird on the tender. So
I shut my window and went to sleep. It was
very depressing.
• • • *
Cooktown possesses 23 pubs., nearly all in the
main street. The landlord generally stands in the
bar-door. He fixes his eyes sleepily on you as you
come up from the wharf. Then he recognises
you as a stranger, and his face lights up.
His hospitable smile broadens in a reverse
ratio to the distance between you and his
pub. As you pass, his countenance lengthens
and his scorn for your meanness increases accord-
ing to the natural law aforementioned. And then
you approach the next hostelry. You cannot
bear . these reiterated scenes of hope and dis-
appointment very long. If you are soft-hearted,
you’ll break down at the third pub. I got to the
sixth. “ Please give me some whisky! ” “ Ain’t
got no whisky. Nobody drinks no whisky.”
“ Brandy ?”“No ! ” “ Beer ?—claret ? ’’—not
in stock. And so you must swallow your nip of
fiery draught rum. If you don’t finish it, the
landlord pours back the remains into the bottle
and returns to his station at the door.
* • • •
The only amusement is the nightly meeting of
the Salvation Army. Every citizen has been a
member, once at least. When there is cash about
he slides back ; but after the spree he comes up
again for Repentance. All the town knows the
favorite hymns by heart, and the spirit of the
Army seems to have soaked into the municipal
character. It is a sort of sub-conscious, everlast-
ing whipping of the cat. And it is very de-
pressing.
VON KOTZE.
There are 1700 persons employed by the
Wallaroo and Moonta Mining Co. (S.A.), but
practically none of the miners' have a vote for the
Leg. Council, as they are not freeholders and they
don’t pay rent. The co. lets them build on the
mining lease, and when a .miner leaves he is at.
liberty to sell his house if he can find a buyer.
Kingston’s Household Suffrage Bill, designed to
give a Council vote to every householder and his'
wife, would have enfranchised all these people—
who have been knocked out, however, by the sub-
stitution of a small rental qualification.
Artist Furniss must have had “ liver ”
when he was at Albany, en route to England. He
took a very yellow view of-the place, and, when he
got home, caricatured it unmercifully. Yet there
are few more picturesque.places in Australia than
Albany, which is also scrupulously clean and is an
ideal summer and health resort. But its fine
public buildings, its eight hotels, and 3000 of a
population make every new-comer ask “ How is it
done?” And the inhabitants.themselves dunno.
Albany has been a bit of a mystery for 40 years.
Tradition says it was once the home port of
numerous whalers, for \tfhose use small stores
sprang up, and one or two pubs, put in an appear-
ance. Then the ocean-going boats began to :call
in for coal (brought from various countries, and.
stowed in hulks) ; and, after that, sandalwood
broke out and brought a few ships to take it away.
But Albany’s streaks of luck have all been very
fitful and evanescent. Yetifc pays its debts, liveS'
on hope, and doesn’t worry.
The Biggest Rogue Wins.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
They reckoned they had a good thing on at
Bunyipvale with the =650 handicap. “They”
were Thompson, ot Nowlahmine, and Cleaby, of
Brown Creek, up the river.
Thompson’s Flo was a red-hot favorite at small
odds. She was a local mare ; all knew her, or
thought they did, and “ went on ” heavily.
Cleaby’s Neddy was unknown, save to a few,
among whom were Thompson. The latter was
uncertain how the race would end ; there was no
doubt it lay between Flo and Neddy, but that was
all Thompson knew about it. As the same thing
was giving Cleaby no little anxiety, these two
honest sports soon formed an acquaintance, each
determining to “ pump ” the other.
That was no go. But after- some fencing, they
understood each other so well that times, weights,
&c., were compared, and they found that the
favorite, Flo, could win, with a little to spare-
very little. And Flo was at even money. Not
much in that to encourage true sports.
The result was simple. Neddy suddenly jumped
in the betting from six to even money, and the
favorite went back to threes. Cleaby and Thomp-
son had not met for nothing ! An hour before the
race Thompson’s jockey got his orders “not to
win.” And Cleaby and Thompson wandered
about the course with the vacant expression of
men who didn’t know each other from Adam.
Next, the jockey saw a pal in a retired corner
behind a gum-tree, and the betting changed again.
Both horses started at evens, and the favorite won.
Neddy second.
*'• * *
Immediately after the race Cleaby (owner of
Neddy) protested. Flo had won a <£lo race at an
unregistered meeting. And Cleaby wore so bland
an expression that the idea of his having got his
information from- Thompson was too preposterous
for : belief, especially as Thompson was very angry,
and wanted to fight Cleaby on the spot.
Usual decision of country meetings—referred to
A.J.C.
. , i.j. • • *
Decision: Pay second horse. Thompson and
Cleaby jubilant. Go to draw their winnings from
the bookie, but—
< “Oh ! you can’t come that game on me ; I’m an
unregistered bookmaker, always pays first horse
past the post! you know.” He was a big, strong
brute,- and his fighting reputation extended from
river to river. What could they do ? what they
did—nothing, bar a little choice cursing. But
that’s a mere detail in racing circles.
• • *
Theqockey heard of this,, and suddenly realised
that the money he had instructed liis mate to put
on Flo that time they held counsel behind the
gum-tree wasn’t lost, after all. And he went to
collect his dividend on the horse that was first
past the post.
; “ What! pay on Flo. Why d me eyes, the
mare was disqualified. You don’t expect me to
pay against the A. J.C. decisions, do you ? What
do you take me for, a hinnocent kid, or a rogue?
come now ! ”
Mote cursing.
'.o't • • - * •
It’s not always the hardest worker who makes
the biggest cheque.
CAMIRO.


Just as a gentle reminder. Hordern Brothers
are more Up-to-date this Springtime than ever. The
choice ranges of the newest design s in gent.’s wear on
hand. The colorings in ties are specially admired, and
the collection is extremely large. VVe have paid particu-
lar attention in ordering our Tennis and Fashion Shirts,
and in these lines the most fastidious can be pleased.
Our gent.’s underwear and hosiery are really first-class.
Silk Mixtures, Summer Gauze light weights in great
variety. The prices speak for themselves. N.B.—Be
prepared for the Fly Pest this Summer, aiid secure for Is.
a pure silk fly veil. 203, 205,207,209,211 Pitt-st. Sydney.*
I*®* us introduce 11
h
BOOK
POSTED FREE
WITH PLEASURE
THE BEST
Electric Belts
f) IN THE WORLD.
ULVER MAC HERS.
Many are advertised, but none
can equal these. They have been in use
nearly 50 years, and are prescribed and
recommended by the leading medical men
throughout the world, including the phy-
sicians of H.M. The Queen, H.R.H. The
Prince of Wales, the Emperor of Austria,
etc,, etc.
As a TONIC for the whole system
nothing can compare with them, and for
RHEUMATISM, PARALYSIS
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, NERVOUS
DISEASES, and many other ailments,
they form the Best Cure in the World.
.An interesting Pamphlet— 41 Galvanism : what it has done and can do can
be had for the asking, and gives full information about the treatment. Sydney Agents,
OSBORN & JERDAN (late, Frost <Ss Shipham),
Manufacturing Electricians & Opticians, 438 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY,
rtAS HO 3UPC-RIOR .
CITRATE
BISHOP'S
of MAGNESIA
WAY AoT USE IT ?
e
1'
e/o
ES
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
WnT^^e. Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
- n i ar ! Mother Preparations for promoting- the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
esult of a practical knowledge —2O years’ experience of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
tnreH h her l aa nearly all ofcher preparations -lie manufac
1 A i’ and - f are nothin £ but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says “ Everywhere I <>-n T henr
P Ano e fhSv aklll H h '" hly of your Preparations for the Hair.”
Another gentleman says :—“ By a mere chance I have hqH
wfll- o known o Haii- I Tj V e 0 r wit,les ® in /. the R°od effect of your now
well known Han Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood.;
Hrtt m
&
I
&
52
was quite bald on top of head, and, to my knowledge triprf tv,:
ay-o he informed me he was intending: to give you? Restorer^triil " enfclon T e ? vv,thou f ' any result. A few months
ftive me. I did not see my friend again until a few days a <m and f v C ° lU '* e J lau « hed - *"<• tor which you must for-
Vltha o ald , head ’ but vvith a toll, thick head of hatr — V J 'fm^"r Ur| r seon finding my old com-
PRICE, per Bottle, 35., 45., 55., 10s. 6d, 12s. 6d. Ninenence fsmallS VnH ! r RS ’ t Esq - Tooma > Ns - w - 20/9 Q -
1 gmepenee (small) and Is. extra for postage. Sold by all Chemists.
E. HOLLAND,
HAIR SPECIALIST,
193 Collins-Ht., MeIb VICTORIA
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address —9o KING STREET, SYDNEY.
OUR NEW WILD BOAR’S TUSK
BROOCH,
With Chain & Bell Pendant,
Silver-mounted, 5s 6d. J?
Gold-mounted, 14s.
Our GOLD NOVELTY BROOCH, 18s 6d.
With Octagon Amethyst and Pearl Bird.
Ri
GOLD AMETHY&j. HEART BROOCH,
13s 6d.
GOLD 2-BAR PEARL BROOCH,
9e., 10s 6d ; 15c., 17s 6d.
m*
15c., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 255;
or 2 Diamonds: and 1 Sapphire.
NEW GOLD BIRD BROOCH, 8s 6d.
With Looped Chain to Heart, 9s 6d.
ALL GOODS FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS.
9c., 23s 6d ; Plain, 225.
15c., 37s tid.
Silver, 5s pair.
SOLID PLAIN PLAT.
9-carat, 17s 6d. 20s, 255.
15-carat, 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, ss.
mm
9c., 23s 6d ; Plain, 225.
15c., 42s 6d.
Silver, 5s pair.
9-carat, 13s 6d pair.
15-carat, 27s 6d pair.
Silver, 3s 6d pair.
PLEASE SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SLIPS OF VERY LATEST LONDON NOVELTIES.
Any NAME or MOTTO,
9c., 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
Raised Gold Letters,
5s extra.
18c. HALF-HOOP.
5 fine Diamonds, £7 10s.
Smaller stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 fine Diamonds, with
3 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals,
or Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 lovely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s.
18c. TABLET.
1 fine Diamond, with
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
27s 6d.
3 fine Diamonds, 50s.
18c. TWO-HEART.
1 fine Diamond, with
1 Ruby or Sapphire, 355.
2 fine Diamonds, 455.
15e. LITTLE GEM.
Ruby, Opal, or Sapphire,
21s.
REAL AMETHYST BUTTON HOOKS, 2s 6d EACH.
REAL AMETHYST HEART PENDANT, 2s 6d EACH
SOLID GOLD
Faith, Hope, and
Charity
PENDANT, 5s ea.
With Pin and
Chain, 8 6.
ĥ
OUR NEW
TWIN
BIRD
BROOCHES.
Plain Gold,
7s 6d pair.
With two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d pair.
NEW GOLD HORSE
AND STIRRUP
PENDANT, 13s 6d.
Bill, the Ventriloquist Rooster.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
We had a rooster at our place, named Bill, said
Mitchell. A big 1 mongrel of no particular breed ;
though the old lady said he was a “ brammer ”
and many an argument she had with the old man
about it too ; she was just as stubborn and obstin-
ate in her opinion as the governor was in his.
But, anyway, we called him Bill and didn’t take
no particular notice of him till a cousin of some of
us came from Sydney on a visit to the country,
and stayed at our place because it was cheaper
than stopping at a pub. Well, somehow this chap
got interested in Bill and studied him for two or
three days, and at last he says :
“ Why, that rooster's a ventriloquist! ”
“ A what ?”
“A ventriloquist ! ”
“ Go along with yer ! ”
“ But he is. I’ve heard of cases like this before;
but this is the first I’ve come across. Bill’s a
ventriloquist, right enough.”
And so he was, and, as it turned out, he was an
unconscious one at that, as the Sydney jackeroo
said. Then we, remembered that there wasn t
another rooster within five miles —our only neigh-
bor, an Irishman named Page, didn’t have onb at
the time—and we’d often heard another cock crow,
but didn t think to take any notice of it. We
watched Bill, and sure enough he was a ventrilo-
quist. The “ ka-coeka ” would come all right, but
the co*ka-koo-oi-uo ” seemed to come from a
distance. And sometimes the Whole' crow would
go wrong and come back like an echo that had
been lost for a year. Bill would stand on tiptoe,
and hold his elbows out, and curve his neck, and
go two or three times as if he was swallowing
nest-eggs, and nearly break his neck and burst his
gizzard; and then there’d be no sound at all
where he was—only a cock crowing' iri the dis-
tance.
And pretty soon we could see that Bill was
troubled about it. He was in great trouble about it.
You see, he didn’t know it was himself—thought
it was another rooster challenging him, and he
wanted badly to find that other bird. He would
get up on the wood-heap, and crow and listen-
crow and listen again— ero.w and listen, and then
he’d go up to the top of the paddock, and get upon
the stack, and crow and listen there. Then down
to the other end of the paddock, and get up on a
mullock-heap, and crow and listen there; then
across to the other side and up on a log among the
saplings, and crow ’n’ listen some more. He
searched all over the place for that other rooster,
but, of course, he couldn’t find him. Sometimes
he’d be out all day crowing and listening all over
the country, and then come home dead tired, and
rest and cool off in a hole that the hens had
scratched for him in a damp place under the
water-cask sledge.
Well, one day Page brought home a big white
rooster, and when he let it go it climbed up on
Page’s stack and crowed, to see if there was any
more roosters round there. Bill had come home
tired ; it was a hot day, and he’d rooted out the
hens, and was having a “spell-ho” under the
cask when the white rooster crowed. Bill, didn’t
lose any time getting out and on to the wood-heap
and then he waited till he heard the crow again ;
then he crowed, and the other rooster crowed’
again, and they crowed at each other for three
days, and called each other all the wretches
they could lay their tongues to, and after that
they implored each other to come out and be made
into chicken - soup and feather pillows. But
neither d come. You see, there was three crows—
there was Bill’s Crow, and the ventriloquist crow
and the white rooster’s crow—and each rooster
thought that there was two roosters in the opposi-
tion camp, and that he mightn’t get fair play, and
consequently both were afraid to put up their
hands.
But at last Bill couldn’t stand it any longer.
He made up his mind to go and have it out, even
if there was a whole agricultural show of prize
and honorable-mention fighting-cocks. in Page’s
yard. He got down from the wood-heap and
started off across the ploughed field, his head
down* his elbows out, and his thick, awkward
legs prodding away at the furrows behind for all
they were worth.
I wanted, to go down badly and see the fight,
and barrack for Bill. But I daren’t, because I’d
been coming up the road late the night before
with my brother Joe, and there was about three
panels of turkeys roosting along on the top rail of
Page’s front fence, and we brushed ’em with a
bough, and they got up such a blessed gobbling
fuss about it that Page came out in his shirt and
seen us running away; and I knew he was laying
for us with a bullock whip. Besides, there was
friction between the two families on account of a
thoroughbred bull that Page borrowed and
wouldn’t lend to us, and that got into our pad-
dock on account of me mending a panel in the
party fence, and carelessly leaving the top rail
down after sundown while our cows was moving
round' there in the saplings.
So there was too much friction for me to go
down ; but I climbed a tree as near the fence as I
could and watched. Bill reckoned he’d found
that rooster at last. The white rooster wouldn’t
come down from the stack, so Bill went up to him,
and they fought there till they tumbled down the
other side, and I couldn’t see any more. Wasn’t
I wild? I d have given my dog to have seen the
rest of the fight. I went down to the far side of
Page’s fence and climbed a tree there, but, of
course, I couldn’t see anything, so I came home
the back way. Just as I got home Page came
round to the front and sung out, “ Insoid there ! ”
And me and Jim went under the house like
snakes and looked out round a pile. But Page
was all right—he had a broad grin on his face
and Bdl safe under his arm. He put Bill down
on the ground very carefully, and says he to the
old folks:
“ Yer’e rooster knocked the stuffin’ out o’ my
rooster, but I bear no malice. ’Twas a grand
foight.”
And then the old man and Pago had a yarn ,
and got pretty friendly after that. ; And Bill
didn’t seem to bother about any more ventrilo-
quism, but the white rooster spent a lot of time
looking for that other rooster. Perhaps he
thought he’d have better luck with him. But
after that Page was on the look-out to get
a.rooster that would lick our rooster. Did
nothing else for a month but ride round and
enquire about roosters, till at last he borrowed a
game-bird in town, left <£s deposit on him, and
brought him home. And Page and the old man
agreed to have a match—about the only thing
they’d agreed about for five years. And they
fixed it up for a Sunday when the old lady anil
the girls and kids were going on a visit to some
relations about 15 miles away—to stop all night.
The guvnor made me go with them on horseback,
but I knew what was up, and so my pony went
lame about a mile along the road, and I had to
come back and turn him ont in the top paddock,
and hide the saddle and bridle in a hollow log t
and sneak home and climb up on the roof of the
shed. It was a awful hot day, and I had to keep
climbing backward and forward over the ridge-
pole all the morning to keep out of sight of the
old man, for he was moving about a good dead.
Well, after dinner, the fellows from roundabout
began to ride in and hang up their horses round
the place till it looked as if there was going to be
a funeral. Some of the chaps saw me, of course,
but I tipped them the wink, and they gave me
the office whenever the old man happened around.
Well, Page came along with his game-rooster.
Its name was Jim. It wasn’t much to look at,
and it seemed a good deal smaller and weaker
than Bill. Some of the chaps were disgusted, and
said it wasn’t a game-rooster at all. Bill’d settle
it in one lick, and they wouldn't have any fun at
all.
Well, they brought the game one out and put
him down near the woodheap and roused Bill
out from under his cask. He got interested at
once. He looked at Jim, aiid got up on the wood-
heap and crowed and looked at Jim again. He
reckoned this at last was the fowl that had been
humbugging him all along. Presently his trouble
caught him, and then he’d crow and take a squint
at the game ’un and crow again, and have another
squint at gamey, and try to crow and keep his eye
on the game rooster at the same time. But Jim
never committed himself until at last lie happened
to gape just after Bill’s whole crow went wrong,
and Bill spotted him. He reckoned he’d caught
him this time, and he got down off that wood-
heap and went for the foe. But Jim ran away—
and Bill ran after him.
Round and round the wood-heap they went, and
round the shod, and round the house and under it,
and back again, and round the wood-heap and
over it and round the other way, and they kept it
up for close on an hour. Bill’s bill was just within
an inch or so of the game rooster’s tail feathers
most of the time, but he couldn’t get any nearer,
do how he liked. And all the time the fellers
kept chyakin Page and singing out. “ What
price yer game ’un, Page ? Go it, Bill ! Go it
old cock ! ” and all that sort of thing. Well, the
game rooster went as if it was a go-as-you-please,
and he didn’t care if it lasted a year. He didn’t
seem to take any interest in the business, but Bill
got excited, and by-and-by he got mad. He held
his head lower and lower and his wings further
a n further out from his sides, and prodded away
harder and harder afc the ground behind, but it
wasn’t any use. Jim seemed to keep ahead without
trying. They stuck to the woodheap towards the
last. They went round first one way for a while,
and then the other for a change, and now and
then they’d go over the top to break the mono-
tony; and the chaps got more interested in the
race than they would have been in the fight—and
betted on it too. But Bill was handicapped.« ith
his weight. He was done up at last ; he slowed
down till he couldn’t waddle, arid then, when he
was thoroughly knocked up, that game rooster
turned on him and gave him* the father of a
hiding.
And my father caught me when I’d got down
in' the excitement, and wasn’t thinking, and he
gave me the step father of a hiding. But he had
a lively time with the old lady afterwards, over
the cock-fight.
Bill was so disgusted with himself that he went
under the cask and died !
Syd., ’93.
HENRY LAWSON.
At the taking of the last census in F ranee
9,000,000 people declared themselves atheists.
Charles M‘Donald, M.L.A., was strongly
condemned by nearly the whole Queensland press
for opposing the voting of a message of condolence
to the Emperor of Austria on his recent bereave-
ment. The Q. Govt.’s action was prompted (it is
alleged) by “the deep sympathy felt for an un-
fortunate monarch in his hour of trial. ” Bah !
What sympathy did the Q. Govt, wire along to the
city of Milan when its poor, bread-hunting mul-
titudes were shot down by hundreds in the
streets ? This pretence of overwhelming grief for
the sorrows of a man you never met and never
knew is merely an excuse, in most cases, for a
fresh outburst of grovel.
Dear Bulletin.— The ‘‘grocer soul” in
me prompts the weighing of respective merits of
two recently-dead men. Bismarck was a greater
man than Gladstone, because he did not play to
the gallery. The latter , was ever posing to the
small-souled part of the B.P. —the mud-headed
Exeter Hall and Dean Farrar sections. And the
fact that he was their idol is a sufficient indict-
ment of his “greatness.” His Democracy was
merely a political counter, as was his remaining a
commoner. He was a theoretical philanthropist—
of the sort that would rather (jive Bibles to niggers
than a square feed to a tramp. Gladstone seems
never to have been a boy or a young man, and his
lack of humor was phenomenal. Bismarck, who
went through the whole gamut of youth in an
aggressively youthful manner, worked for one
grand idea, carried it out, and he never truckled
to the mob. At the best, Gladstone only anti-
cipated— where Bismarck created—public opinion.
Finally, B. had no cant —G. was cant itself !
Cosmos.


IMPURE BLOOD
Is the Cause o? very many of the Ills to which Flesh is IL>.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies, vitalizes and enriches the Blood, as testified
-to by Mr. W. J. Pickering, Storekeeper, Breeza, New South Wales,
who sends his portrait and tells the following interesting story:
ik
is
f
I
mwv;
m
• i
&
1
r
mi
m
1
7a
h
/m.
“In the year 1800 my an hie broke out, and I went to a doctor who told
me I was suffering from blood poisoning. He prescribed for me but did me
no good, and I tried several other physicians without benefit. 1 went into
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney, and after a month’s treatment there came
out worse than ever, feeling greatly discouraged. I suffered terribly for
four years, until my wife, hearing of your Sarsaparilla, got me a bottle.
She persuaded me to give it a thorough trial. Soon I noticed that the sore
on my ankle began to heal, then the pain diminished, and after a course of
six bottles I became as well as ever I was in my life, and I remain in the
best of health.
Everybody for miles around here knows what tribulation I went through.
I now recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to all who suffer with impure blood,
and I am glad to say that it has done good to all who have tried it.”
Be sure that you get the original
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
and be not deceived by the numerous imitations of this wonderful medicine.
Prepared by Dr. J. O. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., T 7. S. A.
FOR
23 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING COUGH, CONSUMPTION,'
until it has become
Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
r Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
IM>ridge’s
UjQnufJonic
BE SUEE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull,
Sold in botths. at Is. l|rf., 2s. 9 d., 4s. Sd.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Pat ent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
tarTKiaHT.
SOLD BY THE LAYERS MANUFACTURING CO., 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
%
6s
$5
MUST BE ENDURED
t
p
rnfe youtned
/
£=>
-
mi
hS
3
r2go£t
m
m
a
a
wpzpX
■fHE.V (ANfc. Jiff ljyiflG
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPIIT ET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price
SIXPENCE.
AA A A «
wwww
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Stop tlaat Couglx!
Don’t Delay.
. ... TAKE . . «
P
55K3
Irish miss
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis. Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s. Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids.’ Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Box.


'HE LARGE
ST
M AKERs [
a® zvA
Established
1847.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LIMITED
JTrad O.C'ice and Factories - Toronto , Canada.
Australasian ITeadq’rt ’rs, ICJMC9 William-st. Melb.
New South Wales Address!
35 Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
Depots and Agencies almost evevyv. h rs.
Illustrated Catalogue lreeu application.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, unit greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to 'procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who woxdd pro-
bably undertake its sale.
WortbiQgtoQ P(Bn)pii)g Efygioc Conjpaoy
(Australasian Branch.) BlmpSOlX EfOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
Sydney, N.S.W
REGULAR PATTERN.
TRADE MARK*
A.gen.cies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St." Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.^
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
h
ĥ
What is Health?
Sciatica,,
- - Lumbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PA It ]( lilt, 145 Victoria Pah a dr,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
'these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free
Six penny stamps.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
Hollow ays fills and ointment.
. There is not a count rv in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of su ferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity tlu ir b-110006111 action is at once
recognised. Fullest, directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nnw Oxford-st., London. §gfr“ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Discovered by « hristopher
Mndd, F.L S,. botanist ro
H.11.H. the Prince of Wales
■“ i mat b* 1 nn sjl \
®,“OLFAC”
ECZEMA
“OLE&C
Q a Jars (ooncentd.), 4/6, post 4/10
© £
DEPOTS
Sydney— M. H. Hokwitz, 84 Pitt St.
Adelaide— Haebis & Kemp, 6 Bundle St.
® Melboubne—Fred. J E. Phillips, 817 Collins St,
©
«®
!•
!•
a®
•
mm
reorg;e and
t-Sts.
’
LUNCHEON, 12.30; DINNER, 6.30.
Superior Accommodation. Moderate Charges.
A Gol&en_j3ha]ity.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. ?d.
ħ
n-f ’Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
XxUll&t/lb U 1 G f (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)—9
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties,
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
send orders.•ro thei‘; head office ■■ ® iiakeour strket,
h. PATESON, Managed
The Roger Rolls.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
SO Clarence Street;, Sydney,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MINING MACHINERY,
Steam Engines and Boilers.
(All Sizes in Stock.)
Patentees of— Ropp Straight-line Furnace, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mill, Frue Concentrator, “Janies” Ore
Feeder, Roger Rolls, Dodge Rockbreakers, etc., etc.
Note. —We are now manufacturing in Sydney, for the Associated
Go d Mines of W.A. Ltd., four sets of 36x16 Roger Rolls, weighing
twelve tons each, the largest ever made in the colony.
Batho’s Baking pow(|er _
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Wearton, Thomas & Co .
Gumnakers, corner Little Collins and Elizabeth Streets, Mel-
bourne. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OB’ THE STOCK 14 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual
+B, reduced .£2 17s (id each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore steel looks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 410 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete ; 17 D-B. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latent improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete- Usual price 111, reduced 15 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highlv finished, with all the latest improvihnents, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual mice £2l, reduced £7 10s each, complete. Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at fis 6d per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies,. A ffair dNialgiven with every gun. ■ '■*
h
V
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COM PAN Y, 137 ELIZABETH street
§ MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tangent Spokes (all Nickle, Perry’s; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/11 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
Covers (Dunlop principle, 12/6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke’s Saddles 6/6, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips
(6/11 dozen pairs), Genume B.S-A, Racing Sets, 82/6.
SEND FOR'TRADE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST. Guaranteed to supply 25 per cent,
cheaper than any other house in Australia. PNEUMATIC-TYRE BICYCLES, up to date, £7, 18,
£0 £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADE SUPPLIED-GUARANTEED 25 PERCENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
w
P. GREGORY & 00.
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74
Clarence st.,
Sydney.
i I
435
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Tlxe Geo. F l . 331alc© Manfg. Co.,
DTHF.CT ACTING ST CAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
W. F. & John. Etarnea Co.,
FOOT, HAND, and ST 15 AM POWER MACHINE TOOLS AND GENERAL MACHINERY.
33. 3?'- S t-urtevant €30.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FO' GES, ETC.
Representative in Western Australia —J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO.,
„ New Zealand-J. BURNS & CO.,
Fremantle.
Auckland.
