

[jyIcEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“ The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable.”
LANCET.
XS. 6. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
_ . —FOB—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
BRISCOE. DETSDALE
& CO.,
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
TVHiolesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants.
OUR KINDRED HOUSES ARE-
Briscoe & Co., Melbourne; Briscoe, Mac Neil & Co., Wellington, N.Z.; Arthur Briscoe & Co., Dunedin, N.Z.;
Arthur Briscoe & Co., Invercargill, N.Z.; Wm. Briscoe & Son, London.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
A
4?
%
Si
O
o
o
X
<RAckV£ocK>
o
<?
o
o
4
V
o
<i
R* A. HERYEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydney,
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.,
85 Pitt-St., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pumps.
Ruston’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed simplest and best; manufactured by Ruston,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENTS
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons, Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON ” and
“ MANCHESTER ” Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
& Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elecrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
PIONEER
LEATHER
nB E LT i N C i
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. G. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
■jf tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND.
should note that the
• Imperial Hotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
A sk for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
And see that you get it.
jooyd
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
PROOF
p
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CIGARETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
HOBART.
— zm —
Hadley s Orient (jotel.
Before vljiHng the City wrirero fhe Manager for
of Tariff. (prre;pomlence promptly amended to*
THE
(arosVeoorNotel,
Grosvenor Square,
SYD RTEY.
The only Hotel in the City with four clear Frontages.
... AUSTRALIAN ...
Boomerang Brandy.
DR. PHILIP MUSKETT,
in his Lecture on “Alcohol,” says: —“I have often expressed the opinion that
AUSTRALIAN BRANDY should be sold in bottles of a smaller size. A
poor family should be able to purchase a Shilling or a Two-Shilling Bottle
of GUARANTEED PURE AUSTRALIAN BRANDY, for it may fre-
quently be the means of saving a baby stricken with debility, exhaustion,
or prostration.”
Flasks and Half-Flasks, of all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
7]aU/fwi4
M
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and Hew Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W,
THORNE’S WHISKY. A 1 LIQUEUR. THORNE’S WHISKY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 19.—N0. 949.]
[Saturday, April 23, 1898.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Gr
EORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
Weyman’s Shrewsbury, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s
Gerard s A Forgotten Sin, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s
Fargeon’s Miriam Rozella, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s
Stoker’s Miss Betty, Is 6d and 2s 6d, post Is lOd and 2s lOd
Private Life of the Queen, Is 6d and 2s 6d, post Is lOd and
2s lOd ; Hope’s Simon Dale, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Lay’s Sign of
the Golden Horn, 3s 6d, post 4s; Jocelyn’s Only a Flirt,
2s 6d, post 3s ; Glanville’s The Kloof Bride, 3s 6d, post 4s ;
Russell’s True Blue, 3s 6d, post 4s ; Marqueitte’s The Dis-
aster, 3s 6d, post 4s ; Benson’s The Vintage, 2s 6d and 3s
6d, post 3s and 4s ; Marsh’s The House of Mystery, 2s 6d
and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Stewart’s The Minister of State,
2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ; Griffith’s Briton or Boer,
2s, post 2s 4d ; Who’s Who, 1898, 4s 6d, post 5s ; Corbett’s
Drake and Tudor Navy, 2v015., 365, post 39s : The Royal
Navy, a History, vol. 11., 30s, post 325.
New Australian Publications :—LORAINE, and Other
I,* 3 ® I )}®' by George Essex Evans, ss, post free 5s 6d.
WHEN PASSION FLIES, a Novel, by Gerald Wolf,
wrapper 2s 6d, post 3s ; cloth, 3s 6d, post 4s. DEAD
MEN S TALES, by Charles Junor, picture boards, 2s, post
2s 4d. THE SWORD OF A SIN, by Alex. Montgomery,
wrapper, 2s 6d, post 3s ; cloth, 3s 6d, post 4s. THE DE-
VELOPMENT OF AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE, by
Henry G. Turner and A. Sutherland, ss, post 5s 6d.
PUBLISHED :—THE BOOK OF DIET, by Dr.
PHILIP MUSKETT, the author of “The Art of Living in
Australia,” wrapper, 2s 6d, post free 3s.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY..
G. STEPHENS,
AGENT.
Advice, Criticism, Revision, Copying, Disposal.
All work involved betiveen Author and Pub-
lisher.
Postal Address : GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
THE RED PAGE.
The Years of Hamlet.
J. Le Gay Brereton writes—
Wilson Barrett has been favored with much
easy ridicule because he follows the tradition of
Garrick in representing Hamlet as a stripling.
But, as many critics have taken the trouble to
show, the question of the Prince’s age is not
settled by ready reference to the First Grave-
digger.
* ♦ ♦ «
Apart from his individual genius, Hamlet is a
typical adolescent. Until the deatli of his father
he has lived quietly and self-sufficiently. Then
he is suddenly brought into contact with wicked-
ness, and his ideals are rudely overthrown. His
faith deserts him and he loses heart, because, in
his inexperience, he confounds the general with
the particular. It is a strange and striking fact
to this young undergraduate that ‘ a man may
smile and smile and be a villain. 5 In horror at
his mother’s shame, he loses all faith in her sex,
and treats Ophelia with disrespect. All women
are alike—they delight him not—they are wanton
untrustworthy, shallow, and full of affectation ;
at the best, or worst, were breeders of sinners. He
feels a passionate tormenting joy in unmasking
hypocrisy. He expects to find baseness every-
where, and delights to discover it. Men of reflec-
tive character pass through this stage before they
have reached the age of 20, as a rule. Hamlet’s
swift changes of exaggerated feeling; his love of
bantering and mocking formalism and folly ; his
spasmodic, almost uncontrollable activity under
stress of excitement; his brooding upon abstract
questions of life and death ; his love of the good,
his ineffective reveries, his evasion of the duty
that lies nearest; his abortive tendency towards
suicide; are not these the characteristics'of a boy
of eighteen or nineteen ? Appeal to your own ex-
perience. By the time he has reached thirty, a
man has some kind of foothold on the earth, or
has found for himself wings and dwells among the
clouds ; unless he be an ignoramus or an ass.
• • » *
That Hamleb’s youthfulness is several times al-
luded to in the tragedy is significant, but may be
made too much of. Horatio calls him ‘young Ham-
let to distinguish him from theelder Hamlet whose
form has just passed from sight. And we need
not lay stress upon the fact that the * Ghost 5 ad-
dresses his dutiful son as ‘ noble youth, 5 and refers
to his “young blood. 5 But when Laertes speaks
of the Prince’s love as
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
Forward, not permanent,
we may pause to consider whether the love of the
thirty-year-old is remarkable for precociousness
and spring-time sweetness. And a few lines lower
down we hear that, in the opinion of Laertes, this
vernal trifier. has not yet attained, physically, his
full proportions. (I. 3. 10 sqq. Camb. Sh.). Polo-
nius follows with the advice : ‘ Believe so much in
him that he is young,’ &c. We learn, moreover,
* rV,- Btud y> n £ afc Wittenberg; and in the
Age of Elizabeth boys began studying at the Uni-
versity earlier than they now do. [Bacon com-
menced his college career at the ripe age of
12.] Further, if he is of age, why did he not
succeed to the throne on the death of his father,
since he is, as. Claudius tells us, a popular favorite?
Then, in Act 111., Sc. IV., does the Queen address
her son as though he were a man of 30 ? In the
earliest extant edition of the play she cries sharply;
How now, boy ! 5 In later editions this exclama-
tion is omitted. And now the difficulty does
not appear hopelessly insoluble.
* « * «
Hamlet 5 was Shakespeare’s life-work. Pro-
fessor MaoCallum, upon an impartial examination
of the evidence, is inclined to believe that the poet
may have first taken this subject for dramatio
treatment as early as 1589. We can hardly doubt
that he occasionally altered and added to his great
workuntilsome time after 1611. In the edition
of 1604 and its successors we have the evidence of
the Gravedigger that Hamlet was about 30 years
of age (Act V., Sc. 1., 11. 133-140, and 162-178).
™ ™ s evidence does not appear in the edition
of 1603. The inference is this : Shakespeare, who
seems to have pourtrayed himself more directly in
Hamlet than in any other of his creations, had
originally conceived his hero as a mere youth.
But as he grew older he kept modifying and
altering his masterpiece, and Hamlet developed
with him.. At last an inconsistency began to
manifest itself. With the temperament of 19
years Hamlet had the intellect of a more mature
age. Shakespeare—how many boots would leap
to crush a worm who dared say mistakenly?—
tried to readjust the balance by declaring the
infant prodigy 30, at the same time making other
accordant alterations in the text of the play. In
fine, Shakespeare says Hamlet is 30; dare we
oontradiot him ?
Australian Slang.
Writes “ She-Oak
Some examples of Australian slang, now for the most
part obsolete. ‘ Experiences of a Colonist Forty Years
■A.R O (J. Williams, Adelaide, 1880) has at p. 60, describing
a journey from Fort Phillip to S.A. in 1839, this—
i By this time we had eaten up all our provisions,
even to the last grain of salt, and we were compelled to
live upon what the men called staggering bob —that is,
newly-born calves This without salt, or bread, or any
was sorry food, and never satisfied our
(hunger. The craving longing for fat was most painful;
the moisture that oozed out of the young flesh when fried
was eagerly drunk, and although we were not starving
think we were suffering some of the pangs of starvation
[But isn’t * staggering hob ’ oookney ?]
* * * *
Barr6re and Leland’s ‘ Slang Dictionary,’ vol. i, p. 262
gives cove as Australian station slang for the master
overseer. The word had a great vogue, but is now (?
obsolete. ‘ Experiences of a Colonist ’ (quoted above
gives interesting examples of its use—
The party consisted of eleven men, one boy, an over
seer, and the master, or * cove ’ as he was called by hi
men.—p. 1.
He evidently did not take me for the ‘cove’ or h
would not have been quite so reckless about his ‘ cove’s
property.—p. 45.
(See also pp. 35, 65.) The same book refers (p. 57) to
an Australian use of watchbox —
Near the hurdles there was a s!range-looking affair—i
was not a palanquin, or a gondola, or a sedan chair, anc
yet it had something of the character of each of these
it was built of the ever-present bark, sapling and greer
hide. It rested on four short legs, and there were two
poles at each end which acted as handles for the purpose
of enabling it to be carried about from place to place
This was called the ‘ watchbox,’ in which slept the watch
men near the folds to protect the sheep from the ravages
of the wild dogs. At present the watchman was doing
what was called shifting the hurdles, and his two dogs
were asleep on the blankets in the box.
1 Folds ’ and ‘ watchboxes ’ —the great Australian woo
industry was primitive indeed in the days of * a Colonist ’
* » * a
Break enters into several slang expressions, the
familiar Australian break in (of horses or dogs) signifying
to train, to fit for practical service. But at p. 309 ol
Henry Melville’s ‘Australia and Prison Discipline
(Lond., 1851) I And, regarding a kangaroo-dog which eats
the game it hunts—
A good dog will never overeat, as it impedes his run-
ning. If any break in— that is, after killing, if they help
themselves to the fleah—they are generally shot; because
dogs that will do so will, as a matter of certainty, des-
troy sheep.
Is break in in this sense still used anywhere? Also,
whence comes banjef At p. 16 of J. C. F. Johnson’s
‘Christmas on Carrmga ’ (Adelaide, 1873) it is said—
Banjing is bush slang for sleeping or lying full length
under a tree.
But banje, I take it, had origin elsewhere than in the
bush? Johnson, at p. 21, gives flyblowed as an old bush
synonym for stumped, penniless. At p. 16 he has an in-
teresting definition of whaling—
Men when on the tramp through the Riverina country
often carry a piece of twine and a hook to catch cod or
blackfish. This is termed ‘ Murrumbidgee Whaling.’
» * * *
Melville, above quoted, says (p. 312)
When hard pressed in running by the dogs the mother
dings her joey,’ that is, with her fore paws lifts the joey
or young one out and casts it into or alongside a bush or
shelter of some kind. Here the little one nestles up and
secrets itself ; and if the mother escapes she returns and
takes charge of her little beloved.
The usual term nowadays is JUng or throw, I think ?
"Under Govt. House Patronage.”
Puff.— Yes, sir, puffing is of various sorts ; the prin-
cipal are—the Puff Direct, the Puff Preliminary, the Puff
Collusive, and the Puff Oblique, or Puff by Implication.
These all assume, as ciroumstanoes require, the variou
forms of Letter to the Editor, Occasional Anecdote, Im
partial Critique, Observation from Correspondent, i '
Advertisement from the Party. . .
Sneer.—And do you think there are any who are influ
enoed by this ?
Puff.— O lud, yes, sir! the number of those who unde
go the fatigue of judging for themselves is very sma 1
indeed. —The Critic.
A notable truth this, as Mr. J. D. Hennessey
author of ‘ A Lost Identity,’ has apparently dis-
covered. Bis Puff combines the Direct, the Pre
liminary, the Oblique, and the Puff by Govern
ment House—the last a new variety.—Witness
Sydney daily papers of April 6, 1898—
MR. J. D. HENNESSEY’S RECITAL.
By invitation a large number of ladies and gentleme
attended at the Y.M.C.A. Hall, Pitt-street, last night, t
hear a recital by Mr. J. D. Hennessey from his new nove ,
‘ A Lost Identity,’ which is on the eve of being issuet
from the press. Mr. Hennessey is already known as th
author of 1 The Dishonourable,’ ‘ Wynnum,’ and ‘An Aus
tralian Bush Track,’ and his name may be said to occupv
a prominent situation in the field of Australian writers
His latest work, ‘A Lost Identity,’ is a psychologiea
romance, and although the story opens in England, it i
transferred in the later chapters to Melbourne, and thei
to Sydney. Mr. Hennessey last night recited several o:
the most powerful and interesting chapters, or parts o
them, in an eminently successful manner. He possesses
a dramatic style of a power and order which is non
usually found associated with the purely thoughtful auc
unobtrusive writer of hooks, and especially books which
have a pronounced psychological bearing. Judged,
therefore, from the standard of dramatic criticism, the
recital was satisfactory in every w ay, and from the stand-
point of being a departure, as far'as Australian author-
ship is concerned, distinctly successful.
This entertainment was notified as “ Under the
Patronage of His Excellency Viscount Hamp-
den,” and it was explained that the Gov. re-
gretted being unable to be present. And the next
daily paper’s social news contained this item—
Among the guests invited to Mr. Hennessey’s recital
on Tuesday evening were Mr. and Mrs. Abbott, Mr. and
Mrs. Cartwright *sche, Dr. and Mrs. Bueknell, Mr. and
Mrs. Cow lishaw. the Postmaster-General, Mr. and Mrs.
Gould, Dr. and Miss Jar vie Hood, Miss MTlwraith Harper
Miss Bonny, Miss Essie Bavnton, Mr. Harrison, Mrs’
Hawley, Mr. and Mrs Barr Johnson, Dr. and Mrs. Mailler
Kendall, Major and Mrs. Lee, Miss Rose Scott, Dr. and
Mrs. Scott S&irving, Mr. and Mrs. Harrie Wood, etc.
Then, close on the heels of the Puff, came the book
itself—under the patronage of Govt. House.
* * * .
Well, and why should not an author puff his
wares like a grocer ? The most scrupulous writer—
though he may have qualms—will not interfere to
prevent his publisher’s announcement that the
Saturday Review considers Mr. So-and-So’s work
scrumptious, or that the Times hails in Mr. This-or-
That the genius of the century. Surely the offence
against Good Taste, if offence it be, is not lessened
by being done per deputy? Could one blame
Herbert Spencer if he had earlier turned the tic
of publishing-loss by assiduously declaring
hoardings and in the newspapers that his boo
contained the most valuable systein-of-seien
known to modern philosophy ? Or would no
George Meredith be entitled to public gratituc
if he had earlier emerged from obscurity by dint o
judicious self-praise ? And if it be right for a grea
author to puff himself, is it not right for a litt
one ? If it be right for a publisher to praise 1
author ah, here is Mr. Hennessey’s defenc
Author Hennessey does not puff himself ; he
puffed by Publisher Hennessey. For Mr. He
nessey is a man of many capacities. ]
combines author, printer, and publisher in 1
single person, with most creditable indust
and enterprise. Why reproach such an adtnirab:
example of well-directed energy—under the p
tronage of Govt. House ?
* * * #
For this reason only, that there still lingers
some out-of-the-way places a belief that Liter
ture is essentially an Art, not a Trade ; and th
in proportion as the artist is merged in the trade
man sis result is less worthy of intellige
esteem, less worthy to be called Literatur
Mr. J. D. Hennessey supplies one more illustr
tion of the justice of the belief. The boo
puffed with pulpit eloquence and newspap
paragraphs, under Govt. House patronag
is easily the worst book be has written. In I TI
Dishonourable,’ his first work, Mr. Hennesse'
showed that he had brains, command of languag
and considerable dramatic power and constructiv
faculty. One was glad to say that ‘Mr. Hennesse’
has produced one of the most promising Austr
lian books printed for a long time.’ Then
‘Wynnum’ and ‘An Australian Bush Track
Mr. Hennessey—never very far above the mob
fell flat to the mob’s level. He had apparent'
realised that the multitude of readers are most'
fools, and he fed them on flapdoodle. And i
“A Lost Identity ” he ranks himself definitely :
the order of literary jerry-builders, and—unde
Govt. House patronage—out-corellis Corelli he
self. It is possible, indeed, that his title-“
Lost Identity, by J. D. Hennessey ’’—hints at
darksome secret. The book turns on a quotatio
from Irenaeus—
‘Thereare three of which the perfect man consists, flesh
soul, spirit . . .’ Was it possible, I thought, for th
spirit of man to be divorced from his soul and body anc
to be reincarnated in another body ?
And the hero instances such divorcement i
his own person. Now, admirers of Mari
Corelli have complained that her most re
cent books show a falling-off in bathos—
the telling is less turgid; the personages ar
less utterly unlike anything in heaven o
earth or the waters under the earth, and they
even gabble less fluently than their predecessor
in ‘Wormwood’ or ‘Barabbas.’ Has the spin
of Marie Corelli been divorced from her sou
and body? One remembers with tremors Marie’
own talent for puffery—also under Govt. Hous
patronage : for is it not announced that her book
are the Prince of Wales’s favorites, that the
Duchess of Teok’s pug-dog is called ‘Ardath,
and so on to infinity of notoriety? And yet .
haw fervently would not one pray that this cup
might pass from Australia—under the patronage
of Govt. House ! *
* * * *
A Lost Identity ’ opens with a picture of
man dying in furnished lodgings to the tune of
Sydney Post-office clook. To him enter a child
not more than seven years old, but beautiful as
a dream, * A wealth of golden curls broke away
from the white hat, and rested in rich negligence
upon the snow-white dress in which the child was
clad’—and many worn-out catch-phrases break
away from the web of nonsense, and rest
in rich negligence upon the minor ornaments of
the penny-a-lining style. Says the beautiful-as-a
dream child : That s not my Grandpa Gunnery ’
—and exit. The man pops off to the chime of the
Post-office clock; but Mr. Hennessey is his exe-
cutor. “An old book-case” ... “a secret
drawer” ~ . and—ha ! our prophetic soul!—“a
closely-written manuscript’’—under the patronage
of Govt. House.
* * » ,
The rest of the story is explained by the olosely-
wntten manuscript. Mark Gunnery, an English-
man of fortune, marries Violet Freeman, who
deserts him under the influence of Horace de
Vere. As we know from the Family Herald,
the woman who can resist the influence of Horace
de Vere has not yet studied Paris fashions. A
bad tune follows for Mark Gunnery, and he relates
his agony in the fine rhetorical manner of the
evening papers—
I sat behind that epergne ["epergne” is good—one of
these little touches that show an author’s oulture] petri-
fied. My heart seemed suddenly turned to stone . I
closed the door between us, and, as it shut, the cold
hard, iron door of separation came crashing down be-
tween two human hearts; came down in its appointed
grooves; settled in its iron bed, to abide for ever.
Occasionally the spirit of Corelli gets in even
“chaster ” work—
The dying day sank slowly to its rest, and night spread
its shadowy wings above the breathless landscape, until
darkness had sealed the vision, and with the darkness the
calm, brave spirit of Squire Gunnery passed to rest.
Unluckily, Mr. Hennessey does not often give us
pure aesthetics like this. Only four pages later he
is down to the low, coarse level of
I must have trodden on a banana-skin, or something.
Why will he not realise that in literary matters,
as Stephen Phillips sings, his ‘simple doom is t(
bo beautiful ’ —under the patronage of Govt.
House ?
* • * »
Horace de Vere and Mrs. Gunnery come to Aus-
tralia conveniently ; and Mark Gunnery follows
them. In Melbourne, Mark meets Horace, who
gives him a galvanic shock, and changes him into a
hkeness of his grandfather. Then Mark chases
Horace to Queensland, and pursues him on horse-
back into a quicksand with what looks like the
weakest imitation of a famous scene in ‘Lorna
Doone ’ which could possibly be compassed. In
the quicksand Vere dies to slow music, with
atmospheric effects after the manner of the best
masters. But his evil deeds live after him. There
is extant in Sydney a young man who has
acquired Mark Gunnery’s body atid soul—his
spirit is still attached to the semblance-of-
his - grandfather. This young man behaves
m a dem’d unpleasant way—signing Mark
Gunnery’s signature, spending his cash, and
generally making himself even more objectionable
than a flesh-and-soul on the loose after the doc-
trine of Irenseus might be expected to do. But a
clever doctor joins the real Mark’s spirit to his
flesh-and-soul for one hour only, and Mark takes
revenge by killing a boon companion of the objec-
tionable young man and leaving him to stand the
racket. The body of the objectionable young
man, containing the flesh-and-soul of Mark Gun-
nery, is duly hanged by the neck till it is dead
for murdering the boon companion ; an(l at its
death the soul of Mark Gunnery flies back to the
semblance-of-his grandfather and is reunited with
the spirit. The shock is too much for the aged
body of the semblance-of-his-grandfather, which
dies incontinently to the sound of the Post-
office clock before - mentioned—and the story
closes. Such a farrago of nonsense one is rarely
privileged to encounter: it even gives new views
qf the astounding possibilities of the Corellian
imagination—under the patronage of Govt. House.
» * • *
Some gems of style and matter—
I used to wonder sometimes why he clung to me so
closely, and passed so much time in my company, for I
knew that the hatred between us was mutual. I believe
that there was some physicological cause, which even now
I only partially understand.—p. 82.
My hreast was torn by conflicting emotions.—p. 89.
(Good old “conflicting emotions”!)
I felt stung to madness, as when one sees a thief flaunt-
ing about in some valuable stolen garment.—p. 94.
Ecc., etc.—under the patronage of Govt. House.
* * * «
At the end Mr. Hennessey adds a significant
postscript to the “ closely-written manuscript
Whether a large p 'rtion of his story was the raving of
a madman ; or whether, on the other hand, it was a
glimpse into a hitherto unexplored avenue of the mys-
terious tripartite nature of man, time will show.
But probably Mr. Hennessey did not expect that
Time would show so soon—under the patronage
of Govt. House.
To Correspondents.— A.M. : Thanks ; but k..„w no
warrant for fancies. Two books in “The Contemporary
Science Series'—* The Evolution of Sex,'3s. 6d., and‘Man
and Woman,’6s., are recommended E.J.8.: Bee-screed
interesting and pedantic. Nobodj' said bees ‘ altered ’or
’created sex: ‘develop’ was the word, and ‘develop ’ bees
do. Also, as sex isn’t sex until it’s developed, an undeve-
loped potential-female belongs to neither sex, and is fairly
oailed a neuter. Further, ‘ a hive ’ obviously means an
average hive, with the average complement of female
eggs. Again, your text-book isn’t the only one. Finally,
don’t be a darned quibbler....G.B.C.: Thanks; use
doubtful.... M : The ‘Darling pea’ or f indigo-plant ’
probably drew name from prevalence in the Darling R.
(N.S.W.) district (itself named, like the Q. * Darling
Downs,’ after N.S. W. Gov. Darling, 1825-31)... .Microbe :
Particulars too vague.


The World-famed Specialists,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
THAT THESE . . .
. . . NOTED SPECIALISTS
Stand pre-eminently at the HEAD QF THE MEDICAL PROFESSION is no longer a question of doubt. That
they have investigated further into the mysteries of life, and penetrated deeper the secrets of disease, than their
quite worthy but less successful associates, is now acknowledged by all. Their experience is lifelong, and THEIR
RECORD RIGHT HERE IN SYDNEY is
A SERIES OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
THERE ARE THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS IN THIS LAND TO-DAY WHO ARE PRAISING THEIR
NAMES, BECAUSE THEY HAVE MADE THEIR LIVES HAPPY, AND BROUGHT SUNSHINE INTO
THEIR HOAIES.
Our valuable treatises
“NERVOUS AND PRIVATE
DISEASES,” Post Free on ap-
plication. ..
Our New Medical Work,
“ RESCUED at LAST,” over
300 pages letterpress, 16 pagest
colored plates, 60 engravings, full
cloth bound, is now ready. The
Largest Medical Work of its kind
ever published in Australia. Price
10s.
In the Laboratory
To ensure prompt attention,
forward <£l by mail, and full
description of your complaint,
and we will at once send neces-
sary remedies for treatment of
your ailment.
Nine Diplomas and Certifi-
cates of Qualification and Regi-
stration throughout Australia
open to inspection at the Con-
sulting Rooms.
NIK PIED, PUDDLE-HEED 8 OLD IDED.
If you aye troubled with Pimples, Bashfulness, Aversion to Society, Stupidness, Despondency, Loss of
Energy, Ambition, and Self-confidence, and Absolutely Unfit for Study, Business, or Marriage—if you are thus
afflicted you know the cause. GET WELL AND BE '-MEN !
There are Thousands of you Troubled with Weak, Aching Backs and Kidneys, Frequent Painful Urination
and Sediment in Urine, and other unmistakeable signs of Nervous Debility and Premature Decay. Many die of
this difficulty Ignorant of the Cause, which is the second state of Seminal Weakness. THE MOST OBSTINATE
CASES OF THIS CHARACTER TREATED WITH UNFAILING SUCCESS.
PRIVATE COMPLAINTS:
Inflammations, Hydrocele, Varicocele jtnd Kindred Troubles QUICKLY CURED
* without Fain or Detention from Business.
correspondence departments and
MEDICINES' BY PARCEL POST.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to thatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea, of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence, which is universal, without the Type-
writer, for speed, legibility, and secrecy are
obtained by its use. City people who may not have
the available time, and those who, through false
modesty, refrain from personal consultation, should
take advantage of treatment by PARCELS POST
SYSTEM, as all medicines are securely packed and
forwarded, screened from observation. ’
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney. [Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
TiHOSPCCOj.
All Trams stop at the Boor
Wf?iT
Wof^
'&-U
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
PR. and Surgeon, received his education in the Enclish and Scottish universities, and
GIBBONS, completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, KERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young 1 Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of .full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on Ko
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clafnmy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, fee., &e., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
£1
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “ Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
dr. gibbons
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, yon do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDKTEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-Dailv,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THREE CLASSES OP MEKT
To whom we would Commend reading “ Rescued at Last.”
//» nhj
r .
««»• /
US!
(d
&
f
»
p
v Young* Men,
Have you beefi Indulging in a manner which has wasted your
powers, your health, your nerve force, your physical vigor, and
Manhood ? As if Nature would never ask for an accounting.
Are you weak, nervous, unfit for work, or pleasure ? Are your
vital powers weakened and on the verge of collapse, bodily and
mentally ? Don’t, for your physical and mental welfare, hide
such a weakness, but seek a cure by consulting DRS. FREE-
MAN and* -WALLACE.
Middle-aged Men,
There are Thousands of you suffering from Weak Back, Aching
Kidneys, Frequent Passing * of Sediment, or accompanied by
Loss of Vigor or Power and Impairment of General Health.
Many die of this difHculy, ignorant of the cause, which is the
Second Stage of Spermatorrhoea.
Before it is everlastingly late consult DRS. FREEMAN and
WALLACE, who thoroughly understand your trouble, and can
cure you.
Old Men,
who, as a result of overwork, business cares, imprudence, or
excessive indulgence in former years, now suffer from some
distressing trouble, -
All May Find Immediate Relief, Many May
Be Radically Cured
by Consulting Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE, who have built
up an extensive practice by making cures when others have
failed. We have permanently established our reputation as
being the
Leading Specialists of the Age.
In seeking the services of
Drs. Freeman and Wallace
you place yourself under the treatment of highly educated
physicians, whose ambition is to excel, whose whole life is de-
voted to the advancement of the science of medicine and relief
of suffering humanity. We have no single remedy which we
deal out as a cure-all panacea, nor any mechanical contrivances
which are heralded to the world as a remedy for all ills. Our
medical education condemns sueh methods. Our lofty aspira-
tions and honesty in practice -place such modern* impositions
back to the days of witchcraft and quackery, where they
justly belong. Through constant study and deep research we
are always abreast of the times. There is no new discovery in
medicine; no new apparatus to assist tHe physician, but what is
at our command as soon as science proves it to he of worth and
benefit. Every case that we undertake to cure is treated scien-
tifically with such remedies and such means as in our judgment
that particular case requires in order to effect a speedy and..
permanent* cure. We have no experiments to make, for we
are thoroughly educated and prepared through experience
already gained to accomplish our work in the field of medicine.
COUNTRY PATIENTS.
Write your troubles, if you are living away from the city, as
Drs. FREEMAN and WALLACE have a system of home treat-
ment that is entirely their own. Thousands are cured at home.
Our small pamphlets, 48 pages, post free, on application.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualifi-
cation and Registration Open to Inspection.
“rescued AT LAST.”
A treatise on. Nervous and Private Diseases, 300 pages letter-
press, 16 pages colored plates, 75 engravings, highly instruc-
tive. Every farmer, mariner, miner, and other worker’s should
purchase a copy. Price, 10s., post free, or including our 10
days’ series of medicine, £l.
[Please mention The Bulletin when writing.]
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE
Corner Elizabeth & T Sts., Sydney. P.O. Box. 1359.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Bos 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Do you desire to tie the
Equal of your Fellow-man ?
A man likes to feel so strong, so full of pent-up vitality
that he could cope with anything that comes before him.
He likes to know that when he is put to the test in a
matter of manly power he is equal to the demand. It is
the commendable desire of every man to be the equal of
his fellow-man.
This strength is simply one element; it is not alone
muscular power, nerve power nor mental strength. It
combines all in one. It is vital force—the foundation of
all human power, it is the element of all organic, nerve,
muscular and mental energy. Men who are lacking in
this element can recover it. They can be strong, as many
other men have been and are. They can renew their
vital energies with my treatment.
There are so many grateful men who speak
of Surgeon Langston’s success, that it is not necessary
any more to give names of people cured, but hundreds
of them, and some very valuable information on
the subject, can be found in the little book, “ Mens Sana
in Corporb Sano.” Get it. Free on application, or by
mail (sealed), six stamps.
Are you Robbed of Manhood
by Youthful Folly?
Read what former sufferers have to say, and remember
that I positively guarantee to cure all forms of Debility,
Shrunken Parts, Nervousness, Confusion of Ideas, Lan-
guor, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder Com-
plaints,' Varicocele, Blood and Skin Diseases, and the
many evils resulting from secret habits in youth or
excesses in maturer years.
dONSULTATI ON is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist,
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
save future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
“ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
to men. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
a Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M. 8.0.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Mention this Paper.
in IVSen N
Wa* ted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit—A benefit that you feel, know and
admit the very first hour of its use. Send for des-
rrintive book, posted sealed. 6 stamps. Address-
. j. hinton-willis, a
\ Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melb. A
OH, MY BACK!
<s.
“IT PAINS IP I BEND OVER.”
“IT PAINS IN THE MORNING.”
“IT PAINS AT NIGHT.”
“I AM TIRED ALL THE TIME.”
A WEAK BACK is a very aggravating complaint It
makes life miserable, and thousands would be cured
if they know how. Plasters give only temporary relief, ii
any at all. Drugs are often worse than useless.
DR. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT
is the proper remedy for all such distressing complaints.
It warms the back and kidneys with a gentle glow, gives
the muscles an elastic feeling, and cures permanently.
You will never need another plaster if you will try it.
X3T Our “ Book No. 2” gives price-list and full particu
lars. Call or send 2d. in stamps. It will be sent in plain,
sealed envelope b.v return post. Rupture. —lf Ruptured
send also for “Pamphlet No. 1.” Address : MAGNETIC
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A.; or
W H. SOUL & CO., 158 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
JOHN PUN ANTI
Hr
I
FULL 'DIRECTIOISj
. ENCLOSEOf
JHce4Mlftr Bok,
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a few days DISEASES IN EITHER, SEX!'
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
48. Box 854 G.P.0., Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
v or the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Lighit and Life.”
'lnis valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men.
(sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address— S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNfiY.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM, iy
Price Waning; price, 1/-; posted,


TATTERSALLS
... Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
ADELAIDE C. May 11.
100,000 Svibscriliera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
s
BIRTHDAY C. May 24,
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
BRIGHTON BIRTT’ DAY C. May 24.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name.
Address ___
ELLESMERE S. June 4,
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL. .
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name. ■
Address
WATERLOO C. June 9.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the a ! ve.
Name
oS
Address
t
ROSEHILL C. June 25,
50,000 Subscribers a/fc S«
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares ill the above.
Name .
Address -
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Price Reducers
'friends of the family’
-AND-
Up-to-date Merchants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
BOOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
mm n
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE G.P.O
THE dRANP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
H 13 STOYF,
Manager.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
KTSWCASTLB.
-L It
great northern Hotel
RE-OPENED
under entirely
New Management,
After complete renovation inside and out.
New Furniture from Attic to Basement.
R. It. THOMAS
- (late of Narandera).
Proprietor
Toronto Hotel,
Lake
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
A GOLDEN SHANTY (collected verse and
stories), Is. 3d.
mas
GrO TO HBLL-
-1 GOLANI) for. Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Viudin & Co.
U ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Send for a Catalogue.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d.
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£l6 165.; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s.;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
per set. Best Quality WAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS'
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
H, /[ILL I Ell, 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Spring’s, etc.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in tl
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from th
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOB A CATALOGUE.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLINB
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING <ft
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
The
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says
“ I hare used
your ‘ KOKO ’
now since June
last, and I hare
not only stepped
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness,but
Ihave an entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As I am not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion."
-
m
1/-,
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
KOKO MARICOPAS COY.. LTD., I®, 3EVBS MARKS, LONDON,
ENGLAND.!
LOOK AT OUR PRICES !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Note Our Only Address: N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney.
Send for Our Illustrated Catalogue.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
hoards , Silver Dash Bail
and Lamps.
£8 18. 6.
DR. MACKENZIES
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
Dr. Mackenzie’s Soap is prepared with special beantifyingingredients and will produce the most
lovely Complexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously and
expensively perfumed. ONE SHILLING PER TABLET. Doctor s certificate with each cake, certifying
to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imitations MADAME
ADELINA PATTI writes : “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” This Soap
cures shiny and greasy skins. . . , , , ,
Dr. Mackenzie’s Face Lotion is not greasy,does not contain Glycerine,and is absolutely harmless.
By tightening the skin it quickly removes all wrinkles, lines, crowsfeet, or puffiness under the eyes, it
keeps the skin soft and velvety, and in summer will entirely prevent and quickly remove freckles;
whilst for excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. Price 3/6 per bottle; large
bottles, 5/-. This Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs on the face Delicious in hot climates.
S. HARVEY, LTD. 5, Denman Street, London Bridge, England, or at all Chemists and Stores.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs. rUflU'Cni
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit Is sold.
The best resource for every house-
keeper—affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu.
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. Cohen &
Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
THE RED-TRESSED MAIDEN.
Red she is in a robe of sable,
Rosy with pictures and tales to tell,
She is a fairy and yet no fable,
Weaving the dreams that we love so well.
Out in the dark where the night-winds hurry
And the dead leaves carpet the silent bush,
She Hath a charm for the mind a-worry,
For the worn, white face a fresh young blush.
Tell her a story of some love laid in
The grave long since with a maiden white,
She will not taunt you, the Red-Tressed Maiden
. Dressed in her mantle of starless Night.
With fingers potent as rich wine chosen
From dusty cellars where years lie dead,
She melts the ice in the veins long frozen,
And the blood runs chainless, the heart grows
red.
Her ears have hearkened the joyous laughter,
Man-made, maid-lifted, through years and years
To frescoed dome and to smoky rafter,
And tears and tears and ceaseless tears.
Old as the world, and some say older,
Is she, and yet she is young and sweet,
She heard the story the Cave-Man told her,
When hearts were redder and ruder their beat.
No tale so trifling but she will listen :
The long day ended, the day’s toil done ;
Then wheresoever her great eyes glisten
An ancient battle is fought and won.
She is ready to hearken to some chance roamer,
With a lyre on his shoulder, a lilt on his tongue,
As she was of old to the blind-eyed Homer,
Who sang high strains when the world was
young.
On winter nights when the roads are cheerless
And West winds under a frosty moon,
She paints us Summer in colors peerless,
And the broad gold charm of a Tropic noon.
On summer evenings in sylvan places
(The picnic over, and stars in the skies),
She heightens the blush on sun-kissed faces,
And deepens the dream in dear young eyes.
And who is the Maiden ? When Night is about
you,
Bile high the dry leaves and the dead wood, and
so
Make a light for the darkness within and without
you . . .
And now do you see her —and now do you know ?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HYMN TO EROS.
G Love ! that early found me,
Stay by me to the end ;
When gathering ills surround me,
Be thou my constant friend.
Though past Youth’s fervent fever
And Manhood’s ardour warm,
Dear charmer and deceiver,
. Still—still deceive and charm !
At five, thine arrows sought me,
And pierced my armour’s joint;
But then no pain they brought me,
Unpoisoned was their point.
The years brought arrows plenty,
And venomed barbs they bore,
With love at five-and-twenty,
And love at forty-four.
(A love that grew in secret,
And strengthened with the years,
Died in a wordless anger
And grief too deep for tears.
O, Woman ! Woman ! Woman !
False, frivolous and vain,
A blight on all things human
You’ve cast, since Eden’s stain !)
Yet, Love, though thou hast ruled me
For blessing less than bane,
And many a time hast fooled me,
I would be fooled again !
Now comic, and now tragic,
The parts thou bad’st me play ;
Yet ever, as by magic,
My doubts were charmed away.
Ah ! Many a false illusion
At Wisdom’s touch has flown ;
Of all my youth’s profusion
The years have spared but one !
I hug my gilded fetters,
I joy in Eros’ thrall;
Wealth, Fame, Religion, Letters—
O, Love ! Thou’rt more than all !
And now, if thou should’st leave me,
What comfort would be left ?
If Fate of thee bereave me,
I am indeed bereft.
What joy can Memory find me
In all his musty store ?
A hundred loves behind me
Are less than one before !
Experience near me hovers,
Beside him stands old Time ;
This sneers at foolish lovers,
That talks of Age’s rime.
Bah ! What though heads be hoary,
If hearts are soft and warm ?
O, fly not, Love ! Thy story
Is potent still to charm.
Bid some sweet face enamour,
Some soft lips court caress ;
Cast o’er my life a glamour
To glorify and bless ;
Still visit me—though rarely
Thine angel-wings sweep past;—
O, Love ! that found’st me early,
Desert me not at last !
M.L.
J. LIDDELL KELLY.
IN RERUM NATURA.
Please do not say we swindled and defaulted.
Look you ! the salty seas our shores entwine ;
The very desert sand is soaked in brine —
Then who can help it, if our mines are salted ?
Q.
VON KOTZE.


llGstraliao N|Gt(ial ■ tI
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ** ■ 'f ICI ® L I€C y ■
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.0.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq. Deputv-Ohairman
ABBOTT, Esq. ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; Esq.
I. 1. WALKER. Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A..F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income .. Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
. Accumulated Funds .. Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
rhe CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £128,797. yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,000.
Head Office : 07 Pitt-street. Sydney.
' * ROBT. B. CAMERON. Secretary.
>•* '*?■" f sfef 'M ! rf as
Rates i 2/&
day 6 MBS
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
•I*
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOOR”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-I'Oths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
Pllfif
*riv
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for y( ur residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., O’Connell-street, Sydney.
VISITORS
TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
Complete Sanitation.
LIFTS.
Electric Light.
(Under Royal Patronage.)
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with all Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensingtol)
Gardens, Imperial Institute and in the
midst pf the Fashionable Quarter.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W.
MIMI
Sole Agents
WARRANTED
Finest Hand-made BRIARS.
>. kOFFNuNG & CO, BRISBANE.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
PIANOS IN
Tl > € F 'o«st aijd Largest /V)6Sic WareljoGSs
IIVT
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS ’
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS
™ sssrjxSot Bomne ™-
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at ’
NICHOLSON S CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDIM EY.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
dr. s. lever,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR, S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist,
HTHE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, Vulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Withoxit Plates, by means of Pridf/eu’orJe.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
SS Kims-st., Sydney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE.
. Telephone 2615.
federal . -
PALACE
* - * HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
ACCOMMODATION for “ PEER OR PEASANT ”
THE FEDERAL offers a larger variety of rooms
for visitors to choose from than any Hotel in Aus-
tralasia. |3P" All* tastes and pockets suited.
Write for Card of Tariffs. \
A GREAT TRIUMPH
IN
. . . ELECTRICITY!
!'~ ’ ' -
A Most Marvellous Invention. i T
. The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street
£*nd see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by
J - & D. CURRAN,
TAILORS, .
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
$
km
SPiCIAL
m
M
tor
?//£ \
Public Companies^
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Hemp any Ltd*
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The GASH BONUS, viz., <£B2lo, divided
with Policy for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of oplicies. The .BONUS
makes £106,067, divided in bash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders iii 15 years,
Fire insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
--THE—- "
Colonial ‘Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual 4 Liability.
Offices * - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
0.M.G., M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000.
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620. -
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction- as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
LESLIE; J. PARK, A.L A., General Manager,
Accident
( . and
Guarantee
(Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc*
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director: Mel-
bourne, D. CiiYNE ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Facts Respecting Hixson s Tobaccos.
DURING 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
Yankee Doodle.
The -Sales of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright. The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
Cbanjpioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut and Plug.
Cooqtisror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s. Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist. - -:
CeQteQQial.
Dark Plug and Twist.
Cigars.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Monopole, Rothschilds,
BOHcLHZ(3u 4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 in a packet for 6d.
. . ; ”77 “ 1 —f-r--•: * '' 1
Importers of Pipes, &c., and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 949.
SATURDAY, APRIL 23, 1898.
Pbice, 6d.
& ftAfttfFß /sS/M OuT^/T
T Sf~ancf fere •S'/r/ft/bccC of
cuzot
cc ct<s ft j-/y —
To c(e/ficcf- /tt
y 7/re ** /*c?r
a.e£ ryo- "7C /fret*/
' 0 '%***-
/f bases'** faoocfytSS . S/e
fas'? e>'t?/77 e//fr'7 J" O'} - /J"
faoS? -7&y6a y(* S<a
/£> oofs
e TacK
doesn't'
y/<*
A i
4>,
f H ult( , M
r
j4Tr/rc/&£-
« C# R7)/a/A f /JaftAA/ . .—
//} <? Aarfff C^/7 c/ ' c/c J
ANTI-BILLIOUSNESS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ A ustralia for the Austvalians. >>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, o r
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenlt
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed 1. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will re. urn all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those' sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
Mild interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. H.
Solomon and Co., 32 Hout.-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland wilt be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special' Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, APRIL 23, 1898.
Queensland’s New Premier.
Another curious shuffle of the political
cards takes place in Queensland, and Thomas
Joseph Byrnes is Premier of the province
where the banana grows. The people, who
have even less voice in the appointment of
their rulers than those of the other pro-
vinces, have hardly heard yet that Tomjoe
Byrnes is the new boss of Kanakaland. He
wasn’t appointed by the people or by the
people’s representatives in Parliament ;
Parliament wasn’t sitting, which was one
good reason why it couldn’t appoint Byrnes,
and the people were sitting—sitting down
and dreaming—wherefore Byrnes practically
appointed himself before they awoke. How
long the new Premier will hold his billet it
is difficult to imagine. The Continuous
Ministry, if it rested exclusively on the
suffrages of the people, would be drawn out
very thin by now, for after eight years of
office any Ministry grows wearisome. But
the people have comparatively little to do
with the making and unmaking of Govern-
ments in the North ; they don’t take
their Ministry seriously—nor their poli-
tics, nor their dismal capital down
on the river flats, where in flood time
it is necessary to shoo the large green frog
out of the second-floor windows. Nobody
really expects a Queensland politician to be
anything but a hot, tired humbug, an open
and undisguised grabber after anything he
can get, and a person who, in his political
capacity, is chronically for sale unfurnished.
And by the' combination of all these circum-
stances Thomas Joseph Byrnes is the new
Premier of Queensland.
* * * *
Byrnes is the third individual who has
led and bossed Bananaland’s Continuous
Ministry. It came into office in August,
1 '?AO, with Samuel Griffith as leading
article and Thomas MTlwraith as sub-
leader, and Byrnes away down in a humble
position at the tail as a species of small para-
graph. MTlwraith had been for years
Griffith’s bitterest enemy, and they had
habitually called each other things which it
would be ungentlemanly to mention. But
the public didn’t take their vituperation
seriously, nor did they take it seriously
themselves. As MTlwraith was elected in
the capacity of Griffith’s enemy, and as the
strong man of the Opposition, he naturally
threw the Opposition overboard and joined
Griffith in the true fashion of Kanakaland
politics. It was generally understood that
he left his party and his alleged principles
through a bitter, sordid, complicated row
over some private share-transactions, and
there were confused tales about how high
politicians were busy cleaning each other out,
and how various members of the patriotic
brotherhood spent their time mainly in
picking each other’s bones. Anyhow,
Queensland took it quite as a matter of
course that MTlwraith should change his
party and his principles, or whatever they
were called, over this mean, private shindy.
Then Griffith, having been elected as a
consistent supporter of white labor, naturally
became a vigorous supporter and advocate of
the cheap mongrel; and the country took
that philosophically also. And when his
Government practically fired Charles Lilley
out of the Chief Justiceship, and then added
£lOOO a year to the salary, and finally
Griffith appointed himself to the billet,
Kanakaland didn’t trouble about the matter
to any great extent.
Then Hugh Nelson, being leader of the
Opposition, quite naturally changed sides,
and dropped his old set of political princi-
ples, and became head of the Government
which he was elected to oppose. In this
matter he merely followed MTlwraith’s
lead, and, anyhow, nobody in Queensland
expects an Opposition leader to have prin-
ciples which he can’t abandon at the shortest
notice. Now Nelson, like Griffith, ap-
points himself to a good, permanent billet
as President of the Council, and Byrnes is
the last remnant of the old original Cabinet
of 1890. Of its seven members, Cowley is
provided for as Speaker, and Tozer, who
might have asked for the Premiership, takes
the comfortable billet of Agent-General
instead. The small man who was at
the dim, remote tail of the 1890
crowd takes the lead, and will, doubtless,
find a permanent billet later on. Unmack,
the slow and weary German whose one great
idea was that 10s a week was sufficient wage
for any white laborer, was too heavy and
protracted to get anything, and is back in
obscurity. Hodgkinson lost his pile and
dropped out, and is now in his old age seek-
ing to repair his fortunes in Westralia.
MTlwraith, after holding office at intervals
for 24 years, was dropped overboard the
other day ; he is old, absent, allegedly
penniless and said to be paralysed, and the
Q.N. Bank trouble had damaged his reputa-
tion so badly that it was easier and safer to
abjure him with horror than to find a billet
for him. At the best, there are not enough
good billets in Queensland to go all round,
and the necessity of taking over Nelson, so
as to keep the Opposition as short of leaders
as possible, made it difficult to find anything
good for all the original seven.
* * * *
Premier Byrnes has decided that he
won’t have a general election and ask the
people to confirm him in his position,
and, seeing how little the people matter in
Queensland, he is probably wise in abandon-
ing that empty formality. The Continuous
Ministry goes on its placid way from year to
year, and the retiring man (when he has
appointed himself to a good, permanent
billet) either appoints bis successor, or
leaves his colleagues to decide on a suc-
cessor among them. If there are two
men with equal claims one gets the Pre-
miership and the other gets a good billet.
The Ministry is in a position to make
these pleasant family arrangements without
consulting the people mainly because there
is practically no Opposition, and there lias
been practically none for the last seven
years. The principal reason why there is no
Opposition worth mentioning is that it has
become a recognised thing for the Govern-
ment to find a portfolio for the Opposition
leader when he shows signs of becoming
troublesome the only two strong men on
the side of the malcontents in recent
years were MTlwraith and Nelson,
and they were provided for in turn,
leaving the party practically headless!
Neither the Government nor the direct
Opposition has any distinct war-cry, or any
definite programme, or any political con-
science, or ally politics worth mentioning
therefore men change sides easily and with-
out fuss, and the country has no deep inte-
rest in either party. Queensland politics
were long ago squashed flat by the dead-
weight of the Q.N. Bank. For years the
Q.N. Bank has depended on the Government,
in an underhand sort of way, for assistance!
Therefore the Q.N. Bank had to respect the
Government’s friends and object to the
Government’s enemies. That institution
spreads all over Queensland, and the
prominent men among Queensland’s handful
of population are, or they were, almost all
either indebted to the bank and liable to be
sold up if they aggravated the dreadful con-
cern, or in want of assistance and liable not
to get it if the Q.N. and they were not on
speaking terms, or were shareholders of the
bank, and had to support the Govern-
ment which kept the bank afloat, and
thus staved off the evil day. The
great object of Queensland politics for
years past has been to keep quiet and do
nothing to seriously embarrass the men who
were keeping the Q.N.B. afloat—with the
public’s money.
* * * *
Therefore things get back to the old point
that, outside the Labor-party, which is
wrecked by bad leadership, there are practi-
cally no politics in Queensland. The Upper
House is a nominee Chamber. The Assem-
bly is elected on a franchise which is
whittled down very low by the simple pro-
cess of striking objectionable persons off
the roll —the striking-off process being
done by a court nominated by the
Government. It is difficult to find enough
strong men who are free from Q.N. Bank
influence to make an Opposition. The
necessity of not offending the bank, or em-
barrassing the Government which supported
it, led to the dropping of programmes and
ideas that might disturb the waters of poli-
tics and possibly make the great rotten
iinancial craft further strain its timbers.
The utter sameness of politics when they
were thus flattened out destroyed public in-
terest. A Ministerialist and an Oppositionist
became so much alike that the public hardly
knew or cared which was which. Being
just about the same, men changed sides with
such facility that there practically ceased to
be any real Opposition. The party system
is based on the assumption that there are
always two distinct parties. It goes badly
when there are two ; it goes worse when
there are three or more, as in New South
Wales ; it becomes absolutely rotten when
there is only one, as in Queensland, and it
is a party without a policy or a political
conscience, and with no future, and
a past which won’t bear speaking
about. If absolute manhood suffrage was
established in Queensland, and a new Assem-
bly was elected, and that Assembly was
entrusted with the election of a Ministry, it
might produce some startling results. But
as it is, Thomas Joseph Byrnes will pro-
bably, barring some unlooked-for cataclysm,
keep in office for a few years, and then
appoint himself to a pleasant life billet, and
nominate his successor when he retires, all
in the good old Kanakaland fashion.
The Defection of Lyne.
It is now little more than six weeks till the
Federal election, and N.S.W. is still the only
province where any organised anti-Federal
party has asserted itself. Melbourne Age,
after a week of hostility and another week
spent in a painful wobble between two opinions,
has practically dropped the subject. Ward,
of South Australia, and M‘Lean, Victoria’s
unpaid honorary gratis Minister without port-
folio, are hardly definite enough to be called an
opposition. But in New South Wales the
strange alliance between the Labor-party and the
most awful variety of Fat still continues. Why
Fat should be hostile is quite understandable.
Why the Labor-party should be bitterly wroth
at a Federal Constitution which provides that
both Houses are to be elected by the people,
members to be paid in each House, no property
qualification either for electors or members, no
plural vote to be allowed in the election of either
representatives or senators, and both Cham-
bers to be dissolvable, and which also includes a
moderately liberal form of Referendum, the Lord
only knows. But a strong suspicion prevails
that the Labor-party in Parliament—as distin-
guished from the laboring masses outside
began to freeze when not one of its nominees
succeeded in getting a place in the Convention,
and froze four feet thick when it sized up its
chances in the scramble for the Federal loaves
and fishes.
* * * *
Lyne, the dreary, plank-like man whose
leadership wrecks the chances of the Protec-
tionist party in N.S.W. Parliament, last week
joined himself to Want, and the Fat end of
the Foreign-trade crowd, and the Labor-politi-
cians, as another advocate of provincialism.
The reasons assigned by the Protectionist boss
evil-genius were mostly (as in the case of Labor-
member Hughes) the awful thing that isn’t|in
the Constitution at all, and the dreadful event
which never happened, and the fact which
might be but wasn’t, and the person that isn’t
there, and other myths. Lyne bitterly de-
nounced the Federal Senate, where each pro-
vince is equally represented, and where, conse-
quently, the small provinces carry more weight
than their population entitles them to, as being
painfully “un-British”:
We are taught that every unit of the British empire
shall be equal in v oting power, and that is a principle
which cannot be scattered to the wind.
Which is tolerably steep as regards an empire
in which about five-sixths of the people are not
allowed any vote at all. And this is only a
fair sample of Lyne’s general inaccuracy.
* * * *
The loudest wail of “William John’s”
oration—which is also the loudest wail of the
Provincial party in general—is that the Federal
union is a fixture for “ all time ” :
Once we step into this Federation we are there irre-
vocably. Let me impress upon these few gentlemen who
say “ No ” that they could not have read the Bill, because
it distinctly says that the compact is indissoluble. There
is only one way you can retrace your steps, and that is
at the point of the bayonet.
And The Bulletin, which has read the Bill,
also says “ no ” ; likewise “ bosh ” and “ rats !”
Nothing in this world is indissoluble. Nobody
is irrevocably anywhere— except in hell, and
whether anybody is irrevocably there even
theology knoweth not; it merely says
it knows, and takes up a collection by
way of changing the painful subject. The
Draft Constitution certainly says that the
union is to be indissoluble. But it
also says that the Constitution can be altered
in any way by a vote of both Houses, and by
the vote of a majority of the States and the
people. Therefore, if the people please, they
can amend the word “ indissoluble” out of the
Constitution at any time, just as they can
amend anything else. So far from the union
being irrevocable, this paper notices with
regret that it is a good deal easier to dissolve
the Commonwealth than to create it. To make
a union of the five provinces requires the assent
of ten separate Houses of Parliament —the
vote of five separate majorities in the five
separate provinces, and not only the con-
sent of a majority of the people voting, but of a
majority which must command at least 142,000
suffrages—Bo,ooo in N.S.W., 50,000 in Vic-
toria, and the rest in Tasmania and YV.A. r lo
break the union requires a majority of only
two Houses, the votes of three provinces instead
of five and a bare majority of the people voting
—no minimum whatever is prescribed. The
man who asserts that the proposed union is in-
dissoluble and irrevocable is either a weather-
prophet or a person who doesn’t know enough
lo put up his umbrella when it rains.
* * * *
Even if the union was indissoluble, which it
isn’t, and could only be sawn asunder by the
bayonet, which is drivel, it would leave things
just about where they are now. The union of
the Riverina (or any other place) to New South
Wales, of the Wimmera (or any other place) to
Victoria, the union of every separate fraction
of every province to the rest of the province, is
also “indissoluble.” According to the British
law now existing, it is decided that no part of
a province can secede, no matter how much its
interests require secession, without the consent
of the rest of the province, as expressed by a
Parliamentary majority in both Houses. And,
as no province ever wants to sacrifice any part
of its territory, there is, by Mr. Lyne’s reason-
ing, no way out here either except by the
bayonet. And this dreadful state of things is
existing all the time without William John
Lyne even noticing the alleged horror which
rages at his door.
* * * •
Like every other anti-Federal speaker up to
date, Lyne raised the old, exploded bogey of
Braddon’s amendment, and told the same old
taradiddle about it in almost the same words as
a dozen other scare-mongers who went before
him. Speaking of the Federal customs and
excise revenue :
All the Federal Parliament or Treasurer can take is £1
in every £4 ; that is to say, that £3 is to be returned to
the states. ... As far as we can reasonably estimate
it, the total expenditure after the first five years of this
Federation must come to £2,500,000 at the least. Now
the sum required to give a revenue sufficient to enable
the Federal Parliament to pay back to the States three-
quarters of the total collected will require a very large
tariff indeed. . . .1 have taken a lower sum,.
£2,250,000, and to raise that under this extraordinary
proposal you must have a revenue from customs and, excise
amounting to £9,000,000.
The Bulletin respectfully asks William
John Lyne if he can read ordinary large print,
for not one word of the above farrago of wild
inferences is in the Constitution Bill at all.
All that document says is that the Federal
Government may keep not more than a quarter
of the customs and excise revenue for its own
use and must return the rest —not that it is to
pay all expenses out of that quarter. And if
it really wants <£2,500,000 a year, or any other
impossible sum like that, it is at perfect liberty
to raise £2,449,000 by stamp duties, and
probate duties, and absentee taxes, and other
direct taxation, and make up the other
£1 by collecting £4 a year altogether in
customs and excise, and keeping £1 out of
the £4. The same baseless ghost is raised
unanimously by every anti-Federal orator
who goes out to influence the people by
telling them about the dreadful thing that isn’t
in the Bill. And The Bulletin has serious
thoughts of calling the next raiser of the weary
old spectre a quantity of rich bullock-driving
vocabulary, so that he can carry his tale into
the libel-court and read clause 87 of the Con-
stitution Bill to the Judge by way of evidence.
* * * •
Lyne’s other reasons appear to be various,
and most of them painfully ridiculous. He
complained that there is no power in the Con-
stitution to make the Federal Government (after
the first five years) apportion the expenditure
and the surplus fairly among the different parts
of its dominions. But when one considers that
there is not a word in the Constitution of any
one of the Seven Provinces to make the Pro-
vincial Governments apportion the expenditure
fairly among the different parts of their
dominions, and that every, or almost every,
other country on earth is in the same situation,
the presumption seems to be that things might
be a lot worse. Anyhow, as Lyne has never
tried to repair this alleged horror in his own
province his sincerity seems very doubtful.
He also wailed that “N.S.W. will have to
keep Tasmania afloat,” which, considering that
N.S.W, has had almost incessant deficits for
ten years or more, while Tasmania is enjoy-
ing a decent succession of more or less reliable
surpluses, sounds rather interesting. He
entered a lament concerning the Victorian
bounty on locally-produced coal—which bounty
isn’t in existence. Also Lyne is dead certain
that N.S.W. won’t federate “unless the
majority of the people are allowed to rule,
which, from a man who voted for the 80,000
minimum and thus squashed the principle of
majority rule in his own province when it
suited his own purposes better that the mino-
rity should have all the show, is very pathetic
indeed.
* * * *
The latest cry of the Cornstalk anti-Federal
party —which cry Lyne takes up with enthu-
siasm, is that the rejection of the present Com-
monwealth Fill really doesn’t matter, and that
it can’t by any possibility mean the abandon-
ment of Federation. If the Bill is ie,acted,
N.S. Wales is t o immediately open negot ations
for another convention, and start the movement
over again more vigorously than ever, and
William John Lyne promises to put his mas-
sive shoulder to the wheel, and shove like
Gehenna. But it is more than probable that
the other provinces would be too sick and dis-
gusted to listen to any more Cornstalk proposals
for years to come. It was at the request of
N.S. Wales, in Parkes’s time, that the first
Federal Conference was held, and a Constitu-
tion drafted ; and that movement fell through
because the Parkes Government broke its pro-
mises, and didn’t even take the trouble to lay


its own scheme before Parliament. It was
N.S. Wales that made the second overtures in
the Dibbs epoch. The third movement likewise
started at the urgent request of N.S. Wales.
Also, N.S. Wales was the only province of the
five which broke faith by raising (this after the
business was tvell under way) the minimum vote
required for the acceptance of the Constitution to
a vastly larger figure, in proportion to population,
than that demanded by any of its partners.
The provinces all fixed the minimum vote which
was to insure the acceptance of the Constitu-
tion at practically the same percentage of the
population—and N.S.W. alone departed from
the agreement. It is also the only province
where the Government is lending practically no
active assistance to the cause. If the 80,000
minimum blocks the way, and the apathy and
faithlessness of the N.S. W. Government wreck
the 1898 Federal movement as they did that of
1891, any appeal from N.S.W. to hold another
Federal Convention isn’t likely to meet with a
very cordial response for years to come. Even
the wild assertion of Lyne, Want and co., that
they have put their whole soul into the Federal
movement, and only want to wreck it so that
they may toil with the fury of an ancient
Israelite building a pyramid at the starting of
another one, reads a trifle thin.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Naval Agreement.
According to the daily press: “Some im-
portant resolutions were passed at the confer-
ence of Premiers which lately met at Parlia-
ment House, Melbourne, and among them a
resolution was carried agreeing to continue the
contribution towards the maintenance of the
Auxiliary Squadron in these waters.” This is
certainly “an important resolution,” and the
occasion is a fitting one to again call the atten-
tion of the people of Australia to the nature of
the “ agreement ” and the benefits they derive
from it. The vessels comprising the Austra-
lasian Auxiliary Squadron were built out of
funds provided by the British Govt., Austra-
lasia agreeing to pay interest at the rate of
five per cent., but not exceeding £35,000
per annum, on the cost of construction.
In addition, these provinces undertake to
pay an amount not exceeding £91,000 per
an. for maintenance of the vessels and crews,
and other charges. At the termination of the
agreement the vessels remain the property of
the British Government. In other words, we
simply rent the squadron, and pay charges
whilst it is supposed to be in our service, and,
at the termination of the agreement, Britain
gets its ships back. One of the conditions of
the agreement is that the ships shall not be em-
ployed beyond the limits of the Australian
station without the consent of the contributing
Governments, so that there may be some chance
that the defence which Australia pays for may
be there when it is wanted. But the vessels
are to be under “ the sole control and orders ”
of the naval commander-in-chief of the
station, and they are commanded by
British officers and manned by British sea-
men. It has often been pointed out by cer-
tain obnoxious persons that these latter cir-
cumstances render the prohibition of removal
from Australian waters a mere farce, because,
if Britain should find itself in a tight place in
any other part of the globe, the “ Australasian
Auxiliary Squadron ” would almost certainly
light out for the scene of action, and leave the
“ kawlinies ” to bustle along for themselves
in the meantime. These persons have been
generally regarded as wicked traducers of
Britain s reputation, and have been reminded
of “British honor” and other guarantees that
her solemn obligations would be kept. But
recently the Melbourne Argus was indiscreet
enough to publish a report of a discussion which
took place on the subject at the United Service
Institution in London, in the course of which
Admiral Bowden Smith gave away the
whole show. The admiral said that he
“did not attach so much seriousness as
Sir John and Admiral Colomb to the clause
limiting the operation of the fleet to colonial
waters. When the Premiers were at home he
had discussions with them all and had brought
away the conviction that they were not likely
to insist upon the observance of the clause even
if they pressed for its retention in the agree-
ment. “ Anyhow,” remarked the Admiral,
“ if war were declared in China and I felt it
necessary to do so, I should take the squadron
to Chinese waters in spite of all the Premiers
of Australasia.” In other words, one Admiral
anyhow doesn’t care a straw for Australia or
the naval agreements, when they conflict with
British interests. And as Australia only wants
the squadron in time of war, the Admiral’s
avowal that he would be prepared to take it
away in time of war is very unpleasant. Before
that agreement is renewed it would be advis-
able to learn how many more Admirals are of
tlie same way of thinking, and how far the
British naval bosses agree with them. The
mere joy of knowing that the squadron can
always be relied upon to be in Hobson’s Bay at
Cup time isn t sufficient equivalent for even the
moderate subsidy paid for its maintenance.
4.
Want and Four Wolves.
The confession of faith of N.S. W. ex-Attorney-
General Want was about the saddest contribu-
tion made to anti-Federal literature up to date.
Jack Want represents the old Cabbage-tree
Mob, that quaint faction which had its head-
quarters at the now-extinct Sydney Reform
Club, and was kept alive mainly by Jack
Robertson’s insane hatred of everything that
lay beyond his own narrow circle in Botany
Bay; and the C.T. Mob’s fixed idea is that every
Australian outside Botany Bay is a being with
horns and claws and a tail, and without soul or
conscience or honor or anything else worth
possessing. W ant’s cheerful denunciation of
all the lederal delegates outside N.S.W. as
wolves ’ was the keynote of his entire shriek,
and that part of it which didn’t consist of
allusions to wolves was mostly hysterics and
utterly unscrupulous misrepresentation—or else
incredible lack of education. Among other
things he told his hearers that Victoria had
‘ so rigged the coal contracts and bounties and
duties, that it is almost impossible for an ounce
from N.S. W. to go in there and compete with
them.” The reality is that Victoria levies no
duties at all on N.S. W. coal, and that it is,
and always has been, so far, the best customer
in the matter of coal that N.S. W. possesses, and
buys nearly 600,000 tons yearly. The next-best
customer, S. A., buys about 300,000 tons yearly.
As these facts can be ascertained by any one who
cares to look up Coghlan’s statistics, the
brassy assurance of ex - Attorney - General
Want’s misrepresentation is something almost
incredible. He warned his hearers over and
over again that the Federal Constitution was a
cast-iron bargain “settled for all time, forever
and aye, which you can never change.” Con-
sidering the elaborate provisions made in the
Bill to enable the people to change the Consti-
tution whenever they want to, this is about on
a par with the coal yarn. He explained how
the other provinces had stolen “our rivers,”
which, seeing that none of the rivers except the
Murray are to be under the control of the
Federal Government, is an assertion that can
hardly be described in polite language. Also,
he announced, on his own unsupported pro-
phecy, that after live years the other provinces
would seize N.S. W.’s share of the surplus and
divide it among them—that there would be war
—that the other provinces would be insolvent
- —that the whole scheme was a deep-laid plot
of the other provinces to plunder “us,” and
similar beer-froth and hysterics. In the mind
of Want and his friends, the fact that every
attempt at Federation up to date has been
commenced by N.S. W. requesting the other
provinces to unite with it is clear proof
that it is the other provinces which are
yearning all the time to unite with
N.S.W. for some base and sinister and un-
speakably gory purpose. Want sees a dark
conspiracy in the fact that N.S.W. will have
24 (or, rather, 25) out of the 64 members in
the Federal Lower House ; this is its fair quota,
but his idea is evidently that the only fair
thing is for N.S.W. to have a majority vote
“on its own,” and the four “ wolves ” should
do with a minority vote among them. And he
desires to know if N.S.W. is going to surrender
its freedom at the bidding of “ 80,000 fanatics ”
—this being an allusion to the famous arrange-
ment by which 79,999 votes for Federation are
to count for nothing, even if there is only one
lone provincial fanatic like King Cabbage-Tree
on the other side. Further, he explained how
the Constitution Bill left with the provinces,
N.S.W. included, until June the power of
granting bounties in support of their local in-
dustries, and how the “wolves” would in-
evitably take advantage of this brief interval
to grant bounties of all kinds on an enormous
scale, and thus blast the industries of N.S.W.
There are now only a few weeks left, and not
one province has granted a single new bounty
yet, or proposed granting one, or even
got its Parliament together so as to en-
deavor to grant one, so this assertion
reads like the most drunken Japanese
prophecy imaginable. Ex-A.-G. Want told his
hearers that, because of his provincial patriot-
ism, he stood before them “stripped of every-
thing but honor.” His billet, his cash, his
clothes, his porous-plaster, his return-ticket for
Japan, his portrait of the pretty brown lady he
saw there—all were gone. And he pledged his
honor about so many gory and awful and im-
possible things which the wolves in the other
provinces were going to do, that his honor is in
great danger of going along with the other
things. This is such a dreadful situation for
any man to be in at the beginning of winter
that The Bulletin feels almost sorry even
for Jack Want.
♦
“ Terewth ” versus Truth.
It is the fate of all creeds to become Respect-
able or to perish. Evidently the Salvation
Army is rapidly becoming respectable, since
the respectable press begins to show a zealous
and Keristian desire to deliver it from evil by
studiously overlooking the “ Capting’s ” little
lapses from grace, and always being otherwise
engaged when a lassie is caught in the slips.
One of those “shocking cases” in which the
great dailies usually take a chastened and
melancholy pleasure, and from which it is their
common custom to draw long moral homilies
for Saturday morning’s sermons, was heard at
a recent Melb. Criminal sittings. The Judge
was Justice Hodges ; the defendant a Salvation
officer in an exceptionally responsible posi-
tion, and the crime was one for which the
domestic press has no name, but it was an
abominable and unnatural horror involving the
degradation of certain youths. Prisoner was
found guilty, and duly sentenced for his crime,
but next day’s papers were dumb about the
unspeakable iniquity of the convict ; there
were no virtuous diatribes about Harmy laxity,
or large, vague demands addressed to nobody
of any consequence, and calling for nothing in
particular, in the interests of cleanliness, religion
and common morality, such as are almost al-
ways printed when a scandal of the kind springs
from a secular institution. In fact, neither
Herald, Argus, nor Age printed one word
about the case, and all the “ ’orrible revela-
tions ” were practically wasted, from the
editorial point of view. The Salvationist first
excited suspicion by his frequent visits at night
to an establishment in the city, always accom-
panied by a young lad. A trap was laid, and
the suspect fell into it, and was caught in
the act by two constables and a third man.
The boy who appeared in the case was one of a
number held in the Salvation reformatory,
and other Salvation officers appeared in Court
as witnesses for the defence, to testify for the
prisoner, and enlarge on the beauty of his
character, and his devotion to duty and holy
living. It is not to be imagined that all the
great dailies shut their columns to the delectable
details of this interesting and instructive case
without a severe professional pang, but the
editorial soul suffered and was silent out of con-
sideration for public morality and the true
faith, both of which, according to newspaper
principles, are especially endangered by the
gutterings of a shining light. However, the
extraordinary unanimity of the press in this
particular instance points to Army influence of
a most strenuous kind. The publication of the
truth with the usual scare-heads must have led
to a serious falling-off in Army receipts, and
The Bulletin pictures Army authorities of
both sexes wrestling with editors in prayer to
add another to the long list of their sins of
omission.
♦
Justice Hood, passing sentence recently upon
three hardened Melb. larrikins, expressed
doubts as to the curative virtue of imprison-
ment in such cases. Imprisonment “ seemed
to him to be only a means of breeding up
criminals to be a terror to the community.”
The young terrors under discussion had been
more or less created by previous prison experi-
ences, thought Justice Hood. It was a pity
they had not been swept off the streets into the
army or navy, or some other school of discipline
before, or immediately after, they committed
their first crime. But seeing that the Law,
which had been wrong in its first treatment of
those youths, was exactly the same Law as the
Law he was now administering, his Honor sent
the three prisoners back for further doses, and
much bigger doses, of the same old bad treat-
ment. Punishment is prescribed according to
past results. If it was shockingly unsatisfac-
tory in its result, the patient gets a larger
bottle of the same medicine next time.
The vicar of a small English town, or village—
South Merstham—appears to have astounded
his parishioners by proposing to establish a
“ public house for the public good,” with capi-
tal supplied by himself and fellow syndicators.
Their interest on the investment is to be limited
to 3 or 4 per cent, “ all profits after this to go
towards objects of local benefit—public hall,
recreation-ground, baths and wash-houses,” &c.
The beer sold at the pub. to be guaranteed
pure, and the spirits at least five years old.
The license and property to be vested in
trustees, and the manager to draw a fixed salary
for running the place as a “ real public house ”
which “ anyone can use without being obliged
to order anything.” The parson’s scheme de-
parts from the Gothenburg System in the one
respect that is likely to commend it to local
capital whilst quieting the alarm of anti-
Socialists. It is doubtless workable at a fair
profit, notwithstanding the pure beer and five-
year-old whisky regulation—spirits in England
being retailed by measure, and not by the un-
certain quantity of a customer’s own helping
from the bottle. South Merstham seems likely
to be known hereafter as the starting-place of
a radical reform in the licensed victualling of
Great Britain, for there is no apparent reason
why the awful vested interests of the almighty
brewers and distillers should not be brought
into harmony with the parson’s innovation.
Meantime, Australia is painfully reminded of
its inability to start such a scheme anywhere.
Absolutely pure beer and aged whisky would
command no sale hereabouts in com petition
with tanglefoot and hellfire ; also, the licensing
laws (of Victoria, notably) are directly opposed
to any improvement in the quality of" the stuff
that now burns the coating off the public
stummick. Melbourne has two huge hotels
(owned by shai’eholders who would insist upon
the sale of reasonably respectable liquor) which
are denied a beer-and-spirit license in the
interests of the poisou trade. Whilst this
English parson is making for holiness in intoxi-
cants, the pietists of big Australian cities are
furious supporters of any licensing law “im-
provement” that protects the vilest old drink-
ing shanties against wholesome competition.
Ben Tillett’s passionate appeal to the workers
of Australasia :
I ask you to think seriously over these industrial pro-
blems ; I ask that, while yet there is a chance, you should
try and capture Parliament, try and use every municipal
power ; you should have your own press, you should have
every political and social organisation that will advance
your principles ; it’s no use grumbling ; to-day is not the
day for pessimistic vaporings ; to-day is the'day to act;
here —this precious hour, here—this precious'moment,
this is the time for the miracle-working ; it does not re-
quire so much brain as heart, but if the heart is put into
it the brain will follow. Let us realise then our possi-
bilities ; let us win the world for ourselves ; and any coun-
trj' which gives to the very humblest of the community
a share in the wealth of the community, a share in its
power of government, a voice in every expression of its
opinion, an opportunity of expressing judgment—that is
the country that will last, and the grandest Federation
of all is the federation of a union of hearts, is a federa-
tion of men and women bound together in the holy bonds
of friendship—of fighting friendship ; that does not care
what people say—that does not want to be extreme.
While a man dies, while a child wants bread, while a
woman is driven to dishonor, while a man is driven to
disgrace, while the cry of slavery goes up, while the
sight of a pinched, wan face presents itself to
one’s view in the street, while slums exist, then
you and I must fight, fight on, fight for our liberties, fight
for our rights, fight for the little children who will come
after us, and let us hand them on—every generation-
let us hand them on the accumulated additions of their
rights to manhood and womanhood, to earn their “ well-
done ” and the tears of fond memory when our ashes
shall be in the grave.
A scene of frenzied enthusiasm followed this
utterance at Melb. Trades Hall, the other
night. The throng was ready to do anything,
promise anything, pledge itself to anything;
but—how,long will it last ?
A week or two before the death, in battle, of
his cousin endowed H. H. Champion with
.£7OOO a year and reinstated him among the
Hinglish toffocracy he got a warm tribute of
praise from Ben Tillett. Evidently dapper
little Ben is a believer in the man who, of yore,
gave much time and money to the cause of
Socialism at ’Ome, and has stuck pretty closely
to his text since he came to earn his bread-and-
butter as a journalist in Melbourne. What
Tillett thinks of Champion is probably the
truth, or very near it. A Tory by birth, fed
in his boyhood with the haw-haw precepts of a
military circle, young man Champion be-
came a Radical through conviction—a gen-
tlemanly “ faddist,” advocating the cause of
Labor versus the tyranny of Cash. He
lacked the appearance of enthusiasm, the cheap
air of sincerity, the magnetic force to move
multitudes, and as a demagogue he was a
respectable failure in London, where well-
dressed and polished professors of Socialism
excite suspicion by their uncommonness. His
chance of achieving an Australian popularity
was lost when he uttered the opinion that the
workers here were lions led by asses. The ani-
mosity which Champion thereby excited m the
leading few has been spread among the many,
who might very well have taken hiß epigram
as a compliment. If his inheritance of “an
estate worth £7OOO a year” be a solid faot, the
brainy and cynical ex-agitator will— The Bul-
letin supposes—return at once to the land of
his proputty and set a decent example to the
average landlord. Prosperity is apt to change
the born toiler into a snob. ’E dunno where
’e are. Champion knows where he was 10
years ago, and is not now likely to fall a victim
to circumstances that make for snobbery. A
converted Tory rarely backslides, a converted
Democrat never.
Vic. Full Court has decided that Panton, P.M.,
is not disqualified for a place on the licensing
bench by the fact that he is “ biassed ” in favor
of the Australian wine industry. Judge Wil-
liams dissented from the ruling, but his Honor’s
remarks were not very impressive. Panton’s
alleged unfitness lay in the absurd supposition
that he was willing to grant wine-licenses
without regard for the character of the
applicants, merely in order to increase
the sale of Australian grape - juice. The
Full Court practically sat upon this supposition,
and ruled that Mr. Panton is not an unjudicial-
minded magistrate where the respectability of
a would-be licensee is concerned. In short, not
a crank. Panton shares in the popular opinion
that wine is good, and that Australia ought to
be a good wine-growing country. His opponents
are the “cranks,” as times go, because they
represent a small minority, which rails against
intoxicating liquor, and regards moderate-
drinkers of wine, beer, or spirits as instruments
of the Devil.
The British Royal Family is rapidly outgrow-
ing its means of living in luxurious idleness.
•The “almost penniless” condition of future-
queen Duchess of York’s father and brothers is
a notorious ease in point, and many more
similar absurdities will arise in the natural
course of things within the next 20 years. As
the family spreads, the system of national
grants is curtailed. British princes and prin-
cesses, presently becoming as cheap as German
serenities, will need to introduce their “ blue ”
blood into the families of successful soap-boilers
and sich. John Bull’s fat-headed reverence
for monarchial Government is not immortal.
At present he prays for “ other members of the
Royal Family ” every Sunday, because the line
was put into the Litany at a time when other
members were few, and, therefore, “swells.”
As soon as they get mixed up with the masses
J.B. will leave them out of his Litany, and once
his loyalty begins to break away from Church
of England religion he will soon let it go
altogether.
“Jack” Want, of N.S.W., in his famous
oration about the “ wolves ” :
When they thought the Bill was safe it was taken to
Melbourne, and the wolves began their game. The whole
body and the meaning of the Bill when it had been
before us was taken out (Howls of “Shame”). In the first
place, out went the Referendum. They knew they had
got enormous voting power in the Senate, and they knew
the Referendum was a check on it. But when they got !
down there they kicked the Referendum out.
This is a beautiful whoop if there was even a
shred of accuracy about it. But the real state
of the case is this : (1) The Referendum w'asn’t
in the orginal Bill at all; (2) The four “wolves”
(Victoria, S.A., Tasmania, and Westralia)
therefore didn’t kick it out. (3) What they
really did was this : Under the scheme as it
left Sydney, in case of deadlocks the Lower
House was to be dissolved first; the Senate,
where the small provinces have their main
strength, was to be exempt from the penalty of
dissolution unless the new Lower House brought
about a new deadlock. And instead of throw-
ing out an imaginary referendum which wasn’t
there, the small provinces gave up this privi-
lege, and agreed that their particular House, the
Senate, should be subject to dissolution on
exactly the same basis as the Representatives—
the Chamber where N.S.W. has the biggest
say. Therefore, as ex-Attorney-General Want,
in his dreadful ignorance and political in-
capacity, deliberately accused the small pro-
vinces of doing what they did not do, and
charged them with tearing large pieces out of
N.S.W., whereas they really made that pro-
vince a handsome concession, and as he brutally
and ungratefully kicked his benefactors and
libelled them as well, and seeing that he has
been “ stripped of everything but honor,” and
a man who has only that left should hang on to
it hard—well, The Bulletin is waiting to hear
Jack Want’s apology.
Allan M‘Lean, the unsalaried gentleman with-
out portfolio, has resigned from the Victorian
Cabinet, and this leaves Turner’s Ministry solid
for Federation. M'Lean’s reasons for being
the one lone provincialist are principally : (1)
That Victoria doesn’t get its fair share of re-
presentation in the Commonwealth Parliament;
(2) that the abolition of border duties will
damage Vic. industries ; (3) that the settlement
of the border railway difficulty will drag the
Riverina trade to Sydney ; (4) that the new
Victorian coal industry will be wrecked in the
interests of N.S.W. ; (5) that the power of
granting bounties has been unjustly taken
away from the States. The shriek of the pro-
vincialist on the northern side of the Murray,
on the other hand, is that N.S.W. is the only
province which suffers from lack of adequate
representation in the Federal Parliament;
that the Riverina trade is going to Melbourne*
or Adelaide, or Gehenna—principally Gehenna ;
and that the Vic. coal industry is getting all
the advantage, and the States’ power of grant-
ing bounties hasn’t been taken away near so
decisively as it should be. This sort of thing
makes the provincial gospel about as clear as
the original site of the Garden of Eden
Anyhow, Allan M‘Lean, though he is
alleged to carry a certain amount of
the Gippsland vote in the pocket of his
kilt, is no serious loss to the Ministry.
He was various things in tire Mitnro and
Shiels Cabinets, and it was a sort of inherited
tradition that the respectable oldjnatt should
have a show when Turner formed the Ministry
m 94. So he, with Vale, Pratt, David
Coutts, and Samuel Williamson, were all
made honorary Ministers with nothing to do-
just as fcsiMON Fraser, wholesale tailor Stuart
Peacock, and Cornelius Job Ham were en-
gaged as the unemployed and unpaid tail of
Munro’s Government.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position December 31, 1897.
(Preliminary Statement as conveyed by Cable)
ASSETS exceed
Increase in Assets during 1807 exceeds
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1897 exceeds
ASSURANCE IN FORCE exceeds... ...
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897 exceeds
SURPLUS over L IA BI LI T I ES on every standard of valuation
any other Life Office in the World.
£48,950,000
3,750,000
10,000,000
1,000,000
197,900,000
7,250,000
LARGER than that of
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT MT n
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C. ’ ’
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, Manager for N.S.W.
SIMPLEST—JVJOST DURABLE-BEST.
Light
Running
aiuoH may
Sewing
Machines
Write for Illustrated Price List
(Free).
Genuine Needles, Parts and
Fitting's for all Machines.
Madame Weigel’s Paper Patterns,
Catalogues and Journals.
J. W. Johnston & Co.,
746 G-eorge Street, Haymarket,
SYDNEY.
222 Swanston Street Melbourne.
67 Queen Street Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hamlet.”
Royal “ Cotton King.”
Criterion. “The Tree of Knowledge.”
Lyceum “The White Squadron.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Royal Standard “ The Little Detective.”
Belmore Park Harinston’s Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ Babes in the Wood.”
Royal... “When London Sleeps.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Alexandra “ Uncle Toni’s Cabin.”
St. George’s Hall Professor Kennedy.
An unfortunate horse accident befell
Miss Edith Motley on Sunday last, and
has seriously disarranged the plans of the
criterion management. The “ Marriage of Con-
venience had to be replaced on Monday night
by the “Tree of Knowledge,” the hole being
dug at short notice, and the brief shrub shoved in
hurriedly, with very little time to apply the bone-
dust of careful rehearsal around the roots. The
fact that under these painful circumstances the
Tree ’ was played admirably and without a
hitch says a great deal for the Cartwright co. At
the same time it is impossible to disguise the fact
that the herb tottered a good deal in the estimation
of a rather thin house. It is not comedy or drama ;
it isn’t exactly tragedy, nor is it exactly Tan-
gueray. It is clever and almost brilliant, and it
is true to nature, inasmuch as it is utterly un-
finished. Nature never really finishes anything.
* * * 9
There are seven leading characters among
the various branches of the “Tree,” and five of
them pass away unaccounted for. The tale con-
cerns a young man who once had a Mrs. Tan-
queray and is blighted by the remembrance of
her, and won’t marry the pretty girl who loves
him because the old episode is on his soul. His
Mrs. Tanqueray turns up as the wife of his best
friend, and when the friend and his father are
ruined she elopes with his next best friend, and the
young man marries the pretty girl after all. Story
Gofton, who was lately wasting his talents as a
giant in a pantomime, appears as a military
gentleman who is also in love with the girl Being
refused, he drifts through the back-door, and the
rest of his blighted life passes out of the story.
Ihe lady-part of the audience mostly falls in
love with Charles Thursby, who does forcible
work in a rather difficult character as the man
who marries the unreformed Tanqueray. When
he and his father are broke, and his Tanqueray
leaves him, the pair step out into obscurity. The
father has no very definite exit, and the
son is last seen asleep on a couch with
his mother’s jewellery balanced on his
stomach where the faithless wife left it when
she fled. The next best friend and the wife both
disappear. Presumably, she becomes old and poor
j battered and badly-painted,
and the rain and the wind beat on her tangled
back-hair and her frescoed eyebrow; but all these
things are left to the imagination. The story is
picturesque and cleverly told, but the public wants
a lugger and more glaring Tree with a larger veget-
i j- ** on more conspicuously. All the
leading people do their work in a finished and
artistic fashion. Miss Beatrice Lamb is hardly
youthful enough for the adventuress, but her idea
of the character is excellent. Miss Gethyn Dar-
ragh’s first Sydney appearance goes remarkably
well, and Cartwright does all that man can well
do for the blighted gentleman that used to have a
Tanqueray. But the brutal public always wants
to see half-a-ton of retribution fall publicly on
somebody, and to hear the bones squash, and
they don’t squash. It’s no good giving caviare
to people who eat with their knives.
** * *
The Bulletin desires to cordially recom-
mend Phantoms ’to all -lovers of a good, gory
shocker- one that shocks all through and keeps on
the straight path of bones and blood and Ker-rime
without deviation. The latest Sydney Lyceum
play commends itself to this paper’s soul. Barring
the fact that it goes off its head in the last
act and takes to doing comedy acts on an irrele-
vant bike, it is a consistent affair with an object in
vi©w, and it climbs over much dead body to arrive
there. There are two villains-no one villain
could drag all that load of sin right through four
a t the end of Act 11. the new villain
kills the old one, and thereafter personates him,
though considerably discommoded by the pale
green wraith of the old villain who will keep
appearing to him in his dreams as he sleeps in his
ill-gotten four-post bed, with the shiny pot-hat,
which was bought out of the wages of iniquity,
hung on the nail behind the door. The tale in-
cludes a safe-robbery; another robbery, combined
with murderous assault on a postman ; the seduc-
tion of a nice girl; the registration of her
child in the name of the heroine, whose repu-
tation is consequently knocked endways; the
seduction of another girl; a marriage, in
which the loathsome party in faded whiskers
borrows the hero’s name so that he has a very
tough charge of bigamy to answer; and the
shooting of the first villain, who drops down a
mine. The second villain goes down and robs the
body, and finding his old partner still alive, wal-
lops him fatally on the skull until he is dead. He
also lays a charge of murder against the hero;
swears false affidavits ; abducts the nice girl who
had the child ; tries to steal the heroine ; throws
another child over a cliff, and does evil too
frequent to enumerate.
* * • *
The path of the two partners is piled high
with bones, and the ill-gotten top-hat of the second
sinner is just visible above a sea of blood. Also,
in the silent night the ghosts of his evil past
gallop on him in squadrons and leave their foot-
marks all over his night-shirt. If it is worth
while to write a horror at all it is worth while to
write a big, artistic horror, and The Bulletin
rather likes “ Phantoms,” partly because there is
a certain amount of art in it, and partly because
of its unmitigated wickedness. It would like it
still better if Miss Therese Lindahl did her rather
clever study of a street-arab in her bare feet, in-
stead of disguising the character in white stockings
which make a thin pretence of being feet and aren’t.
An arab in stockings is an anomaly, and this
writer has no reason to suppose there is any-
thing the matter with Miss Lindahl’s feet that
they shouldn’t be exposed. Among the rest,
Charles Field, Stanford, John Forde, Diver,
Nunn, and Miss Inez Bensusan are all more or
less deserving. J. H. Nunn, who has been absent
from Sydney for some ten years past, does a very
clever streak of comedy as a base solicitor, and
koide, as a doctor who badly requires a three-
penny hair-cut, is another person who is re-
freshing to the soul. Diver and Stanford—
especially the former—bear the heat and
burden of the shriek with great ability. Miss
Bensusan, as the girl who has the child she
oicln t ought to, and who is abducted while in
the last stage of consumption, is bright and
natural, and looks consistently pretty, and repents
beautifully in a loose frock and a summer hat.
Miss Maud Williamson is reasonably good in her
acting capacity, and in anxious moments she lifts
up to a quite unnecessary elevation a voice whose
top-note has been wrecked by years of continuous
calling for help. The person who was disrespect-
fully mentioned in last drama may be passed over.
Another man has arrived and gone away again
since then who is a lot worse.
** # *
“The White Squadron,” a war-drama
choke-full of South American revolution, with
battle, carnage and naval manoeuvres in it, will
probably be staged at the Lyceum on Saturday.
** * *
“ Hamlet ” commences a six-night season
at Her Majesty’s on Saturday, and in'view of the
consistent good luck which has hitherto attended
the Wilson Barrett season in Sydney, it is pro-
bable that the ancient hypochondriac of Denmark
will manage to pay expenses for that brief period.
The late H. J. HARWOOD , actor.
A matinee benefit for the good object of
raising funds to help old Lachlan M'Gowan
gently down the vale of life takes place at Her
Majesty son Friday. All the companies now in
bydney are assisting in the work. Lachlan
M‘Gowan is very ancient now, and is so ill that
his exit cannot be far off. A comparatively
moderate sum will keep the medicine-bottle re-
plenished as long as the veteran will require the
contents thereof, and leave something over for his
wife and family, and The Bulletin trusts that
the amount and something over may be forth-
coming.
** * *
The “ Cotton King ” has apparently
settled down for a long run at Sydney Royal. The
scenery and Bland Holt’s reputation, and the
nendish atrocity which is nearly being perpetrated
with the lift, evidently go a long way to cover
deficiencies. This paper notes with regret, how-
ever, that Miss Watson isn’t in any real danger of
being squashed in the lift after all. That lady is
artfully entrapped and shut in, and, while she
shrieks in her cage, the great machine gradually
comes down on her head to sit on her and flatten
her out. Baker rescues her by superhuman efforts
at the last moment—and then the lift doesn’t come
quite down to the floor after all. If she wasn’t
rescued in time there is room for her to faint on
the floor and lie there with the lift on top of her
quite uninjured—at least, it appears so. This
spoils a beautiful illusion, and The Bulletin
ceases to sympathise with Miss Watson’s suffer-
** * #
Friends at a distance will accept this
mtimation that the Tivoli show is much as usual,
lne same people as last week still flourish like the
gum-tree in Gippsland’s wooded mountains, and
no change is expected till Saturday.
** * #
Haimston s Circus has put up a new pro-
gramme, which is, if possible, even a little more
extensive than the last one. The large mother
elephant, who has been out of the bill hitherto,
takes a hand, and a lot of new and commendable
horse is introduced. There are 18 separate acts
in the present bill, and none of the old acts are
rung 1 in a second time. Business is respectable,
and but for extreme competition in the show busi-
ness it would probably be more so.
** * *
Henry Harwood, in days of yore a success-
ful theatrical manager and a favorite actor until
quite recently, died last Sunday of heart-disease,
induced by the Smellbourne bank-failures. All
the money he had saved during his long and honor-
able career on the boards was lost in the boom-
smash, and his last years were full of sorrow. Old
identities speak admiringly of Harwood's early
triumphs as a humorous actor—mostly in Mel-
bourne—and nearly everyone whose “Austra-
lian experiences ’’ at the theatres date back
to fifteen years ago has laughed immoder-
ately , a k most natural of comedians.
The writer will always swear by Harwood’s short-
sighted Duke in “Tambour-Major” as the fun-
niest stage character he ever saw. The humor of
the part was produced without any apparent
effort; one accepted the “dear Duke” as a ludi-
crous reality. And so with Harwood’s later pic-
ture of Uncle Cattermole in “ The Private Secre-
tary.” Cattermole lived on the stage, and will
never die in the memories of many thousands of
Australians until they in their turns have gone
where the good actors go.
Nothing ever succeds at Melbourne Bijou
—except success. A season of very bad business
with the Cartwright comedy co. was followed,
after a brief interval, by a considerable rush of
public to an amateur performance of “Maritana.”
The old opera drew good houses for seven nights.
True the prices were popular, and charitable and
friendly patronage accounted for some portion of
the attendance, but, after making due allowance
for favorable circs., there remains the fact that
“Maritana” attracted hundreds who wouldn’t
roll up to a high-class comedy co. It merely
proved, said somebody, that Melbourne is hungry
for tuneful music. Anyhow, what’s the matter
with the Bijou when the bill is suitable to the
occasion ?
** * #
The Trin. Col. production of “Alcestis”
at Melb. Town Hall occurs on June 16th, and the
arrangements for a gigantic show are almost com-
plete. “ Alcestis as everybody ought to know,
but doesn’t—is a light tragedy from the pen of
Euripides, deceased, and nothing short of heroic
treatment could pull it through. Hercules figures
as a principal character. Hercules sober is a sub-
ject that requires vast surroundings, and when he
goes upon a mythological burst, as in the drama
aforesaid, he wants more space than usual.
Therefore, it has been decided to extend a stage
to the full width of the Town Hall, and on this
fine commanding site architect Annear will build
an ancient Greek “set” forty feet high. Also
“Alcestis” having been furnished with music (said
to be very imposing music) by Prof. Marshall
Hall, will carry an orchestra of 60 earnest instru-
mentalists, or more, and a chorus of 200 voices,
supplied, by the local Liedertafels. The chorus,
divided into two armies, will sing in ambush at
either end of the stage, and the auditorium is to
run, as nearly as possible, on Greek lines. In
short, the Trinity College management, after duly
counting the cost, is prepared to make “ Alcestis ”
the show of the Australian century—in its way.
Meanwhile, the cast of characters—especially Her-
cules—must put forth strenuous efforts to tackle
the lofty theme in a 40ft. spirit, and acquire the
art of seeming excited on a large scale.
*# * *
The greasy adulation bestowed upon plays
and players by a servile daily press in Sydney is
accountable for the wearisome pertinacity with
which managers “demand” what they call “fair
treatment” in Melbourne papers. The notion
that anything less than fulsome flattery is unfair
treatment has been soaked into the managerial
mind by the everlasting drip of fat notices and
sweet paragraphs from Sydney writers, who hang
around the theatres begging for small items of
news wherewith to puff the show. Every time a
reasonably just criticism appears in a Melb. organ
(which isn’t often) a furious manager or his agent
rushes round to the editor, or the sub., and wants
to know the reason of this outrage, not because
he can’t admit the truth when he sees it in print,
but because he has not had to endure the
truth in Sydney, and doesn’t mean to put up
with it elsewhere if indignant howling can work
his point. As a rule his howling docs work the
point for the next few months. The tired journal
throws “good ” notices to him to keep him quiet,
though it seldom feeds him with “ locals ” on the
dear old Sydney scale of puffery. Managers all
round are dissatisfied with the comparative stand-
offishness of Melbourne’s press deadheads. They
want greasier grease, and more of it. Also, the
malcontents can t understand why Providence
should permit the all-powerful Age to remain
under the control of a tough, old, unsentimental
exclusive Scotchman with an awkward habit of
taking his young theatrical critics off the job if
they show unmistakeable symptoms of having
been “ nobbled ” in any way.
The Sundry Shows of Melbourne, as the bard is
bound to say,
Have altered very little since the other Saturday,
So he bunches them together in a careless kind of
way.
The Royal circus-drama still is lighted up by fire,
Whilst a lady in a nightgown walks the telephonic
wire ;
And natty Amy Gourlay, in a naughty, naughty
part,
Persuades a youthful Bertie to accept her as his
“ tart,”
Which proves that there is virtue in a damsel’s
going wrong,
If she sticks to crimson stockings, and can sing a
comic song.
We prefer the fallen sister who enjoys a little joke
To the tall and tearful sinner in a melancholy
cloak, J
Who tells her base betrayer that he promised to
be true ;
She’s an old, exhausted subject; but the other girl
is new.
We likewise love the uncle of those Babies in the
Wood
(Oh, by the way, Miss Millie Young is playing
Robin Hood),
1 or the Baron’s legs are evil, and his nose is red
with crime,
And his soul is steeped in liquor, and his hiccups
are sublime.
The show at the Princess’s is a mighty fine affair :
It fills the bill for splendor, with a little bit to
spare.
The Wedding Breakfast tableau is a smasher, no
mistake —
But why not put the Baron in possession of the
cake ?
Another tuneful nunky, with a face as black as
coal,
Is singing at the Halek, on the topic of his soul,
To a crowd of lazy niggers, till he dies upon the
floor,
And the angels waft him upwards to the blessed
Golden Shore.
Will they do as much for Kennedy , now raking in
the spoil
That comes of treating “ subjects ” to a pint of
castor oil ?
Do you think those gentle angels for Professor K.
would call,
If he perished (like Svengali) in St. George’s
crowded Hall,
After snapping of his fingers at an epileptic wight,
Who, having chewed a candle, must pretend to
feel “ all right ? ”
Tis a somewhat solemn question, and we warn
the mesmerist
To prepare to meet a Someone who has got him on
the list.
At the Rickards institution, on their horizontal
bars,
Three great gymnastic Hegelmanns are recognised
as “stars,”
And the people marvel muchly when they hear the
Grammaphone
Tell a funny little story on its funny little “own.”
All the working-men in Melbourne will be making
a display
When The Bulletin is published; ’tis the annual
Eight Hours’ Day ;
And we, who chant this drivel, will be perched
upon a car,
Our toil-worn fingers resting on the strings of a
guitar,
And a banner waving o’er us, labelled “Rhyme-
smiths ” —which we are.
AT POVERTY POINT.
O, modest Maud,
Sweet miracle of common-sense,
You know (you say) that Wilson B.
Could with your services dispense.
Forbid, O Lord,
Such things untoward !
But whisper, Beauty, what, think you,
Would bring that change ? Ah, won’t you tell ?
Unfitness? No, we think ’twould be
Because you p’r’aps might act too well.
O, pretty Maud ?
Demos : “I put a crude sketch of the ‘ Eureka Stockade
play in the Imperial Review, some years ago, with Lalor,
Vern, Black, Carboni, Raffaele, &c., but it lacked a proper
dramatic nidus. The last scene was one of the ladies’
committee, at needlework on ihe Australian Flag of the
Southern Cross. A sort of prologue introduced Governor
Hotham and Jacky Tommy Smith, the Melb. Mayor.”
J.H.B. : “ Just landed in Hongkong. Annexations by
Russian, French and German in China are mere flea-bites
compared to the Brough Co.’s absolute seizure
of this place. They are playing to crowded houses
every night which must be cheering when they
think of the empty houses they.have played to at times
in Australia. Mrs. Brough is greatly admired, Miss
Hardy loved, and the rest of the co. thoroughly appreci-
ated ; but Bob Brough is fairly worshipped. Sassiety has
taken him enthusiastically to its exclusive bosom in pri-
vate—tiffins him at its high-toned club, and gives garden-
parties where the females can get at him ; and each night
on making his first entry the house simply rises at him
open-mouthed. Hamilton, the elephantine, tells me that
nightly they turn away some 201) applicants for dollar
seats.”
Haresfoot: “ Harwood’s real name was Biggs. His
father was well-known about Melb. in the last generation.
Harwood used to say his stage education began under
Brooke, in S} T dney. Cathcart is the only other man ever
known in Australia with such a stage record of versatility
as Harwood’s, if indeed he did not go beyond Cathcart, for
Harwood acted everything except the tip-top roles.
Tragedy, heavies, juveniles, light-comedy, low comedy,
old men, eccentrics, burlesque, he did all in his time, a
perfect manager’s man. Here are some of the parts he
sustained : Marquis de Treval, in ‘ Lavater,’ a subtle
piece of acting, not in the comedy line at all; Henri de
Sartorys, in ‘ Frou-Frou,’ a dignified leading man ; the
villainous hero in Wilkie Collins ‘Man and Wife,’ very
able; Cassandra, in Arkhurst’s ‘ Siege of Troy,’ the
height of burlesque ; Mo. Davis, in ‘ Flying Scud,’
the typical Jew of the Boards. Evidently Har-
wood had Jewish blood in his veins. His ordinary
speech had a suspicion of the national lisp. In ‘ Hamlet ’
he acted, at various times, the Ghost, King, Polonius,
First Gravedigger, First Actor, and Osric. His Macduff
was a fine, heart} 7 performance. I have known him to
double the Ghost and King' in ‘ Hamlet.’ He did this,
when required, with the same readiness as he displayed in
taking the clown in the pantomime at Melb. Royal when
Charles Young turned rusty. So good was he that he
acted clown all through the run of the pantomime, which
was ‘ Valentine arid Orson,’ with Sir William and Lady
Don. In addition, he played the very heavy character of
King Pippin, in the opening. Nevertheless, Harwood
was not in the very first line as an actor. Cleverness
summed him up. The last parts he acted were
Cattermole (a fine performance) and Dogberry. His
latest appearances were under the pressure of necessity.
His disease of the heart must have meant broken heart.
Ever frugal, he had made a nest in his delig-htful villa of
Montreux, at Heidelberg, near Melb., but the burst Banks
of the Boom ruined him. Strange to remark, he did not
evince the elasticity of Coppin. He seemed to give the
wicked world best. A proud spirit was quenched.
Steeped to the lips in the stage, Harwood was j-et always
a well-informed citizen. His first Melb. mark was as
‘Moveonsir, a Policeman,’ in the Royal Christmas Panto-
mime of ‘ Whittington,’ 1857. No man was ever so much
identified with the Melb. pantomimes. He was with Barry
Sullivan throughout Sullivan’s glorious management in
Melb., 1863-5. After this, matters were uncertain, till
1867, when the firm of Lambert, Vincent, Harwood,
Stewart, Bellair, and Hennings took the Royal,
where Harwood long had the reins. Various changes
brought in Coppin and Greville. It was a great dis-
appointment for him to be o usted from the Royal, but
yet, on the whole, he kept piling up his bank-account,
the industrious ant laughing at the grasshoppers. For
the last 20 years he has done nothing of such note as in
the previous 20. Although he had his bit of capital, it
was never enough to cope with rivals who entered the
field. His first wife was Miss Margie Chester; his
second, and widow, Miss Docy Stewart, whom he married
as the widow of Mr. Collins. To crown his achievements,
I forgot, to add he act ed Mazeppa, at Geelong, on horse-
back. He used to tell of how he was once working, as a
young man, at a sawpit in the bush, and saw a troupe of
comedians pass in the coach, all so jolly, but he had no
idea he would ever become a mummer himself.”
(“ Poverty Point ” continued on page 21.)


SUNLISHT
SOAP
HARD WORK MADE EASY.
SOFT HANDS.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/387.
Caustic Soda, Carh. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
3QIMVAO
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71%
All Mining- Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Ny. Markwald
178 William Street,
Mrlbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 1U Currie-st., Adel.; Queen-st., Brisb
R. BELL & CO.’S Vestas
—ARE—
. . . British Vestas.
Ans. |
Reps, f
PHILIPS & PIKE, Equitable Buildings,
Sydney ; and Wellington, N.Z.
u
Tb€ RCALMACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood,, S ole Proprietors
THE
Refreshment Department
OF THE
House of Commons
(Unsolicited)
HAVE ORDERED
SIR JOHN
POWER’S Whiskey.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Namoi: Your money is, of course, a deposit
made since the 1893 reconstruction, else it wouldn’t be
withdrawable. In case of liquidation or other smash, the
deposits made since the ’93 reconstruction have to be paid
before the old reconstructed depositors can get anything.
Therefore your position is just about as good as anything
could be. All the capital and all the £5,000,000 or more
of reconstructed deposits would have to be entirely lost
before you could lose a penny.
* » » »
Policy-holder : You will find “ stationery ”
among the assets in the balance-sheets for 1894, 1895 and
1896. Writer hasn’t looked further back. Most other
offices simply lump this item in with “ furniture, fittings,
&c.” Also, the concern in question is a mutual affair ;
every policy-holder has a vote ; the books aren’t “ closed
when an election is on ” (what books are there to close ?),
and you are obviously mixing it up with a certain pro-
prietary concern where voting is confined to shareholders.
* * * *
Speculator : There is no real “ sudden slump; ”
though quotations were recently run up there were no
sales at the alleged rise. In your place we would hold
and chance it It is a pretty bad gamble, but if you sold
you would get a mere nothing, and if the institution
broke suddenly you might find yourself placed on a “B ”
list of contributaries and have to pay just the same.
And present quotations are so unreliable that you might
have to pay the alleged buyer to take your shares away.
* * * •
As Victoria and Maoriland are both going on
the loan-boom once more, Tub Bulletin again suggests
the awful necessity for a law to strictly define and regu-
late the loan business. At present the situation is this:
There is no limit to the amount which may be borrowed
each year. There is no limit to the amount of debt per
inhabitant which may be accumulated (there is no limit
anywhere else either, but as these provinces have bigger
debts in proportion to population than any other place on
earth they badly need to lead the way in this respect).
Also, there is no restriction whatever as to the purposes
to which borrowed money may be applied. And this is
the biggest disaster of the iot—especially in Tasmania
and N.S.W.—for though every politician is more or
less shocked at the dreadful way the last loan was spent,
no one dares to rise up and say that the proposal to spend
a part of the next loan on gaols, and roads, and bush-
clearing, and other unproductive works in his electorate
is utter profligacy.
If the people of the Seven Provinces are too
much gone in the knees to pay their way, as the degener-
ate Britisher does, Tim Bulletin again suggests these two
much-needed reforms : (1) That the purposes for which
loans may be raised hould be strictly defined by Act of
Parliament, and should be confined to directly reproduc-
tive purposes ; all the roads, bridges, lock-ups, repairs,
and other non-paying works which are now put into the
loan estimates to relieve the revenue being shut down
upon remorselessly. (2) The present amount of debt per
head should be the maximum. If a province owes £4O
per head now, and its population increases 10,000 in the
course of a year, that would allow of another £400,000
being borrowed, but no more. It would be a great deal
better if borrowing was still further restricted so that the
amount of debt per head would show a small annual
decrease, but probably this is too much to ask for all at
once. Anyhow, the loan biz badly wants some kind of
regulation It is about the only thing in Australasia which
isn’t regulated, and why the community which has
statutes to deal with dogs, rabbits, burrs, bye-roads,
germs in fruit, and so many other small items, should
leave this vast question to run itself is beyond under-
standing.
There is only one visible reason why the loan
disease shouldn’t be regulated by law. As matters stand,
every politician gets all the roads, and culverts, and wood-
blocking, and miscellaneous grants and repairs he can for
his electorate out of the loan-vote, and thus earns local
popularity. He also denounces in vague general terms
the way loan-moneys are spent, and gets more popularity.
He also yells for economy in the abstract, and gets still
more popularity. The Ministry buys support by dis-
tributing all manner of small grants out of loan-moneys ;
and earns more support by reducing taxation (which is
done by charging ordinary expenditure to loans); and
also gets a lot of popularity by pointing to its surplus
(made by charging current ex’s to loans), and by advo-
cating economy, and by telling about the shameful things
the last Ministry did with the loans. If anyone could
shove as far as the committee-stage a bill to define what
is legitimate loan expenditure a lot of these soulless finan-
cial hypocrites would have to get down on one side or
other of the fence, and explain themselves.
• * * •
During 1897, over .£BOO,OOO passed through the
Maoriland totalisator, and the State’s miserable 1J per
cent, brought £12,079 to the Treasury. There is no
earthly reason why the tote should not pay 3, or even 4,
per ceut. At 3 percent., with the larger population of
N.S.W. and Victoria, it should be worth £40,000 a year in
either of these provinces. At 4 per cent, it should run to
£50,000. This is one of the unexplored sources of revenue
which might be set aside to form a Public Works Fund, so
that the harmless, necessary bridge and culvert and rail-
way could be built without handing a load of debt down
to posterity.
* * • »
The Royal Bank (Melbourne) continues to im-
prove steadily, as shown by the profits for the last eight
half-years :
Sept.,’94 .. £2875 Sept.,’96 .. £2044
March, ’95 .. 2136 March, ’97 .. 3398
Sept.,’9s .. 2038 Sept.,’97 .. 3625
March, ’96 .. 2099 March, ’9B .. 3864
The last half-year is thus the best which the Royal has
had since the great bank smash year—the profits now
equalling £5 3s. per cent, per annum on the reduced
capital of £150,000. A 3 per cent, dividend for the half-
year absorbs £2250, and the remainder, with previous
balance, leaves £4138 to carry forward. 'The Royal has a
small, steady business and a strong cash reserve
(1-102,847 —equal to 32 per cent, of all liabilities to the
public The profits show a remarkable revival, and it
seems that this little institution has fairly struggled
round the corner—the present corner that is. But in
view of possible future ones, it is about time the Royal
started a new reserve fund. The vanishment of £170,000
during the late financial cleaning up was a big loss, and
the work of making it good should be tackled in a vigorous
spirit. The great mistake made by the banks which wrote
off large boom losses was that none of them (save the
Royal of Queensland) definitely hypothecated a fixed pro-
portion of their future earnings towards rebuilding their
vanished reserves and closing up the big gap in the capital
account. The Melbourne Royal could easily afford to ear-
mark one-third of its earnings for this purpose. Also, it
could easily afford to invest ,-630,000 of the needlessly
bloated cash reserve in State securities, and thus add £9OO
a year to its takings.
* * * *
The British debenture-holders of Mildura now
report that they will sue the Vic. Government for some-
thing tremendous in the way of “ compensation.” Which
is so very like the usual Bull financier that it is only what
might be expected. Vic. Government granted the
Chaffeys a large tract of land on condition that certain
specified irrigation works were constructed. Some of
them were badly constructed, and the rest were not con-
structed at all. Then the Chaffey co. went broke under a
multitude of lamentable circumstances, and their grant,
according to law and equity, reverts to the Vic. Government
for non-fulfilment of the conditions. The Government,
however, instead of forfeiting, vested the land in trustees,
and advanced money to keep the enterprise afloat, thereby
giving the debenture-holders a chance of recovering their
money. What they now ask is that Victoria should pay
Chaffey’s debts at once by handing over to them the for-
feited land-grant, or else that the State should help them
to float a new co., and guarantee payment of a dividend,
and let them have the land-grant on the old conditions,
and give up its control, and lose the money it has ad-
vanced, and generally put the shattered enterprise,
which was wrecked by ignorance and champagne and
boodle, on its legs again at the public expense, and for
their sole benefit. Which isn’t much when it is said
quickly.
* * * •
The Bank of Victoria announces the repayment
of another 20 per cent, of its reconstructed deposits. This
just about finishes the repayment of the weary 4J per
cent, liability incurred in 1893. Of the 12 banks which
reconstructed in that year, only five —the North Queens-
land, Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney, Royal of
Queensland, National, and Victoria—managed to meet
their obligations. Six others made various kinds of terms
by a second reconstruction process, and the seventh —the
City of Melbourne—died young and unregretted, and no-
body put any flowers on its grave.
* * * *
The prospects of the Union Trustee Co. (Mel-
bourne) look a trifle better, though there is still much
room for improvement. The year’s profits to 28th Peb.
are £3005, and a 4 per cent, dividend absorbs £2953, leav-
ing a very narrow margin of £52. And even this is a
much larger margin than the Union Co. has generally
shown of late years :
Profit. Dividend.
Feb. 1893 .. .. £4307 £4429
„ 1894 ... .. 2797 2953
„ 1895 .. .. 3648 2953
„ 1896 .. .. 553 1476
„ 1897 .. .. 2742 2953
„ 1898 .. .. 3005 2953
£17,052 £17,717
This shows the melancholy result that the Union Trustee
Co. has, in four years out of the last six, paid more away
in dividends than its entire earnings, and the net result is
that it is £660 poorer now than it was in 1893. It
has no reserve-fund. Last year it created an Invest-
ment Fluctuation Fund of £2789 by writing up to
market value Government securities formerly put in at
cost. This year the Investment Fluctuation Fund is
down to £674. Something pretty dreadful seems to have
struck it during the year, for £2lOO is a large disappear-
ance. The Union Co. has £10,125 in 3 per cent, stock ;
£23,520 in 3£ per cents. ; £4068 in 4 per cent, securities,
and about £24,000 in mortgages, which should yield
6or 6 per cent. And as it only makes 4 per cent,
all round, it looks as if the trustee business was a
small loss to the shareholders, though doubtless it sup-
plies billets for a number of deserving officials. Anyhow,
a co. which has less than £2200 of accumulations after 13
years isn’t getting ahead any too fast. The Investment
Fluctuation Fund certainly can’t stand another year like
the last, and it isn’t a very good feature that nearly one-
fourth of the mortgages are foreclosed. The Union
Trustee Co. should evidently have cut its dividend down
to 3 per cent, five years ago, and kept it there.
* * * •
Ballarat Trustees Co. has a half-year’s profit of
£7OB, and £344 brought forward makes a total available
balance of £1052. Shareholders get a dividend at the rate
of 7 per cent, per annum (£525) ; £250 is written off good-
will, and £277 carried forward. The Ballarat Trustees
Co. is something unusual, inasmuch as it has no reserve
fund, and its assets are considerably less than its nominal
liabilities to shareholders. The gap is filled by the
remarkable paper item “goodwill, £1750.” The only
good feature about this lamentable way of squaring the
accounts is that the goodwill item is being steadily written
off ;in 1893 it stood at £4OOO. But, until it is entirely
written-off and something in the way of a reserve is
accumulated, the 7 per cent, dividend is wholly unjustifi-
able. The co. wisely keeps almost clear of the unlucky
mortgage business, its principal asset being £10,850 in-
vested in State and municipal securities, and it ought to be
a very good concern when the depressing “ goodwill ” is
wiped out.
* * * •
The last news about the Sydney atmospheric
gas process which blew up Minister Garrard is that gas
can be made by the patent which the two missing gentle-
men left behind them —only it costs 6s. 6d. per 1000 ft.
Which is just about as joyful as if there was no gas at all.
The other new gas process—that which is now booming at
Frankston (Vic.) —is already beginning to have the cold,
damp blanket of criticism piled on top of it. It is now
alleged that it isn’t a new idea, but a very old one, and
that the same kind of gas might have been in full blast
any time for years past, only certain disadvantages, not
very clear to the person who isn’t a gas expert, were in
the way. Apparently the new gas is genuine so far as it
goes —how far it goes being still uncertain. The fact that
it hasn’t yet blown up any Vic. Minister is at least one
item to its credit.
• * * »
Dear B. —No monkey-tricks about Stephenson’s
Melb. atmospheric-gas apparatus. I was there, and rather
narked the promoters by the suspicious way I took every-
thing to pieces and shifted the concern all about the
office-floor, on the look-out for pipes, &c. The points
which most need elucidation are the nature of the
chemicals used and the length of time the gas will burn.
The inventor freely gives the names of certain few and
inexpensive chemicals, and says gas so produced will last
six weeks ; but the sceptical public has not seen the
materials purchased, and will certainly not sit down and
wait beside one burner for six weeks. The gas-engineer
of Melb. Gas co. ridicules the whole thing, and says
it is impossible to produce the gas in large quantities.
However, John Wallace, M.L.0., of mining fame, who is
at the back of the idea, advises unbelievers to buy the
chemicals themselves, take them to Frankston, and, after
satisfying themselves that there is nothing cronk about
the machinery, place them personally in the carburetter
and witness the whole process. As far as I can judge, and
putting large population-centres aside, the powerful light
which Stephenson’s small apparatus produces would be
invaluable for stations and small townships.—M‘G.
* • * *
The enquiry into the Melb. tramway-men’s
grievances seems likely to end in a fiasco, three of the
committee having withdrawn, because chairman Maloney
wished to extend the sphere of enquiry to all employes—
past and present—of the Tramway co. Madden, Harris
and Zox objected and resigned, so that now nobody
knows whether Sprigg and his men are in the right.
* * * »
During the last couple of years several far-
western N.S.W. P.M.’s have made assignments to their
creditors. One or two have been removed to other dis-
tricts ; but there are one or two who have not. And, as
the Licensing Court decisions in particular of one of these
latter have been peculiar, the public begin to say things.
* * » *
Several southern towns in Bananaland are
groaning under the despotism of the civil servant usurer.
Borrow a couple of hundred off your boss and your billet
is a surety. You may booze yourself blue, commit- half
the crimes in the Decaiosrue, and damn departmental
regulations sky-high, but so long as you meet your official
superior’s interest bill punctually every half-year you’re
safe as houses. The thing’s becoming a public scandal.
* * » »
Softgoods Sargood and co. paid all their Mel-
bourne hands who were retained (though unemployed),
pending the reconstruction of the firm’s business-pre-
mises full wages meanwhile. Nobody was discharged,
and regularly, every week, each collected his
usual wage, less 25 per cent. At the banquet given in
the new offices to celebrate the resumption of affairs on
the old footing, the firm informed all hands that, on ap-
plication to the cashier, the withheld 25 per cent, deduc-
tions would be paid forthwith. They had retained this
proportion merely out of kindness, well-knowing that idle
hands are disposed to spend more than is good for them.
Frantic applause—and no wonder. Such employers are
rare.
• * • *
Pop : “ Read somewhere, the other day, of a
State-subsidised pawnbroking establishment—in Rome, if
I recollect rightly—where no interest whatever is charged.
In Sydney, now, thrives a certain three-ball-man, who
is charging only one penny per month in return for the
loan of five bob 1 He lends pretty closely up to
market-values, too. This beats the (British) old country
badly ; and, though it represents nominally 20 per cent,
per annum, it doesn’t pay directly. But it does indirectly :
the pawnbroker in question finds it a splendid advt. for
his big attached jewellery and second-hand dealer’s shop,
and an excellent device for replenishing his stock —with
expired pledges, which, according to trade etiquette, the
chiefly-interested pawnbroker usually is allowed the option
of buying-in for himself at the periodical auction-sale
clearances. No-interest is already within sight in this
country, too, evidently.
* * » •
Dear Bulletin. —Selection has only had the
effect in the Warren (N.S.W.) country of making the
lessees improve their areas, and add to the carrying capa-
city of their holdings by forming smaller paddocks and
dam-building. Haddon Rig, our show station, situated as
it is on both sides of the perennial Marthaguy, has had
over 20,000 acres selected, and the whole of these cookies
seem to be prosperous and attached permanently to the
land. Yet the station sent away last year 1600 bales of
wool, a larger clip than in the banyan days when the
selector was unknown. The season was an average one.
—W. S. Targe re.
* • • *
De Queer to The Bulletin from “ the Gate to
Klondyke ” : “ Plenty of work here, but wages miserable.
Men working in saw-mills for 10 cents, an hour, or $2O a
month and tucker. The form of agreement between the
contractors for the Yukon railway and the men they
wanted wasn’t presented for signature till the men were
on board the boat for Telegraph Creek, when it turned
out to be of such severe conditions that the men, noting
also that no rate of wage was specified, refused to sign,
and many of them jumped ashore just as the boat was
cast off. This railway job is a gigantic reach-out, some-
thing on the principle of the M’llwraith proposal to give
away the mineral lands of Queensland to a railway syndi-
cate. This Yukon railway contract has been given to
M'Kenzie and co. by the Dominion Government, but has
not been sanctioned by the Canadian House of Commons.
The contractors are to get a block of 25,000 acres for
every mile of line constructed (Govt, taking alternate
blocks within the mineral belt), and are to pay a royalty
of 1 per cent, for all gold won off of their land. Seeing
that prospectors and diggers are charged $lO for a miners’
license for a year and a royalty of 10 per cent, on all gold
won over $2500 a year, you will understand that diggers
look upon the vvhole thing as a great grab and swindle.
There are not many Australian miners going through here
to the Yukon ; about 100 at the outside.”
• * * *
The “ notabilities ” who “ honored ” the Westra-
lian fields in their early days are mostly in Klondyke or in
the en route cities. Among them is Lord Percy Douglas,
who is, as before, promising to do great things.
* * * *
Zeb. Lane is anxious to get the strength of
Klondyke; and, if the accounts of John Wilson, ex-
mayor of Kalgoorlie, and James Kearnan, ex-manager of
the Great Boulder Perseverance, who have gone thither,
are favorable, the Boulder boss may visit. Anyway, he
expects to be in London again during the year.
* * * '»
Papua forges ahead. Last year’s imports, ex-
ports, output of gold, production of copra and india-
rubber, beat the record of any previous year. Gold was
the largest item of export, but exact figures are not
obtainable. Through Cooktown Customs House passed
71480 z., valued at £25,018. Probably, however, total out-
put was twice as much. Rubber trade is expanding also.
In year ’95-’96 total export was only 3 tons ; last year it
rose to 16 tons. The revenue of the Possession also in-
creased by £lo,ooo—an item not to be despised. H. Ex.
has great trouble in inducing the natives to comply with a
few simple sanitary burial regulations, and one of the
pleasing duties discharged in the course of the guberna-
torial career consisted in visiting a native village, exhum-
ing 60 Papuan cadavers (some of them very recent), and
re-burying them.
* * * *
Report of the Sydney Stock Exchange : —“ The
share market on Saturday was lifeless.” Yes : the Sab-
bath tipster has ceased from tipping, and the Sydney
broker is at rest. Holders of Girilambones at more than
double the ruling prices are assured of the great future
of the mine, and, again, the reports from the North Nym-
agee are “ encouraging.” The victims of the numberless
other mines tipped with the same “ earnestness,” and
now abandoned as worthless, in liquidation, or rapidly
approaching that stage, are passed over in silence.
• * * *
How is it that such publicity is given to all ex-
emptions or partial exemptions granted or refused at
Cobar? Most of the rest of N.S.W. is in a state of per-
manent exemption. “ Cobar-Chesney two months exemp-
tion granted but not less than 20 men to be employed.”
Around the rich Wentworth mines at Lucknow there are
many leases on which there are not 20 men employed alto-
gether, and apparently no attempt is made to enforce any
labor conditions. “It is this way,” says one warden ;
“as long as no one objects it is all right, but, you see,
there are no less than six candidates for Parliament in
Cobar.”
* • * •
Talk about your rich Westralian crushing!
This from a back number of S.M. Herald (1872)
“ Krohmann’s, Hill End : The total crushing of 139 tons
gave 14,0670 z. gold, and about 3500 z. more are expected
from specimens and tailings. A div. of 12s. 6d. per share
has been declared —£50,000 ; £2OOO added to reserve, and
£3,500 set aside to meet current expenses.” On the day
of this great crushing, Krohmann’s shares were selling at
645. cum div., and there was a great weakness in the
market. Probably the yield was not so good as antici-
pated. It never, is. Krohmann was so hard-up the day
he struck it in his claim that his wife had prepared him a
meal on soup made from butchers’ well-cleaned bones.
He came home to dinner with over lOOoz. of gold in a bag.
He took to Germany some £70,000 in cash, became a
burgomaster in his old native village, lent big sum
to German princes, whose properties were alread
y
well “ dipped,” and died without the price of a chest of
tea. Literal fact.
* * * *
Last four-weeks’ production of the famous Mt.
Lyell, from 10,962 tons of ore : Copper, 310 tons ; silver,
35,7330 z. ; gold, 16890 z. The ore taken from the open
cuts is just under 3 per cent, copper, that from No. 4
tunnel over 7 per cent. Big as it is, this production is
only a few tons of copper a week higher than that of the
obscure Cobar tributors, and Cobar should get ahead
within a few months! Mining values are mostly a
matter of sentiment. The Cobar tributors, who are
simply “ shovelling it in,” don’t think their interests lie
in the blazoning-forth of returns, so their figures can only
be got at in a haphazard way. The boom at Mt. Lyell has
given a value to one mine, so far a non-producer, greater
than that of the Cobar mine itself, tributors’ interests and
all! At Cobar the next block of ground, taking in a part
of the town, was sold recently for a few thousand pounds,
having a surface-value of at least two-thirds of the amount
paid for it. No boom at Cobar —and the writer prays it
may never have one like that in Tasmania.
* * • •
The game.and persistent CrotSy, discoverer of
Mt. Lyell, died in London a few days ago. He with
others worked the mine some years for gold and long
peddled it about Sydney and Melb. without finding a pur-
chaser or a syndicate to work it. Finally he placed half
of the mine with Orr, Bowes Kelly and others, and to-day
it has a market-value of over three millions. Crotty soon
quarrelled with the directors on the financing and work-
ing of the mine, and devoted his time, money, and atten-
tion to North Mt. Lyell, the real measure of which is
about to be taken.
* • • *
As a dealer in gold, John Chinaman must turn
a pretty penny. There are small Q. mining towns in
which the Chow is the sole gold-merchant—and he fixes
his own prices. The value of gold in China must be high
compared with Australia, for writer remembers Chinese
dealers in the North who would give you from twenty
shillings and sixpence up to twenty-one shillings for
every sovereign you would give them. Interesting to
know how much Australian gold goes to Chow-larid every
year.
* * * *
Gympie gold-returns for March gave 5266 tons
f0r81440z., or an average of ljoz. to the ton. Dividends
numbered four, and totalled £11,676 165.; calls numbered
50, and totalled £10,060 13s. 4d. The stone reduced and
gold-yield are lower than the average for the last four
months. Compared with February, stone reduced shows
a falling-off of 2500 tons, making a decrease in gold-yield
0f26000z., and diminishing dividends by £9OOO. Calls,
however, show an increase of £lOOO. The month is poorer
than March, ’97, but quarterly returns show substantial
increase.
* • * *
A few Mt. Morgan figures not particularly well
known. In one year ’BB-’S9 the shareholders received
£1,150,000 in dividends. The cause of this splendid re-
turn was the working of 4oz. stone. For the half-year
ending May, 'B9, 36,675 tons were treated for 168,3560 z.,
showing an average yield of 4oz. lldwt. 19gr. This 4oz.
stone, however, was by no means the richest treated, for
the stone treated for the half-year ending May, ’B7,
yielded an average of soz. 16dwts. 7gr. The works just
now are treating about 12,000 tons per month, and the
management boasts that 4dwt. a ton pays for everything.
• • • •
Victoria, Charters Towers, 884 oz. for the month
without the cyanide clean-up. The 55th div. of 6d. de-
clared. Market Bs. 3d., and the mine reported to be
looking as well as ever. For three years past the impres-
sion seems to have been that it was time the Vic. took a
rest from divs. —reckoning by averages on the Towers;
hence the only variation in the shares has been from
6s. 9d. to 10s., and the latter sum has been paid in divs.
meanwhile.
* * * *
Mills United compelled at last to make
a 6d. call. Funds exhausted, and the faces in ore of low
grade. Better prospects ahead—they are never behind.
How hard it is to tell the life of a gold-mine ! There are
copper, tin and other mines that have been paying divs.
for over a quarter of a century. Where in the whole
world can this be said of a gold-mine ? Probably the
Long Tunnel (Vic.) has the longest continuous record—
and Mt. Morgan has the longest outlook. But if all the
world’s div.-paying gold-mines were averaged their paying
lives would be found wonderfully short, and the reason
for wanting from 20 per cent, to 50 per cent, on invest-
ment would be seen.
* * * *
Some grand crushings from Kalgoorlie : Lake
View Consols, month, 4935 tons, 80440 z. ; Associated,
month, 15200 z. from milling and 22500 z. from 500 tons
sent to Illawarra works; Great Boulder, fortnight,
31460 z ; Kalgurli, 245 tons of selected ore sent to the
Broken Hill works, for2ol2oz.—over BAoz. per ton ; Brown
Hill, 1003 tons, 1830 oz. This mine should now be a regu-
lar producer. Boulder Perseverance, l7oloz. The mines
never looked better —nor the market worse.
* * * *
Central mine, Southern Cross, W.A., with 20-
head battery, sold by auction at the order of the liquida-
tor for £B5O. Meeting of shareholders of Frazer’s held to
deal with the purchasing of Frazer’s South, for which
12,500 shares are offered. Things in that camp not look-
ing too well.
» * * w
Never had Premier Forrest to face such a depu-
tation as that he met lately at Kalgoorlie on the alluvial
rights question. The men selected for the job displayed
much more readiness than the average W.A. Minister of
the Crown and gave John posers which made him wriggle.
Fair average sample. Delegate Waite : “A miner’s right
is a deed of agreement by virtue of which thousands of
men are to-day in this country. The Govt, has treated
this contract with contempt by the 10ft. limitation.”
Forrest labored heavily in his reply, and as soon as he
finished was told to his teeth it was unsatisfactory. The
“ riot ” followed. It will be a long time before J. Forrest
wants such another deputation.
* * * *
Berry Consols Vic. : During half-year 89140 z.
won, value over £37,000. Total to date, 175,6740 z., value
£728,670. Half-year’s divs., £14,000; total, £280,500.
Balance-sheet shows the promoters only got £2OOO for this
mine, but be it remembered that was put up in
calls before divs. began. The mine has evidently had its
best days.
• * * *
Probably the most poverty-stricken gold-camp
in Austra’ia is Castlemaine, Vic., and even there, last
week, a digger unearthed a piece of gold, to which three
lbs. of stone was attached. The gold weighed 61b., and
conveyed more joy to one poor digger than the biggest
Boulder crushing to 99 shareholders in Bull’s land.
• * • *
I pegged-out a claim at Duck-creek opal-field,
Q. (writes a correspondent). I had never dug opal before,
but was confident and happy. Sank a shaft; and hope-
fully scrutinised every piece of stone. By-and-bye, I was
startled by a strange noise overheard. Dragged myself
up, and saw a greasy black-gin squatted on my mullock-
heap with a lap-full of opals, crooning to herself, and
softly rubbing a stone of the first water with her apology
for a skirt. I was tempted to brain her with the spade,
and drop her down the sepulchre just excavated. Spit-
ting with unerring precision on the toe of my boot, she
yabbered, “ Mine think you plenty plurry fool.” Subse-
quent I ascertained that these hags are kept by the
“old hands” for fossicking purposes, etc., and make a
good thing out of the claims of innocent new hands at the
game.


r
d
ORIENT
N CLOTNINfi
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOE
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
/ Opposite \
\ G.P.O. )
GEORGE
BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY,
By far the Best Victorian Coal.
. . ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU . .
Address: THE COAL CREEK PROPRIETARY CO.,
I telephone 14.3!). Flinders Building's, 312 Flinders-st., Melbourne.
SOCIETY
The row that is going on among the Mel-
bourne Salvationists casts an incidental side-light,
or alleged side-light, on the sordid surroundings
of the Army. The plaintiff is a lady officer who
alleges that when she fell ill, after a long record
of good service, she was allowed a pittance of 2s 3d
a week out of the big-drum funds for her support.
Also she claims that an attempt was made to
hustle her out of the service, presumably to save
the 2s 3d, by appointing her to labor in cold,
damp places which were calculated to break her
up. One of tbam was the Rescue Home, described
thus:—
The hygicoic conditions there were most unfavorable.
Ihe Corporation Tip was in full swing opposite, the
odours of which were injurious to health. The Home is
situated in one of the lowest levels in Richmond, near
the Yarra. Damp odours pervaded the rooms, and the
1 (o^^aiW
P \ a d
Tn?e.! <S a >o
d rz Q
& M*A-£
I rr T) k^ l
€ j
b p bby Cohjd
ay tfyjy! f^ r , / c e) t ft^ > ' (
Cith jC*— ~ _-. |
y ■
paper of the walls of my bedroom was in tatters from
dampness—the walls were mildewed and the paper peel-
"J?* Rwas in the months of May and June, and the
othcers had to sit in rooms without fires.
What a picture ! Think of being “ rescued ”by a
process of cold shudders at mid-winter in a damp
fireless building opposite a Corporation Tip, with
the odour of the festering ham-bone in the air
and cold raw Word for sustenance. And compare
that with a life of Sin, and a good fire, and a soft
couch, and something in the shape of transparent
straw-tinted consolation in a bottle. There is no
earthly show for virtue if its accompaniments are
cold feet, and a red nose with a speck of moisture on
the end of it, and perpetual goose-flesh, and two
Rescued girls in one hard bed trying to keep warm
by thinking of Jeremiah. And when the breeze
that blows off the decayed ham-bone wakes up the
Rescued, and the moaning of the wind in the
damp, loose paper won’t let them sleep again, and
there is nothing to consider except the moon-
beams, and the rats, and the far-off New Jeru-
salem —well, where does the joy come in ? It is
hard enough to be reasonably good anywhere, but
to be good in Richmond opposite the Corporation
Tip is simply impossible.
* • » *
Amusing to note how the Salvation Army
has caught the “regular” slang. They all
solemnly address each other as “ Captain,” “ Cor-
poral,” “ Adjutant,” and so on. And one hears —
“Where are you quartered now?” “Oh, I’m
billeted in Carlton.”
Australian Governors—permanent or * ‘ act-
ing”—are desired to swallow and digest the fol-
lowing remarks from Home Chat, a little London
sassiety paper, of the very “loyalest ” character :
“At one time, theatrical-managers always kept
the curtain down till the arrival of Royalties, but
the Prince disliked the inconvenience to the rest
of the _ audience by the delay, and gave strict
orders it should not again occur. The Prince and
Princess are annoyed if attention is drawn to their
arrival by the playing of ‘God Save the Queen’
or * God Bless the Prince of Wales.’ ” After all,
The Bulletin is in favor of inviting Albert
Edward or the Duke of York to come along and
say something on the subject of a (say) Melbourne
audience rising under the infliction of the Han-
them when Brassey toddles to his seat 20 minutes
behind time. Also, his Royal Nibs might be
induced to snort at the managers who introduced
the custom of delaying a performance until the
local tin-god turns up.
* * » *
—Gov. Buxton, S.A.’s chronic travelling
Viceroy, follows Brassey’s example and goes ’Ome
shortly for six months. His decision to visit Eng-
land has delighted Adelaide society, and the early
prospect of having the liberal and newly-married
Way at Government House instead of His 3-X,
who has been a terrible social frost, comes as one
of the most gladsome events of the year. In fact,
society people cold-bloodedly hope’ Gov. Buxton
won’t come back again.
* * * *
A more or less exalted, personage, recently
departed from Australia, leaves behind him a little
debt of ,£3OO odd for admissions to the principal
metropolitan theatres.
Dear Bulletin. —Tie
“something lost.” When
registering a letter at an
Australian G. P. 0., I
noticed that the female
official who took charge of
same was of unmistakably
“almond-eyed” extraction
(either Jap. or Chinese),
whereupon, glancing at sig-
nature on receipt, 1 found
it was Julia (say) O’Brien.
“Oh, Hibernia, what
crimes are committed in thy
name ! ”
* * *
One of the improve-
ments made in Melbourne’s
lovely Yarra was the blast-
ing away of the rocks at
the old fall above Prinoes-
bridge, in order to give
freer escape to the flood-
waters. So far as concerns
the upper part of the soulful
sewer, things are the worse
for the change. The an-
cient dog that was thrown
overboard in Richmond or
Collingwood used to float
down over these falls, and,
as he couldn’tfloatup again,
all eastern Melbourne was
rid of him. Now the Yarra
is a tidal stream as far as
Collingwood, and the dog
goes down with the tide in
the morning and comes up
again with the tide at
night, and keeps going up
and down till he disappears
through effluxion of time.
Four miles of the river
are now practically a layer
of dogs that wash wearily
eastward with the rising
tide, and wearily wash
westward with the tide as
it falls again. And in hot
weather the great dog de-
posit is remembersome.
• * *
Lord Ranfurly is head of the house of
Knox. And the house of Knox is as Orange as
they make em. Not surprising, therefore, that
Ranfurly, albeit officially supposed to have no
religious or political prejudices, should boil over
on tempting occasion. Ihe other day, when
receiving an Otago Presbyterian Synod deputa-
tion, the young man said that he - favored the pure
Oospel derived from the Bible alone, and undis-
curbed by doctrines which can neither be corro-
borated by Scripture nor countenanced by common
sense. Which deliverance has put Maoriland
R.C. s upon their hind-legs. And they’re going
to get Chamberlain to ask Ranfurly what he
means by publicly letting loose his family dogina-
tisms. And Ranfurly will answer that the spirit
of the original Knox was upon him. And Joe will
d n the original Knox.
* * * *
One consistently-remarkable feature about
6 g i r i with a . h° rr id tale of woe to pour into the
ear of the magistrate is that the “outrage 99 hap-
pens on (say) Tuesday night, and she only men-
tions the matter to her relatives next Fridav
fortnight, or even later. The latest Sydney
victim according to the evidence of her sister
came home in an excited state one night and said
that a policeman had moved her on, or threatened
to lock her up. Then days rolled on in the usual
circular fashion, and after a long interval the tale
grew into a picturesque horror in which the officer
gagged and handcuffed her, and then committed a
capital offence at 11 p.m. and apparently at a
busy street corner. Case dismissed with scorn.
The girl who loses her virtue, and only remem-
bers the fact a week or a fortnight or a month
afterwards, used to be accepted without question,
but her crude tale begins to lose its novelty.
* * • •
Victoria talks about its new Governor. Is
Earl Dudley still in the market ?
* * * *
Dear B. —Wanted, an explanation of the
mysterious connection between spec-
tacles and saintliness. Just been at
a Salvation Army meeting in which
eight out of fourteen wore glasses,
and two out of the other six held their
hymn-books close to their noses.
Their sight was imperfect.
The thing has nothing to do
with much reading, for, as a
rule, you find the spec-
tacled'saint poorly acquain-
ted with any book but the
Bible. Does naturally
weak sight indicate a brain
peculiarly adapted to receive
religious impressions? I
have noticed that several
weak-sighted young men of
my acquaintance, when at-
tacked by a religious fanatic,
succumbed immediately t o
Biblo-mania.—J.F.D.
* * »
Viator : “ The Godly in
Melb. never complain of the
pubs, being open on Good Friday,
but would be horrified at ‘ Babes in
the Wood ’ being acted.”
Chief Justice Way’s wedding was very
quiet. In fact, rumors were purposely circulated
that it was to eventuate at Hahndorf—a hills
township 30 miles from Adelaide; but at the last
moment the ceremony was performed at a private
house in an Adelaide suburb.
* » * *
Adelaide doctors are ramping at the cabled
news that a Miss Da Costa, a wealthy lady who
died in England awhile ago, has bequeathed a
large sum for the benefit of convalescent patients
from Adelaide Hospital ! The striking doctors
have all along maintained that it means sudden
death to go to the hospital under the present
regime, and now the hospital staff announces that
the legacy “ will be a boon to the increasing num-
ber of corivalescents ” from the institution!
Which charmingly adroit announcement fairly
knocks the stuffing out of the opposition.
» * » *
The great Australian Thirst was well
exemplified at Gundagai recently. The drill-
instructor to the Eirst Australian Horse, when
drilling the local warriors on a hot day, told all
who wanted a drink to fall out, whereupon evevy
man fell out and made a bee-line for the nearest
pub., leaving the instructor to follow on his own.
Verily the Real Mackays !
* * * *
Sample of chopped - short conversation
between two spielers, heard the other day in s
Melbourne bar. First Spieler: “Where nex’
Sam ? ” Sam (an odious-looking person with
a glittering scrofula of jewellery, and a
cross-eye): “ Done with Melb. ’ Syd—
Bris —Ad and Lawny (Launceston)
nex’, and then trip to Newzy (New Zea-
land).” Is this the coming style Aus.
lang?
* * * *
Dear B.— Re Sydney Sunday
Times penlady’s pearl of wisdom : “ I’d
sooner be my husband’s barmaid than
have some other woman fill the r6le.”
An old reprobate of 80, who has
buried four wives, once told the
writer that there is no love like
that of a man and woman who
regularly get drunk to
gether. “ Twin souls
with but a single
throat—two hearts
that booze as one ! ”
-X.X.
* * *
An heirloom in a
Sydney Caledonian house-
hold is an old-fashioned tea-
set, on each article of which
is an inscription. On the
teapot, “ Be canny with the
tea ”; on thesugar-basin, ditto
with the sugar ; on the milk-
jug, ditto with the milk. Thus
doth the Scot imbibe canni-
ness “ with his mother’s milk,”
tea, and sugar !
* * *
The caddies at a certain
(not N.S.W.) golfing rink know
the extent of the Governor’s tip
so well that they are usually en-
gaged whenever he requires their assis-
tance.
- » * *
Perhaps the strongest ground for opposing
the abolition of advertising-boards on Sydney
buses was the assertion that—-now the ladies
have taken to riding outside—the boards are the
only means of preserving decency—
A devil of a hole to get into—the grave !
EQUIVOCAL.
HE: “I think I’m improving."
SHE: “ Yes—making great strides.”
“ A Poor Pedagogue ” :
Having: had nine years service under N.S. W. Public In
struction Department I can confirm truth of Bulletin
par. (2,4 ’93) re State schools. When 1 was pupil-teaching
in a large city school, the principal, no doubt having in
mind the instruction about “ fees in arrear return,”
hinted at compulsory payment by pupil-teachers of fees
not collected by them. In small country schools I have
known numbers of pedagogues (self included) who them-
selves paid up arrears rather than have to w'orry over the
“ return of fees in arrear.” No doubt the “ steadily-
insist ” clause has much to do with this.—S. V.
* * * *
Dear B.— Re that regulation (quoted in
Bulletin) giving the Commissioner of Vic. Rail-
ways the right to use any article patented by em-
ployes without paying royalty, it might be men-
tioned that, according to Rudyard Kipling, a
similar regulation exists in the Indian railway-
department, with the magnificent result (accord-
ing to same authority) that no employe in that
department ever does make an invention, or
cherishes any ambition ever to do so.—P.L.
* * * *
There was a big Masonic corroboree at
Brisbane the other day. The two-column report
THE WORLD'S
STRUGGLE FOR
A CRUST.
B. E. Minns sketches the London Sandwich Girl
for “The Bulletin.
of it consists mostly of the letters P.S.G.W. and
D.J.G.W. and D.G.B.S. and P.D.G.B. The P.G.
Bible-bearer and the G.S. of Works, the P.G.
Inner Guard, and the P.G. Trumpeter were there,
and a whole crowd of politicians, and other pro-
fessionals, and parsons all wagged their initial
tails around the dais while C. J. Sam. Griffith (who
ought to have more sense) handed over the P.G.M.
to Bro. Hutton. To hear of a lot of ostensibly
sane men (mostly bald and fat) going on with such
bosh makes The Bulletin tired.
* * * m
“I heard them talking of Miss Blank’s
faux pas, mamma. What’s a faux pas?” “Well,
my dear, I can only tell you that in this case it
was not a pas seul.” — Pink TJn.
* * * *
Maggots are the rlatest Queensland export
to N.S.W. They are shipped in Chow-grown
bananas, a large quantity of which had to be con-
demned the other day by Sydney fruit-inspectors.
On the outer seat she sat—
Quiet! quiet! my heart’s riot:
From the shelter of her hat
Brown eyes surely glanced demurely,
And her ankles trim would peep
From their hiding amid laces,
And they set my heart aleap
With their fairy curves and graces.
Now they’ve covered up my maid ;
’Stead of soulful, I am doleful,
And the wayward mind that strayed
Rapt in fancy’s necromancy’s
Given over to the throes
Of continual despairing—
D—n their advertised hose !
Give me those my love was wearing.
T.D.


"[Uv/E you
1 FoRGOXTE/H
TiTi i T/T^\,ll lH EM, ? ”
I
s®
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION
STANDS ALONE
foi 1 ALL AFFECTIONS of the EYES ; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 631 Gebfge-st., Sydney. tS*"' Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
Tartaric, Acetic Acids, Cream Tartar, Curb
Ammonia, Almonds, Sorrento Walnuts, Seeds
(Canary, Hemp and MUlett).
CA TA X ZAItO lIQ CO RICE.
Wholesale Only
from
11 Pitf.-st.,
SYDNEY.
HY. MARKWALD,
178 William st., 14 Currie-st.,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE.
Also at Wellington (N.Z.), and Queen-st., Brisbane.
Melb. City Court item. Constable :
“Women of the town spend nearly all their
money in drink.” Solicitor: “At present, I am
happy to say, they are spending all of it in law ’’ —
this in reference to the present move-away agita-
tion.
Among the wonders of London just now
(writes a Bulletin correspondent) are the baby-
Miss BEATRICE LAMB, leading lady of the Cart-
wright comedy season at Sydney Criterion.
Photo., Talma, Melbourne.
incubators at the Olympia (Barnum and Bailey’s).
You see triplets there thriving wonderfully (under
glass); also a months infant, brought in last
January weighing lib. 40z., now turns the scale at
something over 31b.
* * * *
A pathetic protest against the circumfer-
ence of women’s hats at public entertainments
came last week from “ Country Bumpkin,” in a
letter to Melb. Argus. “Though a six-footer,”
wrote “C. 8.,” “ I had not » possible chance, and
my experience must have been similar to that of
many at to-night’s Exhibition concert.” He had
paid to see Albani warble, but three awful hats
completely obstructed his view of the music.
The latest achievement of one of the
younger N.S.W. District-Court Judges. Brown
sues Jones to recover damages for assault. Judge
m 10 minutes sides with Jones (he generally un-
consciously becomes a partisan in 10 minutes).
Brown s counsel seek a non-suit (so that they may
get a jury). Judge suavely allows it —but orders
Brown to pay double fees and thumping costs, and
directs the Registrar that no further action is to
be permitted until the costs, &c., are paid.
* * * *
Eaglehawk, Bendigo’s big suburb, decided
to celebrate the Diamond Jubilee by building a
new town-hall. Then, having admired the plans,
it invited the patriots to celebrate to the extent of
•*5OOO at 3£ per cent., “ as it was thought that for
such a purpose the money could be got very
cheap.” Result : five offers for >£1250 in all.
“ Patriotism ” rarely sacrifices 10s. per cent.
♦ * * *
With Spanish privateers scouring the seas,
and not too particular about their prey, what
hauls could be made from some of the vessels
trading to Australia. To capture the Mariposa,
which left for America the other week with
.£350,000 worth of specie aboard, would be a scoop
comprehensive enough in itself to set up a gang
of authorised adventurers for life. The job would
be comparatively easy, too, if a well-chosen portion
of her crew could be previously bought over with
promises of booty.
* * * *
Thus London Truth (March 3) re the
Queen’s first Drawing Room this year :
Lady Marjorie Carington, who had the entnje with her
mother, Lady Carington, was the most admired of the
debutantes. . . . The carriages were grievously shabby
with a few distinguished exceptions; notably the
equipages of the Russian ambassador, the Dukes of
Devonshire, Norfolk, and Richmond and Gordon, and
Lord Carington. Hired broughams and hired servants
were the rule, and one “unimpeachable” female posi-
tively went to Court in a four-wheeled cab ! ”
Holdar M. : “ Noticed to-day a
leading teetotal-person skip nimbly
aside as an advancing brewer’s dray,
groaning with sparkling amber, threat-
ened to run him down. Savagely
resentful of this indignity, the cold-
tea-man fumed impotently on the
kerbstone. The case of that literary
foreigner, who lived in dread of a vile
death beneath the muddy wheels of a
harlot-loaded cab, crouches before the
realisation of the awful thunder that
would awaken the welkin were an
involuntary sacrifice made by the
Water Bore ’neath such a Juggernaut
as the publican’s ambulance.
* * *
Dear Bulletin. —The story of
the missing corpse found in the London
hotel bath really does not contain too
much pigment. In a decent London
club set apart for Australians and
people from British Guiana, Sierra
Leone and Kobe, I am now paying
18d. per diem for a bath. I think the
cuticle of the resident Briton de-
teriorates under hydropathy. Any-
how, he doesn’t wash seriously. By
the way, in Vienna an ex-M.L.A.,
Vic., who lost his seat for the same
reason as Alcibiades, is now paying
3s. 4d. a day for his bath. —Yours,
E.D. London, 13 Feb.
* * *
Undertaker’s announcement:—
“ PINKING DONE.”
Do they “ pink ” the optic of de-
ceased or put blushes on the cold
cheeks ? or what ? Noticeable that the
expression “Strike me dead!” has
been generally superseded by “Strike
me pink ! ”
“ He would therefore order the defendant
to pay a fine of one penny, without costs, in
default imprisonment for one minute with hard
labor.” A magisterial decision (Mr. Love,
D.S.M.) at Redfern Police-court last week.
Sounds like an extract from one of Gilbert’s
librettos.
* * * *
The cat came back ! It transpired at the
inquest that the five little boys who were washed
away by a freshet in an Adelaide creek early this
month were trying to drown a cat. Three boys
lost their lives, but the cat ran home unhurt.
♦ * * *
Melb. : “ Bona-fide. I copied
this to-day off a placard headed ‘ Xmas
Greeting for 1897 ’ in an hotel-bar ” ;
Although you have deprived me
Ot money and of clothes,
Good beer, how I love thee,
So down my neck you goes.
* • * *
Victorian auctioneer’s advt. :
/Awing to the death of the owner, we are
instructed to offer for sale a valuable
collection of furniture, paintings, &c.,
formerly the property of the late Mrs.
Gray, deceased, who died on the 20th ult.
That lady should be dead enough, any-
how.
* * * *
Of current Melb. journalism,
says the organ of David Syme:—
The gossip has to be crisp, the stories have
to be short, and the topical articles spiced
with epigrams.
In what paper do these topical articles
spiced with epigrams appear ? It must
be printed in a cellar and published in
a drain.
* * » »
SEX OF ONE AND A DOZING
OF THE OTHER.
Justice, as we know, is blind,
But, when from bad man’s fury
Some meek, fair girl with eyes resigned
Claims legal guardianship, we find
So should be judge and jury.
* * * •
To a cleric in the Never-Never
came one day a woman with two small
children to be christened. The clergy-
man, having duly baptised the bant-
lings, asked if she wished to be
“ churched.” She assented and accom-
panied the divine to the altar. But
when he had got as far as “ hath pre-
served you in the great dangers of child-
birth,” he was electrified by the obser-
vation, “If it’s any satisfaction to you, sir, I’ll
go through with it, but — hadn’t we letter wait till
the mother comes ? ”
* * * *
Dear B.—Did you ever meet the superior
Chow ? Our vegetable John found the table dirty
where he had to deposit the cabbagee, applee,
&c., so turned on our little sister, thus: “Dirty
lillee gel. Why you no keepee table clean ?
Mother gettee old, no can workee so much, boys
must go out blisness in town, so houseeclean you
mus’ do. Naughty lit gel! ” — Domestic.
The archaic reporter of a Sydney
daily, in his account of a wedding very
recently, put it that “Mr. So-and-so
took Miss to wife. ” An American
paper just to hand goes one better by
chronicling that “ yesterday Miss Myra
Simpson, long a valued contributor to
this paper, took Hal Jenks, of this
city, to husband.” And, after all, why
not?
* * * •
The result of the drought in
some of the S.A. farming centres has
been to largely increase the immorality
which sells itself for money, and, should
next season also be rainless, illegitimacy
is likely to show a sad advance, despite
the women’s vote and W.C.T.U. in-
fluence.
» * • »
In a W.A. police-court, recently,
a bright-green policeman deposed that
a prisoner had been “most obstropu-
lous,” having “resisted volubly,” and
“hit him (the trap) two kicks.” In
the same court, not long before, a man
charged with bicycle-stealing cross-ex-
amined a witness as to his “theologi-
cal ” knowledge of the parts of a bike.
• * * *
Judge Hodges in court: —“De-
fendant has to satisfy the court that he
came lawfully by the posts, not merely
that he came by them honestly.” Which
infers that it is sometimes lawful to
be dishonest and other times dishonest
to be lawful.
• * » •
A Southern city buxom pave-
ment lady, much affected by visiting
men -o’ - warsmen, cheerfully stumps
about on two crutches and one leg.
On the day at Kalgoorlie that wound up
with the row at the railway station, one local
pub. took J>26o for drinks. This accounts for a
lot of things.
John Forrest himself says he was not struck at
Kalgoorlie, and that the worst that happened to
him was “ a poke in the ribs with an umbrella ”•
not, by the way, the sort of weapon an alluvial
digger usually carries. Yet the Riot Act was
read.
“ I’ll fight any one of you, but I can’t take on a
crowd,” was among the expressions alleged by
big John Forrest’s press friends to have been used
by their champion during the Kalgoorlie row.
But, as no proceedings have been taken against
John, apparently either this part of the report
(like much else of it) isn’t true, or a Premier
isn’t responsible for language calculated to pro-
voke a breach of the peace.
One of the queerest features of the “ Kalgoorlie
riot ” business was not presented until afterwards.
It was when some nondescripts were prosecuted,
and when, a conviction on the evidence seeming
doubtful, the paid magistrate broke in with the
remark that he himself had observed the prisoner,
and promptly followed that up with a six months’
sentence. In one case, too, the riotous behavior
consisted partly of “compliments” paid to the
sitting magistrate. That one got nine months.
Of all the congratulatory and sympathising
messages which Westralian Premier Forrest re-
ceived after his Kalgoorlie experiences, the one
that seems to strike big John’s admirers as the
most admirable came from a W.A. paid magis-
trate—“ My God, lam proud of you.” Just what
Big John, who is, apparently, this R.M.’s god
—anyway, the message was addressed to John—
did to evoke this note of admiration is not clear at
this distance. For the Premier, who hadn’t been
Miss EDITH MORLEY (Charles Cartwright's
daughter), in “A Marriage of Convenience,” at
Sydney Criterion.
Photo., Talma, Melbourne.
out in the sun all day, seems to have been about
the first of the thousands to lose his head ; and,
according to the accounts given by his own friends,
broke out into language at an early stage of the
proceedings and “talked fight” as well as the
most drunken of the crowd. Afterwards, when
the excitement became a little warmer, John’s
head went still further wrong, for, according to
the same accounts, he was ready to see his train
mow down “ some of the curs ” —an amiable ex-
pression hardly exceeded by the crippled and
half-witted bellman upon whom, later on, the Kal-
goorlie magistrate poured his contempt when sen-
Mile. SERPOLETTE, the French racing cycliste who is
coming to Australia.
Photo., Ch. Barenne, Paris.
fencing him to nine months hard. “My God, lam
proud of you ” —a decision come to upon what must,
at that moment, have been the barest particulars,
and, most likely, upon a single sensational parti-
san wire. If that’s how Westralian magistrates
and wardens commonly form their judgments, no
wonder that they seldom receive similar messages
from an admiring public.
The first messages to the Eastern papers report-
ing the row at Kalgoorlie were so filled with
“infuriated mob” and dust and gore that they
were too strong even for such a respectable paper
as the S.A. Register. But the S.M. Herald
let ’em have it all. And now the furious attack
on the Premier dwindles to a “ poke in the ribs
with an umbrella,” and the troopers with rifles are
reduced to a single policeman with a gun, and the
shouts for another Eureka Stockade are pinned to
a crippled town-crier, whose business it is (or was
—he is “doing” nine months now) to draw a
crowd by making a fool of himself or otherwise.
♦ * * *
Just before Premier Forrest left Perth on
his now historical visit to Menzies and Kalgoorlie,
and while the alluvial diggers were working them-
selves up to proper demonstrating form, Vic.
veteran C. E. Jones lectured on “The Eureka
Stockade.” And it was avowedly apropos, too.
* * * •
A Melbourne advt. :
TEA.
Competitive DESIGNS are invited of a POSTER for
TEA, to be used on Hoardings.
£5
will be given to the competitor who sends in the design
meeting most with our approval; our decision to be final.
Designs may be artistic, catchy in composition of
lettering, coloring, or phraseology. Must not exceed
three colors, and be original. Colors liable to fade by
exposure to be avoided.
Competitors may send in as many designs as they
please.
All designs sent in to become our property, with the
right to use them as we may desire at any time without
further paj-ment.
Competition to CLOSE on APRIL 30, 1898.
Address .
In response to this :
The Artists Society of Melbourne, having run out of
tea, invite a competition from the tea merchants of Mel-
bourne to supply the deficiency. The price of two Chests
of Tea will be given to the merchant who sends in the tea
most meeting with the approval of the artists, whose
decision will be final.
Sample chests must be of superior quality, and those
teas most liable to deteriorate by keeping to be avoided.
Competitors may send in as many chests of tea as they
please.
All chests of tea sent in to become the property of the
Artists’ Society, with the right to use them as they may
desire at any time without further payment. The guile-
less artists hope by these means to keep themselves in
tea for the rest of their lives, at the trifling cost of two
chests!
Address, “Gamboge, Emerald Green & C 0.,” Art
Society’s Rooms, Hanky-Panky Place, Melbourne.
• • * «
Up-to-date pathos—from Melb. Age :
~V£T ANTED, Cancer Cured, any price, no cure no
’’ pay. Sufferer, Age Office
• * • *
With a personal grievance at the back of
their agitation, Sydney and Melb. dailies now-
jump at all chances of proving the inadequacy of
the present cable system, or rather the S.A, por-
tion of it. But the artful S.A. authorities avoid
blame by holding back information as to inter-
ruptions, and even when a memorandum is sent,
the fact that the overland line is responsible for
delay is carefully withheld as a rule. The news-
paper men have also been astonished of late at the
receipt of jocular hints from S.A. that the tele-
graphs in Mauritius and other outlandish places
are in a state of serious disrepair—-a trouble which
can have no possible connection with the almost
chronic interruption of Australian cables.
THE PRICE WE PAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The price we pay for the bread we eat
Is bitter as aloes among the sweet;
Though the path seems fair to the venturing feet—
The price we pay.
The price we pay with the forced caress
To the foolish lips that we seem to bless,
Giving the more while we grudge the less —
The price we pay !
We were made so frail that we cannot toil,
But we stoop full low for the golden spoil ;
Though our fingers shrink as they touch the soil—
And the price we pay.
H.M.B.
He went to see Albani
At the Exhibition spacious,
For she’s the great Sopraney
Who gets cables from Her Gracious.
The papers, advertising
Her surprising vocalising,
Had prompted him to come to town to cheer her ;
But an intervening lady
Blocked his vision with a cady,
And when Albani sang he didn’t hear her.
Alas ! poor luckless sonny,
Protesting, all in vain, he
Got nothing for the money
He had paid to see Albani.
A “ wonderful ovation ”
Voiced the public admiration,
The while he sat a sad and silent mourner,
He got no soulful thrillings
For his pair of shiny shillings.
’Cos why ? He couldn’t see the preema doaner.
LOOSE LOGIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas a frequent remark of admonishing friends,
Mac. was “ burning both ends of the candle ” ;
For his morals were loose, and his life was fast,
And the pace that he went was a scandal.
But Mac. would reply to counsel and chaff,
With logical lip and a light-hearted laugh—
“ Faith, ’tis shillings that come and pounds that go ;
There’s a little we pay—and a lot we owe 1
“ And though loot one lends and the loot one spends
Looks like ‘ burning the candle at both of its ends,’
This apparently un-economical feat,
Don’t ye see, is the way to make both ends meet ! ”
BREAKER.


IF you tad
TWO PAIRS OF FEET,
you would not need us so much.
But as you have only
ONE FAIR
you come to us, because it is our
business to take care of them.
We understand perfectly the proper fitting of feet.
We want to double the
number of our customers
before January, 1899.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
Sellers of Good Boots,
395 George-st., Sydney,
GLOBE TEAS have N 0
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 19, 1898.
Mt Dear Myee—
Easter week danced along a tempo prestissimo,
and again the battle was to the thin. I noticed
that the stout people had only half as good a time
of it, the other half being taken up with attending
to their palpitations. These were set going by
Lady Hampden’s first ball on Tuesday; were fur-
ther aggravated by the big St. Vincent’s dance
next evening; hurried on to racing speed by
Rand wick doings on Thursday afternoon ; a cold
sweat set in with an Albani reception at the
Ladies’ Club ; broke into a gallop at Government
House ball the same night; and, finally, Rand-
wick on Saturday saw one vast dead-beat, which
the Messiah at 8 couldn’t resurrect.
The Tuesday ball at Govt. House was tossed
high up among titles, diamonds, and the like.
Lords abounded, and Ladies were as common as
women. Lady Holled Smith had a jolly smile
for everyone, and looked as if barrack life
was the merriest thing in the world. Mrs. Willie
Mitchell, who has been much in evidence since
her return from Europe, reminded me of “ Never-
more ” and Edgar Allen Poe, and the pallid bust of
Pallas, and no end of other things. A big black
bird stood on her hair, and peered down haughtily
over the diamond butterfly in her toupee. Sister
and brother of this same black bird sat on either
Bhoulder, and held their wings well up from the
red satin of their keeper’s ball-dress. The effect
was truly fly. Miss Marcia Cox, whose engage-
ment to Mr. Learmonth was announced some
time ago, kept up the family reputation for good
looks in a yellow frock and hair that crimped of
its own accord.
Thursday’s ball was invaded by nine debutantes
in nine white dresses, and twice nine white satin
shoes, and eighteen gloves, and ninety bouquets.
But, stay. Perhaps I exaggerate those bou-
quets. As I think it over, it grows clear
that each debutante had one bunch, and one
only. And yet the memory of that evening
shows me r ‘garden beds where only white
things grow” all over the ballroom. Any-
how, there were no spare spaces in the rooms,
Albani filling up the debutantes’ gaps with her
diamonds and amiable smile. She and Beatrice
Lamb sat and chatted together a long time, and
the guests watched as if it were the first act of a
society drama they had paid to see.
The fair and placid Miss Lamb is uncommonly
popular in her own company, and lam told by a
lady who has shared her dressing-room that her
wardrobe never includes stilts. Quite a remarkable
omission for a leading lady, isn’t it ? While on the
topic of this co., you maybe interested to know
that Miss Gethyn Darragh says she is not married
to anyone or anything, except her work and her
Frenchy frocks, which first brought her into notice
when she was playing insignificant parts in Charles
Wyndham’s company.
In between the vice-regai balls came St. Vin-
cent’s hop. For this the Town Hall was trimmed
up with red and yellow poppies, banana trees and
looking-glasses, and much greenery paid light
compliments to the Irish element of the evening.
Lady Rupert Clarjte further underlined this com-
pliment with a dress of deepest, brightest green,
such as one rarely sees after March 17th. That
dress got into my eye, and I may be wrong when
I say that Albani wore pale-green satin. I have
also an irresistible inclination to tell you that
Mrs. Douglas Mackenzie, one of the two hard-
working secretaries, was gowned in green, but
hasten myself out of temptation by recording
Mrs. Prendergast’s hand-painted princess robe of
white corded silk, and oretty Mrs. Caro’s rose-
colored brocade.
A feature of the big public balls of the day is
the gallery crowd, who pay two shillings to sit
and watch the wheels go round below them. The
gallery comes early and stays late. It has no
supper, and nobody takes any notice of it.
Society reporters never ask it what it wears. It
is not invited to even as much as a quadrille, and
I don’t like to dwell on its feelings when the ball-
room is emptied into the supper haunts, and it
sits and gazes hungrily at the decorations. And
yet—and yet, that gallery goes away in the small
hours of the morning, unfed and stiff with sitting,
but satisfied, and able to rattle off, “ I seen Lady
’Ampden at the ball the other night in fawn satin
and Mrs. ’Arris was in black it was a lovely ball
I did enjoy it so much I am surprised you wasn’t
there.” Two shillings is a trivial price to pay for
this knowledge.
Another ballroom feature, but not a slow one,
is the new sj;yle of dancing. Everything is
quicker than possible, and you only do half-a-
dozen turns at a time. At St. Vincent’s some of
the vice-regal party danced as if for a wager, and
the music ran away from the musicians, and the
dancers ran away from the music. Annie Sum-
merbelle, who has not been heard in public for a
long time, played, as an extra, a waltz of her own
(“ The Almida ”) that will be published in a few
days. You will be glad to hear that this clever
young musician has several new compositions
coming on shortly. For the last few years she has
been supporting herself and her little girl by
giving music-lessons.
The last day of the races took everybody to
Randwick, although fatigue scored heavily in
many well-known feminine faces. “ The profes-
sion ” was well represented, and a beauty actress
was heard loudly lamenting at the end of the day
that there was nothing left her but the stage.
Mrs. Hunt, who used to be Miss Lizzie Marks,
combined smartness with girlishness in her grey-
and-apricot frock ; and I liked a white silk dress
made with a three-flounced skirt that touched the
ground on all sides. All the new walking skirts
are as long as last year’s ball dresses. They
trail a little all round, and look charming the first
day, but fade about the hem as quickly as a spring
flower. Randwick saw the first decided move in
favor of pinafores for grown-ups. There were
half-a-dozen of these on the lawn, and a smart
American lady’s black dress, made with a very full
back and a carefully-fitted pinafore in front, was
novel, and looked better than it reads. The most
unfashionable female in the place was Miss West,
whose sly win was hooted wildly by the crowd.
While on the subject of animals, have you heard
that London gave a dramatic matinee lately in
aid of starving cats ? I won’t say much about it,
as the starvation time for gouli-goulis—which
their other name is mosquitoes—is just setting in,
and I am thinking of getting up a dramatic
matinee for myself and the rest of us. But cats /
And the theatre was lent by Hawtrey, who must
have seen a good many starving women and chil-
dren in his time. This matinee business explains
why so many English unmatched females keep
pussies instead of husbands. The eats go shares
with them in the cats’-meat. I heard of an old
lady to whom a magpie attached itself in the
direst days of her poverty. She used to go every
Saturday, in shabby black, to the butcher, with
maggie trotting after her, and ask timidly for “ a
ha’p’orth of meat for my magpie.” And the but-
cher used to take her halfpenny, and give her
half-a-dozen little scraps that drop from joints
when they are cut off the animal, and then she
would go home, and play she was maggie, and
dole herself out little bits of meat as long as they
lasted, while the other maggie caught worms in
the back-yard. To bring this story to a fine con-
clusion, I ought to tell you that the poor old lady
ate the worms and gave the meat to maggie, but
don’t you think it’s harrowing enough as it stands?
Ever since Albani came to Australia, the saying
has been: “wait till you hear her in oratorio.”
“The Messiah, ”on Saturday, gave us the first oppor-
tunity for this, but it gave us a diamond belt as
well. When you know that that belt cost five
thousand pounds, you won’t mind my mentioning
it at the beginning of this notice. The diamonds
were so big and brilliant and convincing that
Albani did well to keep them out of sight until
the end of her visit to Botany Bay. The rest of
her toilette tried hard to live up to the belt, and
succeeded better than you would expect, with
jewelled feathers, and red corsage roses, and a
Worth-y black frock that sparkled all over with
jewelled trimming.
“ The Messiah ” had advanced half-an-hour on
his journey before the Star put in her appearance.
Then she came rustling along like a wave of the
sea, bowed to the audience, wheeled round and
bowed hard to the Philharmonic, jumped up at
Hazon and shook his hand effusively over the
conductor’s box, and, when her bowing was
over, took a seat beside Orlando Harley. Miss
Berry, in white satin, and Mr. Pauli sat together
on the other side of the platform, and Pauli’s
toothache created a lot of sympathy among
damsels who could see the agonising facial contor-
tions that chased themselves round the baritone’s
countenance.
By the way, rumor says that the same Herr
Pauli is going to stay in Australia, and give comic
opera a new Ryley presently.
And, now that I am come to the point when a
few words about the Oratorio cannot be put off
any longer, I remember that the company have
left us for ever,'and that Saturday is dead as
the roses of yesteryear, and my criticism gabbles
itself out in one clause. Albani was fine and
fervent, but not in the least hair-raising; Miss
Berry and the two gentlemen were like little men
in big clothes ; and all that was sensational was
lent by Hazon and our own admirably-trained
Philharmonic people.
From the Tree of Life to the Tree of Knowledge
is a few steps down. This latter shrub sprang up
at the Criterion Theatre two days before its time,
and consequently there were not as many people
as there should have been at the first night’s per-
formance. A little pruning away of the interludes
is the only improvement you could ask. The play
is up to the very last minute, the staging is most
select, and the dressing will appeal to everyone
who prefers a subtle, simple frock to paralysingly-
smart raiment.
Miss Lamb and Miss Darragh divide the dresses
between them. The beautiful, wicked woman,
who is the Tree and Miss Lamb combined, is also
a dream of dear dresses. That tea-gown she wears
in the Manor drawing-room is a remarkable thing
even in tea-gowns, which have a special license of
their own to be remarkable. As far as I could see,
it was built up of primrose satin with an extrava-
gantly embroidered front, and full, sweeping,
back-breadths that creep out imperceptibly from
a little, white, jewelled yoke. It gave me a keen
aesthetic pleasure to watch Miss Lamb move about
the drawing-room in this noble creation. But it
went to my heart to see Cartwright toss her round
the room with all those breadths at stake.
Miss Darragh plhys the slim and graceful in-
genue with a piquant, pretty face that reminds
you somewhat of Ellen Terry. She wears her
clothes with an elegance that is quite touching,
when you consider that she is only twenty, and
has to dress in muslins and girlv-girly silks. I
wanted to see the wardrobe she bought after she
came into her fortune, and would like to have a
long look at her wedding dress, but the play saves
itself from insolvency by ending up just before the
nuptials. Miss Stewart, who played the maid in
“ A Marriage of Convenience,” is transformed
into a very nice old lady this time. I wonder the
Major didn’t fall in love with her. Nom Rickards
was pressed into the service at a moment’s notice,
and took Miss Morley’s place as the housemaid.
Everyone will be sorry to know that the latter
was involved in a Centennial Park horse-accident
(involving several facial surgical stitches) last Sun-
day, and will be unable to appear for a while.
Now that the festive season is on the way with
us, you may like to know of some very smart
evening blouses that Hordern’s in Pitt-street have
just imported. For theatres the blouse is univer-
sal, and, after ten years hard wear, and innumer-
able modifications, and reconstructions, it still re-
mains the most popular feature of feminine frock-
ing.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The news of Mr. Champion’s inheritance
(.£7OOO a year) is a very, very hard knock to Melb.
girls. If only the “ close creature ” had tell’t them
of his prospects in time, how they tuould have ‘ sat
beside him on mossy banks and stuck musk-roses
in his sweet, large ears,’ so to speak. Certainly,
all along there were rumors of an aristocratic
English fiancee, but a long, strong pull by the
local feminines might have put her nose out of
joint. Such things have happened before now.
Even as it was, the lucky legatee had his faithful
flock of disciples—girl-graduates and such-like —
who wrote slashing hang-prudery columns on
woman’s rights and things in the Champion.
“A Yankee, talking of Nat. Goodwin’s acting
in *ln Mizzoura,’ complained that Jim Radburn
was not half as well pourtrayed in Australia as in
’Murka. ‘ Why,’ said he, ‘ when Nat. played
the part here he left out half his good business.
In the States, after every half-dozen sentences,
Nat. would send out a stream of tobacco-juice
across the stage as nat’ral as life. It beats
me why he dropped the “business” over here.’
Paul Bourget, in ‘ Outre-Mer,’ mentions Good-
win’s fine performance of this part, and mentions,
too, the touch of ’Murkan nature he lends to it
with ‘ his far-streaming jets of saliva.’ Ugh !
“ Conventionists, crowing confidently on their
own native roosts again, hark back to the
grievances of their Melb. sojourn. Apparently
none of them covet our ‘Old Man of the Sea.’
Probably he riled them at the ‘ Big House ’ with
the tolerant mien of a village squire welcoming
charity-brats to tea and buns—-and this after
buttering up their Federation oratory ‘as unsur-
passed in the Imperial Parliament! ’ Naturally,
potentates who take themselves seriously as Con-
stitution-builders, history-makers, nation-founders
and such-like, objected to waiting meekly on the
mat till dilatory flunkeys chose to open the hos-
pitable doors. Neither did they relish being
harangued in the lump, when they went out to
dinner, like so many hospital-nurses or pilots in
need of intellectual enlightenment.
“Fearful and wonderful fit, those baggy plaid
shooting - pants of Baron Gilbert’s, in ‘ The
Babes.’ They remind me of 1 the bride’s device,’
in a German comic paper. The fond frau is no
tailoress, but where there’s a will there’s a way,
and the picture shows fat, elderly Fritz in his red-
flannel kilt, extending his nether man on the out-
spread homespun. Meantime, plump Gretchen,
his brand-new wife, kneels alongside, and scissors
the shape of his legs out of the material.
“One night, lately, an inmate of the Princess
d.c. was found fault with for his clear, bell-like
laugh, . His innocent mirth annoyed his neighbors,
perhaps because, when they giggled, he couldn’t
see the joke, and, when the rest of the audience
felt sick and sorry, his hysterical neighing rubbed
the mourners the wrong way. When Gilbert’s
weird dog was shot to pieces, the hyena onlooker
yah-yahed for so long without taking breath that
people got frightened, and reasoned with him for
his own good.
“ Re the Salvation Army warrior who wooed a
sister-soldier without the Kernel’s consent, there’ll
never be much peace in religious circles till clerical
celibacy is compulsory again.
“ T’other day, for instance, when the bachelor-
shepherd of a suburban kirk plighted his troth to
a ewe-lamb of the fold his Elders (so 'tis said)
visited him officially, lamented his choice as
‘ worldly,’ and wound up by wrestling fervently
in prayer that their dear young pastor might see
his way to renounce the donah. Unlike the re-
pentant Hallelujah lad aforesaid, the meenister, I
hear, rose from his knees obdurate and dry-eyed,
and though further entreated (this time by women
‘ well-wishers ’) not to shut his eyes to such tokens
of parochial unrest as anarchy in the Girls’ Guild
and spiritual deadness in the. Ladies’ League, the
culprit got married almost immediately, and is
now taking the consequences.
“ The late Ernest Parker had been ailing for
quite a year, and recently his illness seems to have
affected his manner in a marked degree, till at
times he appeared, for short spells, quite eccentric.
One of his recent peculiarities was to let his hair
grow, and nothing would induce him to submit
his head to the barber’s shears. Acquaintances,
as a gentle hint, would present him with three-
penny pieces, which he duly strung together on a
ring and displayed as a trophy. Although
he drew a good income from the shipping business,
festive ‘Ernie’ is said to have left his widow (a
daughter of R. E. Lewis) and children but slen-
derly provided for. Mr. Parker, who was so
swarthy as to be more than once ‘ Ranjied ’ by
irreverent street boys, bore a quite startling
resemblance to a well-known Sydney medico, the
son of a fashionable family. The two men were
so often mistaken for one another, and addressed
by the double's name, that they grew accustomed
to unexpected handshakes from ‘ friends ’ they
had never seen before.
“ When last heard of, the Brasseys’ fellow-pas-
sengers were in great glee over the successful
inauguration of their weekly concerts. Poor
wretches; probably by this time ‘the Ancient
Mariner’s ’ readings have pretty well deaved them
to death. The sound of the Stickit Orator’s own
voice seems to be self-intoxicating, and when once
started there seems to be no holding him. Do you
remember the night he took his elocutionary bit
between his teeth at that ’long-shore religious
entertainment? {Starting with Tennyson on the
‘ Death of the Dook,’he dished up sample after
sample, each gloomier than the last ;and the more
gruesome he sounded the jollier he looked. The
Sunbeam was lying out, and it was a dirty night,
so for his fad’s sweet sake the Tedious Tar had
braved two nasty trips. But he left in high good
humor, and actually remembered to forward a neat
little cheque later on. The recipients could
scarcely believe their eyes when the donation
came, ’cause once before when his Ex. landed un-
expectedly for matins, with ‘ salt spray frozen in
his hair and salt tears in his eyes,’the top offertory
score, 1 understand, was only half-a-crown, and
even that small mercy couldn’t be conclusively
traced to the ‘Worshipper-in-chief.’
“ Society scribes commend Lady Brassey’s con-
descension in arranging for her small daughter to
au revoir her teachers the day before the chick
and her governess followed Pa and Ma to Albany.
The same chroniclers like referring to little Miss
B. as ‘a Vere de Vere,’ just as if fond old Dad
had no finger in the pie.
“The ‘extra’ ladies in the Bland Holt co. are
all recruited from the ranks of sassiety amateurs,
which explains why the female ‘supers’ in
Holtian melodrama always know how to manage
a train, wear decolletfi gowns and wield a fan with
grace and as to the manner born. Miss Adele
Kerr, who fills a small partin ‘The Cotton King,’
is a much-admired Melb. belle whose brilliant
hair and Junoesque figure were always in re-
quest for tableaux and amateur-theatrical per-
formances.
“Fanny Wiseman, who is playing ‘ Topsy ’ with
an ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin ’ co. round the suburbs, is
the Topsy of the original co. which played the
pious cork-black play for three months on end at
the old Melb. Princess’s. The lady is now consider-
ably past her fiftieth year, yet, ‘ blacked-up,’ she
appears the identical 12-year-old Topy and acts
with the same go and spirit which made the part
popular 20 years agone.
“ At Heidelberg (Vic.) an old couple who run a
milkery were recently both ‘ down ’ with typhoid.
Until infection risk should cease, the sale of milk
from their dairy was sternly prohibited by the
local health officer. But fresh cases kept on de-
veloping in the locality and the anxious health-
man called again, to find that the benevolent
cowkeepers had obediently stopped all sales as
ordered and distributed the milk gratis instead.
The intelligent neighbours had gladly taken all
chances, and gratefully called for their free
typhoid-germs daily.
“The usefulness of bloomers. A Melb. lady
was thrown from her horse when riding on a
country road the other day. Her skirt caught on
the pummel, and she hung for a perilous moment.
Then the waistband gave, and the rider slid out
of her skirt, and sat on the ground in her bloomers.
Recovering, she quietly walked along homewards
after her horse, which reached the house long
before its rider. Its appearance brought out the
terrified family in search of the lost one, whom
they soon espied looking spruce and untorn. A
bloomerless woman under the above circumstances
would have had to lurk about behind trees till
nightfall.
“‘The Church Missionary Association ’ issues
frisky little leaflets periodically. The handbill
describing ‘An Australian Eleven ’ sportively re-
marks : ' These “ Eleven ” are some of our Repre-
sentatives “ fielding ”in far off lands. May they
excel “AH England ” in grace! May they per-
fume all the East with the fragrance of a holy life. ’
Seethe pun in ‘Grace?’ Also, if the devoted
band can carry out the aspiration in the last line
and go one better than ‘ the immemorial East ’ in
smells, they must indeed be fragrant neighbors.
Lower George-street would be a garden of roses
compared with their humpy. By the way,
why ‘East,’ when a Melb. writer means China?
Murkans don’t call us the antipodes, although
Englishers do. We Australians are too tired to
adjust the compass for ourselves. Of Miss A.
Nisbet, a misguided young woman who has
foolishly been allowed to go to Ku Cheng, the
bio-paragraphist safely states that she ‘ only
escaped martyrdom by being in Hobart on fur-
lough on that ever-nremorable Aug. 1, ’95.’ This
is the latest form of advt., the assertion-negative :
‘ She was not murdered in the Ku Cheng
massacre.’ ‘Mr. Wilson Barrett has not fol-
lowed the story in dramatising “ The Manxman. ” ’
‘Messrs. Tom, Dick and Harry are not in favor
of the Commonwealth Bill.’
“‘Elijah,’ with a disgracefully-unrehearsed
chorus, was the last Albani oratorio in Melb.
Exhibition. Evidently chosen to give Pauli a
show, as the baritone has all the fat in the above
work. Elijah can’t be a tenor —too manly a char-
acter to have stage-lovery high notes allotted him,
and a bass is so uninteresting. I’ll swear there are
no tenors in the Wesleyan heaven. Ravens
wouldn’t have bothered giving a basso gratis
victuals. Therefore, all the frumps in camphor-
smelling, creased wraps who turned out en masse
to have such a treat on Easter Monday night
weren’t disappointed. ‘ They went to worship
sinful man,’ like J. Davidson’s nun, thinking
all the time how elevating oratorio is, mingling
with the mystic, and satisfying the sensuous and
the spiritual simultaneously. Albani wore black,
with a surface glitter of sparkling something-or-
other, and, during the waits, donned a frothy,
frilly fichu, for the Ex. is a Sahara of draughts,
and an expensive prima-donna must wrap up.
The co’s. departure per Sydney express next day
was uneventful. Mme. wore a tailor-made, and,
though the day was warm, muffled a boa round her
neck. Somebody gave her a yellow posy, and she
went off still smiling. The Naicest all adore
Albani; say a word other than grovelling about
her in a drawingroom, and you are frowned into
oblivion.
“ Don’t you hate readers who deface circuiating-
library books by tomtit comments or dragged-iti
foot-notes ? In the ‘ Life ’ of explorer Franklin,
for instance, the author remarks incidentally that,
when the subject of the biography went to Tas-
mania as Governor, his niece, not mentioned by
name, accompanied the vice-regal family-party.
I came across a library copy of this work wherein,
at every casual reference to this unimportant,
anonymous kinswoman, a pencilled note appears
in the margin, ‘Mrs. Price,’or ‘Mother of Captain
Tom Price.’
“At local entertainments people sitting any-
where near ‘ the übiquitous couple ’ (you know
the big, beef man and the pretty little woman) are
reminded of the days when they (the hearers) used
to thrill over penny dreadfuls. Neither of the
omnipresent twain are taciturn or low-voiced, and
their favorite topics are the faults of poor, absent
hubby. Miserable wretch, how his long ears must
tingle ! Even his parting kisses and tears are
chronicled in detail. Maybe those ‘ tears ’ are
mythical, but what matter, so long as the tradi-
tion answers the purpose of making the big, beefy
man jealous ?
“ Travelling Australians are finding out that
the much-cracked-up English domestics are a
delusion and a snare. A Melb. lady, now settled
in Bays water, London, writes disgustedly to her
family here : ‘I have five servants to do the work
which two Australian girls would undertake and
think nothing of. The nurse whom I brought
from Melbourne can run rings round the other
four. They are all so uppish, too, and Jane won’t
dream of doing any of Mary Ann’s duties, and
Sarah would ‘ wish to go when my month is hup,
m’m,’ if asked to take hold and give a hand on
Jane’s job. How I long for a friendly Antipo-
dean general who is nurse, parlor-maid, cook and
laundress in one, and is always breaking her own
record in each department—also most of the
crockery. ’
“ Thrilling items from local society chronicles :
—‘ Miss B is very young and shares popularity
with her sister.’ ‘Mr. G has already made
the ‘ grand tour ’ twice, and will probably make
his third with his future wife as a honeymoon trip ’
(italics mine). ‘ Mr. B went over to Sydney
on Tuesday to be married to Miss F , the
Sydney blonde!’ Judging from that last descrip-
tion, fair people must be even rarer in N.S.W.
than here.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


BAKER & ROUSE, Limited. .
The Bull's Eye Hand Camera, £1 17s. 6d.
The rocket Kodak, £1 Is.
The Cyclist Hand Camera, £3 3s.
The Premo Hand Camera, £4 4s.
Catalogues Free.
■
IMPORTERS OF PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.
S7f> George Street, SYDNEY;
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
65 Bundle Street, ADELAIDE
81 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Personal Items.
A former secretary of what considers itself
Sydney’s most fashionable club is now an inmate
of Rook wood Asylum.
Aftropos of a more or less recent big
Southern secret-society shivoo, a certain swell
club blackballed the newly-elected Great Pan-
jandrum on the day after his election.
Cherubic Rev. Dr. Bevan, of Melbourne,
advertised a lecture on “Taffy ” in last Thursday’s
Age. Admission a shilling. Hitherto the clergy
have always given it away.
Henry Gyles Turner, The Bulletin is
glad to hear, turned up again at Melb. Com-
mercial Bank last week, looking very little the
worse for his recent coach accident in Maoriland.
Not dead, but reconstructed.
S. Chief Justice Way publicly intimated
a week or two before his marriage that his judicial
position would prevent the acceptance of wedding
presents. His wife brought him a ready-made
family, the eldest son being about 19 years old.
R regenerated women. Just when a cer-
tain French Consul of long ago had got settled in
Australia, the rumor buzzed that the Countess,
who did the honors so charmingly, was the famous
Mogador, of the Cancan at the Jardin Mabille.
T. J. Byrnes will be the first to put to the
test the quasi-authoritative Chamberlainesque
rumor that the title of P.C., conferred in bulk at
the Jubilee fete, would, as an Imperial recogni-
tion, be given to all Premiers of provincial Par-
liaments.
Dr. Cockriurn stands a good chance of
being made Federal Agent-General if Australian
union eventuates. Reeves (M.L.), Perceval (Tas.),
C‘ark( Vic.) and Tozer (Q.) are out of the running,
and his claims are certainly treater than those of
either Wictenoom (W.A.) or Joseph Abbott—the
probable next N.S.W. Agent-General.
Up-to-date : Hard lines on Donald Mac-
lo'sing his through the post; but
why didn’t he insure it? George Robertson and
Co., when forwarding the MS. of Dr. Muskett’s
recently-published book from Sydney to Mel-
bourne, insured it. Any office, doing burglary or
accident business, will take these risks.
Josh. Symon, Q.C., who was left years
ago to carry solus the whole of the liabilities of
several land-boom syndicates, has, after immense
toil, paid all his debts, and is now reported to be
many thousands of pounds to the good. His com-
mercial ideals, like those of Mark Twain, are high,
and it has cost him years of unflagging work to live
up to them.
A very big man in religious circles, return-
ing to Australia from a trip to Tasmania the other
day, said to a friend, as they drew near an out-
port, that he intended to go ashore in the health-
officer s boat. “ But you'll have to come on by
the other. “ Quite so,” said the man
°t God, but you see, by getting off here you
avoid giving the stewards anything.’’
Easter Monday
saw not only Chief
Justice Way’s wed-
ding-day, but it was
the 62nd anniver-
sary of his birth.
SOME IRRELEVANCY.
NOTED PUGILIST (teaching little Smith the gentle
art): “My oath, yer hittin’ ’aid; what yer
got in yer glove? ”
SMITH : “ Only a horse-shoe—for luck.”
Once, when Aspinall was briefed for a de-
fence, through some blunder be got bold of plain-
tiff's brief, a few moments before the case began.
a lll,rrifJ d investigation of its contents.'
.Plaintiffs man was late in court. When he ar-
rived, Aspinall was in the thrill of his explanation
of plaintiff s claim. Apprised of the mistake, he
went on to the end, and then said, “ Your Honor
I find that, through some extraordinary blunder’
I have got hold of the wrong brief. My friend’
Mr. Dawson, appears for plaintiff. But I don’t
think that anything I have said has in any way
prejudiced the interests of his client, since I have
merely set forth the history of a claim which I
think the gentlemen of the jury will presently
discover hasn’t a leg to stand upon. Where’s my
brief ? ’’—and he sat down to get some notion of
the defence.
Bowler Richardson, when talking of pedi-
grees, gives his breeding as “ a cross between
Irish and gipsy.”
Wm. Go re Elliston, son of the old-time
actor, was proprietor of the Courier in ancient
Hobart days. He was very dignified—inherited
the pomp and majesty his father
affected. His speech and gesture
were “ affluent.” And it was as
“good as a play” to see him, as
church-warden, collect the shekels
every Sunday morning in old St.
David s. Once, his dignity was
sorely tested. But it came out
all right. A fat little subaltern
of the OGth was fast asleep in the
officers’ pew, when Plliston came
around with the plate and held it
just above the little man’s head.
A brother officer stuck a pin into
the sleeping man’s thigh. He
jumped up with an oath. His
head clashed against the offer-
tory-plate and the donations of
the faithful were scattered.
Elliston, with great majesty of
demeanour, carried the empty
plate to old parson Bedford.
“ Eh, what’s this ?—what’s this,
Elliston ? ” whispered Bedford.
“ The soldiers, sir,” answered
Elliston aloud, “have wasted
the vineyard of the Lord.”
“ Then the soldiers ought to be
ashamed of themselves,” puffed
the old .man; “but set the
verger to pick up the money.”
And he went on with the service.
Tom Coward, a well-known
Queensland resident of many years’
standing, has some interesting re-
miniscences of Arthur Palmer. “ A
medium man with a long beard, who
invariably walked with his left hand
in his pocket and with his right hand
on his beard; head bent, as if in thought.
In shearing times you’d often hear his
forcible tones: ‘ Shear those sheep, don’t
butcher them.’ ” (Just fancy old Palmer
talking in this milk-and-water strain!)
“His language was sometimes harsh, bordering 1
on the profane ” ! Bordering on the profane is
superb.
Parnell’s brother is alleged to be actually
begging for the billet of London City
Marshal (supervisor of pop-shops), in order to
keep his mother and sister from the poor-house.
Some of the frothy “ ’9B ” enthusiasm might surely
be diverted to the relief of the mother of a man
who, in his own way, fought as hard for Ireland
as any of the heroes of the pike and blunderbuss.
t Two passages from Henry Gyles Turner’s
“ General Sketch of Australian Literature ” :
Concern tig Farrell’s ‘ ‘ llow ~
He Died," p. 44. Concerning Lawson, p. 48.
“But, thouifh the piece “. .. he has written s->me
that gives the title to the verses with the genuine fire
book is quite as good as any in them, quite distinctly
of the work of his later better than any which Far-
compeers ” -Paterson, Law- rell or Paterson have pub-
son, and Dyson—“and one lished.”
or two of the minor poems
rise to a much h gher level
—it did not command a
sufficient success,’ &e.
Now, what does the gentleman mean ?
Some of the ’9B men transported to Botany
and Van Diemen’s Land : John Hayes, of
Vaueluse, who banished the snakes from his
grounds by laying down a barrier of Irish earth
specially imported for the purpose. Holt, who
was afterwards suspected of inspiring the “ revo-
lution” of Pennant Hills. Henry Despard, who
escaped, and was killed in fight against the Eng-
lish in the Peninsula. Dry, father of Richard
Dry, Premier of Tasmania. Tony Brady,
Cock of the North, who died in Sydney in the
sixties, aged 91 years. Arthur Carew, who lived
some years of his exile in Northern Tasmania, and
whose sentence was afterwards remitted. He
went home and died on his estates. These are
a few of many who have, apparently, been for-
gotten.
Eleanor Marx Aveling (a daughter of Karl
Marx), who has suicided in London, was one of
the ugliest women the writer has met, and one of
the most interesting. She was fat, floppy, and
thick-featured, with coarse, dark hair, and she
wore spectacles. She was fearfully and wonder-
fully learned. She was the first translator of
Ibsen’s “Lady From the Sea,” and did many
other translations for the publishers, for which she
got no credit and not much cash. When writer
knew her she lived with Dr. Edward Aveling
(author of ‘ The Student’s Darwin ” and scientific
and socialist books) in some offices fitted up as
living rooms in Chancery Lane. Aveling is a
gnomish little man with a big head and huge
goggle eyes, who at one time had the reputation
of being the best scientific teacher in London.
Recently-deceased Tommy Wells, of Melb.
Argus, had a pathetic experience connected with
his writing-up a small-pox scare. Tommy had
visited the infected ships and interviewed the
medical men who had treated the patients, but
not till his copy was filed did it strike him that
he himself might bo carrying about small-pox in-
fection. As a model husband, Tommy cou’d not
stay away from home that night, but neither could
he run the risk of introducing the dread disease to
his own fireside, so he compromised by getting
over the back-fence, stripping himself in the fowb
house, and hanging up his suspected garments on
the clothes-line. But hereupon awoke Wells’s
faithful watchdog, and, not recognising his master
in the “altogether,” went so vigorously for his
legs that Tommy was forced to take to the roof of
the woodshed, and there spent a very bad quarter
of an hour before he succeeded in convincing the
inconvenient tyke of his identity.
The Mayor of Melbourne
has discovered “an Australian
twang, which is not a pleasant
one.” Well, it seems to have
originated in the land of Donald
Malcolm M‘Eacham, anyhow.
AT THE POLICE COURT.
J.P. (to d unk) : “ You are fined five shillings or
seven days.”
DRUNK : “All ri’; yer can find me for seven days !”
A recent “feeler” as to what N.S.W.
public men would appreciate a C.M.G. at next
Court delivery, elicited from one Minister
the reply that he didn’t think anyone but a ser-
vitor at Government House, «r a Parliament
House waiter, would now accept the distinction.
From a recent Saturday’s Age :
A pathetic little incident occurred in connection with
the first drawing-room of the season, which was held by
the Queen in person on Friday last. For the first time
her Majesty wore large gold-rimmed spectacles, through
which she regarded the ladies who made their obeisance
before her.
But “ large gold-rimmed spectacles ” aren’t neces-
sarily “ pathetic.” They are only Chinese.
Dear B. —He that uninteresting cable
about Lord Rosebery scratching his horses. Per-
haps the cableman knew that Rosebery has two
uncles in Queen-land —the Primroses. One of
them is a stock-and-station agent in Toowoomba,
the other runs a mineral-water factory in Brisbane
—in fact, is the proprietor of Helidon Spa. The
children of the former are the “deceased expecto-
rate ” of Rosebery.—A.
Told of Melb. Herald Winter that when
a fastidious young reporter brought him a copy
of the paper liberally ornamented with ink-marks,
he wanted to know “ what all this blanky mess
meant?” “Those, Mr. Winter, indicate where
commas have been omitted from my work.”
“ Commas !” roared Sam, with a bang upon the
table. “ D nit all, sir—do you thiuk we’re
printing a blanky Bible ! ”
Thomas Joseph Byrnes, aged 38, is the
youngest Premier in Australia. He obtained a
seat in Q. Leg. Assembly only five years ago,
having previously sat as a nominee in the Council.
“ In my day,” old Parkes used to say, “gentlemen
sat in the Assembly 10 and 12 and 14 years before
they ambitioned the acceptance of a portfolio ;
now they hardly warm their seats before they
reach out for the Premiership.”
One dark and stormy night, old Jack
Robertson, making for the Watson’s Bay boat,
fell into the water. “What's that?” cried the
skipper of the steamer, hearing the splash. “ The
blanky Government, blank your eye!” puffed
John, holding on to a pile! “Look alive!”
They hauled the old hoy out, rubbed him down,
and gave him a drink. “All right, my dear
fellows,” said he. “ The country’s saved. But it
had a damn near chance of being swamped that
time.”
At Sydney Temperance Hall, the other
night, Mrs. Harrison Lee, the water-spoutist,
instanced Edison, Nansen, and others as warriors
of the teetotal cause, notable examples of the
effects of cold-tea. Which is about as reasonable
as it would be to cite Bismarck as an instance of
the virtues of much beer and boundless tobacco.
And since Edison—like Bismarck—is a “chain-
smoker”—smokes all the times, that is, and lights
each (green) cigar front the butt of its predecessor
—The Bulletin fails to see why every other man
shouldn’t be allowed to select his own particular
line of intemperance.
John Donnelan Balfo, who was connected
with the ’4B trouble in ould Ireland (on the Govt,
side), catne out to Tasmania to push his fortunes.
He was a fine speaker, and went in for politics
when the little island got her constitution. And,
of course, to begin with, he was always in opposi-
tion. On one occasion he inveighed against the
“ bribery and corruption ” of the Government.
At which T. D. Chanman, then Premier, retorted :
“ It is hardly fair, Air. Speaker, for the honorable
member to employ his expert knowledge in bribery
and corruption in an attack upon the Government.
The honorable member bears the reputation—l
know not how justly—of having employed his un-
doubted talents as a spy for the British Govern-
ment during the reeent rebelli >n in Ireland. The
instinct may be still strong within him. But he
will find no room for its employment in this coun-
try. The gentleman would, therefore, do well to
educate his abilities in the direction of honorable
pursuits.” It sounded like an 18th century
speech. But it shut up Balfe for some time.
Old Jack Robertson had a healthy dislike
of official pomp or ceremony. One time, he ac-
companied the then Governor on a New England
trip. Half-a-dozen troopers were on escort duty.
Jack noticed that the horses fretted a good deal —
the clang and clatter of the troopers’ swords and
accoutrements made them nervous—so lie halted
the drag. “Look here,” he snuffled, to the officer
in charge, “just you have j'our men unsling those
blanky fire-irons, and put ’em in the drag. Then
your horses won’t worry, and I sha’n’t swear my
soul to tatters.” Then to the Governor, “ I’ve
been longing, your Excellency, for a chance to
relieve my feelings.” “Go ahead, Mr. Robert-
son,” said Hercules R., “ I know how you feel.”
One who declared himself to be “the only
living member of the Burke and Wills exploring
expedition” asked Wellington (M.L.) Benevolent
Trustees for help, the other day. Francis—that
was the name given by the tall and elderly sur-
vivor—said that he lately shook 12 years N.S.W.
dust off his weary feet. Thirty-three years ago he
had sojourned in Victoria, and 25 years ago he
was in M.L. His legs and his heart had given out
in Sydney. He knew Soddon, Jock M'Kenzie
and Carroll in the long ago. The trustees gave
the old man a rest in the Ohiro Home pending
further enquiries. Apropos, there are as many
“ sole survivors ” of the Burke and Wills party as
there are of the Balaclava charge. The official
list of the original party is as follows: R. O’H.
Burke (leader), G. J. Landells, W. J. Wills, Thos.
Beckler, Ludwig Beekler, C. Ferguson, T.
M‘Donough, W. Patton, Patrick Langan, Owen
Cowan, W. Brake, R. Fletcher, Jno. King, Hy.
Crocker, Jno. Drakeford. The names of Wright
and Grey do not appear, as they joined the party
after they had started. The hero of the above
par. may also have done so, but •‘here is no record
of the fact.
“The story goes,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, “that the present Duke
of Portland is Sidney George Druce, of Sydney,
N.S.W. The matter has been made public here
with the duke’s name omitted, and a grave is to
be opened in Highgate Cemetery to see if a cer-
tain coffin contains a roll of lead instead of a
mouldering skeleton. Here is the tale : The sth
Portland duke, Wm. Jno. Cavendish-Bentinck,
is supposed to have led a double life as Thomas
Charles Druce. C. hyphen 8., unmarried, died
without issue in 1879, when the great-grandson of
the 3rd duke, a penniless officer in the Guards,
succeeded, through three sudden deaths in eight
months, to the estates and title. T.C.D. lived
with a woman for years, and several illegitimates
were born ; then married her, and a month or so
afterwards a son Walter arrived, prior to the sup-
posed death of his father. Walter married, and
the twenty-one-year-old had in Sydney is his heir.
T.C.D. is supposed to have been buried in 1564;
C-B. died in 1579, and fairly circumstantial
evidence points to the two being one. T.C.D.
was the owner of the Baker-street Bazaar, Pad-
dington; frequently disappeared for varying
periods, was eccentric, and underneath the house
were various tunnels he had made in the earth.
C-B. almost lived in the subterranean passages he
had constructed all over his estate, was supposed
“ TRAIN A CHILD UP."
“ And what are you thinkin ’ of doin’ with Willie
here?"
AGED COINER: “ Well —I were a-th inking to send
him to the Mint to learn the trade.”
to be mad, and obliterated his personality at un-
certain times to those who knew him. T.C.D.
and C-13. had close relations and many financial
dealings with each other, of which proofs exist.
The opening of the grave awaits arrival of Sidney
Druce at his majority to make the formal appli-
cation as the only rightful heir. A goodly narra-
tive; though without the cement of much minor
detail it may appear to lack cohesion. However,
it will be a healthy thing to shake up the present
holder a bad sportsman, close-fisted, and present
possessor of Carbine ! ”
4.
The two patriots, Dwyer and Davis, whose
remains will take star parts in N.S.W. 170 S cele-
bration, pursued totally different ways of living
when transported to Botany Bay. Dwyer, in Ire-
land, was a fighter, an irreconcilable, irrepressible
rebel, ready to go to any extremes in the teeth of
British rule; but, on landing at Botany Bay, he
donned a mild, genial, peace-loving manner, was
strictly observant of the rules of the System, and
respectful and docile to the representatives of
authority. In a short time he obtained a ticket-
of-leave, won the esteem of those over him, and
was appointed to a Govt, billet. Davis, on the
other hand, who never really struck a blow in
Ireland but was accused of making pikes for the
insurgents, and whose temper had been uniformly
mild, exhibited on arrival at Botany Bay a con-
tumacious contempt for local ordinances and for
all who tried to enforce them. He frequently ex-
ploded into fierce defiance, and was several times
triced up and flogged. Although he afterwards
prospered in business and became wealthy, he
never took to the Government, nor the Govern-
ment to him.


“ THREE GOOD THIOTGS ”
. . Madh in England. . .
Holbrook’s w ™'" hi ” Sauce
Holbrook’s Pure English Pickles
Holbrook’s Vinegar
"68 PRIZE MEDALS."
Holbrook’s Sauce h *s been awarded more Prize Medals
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook's Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
IS BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “PURE MALT.”
COMMON AND LOW-PRICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
FRAINTZ JOSEF .
3?ILSE PJ SR
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
Aboriginalities.
Our doctor and a huge bushman had been
“on the tear ” for some days before they had a
row, which reached that stage at which the bush-
man demanded an apology. “ ’Pology, pology,”
said the doctor, whiskily. “ See you d d
first.” Then as he saw the man of timber draw-
ing off to strike—“ Tell you wot I will do f’ you,
ole chap. I’ll pull couple o’ teeth f’ you ! ” The
large man from the country looked at him with the
trembling eye of a week’s continual firewater.
“ Right y’are ; that’ll do. Yer got to do some-
thing,” and then, arm-in-arm, the apologist and
the apologee reeled up the street to the surgery.
“ Now,” said the doctor, with a hoarse laugh, “ is
there any ’ticular tooth y’ want to get rid of.”
“No; pull away. They’re all ’bout the same!”
They were, as a matter of fact, all perfect. The
doc. grabbed his rusty forceps, and after five
minutes’ hard graft he triumphantly waved in the
air, which was thick with bush-blasphemy, a per-
fect molar. “Now which one’ll you have out
next ? ” The doctor had tasted blood. “ No,
no,” gasped the burly one. “No more, no more.”
“Right y’are. Come on,” said the doo. And
then the affair, like everything else in Australia,
ended in filling ’em up again.
* * * ♦
W.K.A. . ‘ The silent pass and shake of
the matchbox are universal in the bush. Probably
done to attract attention, for bushmen are silent
in their ways. Bush mates never bid each other
‘goodnight’ or ‘good morning,’ save, perhaps,
when they find themselves in a strange hotel, and
then they do it for sympathy. A bushman will
go through the farce of cutting up a pipe of
imaginary bacca; and his mates know at once he
is short of the requisite. Most bushmen turn into
blanket-bed before they take their hats off; and I
knew a squatter whose town house was a little
palace, who never went upstairs to bed without his
bat on. The real bushman is clean when he
LOST—AND GIVEN OVER.
JONES: “’Cuse me—sir —stranger lost anything—told ask—
policeman!”
POLICEMAN XXX: “ Certainly, sensible man, sur; wot ’ave you
lost?”
J ONES (crying): “My wife, sir. Dead—t wo—years!”
(Fined 53.)
hasn't got to shampoo himself with sand in lieu of
water. It is only the make-believe, sundowning
fraud of a tussocker (Maoriland expression of con-
tempt) who never washes. Compared with a
towny’s phrases the language of the bushman is
short and to the point: ‘The billy boils,’‘ wire
in,’or ‘sign your name,’ ‘turn out,’ and ‘turn
in,’‘are you fit?’ ‘ spello, O,’ ‘roll up,’ ‘s’long,’
‘ g’day,’ ‘ hold hard,’ and ‘ blanky.’ ”
* * * *
Cattle up on the North Coast, N.S.W.,
are fond of chewing bones, doubtless on account
of some constituent —probably lime—lacking in
the pasturage. I remember seeing a beast killed
up that way, in the paunch of which was found a
piece of the shinbone of a bullock, about 4in. long,
and into the hole in the bone was jammed another
piece about 2in. long. The whole was polished as
smooth as a billiard-ball, and dyed a green color
from the juice of the animal’s daily food. In an-
other case, a cricket-ball was found in the stomach
of a bullock, in a hardly recognisable condition.
The station-hands used to practise cricket occa-
sionally, and one mighty smiter had lifted the
ball far and high into the adjoining paddock, when
the bullock, it was supposed, had been attracted
by the saltish taste of the ball, and had swallowed
it holus-bolus.—Alia.
* * * *
An idea of what “Sturt’s stony desert,”
far north-west N.S.W., is like after seasonable
rain. At the middle of February one station was
cutting mulga to keep life in its stock. Before the
end of March, five weeks afterwards, that station
was cutting Mitchell grass, 3ft. 6in. high, and
stacking it!
* » * *
One more for the yellow man. A Chow,
who was getting some building-timber out at a
Riverina pine-mill, asked the manager to lay him
on to a good carpenter to put up his fan-tan em-
porium. “ Why you not get your own country-
men ?” he was asked—“ plenty Chinese carpenters
in Narandera.” “No feah,” said John, ; “my
countlee carpentler too muchee deah, want ’em l l
pong, 16 pong—no savee ! Englee man want ’em
5 pong—6 pong—put ’em all up. You savee? ”
* * » *
There is a queer cairn at Marthavale,
Gippsland (Vic.), built by an old miner. Some
years back this man and a mate worked on the
river bank, paddocking. There was a slip, and
Croft was smothered. Holmes, his mate, worked
in the district for many years afterwards, and
never passed the scene of the accident without
dropping a stick upon the spot. Eighteen years
accumulations now stand as a monument over the
departed Croft, and the pile is reverenced by resi-
dents, and of late years has been dignified as the
habitat of a moody spook that sits on top for ever
filling a spectral pipe with spiritual “ toby.”
* * * *
Werri: Record tramps.
An old Warrego battler,
known as the “ Rainmaker,”
in one day trudged from
Eulo to Cunnamulla, a good
50 miles ; but he couldn’t re-
peat it the second day. A
little man named Sam Smith
stepped the 45 miles from
Deniliquin to Echuca in 9|
hours, with a 281 b. swag, a
bottle of whisky, and one of
his own dampers. And a
digger, hurrying to Tiboo-
burra specking field, in one
day went from Hungerford
to Hamilton’s Hut (Q. bor-
der), a hard 67 miles. His
load was a digger’s pick,
shovel, dish, billy, tucker,
and a camp-oven.
♦ * *
Lever and Steet were
working in an open-cut up
the hill where the granite
was hard and much “shoot-
ing ” was necessary. Larry,
a little, old, hard-faced Mile-
sian, was fossicking lower
down near the creek, and ab-
solutely refused to stand from
under when a charge was
touched off. If a splinter or
two of rock kicked up the
clay in his vicinity, Larry
simply turned, shook his fist,
and hurled curses up the hill
at Lever and his mate. One
afternoon Steet called out to
Larry, as usual, advising him
to get under cover, and
Larry, as usual, took no no-
tice, but bent over his mortar
and went on dollying, sulkily
ind ifferent. The fuse “ spat, ”
the dynamite kicked, and
junks of granite began to
move round, and Lever and
Steet, who always kept one
scared eye in Larry’s direc-
tion, saw a lump of metal as
big as a shoe-trunk hurtling
down-hill, making a bee-line
for the veteran. A wild yell
went up, but at the same
moment Larry and the mis-
sile disappeared over the em-
bankment together. Then
the mates, corpse-colored and
horrified, rushed down the
declivity to gather up the
mangled remains, and were
met by Larry, who came climbing over the
bank purple and dancing mad. “ I’ll have the
lore on yez ! I’ll have the lore on yez, so I will! ”
he shrieked. “ Look here, blast yez ! ye’ve broke
me poipe ! ”
♦ * * *
Young lady engaged to station-manager—
good fellow, but trifle “swift” in some ways.
Would-be bride’s sister, local medico’s wife,
doesn’t like match, and, having “ heard some-
thing,” induces sister to seek invitation for both to
intended’s homestead. This is duly secured, but
manager, while driving ladies out, smells a rat;
and, immediately upon reaching destination, slips
round to back premises and has talk with half-
caste girl with child in arms—nearly white, and
red hair like manager’s. Whispered conversation
closes with girl’s assurance that she understands
BOOKED IN ADVANCE.
MISS BUSTER (tartly) : “ I’m engaged for this dawnce.”
PERKINS (who cannot raise a partner all the evening): “May I have the
next?”
MISS B.: “ I’m engaged for that, too; and my programme's full.”
PERKINS : “Are you engaged for the next ball?”
what is required of her. When the two ladies are
being shown round, Mrs. Doctor isn t long' in
spotting what she’s looking for. “ Dear me,
Mary ! ” (to sister, but with one eye on the
manager) “what a dear little baby! And how
white it is! Child” (to half-caste), “does that
baby belong to you?’ “ Oh, yes! This one
belonga me.” “Indeed!” (with .another keen
glance at the boss). “ And where is the poor little
thing’s father ? ” “Dis one’s farder ?” answered
the artless “ child.” “Oh ! he no live here. This
feller belonga Missa you know!—docta
belonga township ! ” Curtain !
* * * *
“ Seven by Seven ” :• —
Dear Bullrtin.—“6 x B’s” recent remarks re cheap
labor, particularly among shed-hands, are quite correct,
The way that a man who takes contract work pays those
who actually do it is simply scandalous. I have travelled
all N.S. Wales, and have found the thing worst in New
England. For instance, at one shed I found the shearers
getting the current figure— viz., LI per ton. There were
six rouseabouts, and the boss had cooking for these, at
10s. a week, a man who had also in his spare time to roll,
unroll, and sweep, to say nothing of drafting, branding,
and penning-up and shepherding. The brother of tins
“ rousers’ ” cook had 12s. fid. per week for driving the
station team of 20 bullocks, and taking the wool to the
railway-station. He had a wife and six children to keep.
The owner of this station was worth i 100,000,'and had
come- to the locality 20 years previously humping his
bluey. Now he has one of the finest pastoral properties
in New England.
* * * *
With full grey beard, turned-
down tieless collar and broad-
brimined hard hat, detective J. 0.
Carter, of Russell - street barracks
(Melb.), is the greatest “take-down”
of all the city detectives. He is a
brother of W. T. C., formerly Vie.
M.L.A., and now engineering the
Carter torpedo in London, and is
one of the oldest Gippsland natives
extant. In his youth, Carter was
the victim of a unique accident.
Riding a vicious buckjumper, he
was leaning back in the orthodox
way when the prad in some mysteri-
ous fashion managed to kick him on
the back of the head ! The pros-
pective d. had a near squeak for
his life, and half his off-duty time at
Russell-street is spent in trying to
make his colleagues swallow the
yarn.
* * * *
“Grip ” to The Bulletin :
At the Svdney depot for the conversion
of cornstalks into mounted constables, a
system prevails which is as much out of
date as a Botany Bay bushranger. It is
possibly all right, by way of letting the
gas out of a raw, up-country recruit, with
a record for sitting anything that can
buck, to tell him straight that “he can’t
ride.” But the mounted drill, upon a
special steed with cast-iron fetlock and
steel-set sinews, and without stirrups, is
an eye-opener even to experienced bush
riders ; while the sword exercise, by
reason of the strain on hitherto untaxed
muscles, is often a terror to an other-
wise athletic man. And when to these
delights are added unnecessary brutality
of address, and raucous and continuous
bad language—the effect on the recruit is
often complete disgust, and “chuck-it.”
Much good material is thus lost, for the
probationer has not only to be personally
of good character but must also be tho-
roughly reputable in his connections.
Also, when the country—pretty »teep country, too
—of the Clarkes and Connells was swarming with
troopers (heavily handicapped, certainly), it was con-
temptuously declared by the native local gully-rakers
(crosses of centaur and yahoo) that a large percentage of
the mounted police couldn’t “ sit ” worth a cent in
timber, or on the ranges—with the foe in front. And
now says disgusted young bushie, full-up of the “ fooree
“Talked at ’sif we was dogs! If some of the Belmore
bosses ever find themselves up our way, we’ll show ’em
what riding is ! ” Anyway, so far as Young-male Aus-
tralia-city or backblocks-is concerned, a course of in-
struction in cuss-words and general blanky is entirely
superfluous. A judicious blend of strict discipline, indis-
pensable in the semi-military organisation, with such
consideration as is consistent with a civil constitution—
and the suffrage—would soon substitute a cheerful esprit
de corps for the present prevailing dissatisfaction.
Ballarat Benevo-
lent Asylum is at
present undergoing a
weeding - out of in-
mates. A few weeks
back somebody found
that, while the aged
and indigent Cauca-
sian was either sub-
sisting on cabbage-
stalks or importuning
the police to “bag”
him, 60 per cent, of
the inmates of the
local Benevolent
Asylum were Chows
—and 40 per cent, of
them young and hale.
For years past it ap-
pears the Chinese
coterie has been
pushing in all its
members who were
getting too old to
work 20 hours a
day, and so easy did
they find the billets
allotted them that
many of the more
youthful Chows es-
sayed to follow their
example. Life in a
Caucasian charitable
institution was reck-
less luxury compared
with the lot of the
. Chow in China, and
even a bit ahead of
the usual Chinese
camp life in Austra-
lia, and had it not
been for about 7000
Chinese charging
down in a body on
the institution and
making an unholy
row because they
weren’t admitted,
their compatriots
would probably be
owning the asylum
unto this day.
* *
It’s common enough in the West to see
men and horses with their eyes bunged from the
attacks of the venomous little black fly that
imagines it has a right to make his nest in your
organ of vision. This year, however, has brought
forth the novel phenomenon of kangaroos afflicted
in the same way—even to the extent of positive
blindness. The luxuriant vegetation of an un-
usually wet season lias brought out the flies in
wonderful vigor and numbers.
——
Queensland’s new Premier—Hon. Tommy
Byrnes—is one of the few front-rank Australasian
politicians who have never tasted the bitters of
Opposition. In no sense has he fought his way to
the front, Pitchforked into the Leg. Council as
Solicitor-General —to secure the R.C. vote for the
Ministry of the day—-he was equally fortunate in
gliding into the Assembly for a sleepy pocket-
borough. The only stunning blow he has received
was at last general election, when Brisbane re-
jected him in favor of a commonplace, inarticulate
Scotsman named Fraser. All the same, Byrnes
is one of the most eloquent, capable, and pro-
mising mi'll in Australia, and his career —-should he
be allowed to have a career—as Premier will be
worth watching. And he is only 38 years old.
The selection of Tomjoe Byrnes as Nevermind
Nelson’s successor may yet burst the Q[. Coali-
tion bladder, in which event the noise will bo
Mr. T. J. BYRNES, the new Q. Premier.
Photo., The Wiley Studio, Brisbane.
heard and the stink felt afar off. Few of Banana-
land’s prominent politicians can afford to indulge
in personalities. Anyhow, it is pretty certain
that the squatter-huckster-boomster crowd in Q.
Leg. Council and Assembly won’t stand Byrnes at
any price—he is with them but not of them.
Under the circumstances, Byrnes’ first duty is to
appeal to the people ; but, seemingly, he isn’t
game. Anyway, if he gets a chance to keep in
power, The Bulletin hopes he’ll turn over a new
political leaf. He is intimately associated with,
perhaps, the most discreditable political gang this
country has known; and if, for the credit of
young Australia, he ever means to go straight, it
s quite time he began.


The Right Hon. GEORGE THORN,
Ex-Premier and Veteran Parliamentarian,
Emphatically Recommends the Use of
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
Parliament House,
Brisbane, Nov. 26, 1897.
“ It gives me great pleasure in renewing my
testimonial respecting the efficacy of Warner’s
Safe Cure. Since I gave you the last testimonial
I have recommended the medicine to many
friends, and they one and all say they have de-
rived great benefit from it, especially those suf-
fering from kidney and liver troubles.”
(Hon.) George Thorn, M.P.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post i/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
TROUBLE IN HIGH LIFE.
Ogden’s Guinea Gold cigarettes are short on the
market; our gilded youths won’t be happy till
they get some again.*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
PRES BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B MOTJNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
X
SoftCaO'/as Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO'- per through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
v
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIK K It ROTH. KRS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
Business, Bobbery , etc.
The man who waits his chance to get even is in
evidence among the cashiers of big Sydney emporiums.
Sometimes during a rush he is “ woodened ” with a bad
or “holey” coin, and when a coin of same face value
comes along he pops in the cronk one instead and returns
it to the counter as no good, and the customer generally
parts up with a good one, although he swears by his gods
he hadn’t noticed anything wrong with it. Neither had
the counter girl, but she doesn’t emphasise the fact much.
* * * *
The sly-grog-shanty-keepers of inland Victoria
set at defiance the itinerary policeman who, it turns out,
has no power to interfere with them ; the excise officer
(Customs) being the only person entitled to act. Right
through from Warrnambool to Croagingolong there are
hundreds of distilleries, the owners of which are known
to the police, who daily swag the liquor warm from the
still, but the special detective can secure no convictions,
the “ bush telegraph ” being so effective that detection is
next to impossible. Melbourne liquor-sellers don’t supply
a tenth of the whisky drunk in the country districts, and
1 lie illicit local distillers are providing a good and palat-
able spirit underselling and undercutting almost 50
per cent., and making profit big enough to cover a possible
rattling fine. The local resident very rarely gives the
cronk distiller away; and when he does, he generally
suffers severely in his belongings—whether by the act of
God or of man he never finds evidence to prove.
* * • *
Vic. tradesmen, especially tailors, who for years
past have fattened upon garnishee orders in compelling
debtors to ante-up, have lately received ugly shocks.
Schools, in fact shoals, of travellers have inundated Govt,
and other offices, soliciting orders on easy (verbal) terms
for clothing or anything else the victim could be cajoled
to contract for : the bed-rock of recovery being the gar-
nishee order. These latter compulsory liquidations have
become so numerous and regular that the heads of depart-
ments (in which the debtors were employed) have, at last,
kicked at the extra labor imposed upon them of being
transformed into debt-collectors, and the creditors are
being quickly snuffed out, by a very simple process. A
garnishee order is only operative at the hour the salary is
due. If the order be served upon the boss before that
time he simply notifies the creditor to lift the same, other-
wise a summons to compel him to do so will at once be
issued. That is knock-out No. 1, but the smash on the
solar plexus is the bogus mortgaging by the underling, or
sub, of his salary for any amount he pleases to his boss ;
this puts him well on velvet. And that is how a clerk at
30s. a week somehow manages to dress at the rate of a
thousand a year
• • * *
Arthur :—“ If it were possible to analyse ‘ the
strength ’ of some of the principal firms in the wholesale
Australian trading community, it would be found that
sectarian funds have, to a great extent, supplied their
capital. Both a big hardware and a big preserving firm
rely almost wholly on Wesleyan investments at 6
per cent, per annum. It is quite common pro-
perty that the commonweal of a strange (and un-
canny) religious community is almost entirely de-
pendent upon the profits made by a timber biz.; whilst a
very prosperous Wesleyan grocery house carries a heavy
liability to the firm’s co-religionists, and two staunch
Orange timber-merchants stand almost wholly upon the
investments made in their business by R.O. institutions.
Three big Australian softgoods firms have either ‘deno-
minational ’ money invested in their undertakings or owe
their success to the founders of their businesses having
originally identified themselves with those religious
denominations that had the most loaves and fishes to
distribute at the time. The writer advises the young
commercial ‘ gent ’ (softgoods people alone address firms as
‘gents.’ Why, Heaven alone knows !) who wants to get
ahead not to go either west or to Klondike. Be a Baptist,
a Presbyterian, or a Wesleyan. Better still! Wear your
hair long, cover it with a curious and original hat. Swill
tea in public and found a sect of your own !! ! You’ll
assuredly be able, if you choose, to guzzle fizz in private
and in jolly and pretty company, too! Recollect! ye
embryo ‘ gents,’ that 500 or 5000 religious cranks —even in
this limited community—await exploitation by any
shrewd person who has ‘ nous ’ enough to run the reli-
gious racket on commercial principles.”
• * * *
The intending absconder was “ spotted ” by a
man to whom he owed a few hundreds and who called
loudly for the policeman and ordered him to take the
other in charge. “ Can’t do it without a warrant,” said
the cop. “ But you must,” said the other ; “ the steamer
sails in 10 minutes.” “ Impossible without a warrant, sir.”
Then (aside), “Hit him in the eye, you fool, and I’ll
run both of you in for rioting.” No sooner said than down
went the absconder to a “ wattlesnoozer ” that knocked
him right across the deck. But he was on his feet in a
moment, dancing about out of the other’s reach with his
hands behind his back and shouting, “ Take that
ruffian in charge for assault, and I’ll appear against him
TATTLE JOHNNTS DILEMMA .
MISS MURPHY (our nursemaid) : “ D'ye hear wot I says to ye—if' yer not gain' in, come OUT!”
to-morrow.” “ Very sorry, sir,” said Robert, as lie lugged
the aggressor off to chokey, “but the chap has tumbled
to vour game in more ways than one.”
* * * *
The people of a certain Australian city are
cursing the cast-iron impudence of a local daily in yelping
against municipal introduction of electric-lighting and
street wood-blocking. They note that the paper’s public-
spirited chairman of directors is a very large gas share-
holder. Wood-blocking would necessitate the removal of
the gas-mains to the footpaths. “La publique—c’est
moi!"
Rap • “ Attorney-General Isaacs’ new Vic. in-
solvency Act (much patched and damaged by the House
of 48 Rich Landlords), which only came into force on 1/1/98,
has already been found unworkable in its present form. It
is now officially notified that the Act will shortly be ‘repub-
lished in a revised form.’ Three of the leading Vic.
assignees, recently interviewed by writer, candidly admit
that as the Act stands at present, they ‘ dunno where
they are.’ Insolvency Judge Molesworth acknowledged, a
couple of months ago, in effect, that he would have to
take some time to find the true solutions of the innumer-
able problems with which the Act bristles. But, ye gods !
what a magnificent Eldorado this Act will be for the
lawyers who are fortunate enough to have wealthy and
unscrupulous clients, game enough to go bung on liabili-
ties (say) £lOO,OOO and assets nil.’ To an outsider, it
looks exactly as though the new Act had been specially
framed for the sustenance of the numberless * gents one ’
who, for lack of clients, are now acting as ,i hers on the
Stock Exchange or as backers of horses J. ponies at
every suburban race-meeting.”
» • * ♦
A curious will was the subject of application to
Mr. Justice Cooper t’other day in Brisbane. In the afore-
said will 1 -tator had left spaces for the amounts of
several legacies and the names of the legatees, but had
never filled them up. The only persons named in the
will were the executors, and one of them having declined
to act, the whole of the testator’s property, £6OO, fell to
the other.
• * * *
The U.S. Commission which President M'Kinley
appointed to go across and endeavor to secure Europe’s
attendance at a bimetallic conference having failed
utterly, the ’Murkan silver party is now going bald-
headed for independent action, and Bryan (according to
present arrangements) is to run for the Presidency on the
ticket. Moreover, Senate elections recently inspire the
silver party with hope. Barring Moreton Frewen and a
few others, however, English bimetallists stand out for in-
ternational action or none at all.
* • * *
Up to about ’93, Britain had practically a
monopoly in the production of the world’s tin-plate. In
that year, owing to the protection afforded by the M'Kin-
ley tariff, the industry was started in the U.S., with the
result that last year they turned out about 450,000,0001b5.
of tin-plates, a - 45 p.c. advance over the production of
’96. The mills in England and Wales are suffering even
to the point of extinction.
More waist less speed.
In a Brisbane oyster saloon window: “Crabs
and cleanliness ; curried prawns and civility.*
Zola is to have in prison a comfortable
room, good food, wine, tobacco, and leave to see
his wife and friends and to write as much as lie
pleases. This state of things should add another
book to his list
“ E. & 0.E.” pours out his wrath :
Dear Bulletin.— “Q.’s” splenetic outpouring about
Australian artists as a body, is clearly the outcome of a
bias against individuals. His little tilt at mannerisms
bewrays him a dweller in Philistia, else would _he recog-
nise in the Beardsley fringe an effective sornmier 'gainst
the axe of criticism, and appreciate the wear-prolonging
effect of a large, flowing bow on an already-dimmed
dicky. “ Q.” prates about lack of “ pluck and patience.”
Has he ever tried subsistence for weeks on one meal a
day ? —bananas specially recommended for cheapness and
filling-out properties. Artists don’t advertise their daily
menus, but when in reminiscent mood one may hear per-
haps of a prize-taker who has lived for two years on
apples and brown bread—object, to save enough to get
’Ome; or of another who never dared stay in school
at lunch-time lest his stomach should cry out and shame
him. Such minor matters as clothes, tobacco, and an
occasional beer are better left to professional secresy. As
for rent, the genuine art student never pays rent. “ The
high and mighty pretend that it is beneath their dignity
to live by their art,” says “Q.” What about such one-
time art students as Longstaff, Fox, Mackennal, Bunny,
Quinn, and Oates? Didn’t they live by their art ? At any
rate, they existed. And the Little Billees exist. Also, they
exist by journalistic work. “Q.” conveniently overlooks
the difference in age and experience between Minns,
Streeton, or Spence and the students of whom he is a
self-constituted critic. Let him count how many local
openings there are for black-and-white work. The Bul-
letin and perhaps Punch. Also let “ Q.” picture Little
Billee anxiously waiting publication-day with consolatory
assurance that if he hasn’t got a drawing accepted his
spare time next week will be- mainly occupied in taking
up the slack of his belt, and then spread his gall in the
direction of so-called leading weeklies which crib from
English papers instead of encouraging local talent. “ Q.”
growls “ because so few of our artists produce any pic-
tures,” and this after exhorting them to subsist on jour-
nalistic work ! Does “Q.” know that success in black-
and-white can only be obtained by unreinittent applica-
tion ? Will he name a first-class artist living by journalistic
work (no limit as to country) who produces pictures
otherwise than spasmodically? “Q.’s” facts are not
facts, and his arguments are self-contradictory. The
artists are all right. Alsu, when the artists complain of
their lot it will be time enough for “ Q.” to criticise. At
present their greatest hardship is that, lacking cash for
models, each in turn has to sit for, and be caricatured by,
his fellows. This means no studies from the nude during
winter.
Curious to think that not the faintest echo
of the tremendous Dreyfus hubbub can have
reached the unfortunate subject thereof in what is
practically his grave —jealously guarded from the
least communication with the outer world, never
hearing a voice except in command, and con-
demned himself to perpetual silence.
Answers to Correspondents .
RESURGAM .
The ship's steward reads over the menu to the afflicted one.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no case will MS. be returned unless stamps
(of any province) accompany.
Jtt.E.D.: The man whose wooden leg was caught
•n the log is too venerable, and the leg is dry-rotted with
years Harrietville :Go and boil yourself down
D.C.F. : Not much use. ..Dorothy Jones: Thanks. .....
B S ’ They were opening a new tennis-court —admis-
sion 6d. —buns and tea-effort to be made to reduce debt
on the church—and the invites concluded with “Yours
in the Master’s service.” The “Master’s service”
covereth a multitude of tough buns S. M. Dell :
Samuel Slick, who cleaned out One-Hoss Camp, is too
American, and too suggestive of Ah Sin and Truthful
Janies Leo: Point as obscure as a lost germ on a
(rreat Alp Kelpie : Man who was fined small sum in
Brazil off our beat Namoi: See “ Wild Oat” column..
The Traveller : Can’t spare 1)4 cols, to describe the small
tin-pots of a one-horse town Facts : There were onl\
100 Chow votes polled altogether at the late municipal elec-
tion and there are more than that number of naturalised
Chinese in theward. So your inference is probably wrong.
R. A.M.: Horrid picture of two naked men received
E A ■ Wallaby-skins are worth from 3s. 6d. to 95., accord-
in'tr to quality; native-bear skins, 4s. 9d. to 65.; and
opossum skins, from Is. to 4s O.A. : Yes; Tillett is
married .Arthur B. : Too amateurish Quam Esse:
Lamentable verse A. Symonds : Nothing in either
Lionel O. (Vic.) : Good yarn, indifferently handled
Morna : Unless you are very young, attempted verse is
sheer waste of time on your part Sam C. : Only 9-carat
aualitv We want at least 18—when we can’t vet pure
void Mary F.S. : Crushed by its own weight. . .Tombo :
Fairiv well written, but interest for only quarter the
length A. D. Bright: Sorry the “ A.D.8.” reference
was not to you. Suggest transposition of imtials-not
necessarily to “ 8.A.D.” Chips : Told of scores o
people D. Capo : You are confounding her with Alboni
—celebrated contralto of 60 years ago A.G. W. : Hope-
less nonsense EnaF. : Would be passable if not loaded
with slabs of hackneyed moralisation Three-Up : What
was the name of it?....F.M‘L.: Top-heavy sort of verse.
Yerrah • No. we printall the bush-liars in the Abonginali-
ties ” column A. Macl. : Old as the hills .....Leslie L. .
Good idea. But vou don’t guarantee its originality
Maori (Inver.): Don’t understand your question as to
“ Wm. Saul.” L.H.L. :No good Anti-nigger Boss ■
■Vasrue and dislocated grievance Ignotus(Maonland) .
Perhaps you would also like us to tell the difference
between a horse and a cow. And you ask us to explain a
balance-sheet which you don’t forward. You don t even
cive the name of the eo. that issues it. What kind of a
humorist are you? Styx : James John Alexander Jones
is under prolonged consideration f alcon Ralphsburgn .
Reiected Mac: Neither new nor good Exile :
T hanks A.H.L. : One navvy called one woman a bad
name, apropos of nothing at all and that s all youi storj.
Britannia : Bad parody, bad rhythm, bad rhyme, bosh,
and melancholy short metre Clermont: Never heard of
such an Act. Advise the publican to leave the matter
alone ...Gamboge: Glad to hear from you again
J.P.C. : Thanks Wiremu : Yes, good. . E. : Your
success in disguising all your writing but that capital B
is pathetic. We could swear to that letter on a thousand
stacks of Bibles. But we bear no malice H.O.C. :He
has no possible chance of entering Parliament. But, as
vou remark, what an opinion he must hold of the men he
expects to vote for him ! Nemo :No use trying to shake
British pietist out of the smug conviction that God has
special eye to his interests Dargo: Good work, but
that theme too well-worn Widgee: ‘Even not point
enough .Banool: Sonnet too didactic for B R.R.
(Vic. f: "Lacks power Haron : “ Bald ” rhymes very
bald. Prose, may print Alley B. : Will consider
L Tin. : Sketch unavailable E.A. : The widow of Adam
Lindsay Gordon married a Mr. Low, an acquaintance of
the poet’s, and has for years been living with her husband
on Glencoe station (S.A.) owned by John and George
Riddoch. Latter was, until recently, one of the M sP. for
the district for which John Riddoch and Gordon formerly
sat as colleagues Stringybark : A good-looking story—
only it has been pointed out that a rabbit always makes
for its own particular burrow Omega : Item mentioned
may turn up any time. Other may use Pagan : Pen-
name already appropriated. Not taking any more fly-bite.
Baldv : Weird tangle of irrelevant sentences Jude:
—•‘the obscure!” Max F.: Improved ; butstill much to
be desired.... Aggie : Small, pale story with a bad cough
D E • The man who compares Beatrice Lamb with Alma
Stanley would be capable of drawing a comparison
between “ Mrs. Tanqueray ” and “ The French Maid.
P.W. : But just imagine what a miracle would be re-
auired to turn your grocer, butcher, baker, milkman, and
tailor into Socialists! Eudo : “ Even the woman who
beguiles the most is beguiled of one B. : That yarn is
a fabrioation-if it doesn’t relate to some very obscure
person. At the theatres nothing is known of the alleged
incident, or any incident like it L. :Is the lady.a
“ beauty ” because she has two children, or did the chil-
dren make her a “beauty”! And can she be called a
Professional Beauty? And what is beauty? Gus :
The ridicule was much too rough to be mistaken, by any
sensible journalist, for the “ booming of a private pal.”
It looks more like a case of baiting a harmless swaggerer
for the amusement of a Oollins-street clique Bisonda :
The gentleman is a holy chameleon C.G. (M.L.) :
Sorry can’t encourage much. You have knack of versifi-
cation, hut commonplace sits too hard on your chest
Charles T. : Not ill-done, but too long for the interest
J. Hutchinson : Letter referred to professional man
Clare : Good idea, tamely treated .... A.J.C. : Not “go”
enough Selwyn M. :No literary flavor Grif : Good
material; handling rather weak 7x7 : Style too casual
and sloppy W. Mac : Badly-mangled yarn only reached
us in time to die Speculator : See “ Wild Cat” column.
H. Fletcher : (1) Tub Bulletin never even spoke of a
possible Chow invasion ; (2) This paper, on the Federa-
tion question, is in line with the Herald, Argus, Murray
Smith and the A.N.A.—which is possibly bad. Also, it is
with Barton, Wise, Kingston, Trenwith, Turner, &c.
And if it took your side it would be in line with Want,
Lyne, Heydon,' the Australian Star, the N.S.W. Leg.
Council, Salomons, Dibbs, Knox, John Haynes, Toohey,
“ Bill ” Long, Jawbone Geebung, and the like—which
would be simply awful. How do you like the awful gang
you are going with? Julian Swift: As you complain
about Tub Bulletin’s support of “ the accursedly asinine
folly misnamed Protection ” the natural assumption is
that you support the leprous and smellful Tory lie mis-
named Freetrade Broad Arrow : Confused yarn
M.M. : The Bulletin sizes up Reid as a neutral in the
matter of Federation—not a friend and not much of an
enemy. And it hasn’t space to waste on him
Jinda : Fancy the linotype had been drinking T. Kirk-
patrick : You aren’t the first man who was struck by the
awful brevity of Wilson Barrett’s Roman petticoat
PC. Cole :' Jackass poem too lengthy J. J. O’M.:
All flat ....W.L. : If you have the pluck you say you have,
can truth harm you? LouisM. : Send along a kiss that
breaks out in a fresh place in a strange way F.W.S.
(W.A.) : Not interest enough R.G.M. : How do you
know “Providence ordains” bush fires? And what is
Providence, anyway ? J.A. (Sydney) : Too like Dyson's
rhyme—and too far off Kyrielle (Moore Park) : Don’t
care for R.E.D. (M.L.) : Possibly part The Rover :
One verse as a warning and a dreadful example to at)
swag bards :
Bob Heusten he accosted me,
That is the.man’s name I think,
To his greeting I did reply
And then asked him for a drink.
Better avoid in future the “several friends ” who told you
The Bulletin was “sure to publish that poem.”
Peroival C. 0. : Five very large poems regretfully rejected.
Naramine : Jumped on as requested B. : There
have been less than a million deaths in N.S.W. since it.
was first settled. And you want us to print a statement
that 2£ million corpses have been buried at Rookwood
alone. Do you reckon 16 corpses to each death—or
w hat? H.'Calthrop : New “sharebroker spider” duly
noted Star (Bathurst) : Hardly good enough
D.G.B. (Kat.) : When we printed those verses on 31st
Oct., '96, they were signed “ 8.E.H.” Now you send ’em
in “because I have been told that The Bulletin is the
best paper that a young writer can appear in.” Well?
A.J.G. : Another contribution waiting in type; and
topic isn’t generally interesting N.S.W. Taxpayer :
Your grievance is that N.S.W. intends snagging the
Murrumbidgee with no other object than to carry N.S.W.
wool down to Echuca, and thence by Vic. railway to
coast, instead of by N.S.W. railway via Junee. If you
vote for Federation you may be able to look at the
matter from an Australian point of view and allow
the Federal Govt, to darn provincial jealousies
M. Mac.: Verses intrinsically commonplace... P.A. :
“ Publican ” not up Toby : To hand Aloes :
“Not up by a good bit Gantibar: The blanky
bush person has been killed in these columns by
fire, pestilence, sudden death, beer, and religion ; and
wattles, gum-boughs, snakes, and Gordon’s poems have
been strewed on his grave. Now, kill him in a new way
and strew something very fresh T.W.L. (Brisb.) : Don’t
know it Yeppoom : The rhyme about the gul you met
in the park is hereby dash-dashed into fragments.


JUST LIKE A WOMAN!
leading N.S.W. lady-suffragist writes to the paper to declare that, if the acceptance of the Convention-bill is to be the price of the immediate concession of Woman-Suffrage, she is prepare to wait.
TOBY BARTON: "Just like a woman! O offer her the pants and a decent conveyance, and she gets up behind Jack Want."


At &°»». inC ed. ,
tft^rr^«^ 9peoa
in connection with this bill. The! had^™®
support the bill With all his’ heart “nfso!^
life
? N|ow , { Qome lo ike
; ( f*r^ y r
/jascocKQ-."^, Q‘4. tr (S' Yy ! ”
art.
The pictured a grey-headed elder, care-
worn in the>endeavor to make church ends
meet, lingering, in front of a stingy brother
and .endeavoring to assume a loving expres-
sion, is not one which encourages the hope
of an immediate .swelling of collections.
piO^My
To gr
J
Jjje
tcjwify
THe 00T »e»evnc
mc si sre».
, In the irrigation settlement of Renmark,
§)in South Australia, there is an hotel con-
ducted by a committee of management
w elected by the ratepayers. The committee,
' which for the first year consisted of the Rev.
H. H. Wyllie, and Messrs. E. B. Oloren-
Ishaw, jam manufacturer; G. W. Reid,
ichemist; J. W. Clark, storekeeper j and C.
J. Ash well, journalist, claim that they have *
dono considerable moral good to the com-
munity. nJK
•- Vsjrtfk/
for' lift /
s^ c ?/
Cer I»jyly . Z'
( Siijce
Nf^iyoeuv^^
IN THE CABBAGE-GARDEN.


Publications, etc.
KTBW MUSIC.
“ Rose of the Morn ” Waltz, by Henry Laski, composer
of My Pollv Waltz ; “ Tops and Bottoms,” a right merry
Barn Dance, by Theo. Bonheur; “La Gracieuse
Mazurka, bv Emile Larkozy , “ Tootsie Wootsie Polka,
by Benjamin Parks. Beautifully illustrated. PRICE 6d.
EACH, of all musicsellers, or the publishers, fr.
I'.t XTON & CO., 19 Oxford Street, London, and
203 Swanston Street, Melbourne. Catalogues (post free)
of over 1000 songs, dance music, &c., at 3d. each.
HENRY FARMERS Operatic selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le 1' We,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “11 Trova-
tore,” “Ees Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., Loudon,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
on
?.»/
imm
/UUU\AA>
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Collections of 1000 varieties
complete, with triangular Cape and
many rarities from all parts world, £2/7/6,
regd'. Grand Lot. Set 40 Japanese, 2s. ;
set 9 Borneo, Is. 6d. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d. ;
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets: 30 differ-
ent, 6d. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. 6d.; 150, ss. ;
postage, 2d. Remit P.O. 0., P. N., or stamps.
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is.
per Post, Is. 3d.
u
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life >
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
Missing Friends.
QAMUEL JEPP, th u Younger, formerly of Yass, N.S.W.,
last hea’rd of at Harden, N.S.W., is entitled to a
legacy under his late father’s will, conditional on the
trustee, before the 23rd JULY, 1898, obtaining positive
evidence that he is alive. Information as to the above-
named to be sent to
H;iLL and SCOTT,
194 Hereford Sti Christchurch, N.Z.
Solicitors for the Trustee.
AYTILLIAM JACKSON, formerly of Askham Bryan, near
VV York, Eng., who arrived in Adelaide, S.A., in 1878
and worked on Port Adelaide railway, is asked, for his
own benefit, to c m mnicate at earliest opportunity with
Symon Bakewell S ow and Piper, Solicitors, Selborne
Chambers, Pirie-street, Adelaide.
The Royal Bank of Australia
X.TM-IT-ED.
tTT! at> omCE: MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
TWENTIETH REPORT.
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 26th April, 1898.
The directors have pleasure in submitting to shareholders the annexed balance-sheet and statement of accounts to
31st March, duly audited and certified. ni
The net profits (including £2,523 Os. 5d., balance brought forward from last half-year) amount to £6,|87 14s ot
which the usual dividend at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum will absorb £2,250, leaving a balance of £4,13< 14s. to De
Ca ‘ l The*business continues to be well-maintained, notwithstanding the severe competition in rates. The cash reserves,
it will be observed, are unusually large, but this is only a temporary feature in connection with exchange
and there is no superabundance of unemployed funds; in fact, the directors have no doubt they can e -
tageously any deposits entrusted to them, and they renew their hope that shareholders will not lose anj 11
of introducing business to the bank either in the way of deposits or advances of a desirable character.
By order of the board.
H. T. WILSON, Manager.
Statefi?cot of Assets aod Liabilities-
BALANCE SHEET,
The Royal Bank of Australia Limited, for the Half-year ending March 31,1898.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —
600,000 of £4 each .. £2,400,000 0 0
To Capital Subscribed—
First issue of 150,000
shares .. .. .. £600,000 0 0
To capital paid-up .. £150,000 0 0
To profit and loss account 6,387 14 0
1 £156,387 14 0
To notes in circulation .. .. .. 8,926 0 0
To bills in circulation .. _ 70,881 13 2
To Government deposits—nil.
To Other Deposits—
Not bearing interest .. £72,030 0 7
Bearing interest .. 170,407 15 3
242,437 15 10
To interest accrued on deposits and rebate
on bills current .. - 2,003 010
£475,636 3 10
To contingent liabilities as per contra .. £78,800 0 0
Or.
ASSETS.
By coined gold and silver
and other coined metal .. £30,663 7 11
By notes and bills of other
banks and stamps .. 365 0 0
By balances due from other
banks 6,910 2 0
By cash at bankers .. .. 65,908 19 2
£102,847 9 1
By bank furniture, fittings, stationery,
etc., at cost, less £391 12s. written off
for depreciation 180 0 0
By real estate, consisting of—
Bank premises—nil.
Other real estate at cost to bank, after
writing off £7,437 for depreciation .. 14,069 8 0
By advances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts 281,435 6 4
By bills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted, not included above, exclu-
sive of provision for bed and doubtful
debts .. .. .. .. .. . • 77,104 0 5
£475,636 3 10
By liabilities and securities of customers
and others in respect of contingent lia-
bilities, as per contra £78,800 0 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries, rent, and other charges .. .. £2,627 1 10
To balance 6,387 14 0
£9,014 15 10
By balance at 30th Sept., 1897 £4,773 0 6
Less dividend declared 27th Oot., 1897 .. 2,250 0 0
By balance carried down .. .. .. £2,523 0 5
By profits for the half-year after deducting-
interest accrued on deposits and rebate
on bills current, less reserves for bad and
doubtful debts 6,491 15 6
£9,014 15 10
We certify that we have audited the above balance-sheet, and that the same is correct. We further certify that
we have not observed nor have we become acquainted during the audit with any breach of the‘‘Companies Acts ”
committed by the company or any director, i. a tager, employed, auditor, or shareholder thereof. We further certify
that all our requisitions as auditors, including our requisitions with regard to the private balance-sheet, have been
complied with.
Melbourne, 7th April, 1898.
THOMAS KIDD, F.S.A.A.
ARTHUR W. CLEVELAND, F.I.A.V.
Auditors.
In the Supreme Court
of Queensland
Mr. Justice Cooper. . .
In the matter of the estate of Christina
McCabe late of South Brisbane in the
Colony of Queensland widow deceased in-
testate between
EWAN McLACHLAN Plaintiff
and
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES
LIMITED Defendants
Pursuant to an order of His Honor The Chief
Justice made in this cause dated the twenty
eight day of February 1898 the persons claiming
to be the next of kin according to the statutes for
the distribution of intestates’ estates of the above-
named Christina McCabe deceased living at the
time of her death on the eleventh day of July 1897
or to be the legal personal representatives of such
of the said next of kin as are now dead are by
their solicitors on or before the first day of October
1898 to come in and prove their claims at the office
of the Registrar Supreme Court House William
street Brisbane or in default they will be peremp-
torily excluded from the benefit of the said Order
MONDAY the third day of October 1898 at
eleven o’clock in the forenoon at the said office of
the Registrar is appointed for hearing and adjudi-
cating upon the claims.
Dated this fifth day of April 1898.
(1.5.) W. A. DOUGLAS, Deputy Registrar.
Atthow arid McGregor
Solicitors for the plaintiff
81 Queen street Brisbane,
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
an<l BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia i'rom
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Material, £3 3 To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very good patterns, 12 6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84 -. Cleri-
-1 cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Riding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21 -. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25 -.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trouseis, 5/11 .
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes*, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3/3. Warm Travelling Rugs,
13 .. Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “ The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order from any part of Australia, giving ad-
dress and instructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with perfect safety,
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
We have built-up our immense business by being tho-
roughly STRAIGHTFORWARD WITH our CUSTOMERS.
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Music Brooch, £2.
Heart, £2 5s ; Double Heart, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Love Bird and Chain, 8s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 5s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Boars’ Tusks, gold mounted, 12.. 6d.
Links to match, 12s 6d ; Silver, 4s.
cOl2>
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 265.
15c. Gold „ ~ 455.
rru ucr
CH3
A. Saunders.
9c. Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond and Redstone, 355.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls, £S6s.
6 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong brooch.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Cut Dia-
mond, £3; smaller,
£2, £2 10s.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2; 15c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
A. Saunders.
3-Bird Heart and Chain Gold Brooch, 10s 6d.
Latest London Style.
15c. Gold 2-Heart, Opals
and Diamond, £2 10s.
Six Different Patterns.
Gold Links, 12s 6d.
Chain connection, 16s;
Large, 21s.
15c. Gold, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Pure Silver, 3s, 4s, 6s.
18c. gold, o sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Dia-
monds, £3; Double-
cut Diamonds, £3los
and £4. Send for
illustrations.
15c. Solid Gold.
4 Diamonds, 3 Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
9c. Solid Gold Dia-
monds, 2 Red or Blue
Stones, 10s 6d.
Solid Gold, 7/6; extra strong, 10/- 15c. Gold, 15/-
18c. Gold, 20/- Silver, 3/6. Any Name or
Initial Free.
Gold 2-Bamboo Bars Scroll Pearl Set, 15s 6d
15c. Gold, 32s 6d.
Highly Recommended.
WATCH
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
Old Jewellery
REMADE
to any Design.
■
I
The 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled cases,
£4 4s, 15 years’ guarantee; ditto, 14c. Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £3O watch.” Ladies’,
“beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
The Utmost Satisfaction.
A. Saunders.
Quite New Gold Bird, White Pearls and
Ameth/st Heart, 21s ; 15c., £2.
Beautifully Chased.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s
15c., 20s, 255; 18c.
255, 30s, 355, £2.
18c. Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamonds, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O. Send for
illustrated book.
A. Saunders
Good Wishes Lucky Bone Gold Brooch,
10s Od ; Large Size (plain), 6s 6d.
l’earl Set Bird Centre, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Butterfly Brooch, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
15c., £2lss, £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
m, m
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Pearls and Redstone, 20s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Pure Diamonds, Rubies, or
Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
Gold, 2 Amethyst Hearts, Brooch, 20s.
■
nd - made Wedding Rings and Keepers
9c. Solid Gold, 10s each. 15c. Gold,
1 i 0.. OAc •
VK3. OOIIQ VtOIU, IGb cavil.
15s ; extra heavy, 255. 13c. Gold, 20s ;
extra heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send i<y
card.
i o
Ladies’ Curb Chain,
Snap Padlock, Gold,
355, £2 ss, £3 ; extra,
£3 ss. 15c. £3, £4,
Send for Pattern Book
£5, £(>; with key pad-
lock, 10s extra. All
secured with Safety
Chains, and in cases.
(Post Free).
§p§
Gold Baby Brooch, with Safety Pin, 5s 6d.
5.5 c. Gold, larger, 12s 6d.
Gold Brooch,
Pearl Heart,
12s 6d.
m
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, 12 10s, 13, til 10s,
£i, £4 10s, £5. 156. Solid Gold, 1 5 10s, £O, £C 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s od, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
We guarantee you the same satisfaction as if you were here to choose for yourself.
Our Stock is Large and Up-to-Date, and at PRICES FAR BELOW ALL OTHERS.
“All articles sent Post Free to any address required.” Send for Price List.
Send for our Complete Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
Clocks, Jewellery and Silver-plate. Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS,
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, 815 George-street (nearly
opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY, N.SW,


Viator: “Mention of the laid-by ship
Sobraon—now a reformatory in her old age as a
penance for the sins of her youth—reminds me ot
the delicious little music-house she had on deck,
with its lovely Soufleto piano. Oh, what a scat-
tering of millions of microbes when it rippled, on
a moonlight night, and the bulwarks were lined
with couples watching the top-masts gently rake
the stars. We wanted no ballets, no operas, no
plays. Donizetti’s Elixir of Love was on tap all
the time. What a boundless capacity of loving
there is in the human soul ! It extends to all
womankind, all mankind. How well, after all the
years, I remember the Sunday morning on which
the obliging little piano led off for—
The arms of love that compass me
Would all mankind embrace.
Ed. Bulletin. —You ask, “Are singers
better pushers than painters?” They are ; their
stupendous conceit gives them more confidence,
but the essence of musician-worship is its sim-
plicity as an art. Anybody can rave over a sonata
or a song. You only have to say it is ‘ lovely,
or “exquisite,” or “sublime,’ and nothing more
i 3 expected of you, even if you profess to
“understand” music, whereas with painting an
outsider can’t talk for five minutes without
putting his foot in it. Another point is the fact
that the singer is seen in all the glory of his long
hair, while it is only the work of the painter (tor
which the average art-affectationist cares nothing)
that is seen. The poet was a much bigger man
in the days when he recited his strophes m the
market-place. —M ‘G.
Nutritive. Refreshing, Economical in use. A breakfast
cupfni of this delicious Cocoa costs less than one farthing
TRY
Agents Mofne
romatic
CO
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Bed onlv 01 SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
&
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, ihese are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Goaty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverisi
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating,
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS CREAT VALUE IN KEEPING THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
“AS an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT,’ I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case ot one ot
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent m embers oft lie iac uly By
the use of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT 1 he now ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALIH , he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, andean partake of his food to the great satisfaction o
himself and friends. You may well extend its us e pro bo no publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING and INVIGORATING DRINK-I remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.”— (From the late Rev. J. W. Neil, Holy Trinity Church, Forth Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.— ‘‘After suffering for nearly
two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDEREI
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, witn-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENOS fKUIi
SALT ’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT blab
of GOOD, and now I am RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for yeais.
Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on. any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. -Ex. mine each Bottle, ami see CAPSUI.E is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT.
Without it> you have been imposed on by a WOR TH LESS mutation . Prt pared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT* WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
The prettiest Easter Show in Sydney.
New Gold Bird Brooch, Bs. 6d.
18c.
Half Hoop.
5 Fine Diamonds,
£7 10 s.
Smaller stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opal 3
or Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 Lovely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s
Our G-old Novelty Brooch, 20s.
15c., 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby, 255.
or 2 Diamonds and 1 Sapphire.
Gold Ivy Bar Brooch, 10s. 6d.
9c., 13 6 pair;
15c., 27/6 pair.
20 other Pat-
terns from 10 6
pair.
Ruby or Sapphire Brooch.
15c., 18s 6d; 9c., 13s 6d.
New Gold Scroll Brooch, 9s.
90 KING STREET
SYDNEY
/
Watches a Specialty.
Gent’s (MW*) Silver Hunters
Our Special Levers, 455, 60s, 80s.
WALTHAM, 47s 6d, 655, 90s.
ROTHERHAMS, 70s, 80s, 1008-
Genfs Solid Gold Hunters.
i*s, £7 los, £lO, £l2los, £l6.
Ladies' Solid Gold Hunters.
£2los, £B, £4, £5, £7 10s, £lO.
Ladles' Silver Hunters.
255, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
please send lor our Illustrated
Slips of novelties.
18c. Gipsy.
3 fine Diamonds, £2 ss,
£3, £i.
9ct., 23,6 pair; 15c., 37,6pair
Silver, 6/- pair.
W
&
8
English Hall-marked Alberts.
9c. GOLD SINGLE, 50s, 60s, 70s.
16c. „ „ 955, 110 s, 130 s.
SILVER „ 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
9c. GOLD DOUBLE, 60s, 755, 85s.
15c. ~ „ 110 s, 130 s, 150 s.
SILVER „ 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
Post Pxee,
18c, Marquise,
Set >Vitfla 14 Dlamond|
1 RuJhjror Sapphire,
JE/intiraM or Uorquol sa
centre, £4a 4s,
Plain
Gold.
7s 6d
pair.
Our New
Twin
with
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d.
Bird
Brooches.
Post Free.
15c.
Little Gem.
Ruby, Opal, or
Sapphire, 21s.
Diamond, 85s.
J 2& _
NOTE Our Only Australian Address—
-90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PIPING THE PRAISES
PATTISONS’ LIMITED,
LEITH and LONDON.
Branch Office :
16 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
PATTISOIMS
ornm


Case.
A 64 pp. PAMPHLET, GIVING FULL
EVIDENCE in this notorious Case, with
COMMENTARY and PLAN OF SCENE of
alleged Outrage. Price Sixpence.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 Goorge-Bt., Sydney.
Sscrsts of S(icces&-
Poor Stoddart’s “ (jot the needle
’Cos a win he didn't see;
How different it might ha’ been
Had they trained on HILLY TEA..
We hope that soon he may regain
llis usual good humour ;
But the Secret of Out * Hoys’ Success
la POD AII and GRANUMA.
Drmk “BILLY” TEA
Eat GRANUMA.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLEY # CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Puadlkv St Co., 324 George-st.
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
SUCH STREET, SYDNEY.
MO K
Liu
L»J L&J
</>
POLITICAL
POINTS
A metaphorical marvel from Sydney D.T.
headlines : “Mir. Reid in a Nutshell.”
Q. Labor-members are one by one repudi-
ating “Socialism in our time.” Their cry is
now, “ Office in our time.”
G. H. Reid is the twentieth who has held
the office of Attorney-General in N.S. Wales since
the institution of Responsible Govt, in 1856.
“ Well,” said one prominent S.A. Tory to
another lately, “ y >u may abuse Kingston as you
hke, but he is the only man in politics with the
pluck to say ‘ No ’ to the extremer demands of the
Labor-party. Downer would have given them
everything they wanted.”
A SURE SION.
(Time, midnight.—Melbourne Town Hall.)
SIMPLUS: “I wonder if she’s a decent woman?”
NOWE M: “ No, I’m hanyed if she is.”
S.: “ How do you know?”
N.: “ She’s not ashamed to show her face!”
Poor Liberty ! Though the organ of a
“National” association which lately recognised
the necessity for inter-provincial federation within
itself, it knows that its ultra-Tory supporters are
the strongest' enemies of Australian Federation.
In its dilemma, it frankly sits on the rail.
“Newspapers should be carried free of
postage because of their State-recognised educa-
tional value.” But, then, Sydney’s wealthiest
newspaper opposes free education itself, not
realising that if an aid to education be free the
prime article itself should a fortiori be free.
Brisbane Courier welcomes Byrnes as Q.
Premier on the ground that if he cannot succeed
in keeping the party in office, he will at least
make an admirable leader of Opposition. Opposi-
tion to whom ? Does the Brisbane daily view the
advent of a Glassey Ministry with equanimity ?
The “organ of the landed interests of
N.S. W.” has issued a programme—abolition of
payment of members, electoral reform (N.S.W.
has been too free altogether with the franchise, it
seems), protection of the producer, abolition of the
land-tax—and (Labor members and their sup-
porters please note) opposition to “ this Federal
mania.”
Anti-Federationist Snooks, M.L.A., boasts
he can now command space by the column in
Sydney D.T. Before he set out to slay Federa-
tion with his strong breath, the D.T. compressed
his best efforts into “ Mr. Snooks also spoke ”
just as it would say “Balaam’s ass made a few
remarks.”
Hancock snaps off with Trenwith. The
rift between Tren with and Vic. Labor Party began
even before he started for England. T.’s worst
grievance is, doubtless, Hancock's abler manage-
ment of the party during the jaunt. Hancock has
all that Trenwith lacks. But, then, Trenwith has
all Hancock lacks.
Barrister E. M. Lilley, notable only as
the son of his father, and as a successful Brisbane
advocate, has joined Groom and Drake in another
attempt to rally the Q. Opposition forces. Young
Lilley has none of the old man’s subtlety, fluency
and wit, but he is forceful, dogged, and above
trifles. He should make himself felt in the arid
region of Mongrelian politics.
S.A. Advertiser wavers in its opposition
to Federation, and editor Bonython seems to con-
template a quiet somersault while there’s time.
Opposition to Federation is very half-hearted in
S.A. Even Labor members are wavering, and
the great mass of farmers support the new Con-
stitution. S.A. Convention delegates have decided
to stump the country in favor of the Bill.
It is stated, on apparently reliable legal
authority, that if, in the close season, a wild duck
be shot on one side of the Murray and fall dead
upon the other, the offender can be penalised for a
breach of the Game-laws by the authorities of
both N.S.W. and Vic.— i.e., punished twice for
the same offence, contrary to a main principle of
common law all over the empire. If this be so
and the authority is emphatic—there’s another
argument in favor of Federation and an all-round
code.
Vic. Government evidently did a wise
thing when it didn’t appoint a Judge on the Law
Commission. Quite a number of witnesses had
dreadful things to say about the Judges—their
age, incapacity, deafness, red - tapeism, their
hideous slowness, the way they shirk work and
responsibility by hanging up all difficult points
for any number of months for the consideration
of the 1 ull Cout, and the like. And they could
hardly have appeared before a Commission con-
sisting largely of his ’Onah to tell his ’Onah what
a failure he is.
The spectre of A. G. Taylor, which still
perambulates occasionally at night down the
columns of the Australian Star, gibbers hor-
ribly about the way the other provinces are
striving to “crawl back” into union with the
mother province,” which they deserted 50 years
or so ago. Every Federal movement up to date
has been started by N.S. W., so if Federation and
crawling are synonymous terms, then it is
N.S.W.’s exclusive crawl. But a small fact like
that doesn’t stand in the way when the maddened
ex-giraffe of Mudgee gets fairly started.
The anti-Federal meeting, held at New-
castle (N.S.W.) by Dick, M.L.A, with
“cheers for majority rule and free speech.” When
the hederal Amending Act was before Parlia-
ment Dick voted for an arrangement by which
Federation was not to be carried unless it got at
least 120,000 votes, being an absolute majority of
the N.S. W. electors on the roll. If 125,000 people
voted for federation, and one person voted
a<iainst it, the fair thing, in Dick’s idea, was that
the one person should win. Think of the ghastly
in>ny of cheering Dick in the interests of majority
rule !
Ed. Bulletin. —Really, you mustn’t speak
as you do of Allan M‘Lean. To most people he
certainly is a pawky Scot of no particular account,
but-at Maffra, his electorate and Gippsland home,
he is what Ewen Oameron is in his district—only
a step lower than Jehovah. Allan M'Lean, of
the firm of that name, who handles thousands of
cattle and sheep yearly : Allan M‘Lean, big share-
holder and director of Maffra sugar-beet factory,
simply bosses that part of Gippsland. That is
where they swear by the stock-tax and the extra
sugar-duties, and where the anti-Federation vote
will be heaviest.—F.C.
John Haynes announces that he and a
large number of ot,her N.S.W. politicians are pre-
sently going to raise Gehenna by demanding the
abolition of the income-tax and the abolition of
the. land-tax exemption. John thinks it a fair
and reasonable and democratic thing (1) that the
man who has =£sooo a year derived otherwise than
from land should not be taxed, and (2) that the
man who struggles to'make a bare living on 150
acres of barren soil should be. Also he says that
he detests “ class legislation,” and that “ true
democratic government rests but on this founda-
tion—one law for all.” ~ Johnaynes’s idea of “ one
law for all ” is unique. '
.The astute R. E. O’Connor made a curious
slip' when addressing the members of Sydney
University, in favor of the Convention Bill, last
week. Edmund Barton, who preceded him, spoke
in an academical tone, suitable to his audience.
Mr. O’Connor, however, started off with a detailed
list of the N.S.W. rivers, sources, courses and all,
and was considerably startled, at the conclusion of
his elementary lesson in geography, by being
saluted with a most enthusiastic cheer from his
audience, which comprised all the shining lights
of the ’Varsity. The gentle “Dick ” was at first
evidently at a loss to account for the tremendous
demonstration which greeted him.
REAL DISTRESS.—“OUT OF THE
MOUTHS," &c.
“Poor father's dead two years, and mother's got a
baby three months old!"
SIC TRANSIT.
11.30 p.m. Cabby and dude wrangling over fare.
DUDE: “ What! Seyen-and-six to drive me to
Bondi! Preposterous. Is there no other
way of getting there? ”
CABBY (driving off in the dark): “ Yes; yer can
go out by the blanky sewer if yer like !”
Melb. Argus now refers to it as the
Commonwealth Bill. The .Tory organ was wont
to shudder at the word “ Commonwealth,” but its
ancient prejudice has yielded to the respect due
to the last syllable.
Among the five Premiers, Kingston, of
S.A., is the only one who seems to be putting his
whole big soul into the Federal movement. The
next best man in the crowd is probably Fysh, of
Tasmania; he may be taken as representing
Premier Braddon, whose ill-health makes active
campaigning difficult. John Forrest is favorable
in his phlegmatic way. Turner, of Victoria, is
distinctly favorable, but, so far, he takes the whole
business in the same unemotional way as he might
take lib. of tripe, and Alfred Deakin is jumping
his claim. Reid has dropped out of sight since his
announcement that he will give his personal vote
for the Bill, and it is doubtful if he will even
speak on the subject again.
Benevolent Bull again ! —with the usual
anti-climax :
LONDON, Monday Night.—Since the completion of
arrangements for the lease of Wei-hai-wei from China,
British prestige has been re-established in Pekin, the
disinterestedness of the British Government being recog-
nised.
Great Britain has been conceded territory’ inland from
Wei-hai-wei extending within a radius of 10 miles.
Lormer, the arid, white-headed boy of
Melb. Age, on Federation :
On the Protectionist aspect, of the question I realise
great danger hecause no provision whatever is inarle to
safeguard Victoria’s policy of Protection. If compelled to
break down all interprovincial harriers we have not the
slightest guarantee that our storehouses will not be filled
by industrial invaders from America, Germany, or even
Japan. ... We are likely to lose the substance while
grasping at. the shadow. . . . We may, therefore, assume
that the first Federal Parliament will contain a large pro-
portion of Conservatives and Freetraders who will' plorv
In sweeping away our Protectionist policy.
The Bulletin suggests that Lyn'e, of N.S.W.,
who is dead sure that the Federal Parliament will
pde on a £9,000,000 protective tariff, and Lormer
should be shut up together in a large room with an
axe apiece, and left, to argue the matter out.
Apparently the N.S.W. Ministry has
dropped the Federal question overboard. Premier
lieid since his half-hearted announcement that he
will personally vote for the Bill, has kept a dead
silence, and it is now understood that he washes
his hands of all responsibility. Minister Car-
ruthers spoke once in favor of the Bill—that was a
good while ago—and then he also dropped out.
Old Sunday Brunker, Garrard, Cook and Young
keep the dull blank silence that best fits their
miserable intellects. Just-Ice Minister Ghould
goes further and says Federation is “ outside poli-
tics ’’—politics being a subject that concerns itself
exclusively with borrowing, and culverts, and
new gaol-flogging regulations. All these medio-
crities claim to be in favor of Federation, but not
one will give the cause which he allegedly admires
a helping hand.
An attempt is being made in Perth (W.A.)
by the lower-class Chinese to establish a
branch of their infamous Yee Hing
or secret society, which seems to be
a robbery -of - everybody - for - the-
benefit of-members organisation.
Its field of energy includes the
securing of billets for mem-
bers of the society, and
any Chinese cook, house-
servant, or gardener
outside the pale is lucky
if lie escapes the machi-
nations of the Yee
Hing. Salt will be sur-
reptitiously introduced
into the soup-pot,
stolen a rticlesconcealed
amongst his belongings,
and even more serious
crimes imputed to him
with the object of ac-
complishing his ruin.
The head men of the or-
ganisation live in clover
on the proceeds of the
levies made on the mem-
bers, and the Chinese im-
perial authorities regard the
Yee Hing as so dangerous
that to be proved to belong
to it entails, capital punish-
ment. The Chinese merchants
of Perth, knowing that the Yee
Hing, if established there, will
blackmail them, are appealing to
Government to prevent its regis-
tration as a “ benefit society.’’
The average country editor,
whose paper is not his own or partly his own, finds
the coming of a general election a time of
trouble. If he be docile, or will meekly
stand down and let the mortgagee or local
candidate for Parliament, or the representa-
tive of either, seize his quill, he may outlive
the period of trial, but if not, a letter will be
despatched to some big city newspaper office
saying, “Can you send us up a good man on
trial for a month or two?”
John See is in favor of a daily Hansard ;
W. J. Lyne, of newspaper-postage ; Henry Cope-
land, of publishing Govt, advts. in some Govt,
publication ;andtherank-and-fileof N.S.W. Protec-
tionist army is in favor of amalgamating Hansard,
Govt. Gazette, and Agricultural Gazette and
issuing the combined production, with Govt,
advts., at a nominal figure. It is the vision of
State combines of this sort which makes the hair
of metropolitan dailies stand on end, and inspires
them to curse socialism.
The wailful Fysh wrestled with federal
finance before an audience (of 10G) at Hobart, the
other night, but was not convincing. He seemed
to know that he hadn't been successful, so waved
the old flag of war before the affrighted eyes of
the Tasnianiacs: “Tasmania wrest federate. If we
stand ou«J the other provinces will put a cordon
of war vessels round the island. Then where will
our commerce and insular freedom be?” It was
a ludicrous sort of a howl, but it stirred things up
a little, and made Tasmania open one eye in its
sleep.
“Been There,” to The Bulletin
To be a N.S.W. Labor-member is not the coinforfame,
soul-refreshing billet the inexperienced outsider regards
with watery mouth. If that unfortunate politician sticks
to the apparel and habits of the class he is supposed to
represent he hears himself referred to by brother-legisla-
tors as a vulgar coster. If he dons a shiny belltopper, the
crowd that claims to have elect d him dubs him a snob.
If he wears a gold chain to support his gold railway-pass,
he is said to have sold his vote to the enemy. If he rides
free on a tram, he is called mean ; and if he pays for a cab,
he is said to he jaunting luxuriously at the expense of
the workers. If he enters a public bar, he must shout
beer for all hands, drunk or sober ; if hedip into a private
bar, he becomes as odious as if he wore two shiny bell-
toppers. Tramps, deadbeats, and their wives and mothers
find out his house, and hammer at the door as part-pro-
prietors. If he lips them 11, he must go to the Benevo-
lent Asylum ; if he doesn’t, they remind him that another
election is near, and that hard graft will then be hia
portion. Altogether, his road is peculiarly rooky and his
end mostly pieces.
According to Gilbert Casey’s latest letter
to Bamanaland, New Australia is at present run
on mixed principles—sort of socialistic-individual-
istic ’arf-and ’arf. Six leagues of the latest land-
grant are held communally ; the other is divided
into blocks of 105 acres each, titles in the name of
each adult male, widow, or spinster. Gilbert,
who was once a particularly red-hot Communist,
talks thusly :
I have selected, and am the proprietor of, the whole of
Las Ovejas, including the township and cultivation, my
associates having selected all round.
Casey’s Queensland tirades against every variety
of landowner would have made your blood run
cold. Further, he proceeds, in genuine landed
pride:—
Do you remember, I always said Las Ovejas would be
mine? And it is so!
New Australian history runs thus: From Com-
munism to Socialism; Socialism to land coin-
munalisation ; land communalisation to land-
lordism.
Glowing with knowledge of true worth,
Far-reaching arms he stretches forth
To bless the weaker ones of earth,
The Heavy Father of the North ;
And should he borrow, beg, or steal,
Why do they murmur?—none the less
He does it for the general weal
In pure disinterestedness.
T.D.


A REFLECTION.
of BOOTS and SHOES ; but, thos e
that PIT, that WEAR, that are
MADE right and SOLD right, are
what a discerning public want. We
have ’em. The block at side repre-
sents a double view (all for one price)
of our inimitable “J.H.” Brand of
Footwear—every pair of which carries
A Guarantee for Wear.
John Hunter |i Son, [td.,
OITY BOOT PALACE,
George and Market Streets, Sydney;
and 75 BRANCHES
in the City, Suburbs and Towns
in New South Wales.
p
&
CAN BE MADE BY THE USE
OF A
NATIONAL
- CASH -
RS6ISTCR.
Prices: £5 to £6B.
NINETY DIFFERENT PATTERNS AND SIZES TO SUIT ANY BUSINESS.
They are Absolutely Necessary in hotels.
Indispensable in all shops.
We have 130,000 enthusiastic users in all parts of the world. Our storekeepers’ machine
records cash sales, takes care of credit sales, moneys received in payment of accounts, and
amounts j>aid out. We sell for cash, or on easy monthly terms.
See our Exhibit in Main Pavilion at the Show.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA-
-393 George Street, SYDNEY.
W, A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Make No Mistake!
II
m
m
I
m
Oi' S
i
■lint
llHflfl
i mil
unlit
Hflllß
n
Jill
Mill
Ml
SHI
a
Ml
111
Ml
Paling’s
r ls undoubtedly the
best house in Austra-
lasia for Music and
Musical lustru
ments of every de-
■ seription. Their prices
are the LOWEST,
their goods are of the
BEST QUALITY;
they always give
[satisfaction.
mk
VIOLINS . .
Well-made Models of all the Best Masters at lowest pos-
sible prices ; also a large stock of Old Instruments.
CORNETS . .
Besson & Co.’s “New Star,” Boosey & Co.’s “Victor,”
Couesnon’s “Student’s Model,” a marvellous instrument
at the price—viz., 555. in case.
6UITARS . .
Spanish, French, German, and American.
STRINGS . .
For Violin, ’Cello, Mandolin, Banjo, Guitar or Harp,
specially suited to this climate.
FLUTES . .
Boehm and Pratten Systems; also Boys’ Band Flutes at
very lowest prices.
AUTOHARPS . .
Meinhold’s —Three and Six Bar —the Best Instrument in
the market.
MANDOLINS - -
Genuine Neapolitan, with Perfect Scale.
CONCERTINAS . .
Very low prices. German, Best Anglo and
English by the Leading Makers of the World—
Lachenal & Co., London.
ACCORDCONS . .
“ The Imperial.” These Instruments are beauti-
fully finished, and the quality and volume of
tone it is impossible to surpass. Our prices are
extremely moderate.
The Polyphon jj|osieal gox..
The Latest Novelty. Repertoire of Music un
limited. . .
Catalogues and all particulars will be sent by Return Mail.
W. H. PALING CO., Limited,
338 George-st., Sydney;
and at BRISBANE and
NEWCASTLE.
Dunlop Tyres only Genuine when they bear this
Trade Mark.
fUBUC
lOTICE.
Owing to numerous enquiries being made at our Depots as to
whether our 12 months’ guarantee covers American or Canadian
made Dunlops,
We beg to again inform the
public that our guarantee applies only
to Australian and English made
I
which
can be
easily
distinguished,
as they
bear this
First in 1888.
i^sT
Registered
y-P—'
Trade Mark-
Foremost ever sirce.
The j)unlop pneumatic Tyre Co. [ld.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
m
Only guaranteed when they bear this Trade Mark.
“Pattie Browne flaps her wings early in April at
Sydney Cri. in 1 Little Minister,’ now drawing packed
houses here,” writes Thb Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent. “To the Covent Garden masquerade ball, that
lugubriously English imitation of the ‘ bal de l’op6ra,’
P. B. went as a housemaid, and never gave the dust a
chance to settle. This entertainment is kept alive by
the theatrical wig and costume makers, who pot-hunt for
the ‘ best-oressed character ’ prizes, and the wild, riotous
abandon—within limits—is supplied, as at the ‘ Moulin
Rouge,’ by recognised females under managerial conces-
sion. Sometimes an amateur takes a hand, though, and
then the fun is lively, though uncertain.”
Theorbo : “The first man I heard sing‘Elijah’ wasmasJJ
sive, long-bearded Waller, of Sydney. What became of
him ? He was the only Elijah that ever looked like
Elijah. Pauli and Santley sadly needed make-up. Far-
quharson sang it well. The original was Staudigl, a
German.”
Theorbo: “ I happened to be right at the far-east,
portal of Melb. Exhibition, Easter Saturday night, when
Albani sang, ‘ I know that my Redeemer liveth.’ A
tremendous distance, yet every word rang as clearly as
w.heu she made the glass of Sydenham Crystal Palace
tingle with her timbre in the same song before an in-
numerable crowd.”
The Druids Gala band-contest, at Melb. Town Hall, was
remarkable for the unwisdom of the Railway Military
Band from Sydney in not agreeing to divide first and
second prizes with Coade’s Melb. Band, after the judges
had given a “ dead-heat.” When the contestants came
to play it off there was seemingly much the same doubt
as before, but if so, the local men got the benefit of it,
and the visitors lost the difference between £7O and £llO
—not to mention the half-share in a £5O trophy.
English papers speak of the “ cordial reception which
awaited Miss Ada Crossley ” at the Harrison concerts in
Sheffield. “ The popular contralto’s ripened voice,” it is
stated, “delighted everybody.”
P.: “ Gov. Brassey, according to a Bulletin par., can’t
stand Rebottaro’s ‘Simon the Cellarer.’ Neither can I,
and Ive been wanting a chance to say so. Rebottaro’s is
with variations ; as, e.g., the ‘ ho, ho, ho ’ (rhyming with
‘no, no, no’) becomes‘ha, ha, ha, ha’—a great many
‘ ha, ha’s ’; I didn’t count them. It jars.”
The world has heard of the magnificent sentry who re-
fused to allow Napoleon to pass against his own orders.
He turned up at one of the exhibition gates for an Albani
concert and stopped the two carriages holding Albani and
co. “ Well,” says baritone Pauli, or some one, “if we
don’t go in there’s no show ! ”
Melb.: “We impatiently await Walter-r Bentley’s
Passion Plaj r . Of course his old schoolmate, Pastor
Mar-r shall, who was so enthusiastic over Walter’s .Silver
King, will be to the fore again. Ah, never will I forget
the Savvbath morn when Bentley and co. turned up at
Marshall’s Collins-street kirk, just this once, to celebrate
the eternal unity of Church and The gentlemen
in freshly-reaped blue cheeks, the ladies under flower-
gardens. The pastor, in return, put on a slouehy billy-
cock, and found the gods were really quite well-behaved
persons ! ”
Theorbo : “ A brass-band contest has been gratifying us
m Melb. Such critics as Melb. and Sydney ought to keep
up a large town band, of the stringy type, for popular
education in music. Even Paris had nothing regular of
the kind till about 30 years ago, when Pasdeloup formed
his orchestra, followed by those of Lamoureux and Habe-
neck, showing that a vein had been struck. These three
rival conductors gave splendid openings to young com-
posers, such as Massenet, St. Saens, Lecocq, Planquette
and Aud ran, and did an inestimable service by familiarising
the Parisians with Wagner, besides burnishing up the
treasures of their own great Berlioz. In Australia, this
would be the means to keep us up to date.”
Dear Bulletin.— Still harping on the subject of Mum-
mer Morality. Rickards ought to know a little about it,
and what does he say? “ Never let your donah go upon
the stage, unless you want to bring some sleepless nights
on : I tell you, as a pal—you’ll be sure to lose your gal,
the moment that she puts the bloomin’ tights on.” —
Chorus Singer.
Maggie Moore's season in Adelaide was such a big suc-
cess that they ad ltd an extra six nights to the original 10
ere moving on towards Perth. Good accounts are given
of Maggie’s new farcical comedy show “The Prodigal
Father,” with which she hopes to score in Sydney and
Melbourne anon.
The one impressive feature of the Druids’ procession in
Melb. on Easter Monday, was a scrumptious girl who
occupied a lofty position as Druid Queen.
Dear Bulletin.— A recent “ Sundry Show ” par. about
“ Two Little Vagabonds ” (on tour) stated that the Misses
Titheradge and Terriss were somewhat unconvincing as
hoys, and Miss Hughes was “ pass ible.” I saw that show
in Hobart. The Titheradge and Terriss girls are two very
fine human boys, and the man who isn’t touched by the
scene between Miss Hughes and those two waifs is either
a silly cynic or a bad lot.— Randolph Bedford.
Melbourne Liedertafel, with Marshall Hall as conductor,
has elected Elsie Hall as hon. life member of the society,
“ in recognition of her distinguished services at the 255th
concert, and as an expression of admiration towards her
as a young and talented Australian pianiste.”
Little Gulliver is the only remnant of Williamson’s one-
time attempt to get up the pantomime of “ Gulliver’s
Travels.”
Melb. : “ Turning up the vols. of the Nuova Antolouia,
Italian magazine, in the Public Library, I find Albani
starring in opera, through Italy, in 1872. Eheu ! ”
A Melb. paper points out that, as regards the “ Babes
in the Wood,” the programmes mention everyone con-
cerned in the production, down to the wigmaker and
bride-cakemaker —all except the author.
The amateur, or semi-amateur, tenor is usually a mild
and feeble actor who hopes to concilitate the audience
with his next solo. The Don Osesar at one recent show
was a slap-dash sort of young man, slinging his bits of
dialogue off his chest quite regardless of the dictionary.
He didn’t trouble to put all the syllables into such a word
as ignominy. “ Ignomy ” was good enough for him. And
when Don Jose invited him to sign an agreement to leave
Madrid he replied in a hasty, ten-minutes-for-luncheon
style, “Gimme penninkanpaper— 'tis done.” All the
young men in the audience appeared to like him im-
mensely. Typical Australian native brand of Don Caesar
—sort of musical-footballer kind of bloke with no stuck-
up pride about him.
Melb. : “A ventriloquist, in the Eastern Market, is
better than Maccabe, Winton, or Emmett. Clean-shaven,
he stands close to the people, without moving his lips,
and the voice actually seems to come from the dummy.”
“ One out of every ten of the actors and actresses recog-
nised as such by the Actors’ Benevolent Fund (Lon.) had
to appeal for assistance last year,” says Reynolds, com-
menting at the same time upon the ridiculously small
wages upon which chorus-girls are expected to lead
decent lives. A miserable wage causes immorality, and
immorality begets thriftlessness in those girls who are
able to advance in the purfeshun. The evil is not easily
cured. Irving set a good example to managers years ago
when he produced “ Corsican Brothers.” The super-
numerary girls engaged for the bn! masque scene were paid
£2 a week each. At that time there were two naughty
oyster-shops, one on either side of the dress-circle en-
trance to the Lyceum, and the £2 a week girls went to
the oyster-shops more than ever. As an inducement to
virtue the liberal salary was a failure.
What Adelaide has been choking itself
over lately. Q. : Why won’t the Chief Justice be
happy in his married life? A. : ’Cause she’ll
always have her own Way, and he’ll always have
the Blues. N. B.—To properly grasp that tremen-
dous joke, remember that several young Blues go
in his Honor’s parcel.
“Charley” Collins, member for Narrabri
in N.S.W. Assembly, is dead, to the deep regret
of a very wide circle —for few men had more
sincere friends. As a politician, he was just.about
as valuable as 75 per cent, of his fellow-members ;
as a man, a genial, wholesome, good-hearted
citizen of the world, he will long live in the
affections of all who knew him. Mr. Collins was
a son of Israel, and his fine physique and habits of
self-command seemed to promise him a patriarchal
age. Yet he died suddenly of brain-effusion at
little over 40 years of age.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FURTHER IiIDKKI) RATES,
PAWNBKOKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MOIMT DE PIETE
D. & I CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
(next Metropolitan Hotel, between King & Market streets),
Southern Branch-262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery
Interest at rate of 4d. in the £ per month.
La-ge amounts as per arrangement.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Daily.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
mv&Nxmz
head OFFrcf
Intersection Hunter, Bligh a™
Castlereagh Streets,—*
• SYDNEY •
fa Established - 1079, lU c
Office in *
Annual Income an d Invested
Funds Exceed^2oo,ooofieriingi
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded bv post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Moreing & Neal, etc. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
— Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOOIILIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street ;
or to
GENERAL MANAGER, ALDERSHOT
(Queensland).
E. A. WEINBERG, E. M., General Manager.
USE
Spooler's
•RQYALNAVY DRESSING
FOR
i BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
1 OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC lIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing' Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
F.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
v Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, A Agency
Company, Limited,
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company’s business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and niie, its, 31st December. 1897 £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-ehairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Esq., Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Delahay Street, Westminster.
Insolvency Department—Mr. L. I. Barker,
Registered Trustee.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK, A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000
Paid-dp .. ~ .. £2,974,801 10s.
Directors:
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esa., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon. N. Thornley,
M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: ffm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 JBishopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuahar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with asrency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TbiS Qotppaoy
is noted for its Prompt
and Liberal Settlements.
United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital. . .£500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Collins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
WALLEN & WOODS
( FRANK WALLEN, \
\Member Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers,
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716.
DICKSON &, BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Burbidge,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
31 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted.
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House,
64 Gresham-street. London E.C.
McGee’s
SHEFFIELD AND
SOLINGEN RAZORS.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for light beards, 3 6, 4 6.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for heavy beards, 5 -, 6/-, 7 6.
Solingen Razors, for light and heavy beards, 5 6,6, 8 6
OENUINE BENOALL RAZORS, 3/6.
THISTLE RAZORS, 3 sizes, J, #, J, 10/-, 12 6.
All Bazars Set and Ready for Use.
Best Canvas and Leather Swing Strops, 2 6, 3 6, 5/-, 7/6.
Razors Set and Returned by Post, If- each.
All Post Free on receipt of postal note from Andrew
McGee, Hairdresser, &c., 5 Castlereagh-st, Sydney.
(Registered).
Typboii)
(registered)
FOR
Typhoid Fever.
Fisher & Co’s
TYPHOIN.
This is the only known Remedy and Preventive
TYPHOID FEVER.
Used for HUNDREDS OP YEARS by the
NATIVES OF INDIA.
One Drop taken night and morning is a Sure
Preventive against this deadly disease. Five
Drops taken three or four times a day is a Certain
Cure, and has the wonderful properties of cutting
the duration of the disease to Five Days. It
reduces temperature, and destroys the evil effects
arising from badly-drained ground.
All countries infected with any form of FEVER
will find TYPHOIN unparalleled in its action
to destroy Fever Germs.
To be obtained of all Chemists and Storekeepers.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Manufactured Only ly
Fisher & Company,
Manufacturing
Chem sts,
337 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n>brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioi>-
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, April 23, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, April 30, 2 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, May 2, 5 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, May 2, 5 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Gabo, Tuesday, May 2, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, April 23, 2 p.m.
-Kelloe, Tuesday, April 26, 5 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, April 26, 5 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Leura, Saturday, April 23, 2 p.m.
Barrabool, Tuesday, April 26, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, April 30, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CURRENT FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; B.LS.N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
~ via ~
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TvESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
- L/ STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
Gibbs, bright «& co., managing agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
Royal Mail Coastal Service
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Norman ton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
JPassenr/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—Wm. Siddeley & Co., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Business Announcements.
GILFILLAN & MCQREERY,
Assayers, Metallurgists,
Testing & Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. per 1000.
A. GEO. RING-, 33 Imperial Arcade, SYDNEY.
TO FST PEOPL€.
When you have tried all known preparations to reduce
superfluous fat, and have failed to get permanent relief
write for a BOX of PROFESSOR. READ’S OBESITY
POWDERS. A Reduction of (ill), a week is guaranteed to
anyone, young or old, by their use.
PRICE, ss. and 7s. (id. per Box, from Prof. H. Read
145 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Innainincka (from Melbourne)
Saturday, April 23.
S.S. Marloo(from Sydney)Saturday
April 30.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE, j
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA, !
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. ,
S.S. Innamincka(fromMelb.)
Saturday, April 23.
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney)
Saturday, April 30.
ESPERANOE BAY
S.S. Marloo (from Sydney) Saturday,
April 30 (transhipping at Albany).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Tuesday,
April 26.
Best <£• Cheapest Bonte to Goldfields.
G-. S. YUILL and CO., J/j’D., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND (TCOMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
•Calling at llobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money: TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, ±65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, ±55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker § go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Bates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to ±7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS. FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
nriluiraith, f|)‘Eacharn & (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
FARES From £l6 to £47 ss.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS &, CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMEIiS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping
ANTWERP,
ADEN,
i auajhcj hoiu uu iuo. ivci uiii LICK6IS 3
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Co’s Own Line
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages froi
Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.


A FEW NEW SPECIALTIES FROM THE IMMENSE STOCKS OF
Stewart Dawson & Co
QUALITY and MAKE CONSIDERED, VALUE UNAPPROACHABLE.
M'm i r i
No. 139. —9ct. Gold Bracelet, Ruby centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 209.
Gold, Amethyst
Heart, set Pearls.
£1 ss.
No. 130. —15-ct. Gold, Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and handsome design. £l2 10s.
No. 217.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
Diamond and
Sapphire, £1 53.
faab'USSSBS&Bz
No. 145. 9-ct. Gold, Amethyst and Pearl Bracelet, £2 15s.
No. 102. —9-ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Ruby, 15s 6d.
No. 117.—Elegant 15-ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
1 Diamond, 2 Bubies, £1 7s 6d.
No. 113. —9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Diamond centre, 17s 6d.
No. 101.—9-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Pearls, 10s 6d.
No. 107. —9-ct. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Ruby, 17s 6d.
I m
Vo. 335. — Solid Silver Child’s
Cup, 3in. high, £2 10s.
No. 308.—Solid Silver Pin
Tray, 3in. long, 8s 6d.
M
No. 136.—9-ot. Gold Bracelet, Pearls and Sapphires, £2 6s.
No. 234.
15-ct. set Opal,
£1 7s 6d.
No. 201.—Set Gold Links.
9-cfc. Gold, £1 5s ; 15-ct. Gold, £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 134. —15-ct. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
15-ct. Heart, Key
and Diamond,
£l l2s 6d.
No. 289.—Cut-Crystal Toilet
Salts Bottle, Silver Top,
2Jin. high, 11s 6d.
No. 332. —Eleptro-Silver o-
Nickel Child’s Cup, 3in.
high, 16s 6cL
No. 150..—15-ct. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
£4 7s. 6d.
.<To. 311. —Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dish,
6£in. by sin., £1 7s 6d.
i
Jk
Limn-ju
No. 263. —Gross.
9-ct. Gold, 8s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, 17s 6d.
No. 260. —Solid Silver Case, elegantly engraved. sJin. long,
to hold Four Cigars, £3 3s ; ditto to hold three, £2 sa.
No. 347. —Elegant Electro-
Silver Gong, llin. high,
£1 10s.
No. 337. —Six Solid Silver Tea Spoons,
in morocco case, £llos.
No. 197.-Set Gold Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 5s ; 15-ct., £2 5s ; Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 208.
15-ct. Gold Heart,
10s 6d.
9-ct. ditto, 6s 6d.
,J 8
No. 196.—Set Gold Links.
9-ct. Gold, 18s 6d ; 15-ct., £ llss ; Silver, Is fid.
No. 215.
9-ct. Gold Heart,
Pearls and Ruby,
16s 6d.
f
No. 200.—Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., Gold, £ll7s 6d ; Silver, 5s 6d.
am
No. 284. —Cut Glass Puff Box,
with Solid Silver Top, 3in. high, 21s.
i
No. 330. —Solid Silver Butter Knife, Jam Spoon,
and Sugar Sifter, in morocco case, £ 1 ss.
No. 286. —Elegant Photo Frame,
Solid Silver, cabinet size, 16s 6d.
No. 370.
New and Elegant Design Electro-Silver Entrde Dish,
llin. long, £2 2s. (Dish and cover make pair.)
No. 297.
Solid Silver Thimble,
steel lined, 3s 6d.
No. 133.—15-ct. Gold Brooch, Opal centre, set Pearls
and Diamonds, £4 17s 6d.
No. 155.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 18 fine Diamonds,
2 whole Pearls, 3 Sapphires, £8 10s.
No. 118.—15-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Sapphires and Kubies, £ll2s 6d.
No. 157.
Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 fine Diamonds
2 whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £7. '
STLv/art davy son c
No. 319.
Silver Button Hooks and Shoe Lift,
16s Cd.
m
No. 262.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is ; 15-ct., £116».
No. 295.
Electro-Silver Serviette Ilings.
2in case, 8s 6d; iin case, 16s 6d
6 in case, £1 5s
STEWART DAWSON 8. C*
CONDON
No. 836.
Twelve Electro-Silver Tea Spoons and Sugar
Tongs, in case, £1 7s 6d.
NOTE.—The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the
goods, any of which will be forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Booklet oe Specialties (80 pages) Post Free.
No. 261.
9-ct. Gold,
—Medal. Silver, 3s 6d.
fils; 15-ct., £ll7s g,,,
STEWART DAWSON & CO
412 George Street, and
Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at LONDON, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND, PERTH.


ALL GENUINE . . .
it
REP BIRDS
99
BEAR THIS NAME-PLATE
THE NEW MODELS :
BED BIRD,
RUBY RIMS, r=?
BLACK BIRDS
™SoS KMS «ea t S a c ss
OJb i IIH.
Mmm
ik
r%
mmm
The GOOLD BICYCLE CO. Ltd.
CYCLING SCHOOL-
Waverley Road, Woollahra
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH-
-64 King Street, SYDNEY.
Pattern E. l\o.
gHE ARjjfl
m
LAMPS.
LOO
PUMP CLIPS.
I
wmm
mmm
TROUSER CLIPS.
Shirk
20 only LEFT
J Order
[ Early.
List Price,
£l7 10s.
BICYCLES.
To Clear Balance
’97 Stock . . .
£l3
Nett
Cash.
SUNDRIES.
Best Goods at such Prices —Look!
Brakes and Parts.
Bells from 6d. each.
Lunch Baskets from 4s. 6d.
Balls from 6d. doz.
Cyclometers from 2s. 6d.
each.
Carriers (luggage) from
Is. 6d. each.
Cement Rubber from 3d.
tube.
Chains from Is. 6d. ft.
Cord (dress guard), 9d. per
doz. yards.
Enamels from 6d. tin.
Foot Rests or Coasters,
Is. pair.
Glasses from Is. 6d. pair.
Handle Bars from Bs. pair.
Handle Grips from Is. ~
Lamps from 2s. each.
Lamp Brackets from 6d. ea.
Locks from Is. each.
Mudguards from Is, each.
Nipple Grips from Is. each.
Oilers from 3d. each.
Oil (lamp) from 4d. bottle.
Oil (lubricating) from 3d.
bottle.
Pedals from 7s. 6d. pair.
Pumps from Is. each.
Pump Parts (full stock).
Pump Clips from 3d. pair.
Rims from 6s. pair.
Repair Outfits from 6d. ea.
Saddles from 2s. Cd. each.
Saddle Covers fr. Is. 6d. ea.
Seat Posts from 3s. 6d. ea.
Screw Drivers from 3d. ea.
Spokes from fid. dozen.
Stands (bicycle) from Is.
each.
Tyres, all makers, lowest
prices.
Trouser Guards from 3d.
pair.
Toe Clips from 6d. pair.
Valves, all kinds, from Is.
Wrenches from 9d. each.
Watch and Holders from
ss. each.
Stock-taking* Sale !
10 PER CENT. DISCOUNT.
TEM DAYS ONLY!
Anything and Everything for a CYCLIST
at Lowest Prices.
1200 Articles to Select from.
LISTS ON APPLICATION.
Hebbleuihite m Do.,
(opposite Sydney Arcade and Strand)
377 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Harry Knight, the well-known Sydney owner
and driver of trotting horses, has flown into print, in.
which he states that N.S.W. owners are not so much to
blame for the decline of trotting as defective handicap-
ping. He points out that at Bathurst Show his horse,
Harold 8., ssecs. behind Silver Cloud in a mile, was
beaten by that mare, notwithstanding which defeat, at
Orange, the following week, Harold was placed 20secs.
behind the mare. Silver Cloud again won, and, when the
pair were handicapped for another race, they were put
on the same marks. Harold won his mile trot in Bathurst
in 2’34, and Silver Cloud in 2’36, so Mr. Knight rightly
considers Harold should only have been 4secs. behind the
mare in two miles. In a race at Brighton, referred
to by Mr. Knight, in which his horse was placed on the
ridiculous mark of 20secs. behind in a mile, Kathleen was
“thrown in.” Everybody saw it, speculation was killed,
and she won with her driver holding a watch in his hand.
That sort of thing kills sport.
* * * *
The All-Aged Stakes at the A.J.O. meeting on
Thursday last proved what a good horse the Sydney Cup
winner, Merloolas, is. Mr. Wilson’s crack, Bobadii, and
Merloolas, entered the straight both under ihe whip, the
former with a two-lengths’ lead, and with the flails going
all down the straight Bobadii, with every ounce out, won
by a length and a quarter in lmin. 41sec. Mr. J. Northern
gave the “ books ” a much-needed turn by winning the
City Handicap with the 15 to 1 chance, Flodden ; and
Amberite, as expected, won the Cumberland Stakes easily
from old Battalion. On Saturday, Merloolas, weighted
at 9st. 21b., added to his winnings by carrying off the
Place Handicap from True Blue, who ran a good race, but
was unable to foot it with the country gentleman.
Mirella was the only one Amberite had to beat in the
A. J.C. Plate, and he did it comfortably, winning in smin.
39sec.—6sec. within the time allowed by the club to
entitle the winner to the whole stakes. In the Final
Handicap The Chief had the race in hand and slowed
down, when the experienced Harris saw his chance, and
bringing Vedette along with a rush, passed The Chief on
the post and won by a head. Johnson, who rode The
Chief, will probably be more careful in the future.
* » * *
Hordern’s colors, which had quite regained
the favor of the crowd since the Skipper affair, received
a sad set-back at the A. J.C. meeting. Gunbearer started
the shivoo by going out a 2 to 1 favorite for the First
Nursery Handicap, and being handled with sufficient sus-
picion to allow of his jockey being sent up for a “ sixer.”
On Thursday, in the youngsters’ race, Miss West was
made a hot favorite by the crowd, and ran nowhere ; but
on Saturday, when sevens went begging, she had appa-
rently recovered form and came out and won the Second
Nursery Handicap. N -edless to say, the crowd were not
pleased, and they showed it unanimously.
• • s •
The disqualification of jockey Cleal over the
riding of Gunbearer in the First Nursery Handicap has
caused a good deal of comment in racing circles. If
deal’s punishment was for an unpardonable error of
judgment, well and good; but if for a deliberate “pull-
ing” of the colt, as it appeared to the onlookers, then the
case is one for further enquiry. Cleal, by the way, was
first jockey to the stable, and a clear result of his dis-
qualification is that the stable cannot ever again employ
him.
* * * *
Onkaparinga (S.A.) club’s Easter Monday meet-
ing was a big success. This club, which only races once a
year, provides a £lOOO steeple, collared this year by
Songster, a Victorian horse. The Millers sent Whernside
all the way from Ballarat, but weight told, and the great
horse could only struggle second.
Bookies were almost entirely absent from Onka-
paringa meeting. £21,000 odd went through the machine,
netting the club £l5OO in commission. Tote arrange-
ments greatly impressed chairman Miller, of Vic. R.C.,
who was present, and he went back to Ballarat a stronger
tote-advocate than ever.
• * • *
Jerry Boland, who died, the other day, in Mel-
bourne, used to run the “ arch-medium ” sweeps on the
big races. One time a woman—a Jewess—held the
winner of the Cup. She learned of her luck late in the
evening, and instantly ran off to interview Jerry. She
was told to come next day, and actually sat on the front
door-step all night. When she got her cheque she fell
into a fit of hysterics. And when she got the money she
opened a public-house. “So ye see,” said Jerry, “ she
wint to the divil entirely.”
* * * •
Dear Bulletin.—A suggestion to “ Tattersall.”
#n next big race let him have two sweeps —one to be
drawn before the race, and one on the day of the
race, and advertise the fact thoroughly. Then the public
could show’ him which they wanted most. —John Smith.
* * * *
Before the days of the “tote” in Maoriland, a
bookie made a heavy volume against a horse which the
owner had solemnly assured him was “ dead.” When the
race started the “stiff” was going great guns, and held
a commanding lead as he passed the lawn. “ Here ! I
say 1” yelled the bookie; “what are you doing there?
You’d no business there, you know.” The crow’d grinned
extensively. The “ stiff ” still held the lead coming up
the straight, and Ikey nearly fainted. But it was all
right. The dead ’un lost cleverly by a head. “ Well, by
—— ! ” said he of the proboscis, as he wiped his fevered
brow’; “no more dead uns for me.” And he w'ondered
why the crowd laughed.
* * » *
Holdar M. : “ The efforts of the law to cope
with the gambling instinct range between the sublime
and the gorblime. The police lately laid hands on the
mi d and honest poker-machine, which has been allowed
to -eke undisputed root for years past. Yet out at the
Agricultural Show’, the other day, writer called a con-
stable’s attention to a spieler w’ho, with the ‘ buttoner’s’
eternal aid, was ‘ raking it in.’ The law listened lan-
guidly, slowly cleared its throat, and told this scribe that
there were about two dozen distinct varieties of swindle
in progress round the ground, and as it was without
specific instructions it couldn’t interfere. So the confi-
dence men pursued their gentle art w’ith impunity right
under the law’s nose.”
* * * *
Edmund Tattersall, longtime ruling partner in
the horse-sale business founded by Richard Tattersall,
w’as 83 when he died last month. He W'as the instigator
of the prodigal champagne lunch in connection With
blood-stock sales, and he lived to see the price of fashion-
able yearlings increase from hundreds to thousands under
the influence of gold-top. Also he was originator of
“ three cheers” for the “ plucky sportsman ” who makes
an exceptionally extravagant purchase. How’ well he
understood human nature !
• * » *
Footballers in Vic. are gnashing their teeth
because the lacrosseurs are playing nearly all their
matches, on enclosed grounds this season. Next season
the lacrosse men reckon they’ll charge for admission, the
public will roll up to see a clean, pretty game, and—good-
bye to football profits !
* • * *
One who has seen the Canadian game well
played tells The Bulletin that Sydneyites have practi-
cally never witnessed real lacrosse. The game the
Sydney team played in Melb. last year was a hybrid-
h’oekey-shinty-rounders sort of sport, and the said Sydney
boys were the first to admit it.
• * • *
“The cinematographic pictures of the Sydney
test-match displayed at the Alhambra,” writes The
Bulletin's London correspondent, “are capital for
realism and liveliness. The Bulletin’s hint re the blow-
sounds of the Fitz.-Corbett fight has been utilised, and,
when Ranji hits a ‘ fourer,’ the smack is duly thrown in.
The opening picture is announced as ‘ arrival of the
Governor,’ and depicts Brassey entering Flemington from
the ‘ straight.’ But the ballet-ites don’t know any better, .
and applaud just the same.”
“Daimio, vanquished by transmigration, is to
return to Australia to end his days as a midnight cab-
horse,” w’rites The Bulletin’s London correspondent.
“ Etnmalea, owned by Hibbert, a well-known front-rank
odds-mathematieian, with a long string of Steeplers, does
marvellously well oh Epsom training-track, but fails
miserably in public. The Possible and Galwav are doing
Gollan some good ; the former has lOst. 121 b. in the
£5OO Gt. Sandown Hurdle, and the latter list. 51b. in the
same priced Grand International Steeple, both at Sandown
in April. Spencer Gollan has been successful up on his
own horses lately, and won again to-day the Sussex South-
down Steeple with Norton, by five lengths, at 6 to 6 on,
In a field of eight. S. G. is over the 1250., but as good as
most of the heavy brigade when across a ‘ good ’un.’ ”
The downfall of poor old Peter Jackson (in his
the best-bar none—exponent of modern glove
methods) needs little description. There was nothing in
the first round, but so soon as the second commenced,
Jeffries landed heavily on the body, and then knocked
Peter clean off his feet with a left on the jaw. From this
out to the third round, when the referee mercifully gave
the fight in favor of Jeffries, the once mighty Jackson
merely stood up to be knocked down again. The pity
* * * *
“Kid” M‘Coy, the Yankee boxer who made
such short work of Australian Dan Creedon, is a true
modern fi Alter as regards newspaper work. He reckons
that the modern fighter wants the tierce aggressiveness of
Sullivan, the lightning quickness of Corbett, and the
stolid fore-arm punches of Fitzsimmons. Good old Peter
Jackson, when at his best, has been the nearest, so far, to
M‘Coy’s ideal.
* * * *
The president of the great French cycling body
—the Touring Club—has been warned that unless Zola is
struck off the list the 3000 military and naval members of
the club will resign en bloc.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin.— “ Sporting Notions,” 5/3/98,
contains a statement that I venture to traverse “ The
artillery authorities assure you that to make a sphere thus
alter its course is a mathematical impossibility.” Is it ?
Well, the said gunners are different from those of ’6l to ’69.
It is a fact, unexplainable I admit, but still a fact, that a
rifle-ball always curves to the side of the twist. Hence
the tangent-scale sights of the Armstrong gun. Col. C.
H. Owen, prof, of artillery of the R. M. Academy, had a
theory of rolling in the air. Other high authorities of the
day had others. I (passed Ist in artillery) had, and have,
another still. Now, if a cylinder, revolving on its axis,
does not go straight, but deflects in a curve, whose equa-
tion is not yet determined, why should not a sphere,
which has an affinity of axes, not deflect as it pleases, or,
rather, as bowler Noble chooses? There’s some scientific
reason, and it must be connected with the density of the
resisting medium in which the projectile is moving. I
shall think this out and explain it in pamphlet form.—
Scotty tub Wrinkler. P.S.—W.T.T. is not seized of the
conditions of the “ curl in the air.” The billiard busi-
ness is due to friction on the cloth, but the deflection of
the Armstrong shot or shell and the cricket and base-ball
curve is due either to friction of the resisting medium in
transit or to some other source. Again, the curve of a
projectile in a resisting medium is not a parabola, but a
parabolic curve. In a vacuum it would be a pure para-
bola.—Scotty.
• * * *
Going to the first Coolgardie race-meeting, a
remittance-man, whose “ flush " periods were short and
merry, and a bookie with a talent for “ owing,” travelled
in the same compartment. A discussion arising between
them auent the resoective merits of two nags, the remit-
tancer backed his favorite to beat the bookie's for £5O
“ where they finished.” The owner of the bookie’s fancy
heard of the wager, and advised him to get Out of it for
the reason that he (the owner) might not be “ chasing it”
at Coolgardie, and he would be sorry that any previous
arrangements of his should prevent bookie having a show
for his money. “ Oh, don't you worry about that,” said
the book ; “ I don’t suppose he’ll ever pay me, and I’m
quite sure I’ll never pay him,.”
* * * *
The winner of a foot-race in Maoriland lately
was protested against for false entry. When the com-
mittee met to consider the matter he was asked if he
would swear an affidavit that he was not “ Jack Robin-
son,” a man of good performances. Swear it ? Of course
he would ; Bill Jones was his name. He was warned that
he would be prosecuted for perjury if he swore to a lie,
but he said it was all right, he was no liar. But in a fit
of absent-mindedness he signed the affidavit “ J. Robin-
son,” and he thought it unkind when the committee rose
as one man and “ hoofed ” him into the street.
* * * *
Jack Green, the Humber-rider, hails from New-
castle-on-Tyne. Jack has, up to date, put up 30 birth-
days without a hitch, and is still up to speed business
with his Dunlop-tyred mount on the cycle arena. Jack
will have a cut in at records shortly upon the English
Crystal Palace track, according to all accounts.
* * * *
Jack Green, the English cycling champion, who
left for his native land last Tuesday, is probably one of
the wealthiest racing men of to-day. During the 14
months he spent in Australia, he cleared nearly 1600 in
prizes and drew another £lOOO in machine and tyre allow-
ances. Green has been a successful racing cyclist for 15
years, and during the last five, as a pro., has been winning
all along the line. In addition, he has earned a good
salary as sec. of Elswick Cycle co., so that the who!- of
his prizes and allowances are clear profit. Green comes
from “ canny Newcastle.”
* • * *
Ken Lewis, the 10-mile Australasian champion,
made his d6but at Kyneton in ’72. Ken wasn’t aware of
the wheel industry at that period, but was amazingly
active with his feet as an infant. When Ken arrived" at
manhood’s estate and mounted his Dunlop-tyred Humber
the youthful characteristic became so particularly aggres-
sive and profitable that heaps of trophies and cash-prizes
fell into his possession.
* * * *
A take-down that went wrong. A sporting
writer had published something “ he didn’t oughter” in
the opinion of a trainer, who resolved to get even with him.
The trainer had charge of the favorite for a coming big
race, and three days before the event he sent an urgent
message to the newsman. “The favorite had broken down ;
come out and see him.” When the reporter arrived the
trainer had the horse’s foot in a bucket of hot water.
“ Just giving - a gallop, and he put his foot in a hole.
Have to scratch him.” The scribe rushed avvav to squeeze
in this important item, and the trainer chuckled with a
great and exceeding chuckle. Immediately afterwards
the horse was taken for a gallop and did put his foot in a
hole, breaking down hopelessly, and everybody agreed
that the sporting writer was fairly up-to-date.
A smoke-concert was held at Sydney German
Club last Thursday in aid of the Dudley Colliery
Disaster Relief Fund. A high-class musical pro-
gramme was laid on for the occasion, interspersed
with recitations, “lightning sketches,” conversa-
tion in German and English, and refreshments in
all languages. Who would not drink “bier ”in
so good a cause! The fund will be at least £2O
the richer from the event.
Melb. Argus surprised everybody by
poking vigorous borak at the recent amateur
swashbucklers’ sliivoo at Ballarat; whereat Age
correspondent Lambie waxed exceeding wrath and
Majaw Reay, of the ’Erald, chipped in a few
remarks about the military spirit here not being
strong enough to stand such a strain, haw. The
Argus man described how an impregnable mul-
lock-heap held by mounted riflemen was taken
possession of by the spectators, headed by a
“young lady in a pink silk blouse.” After'the
battle, a detachment of riflemen was found squirm-
ing along the ground in a far paddock and blazing
away at the imaginary enemy until an officer
informed them they were blanky fools not to know
that they had been all slain hours before. Like
Pat Malone, the hero of Johnny Coleman’s song,
they didn’t know they were dead.
At the annual conference of the Australian
United Commercial Travellers’ Association, at
Brisbane, when “ The Press ” was proposed the
mover took occasion, amid uproarious applause,
to compliment the South Queensland press on its
“ purity.” The Victorian and N.S. Wales papers
(it was alleged) were “filled with ‘sweep’ and
‘ guack ’ advertisements,” thereby offending the
virtuous souls of chaste commercial travellers.
Just fancy a gathering of drummers thanking the
Lord the press was becoming purified ! And, by
the way, the complimentary drummer was sar-
castic, though unconsciously—for no one ever
looks for mental subtlety in a bagman. The S.Q.
press may be “pure,” but that is because it has to
be “ pure.” The Law has washed it. It is a bit
left-handed to compliment anyone on having been
compulsorily washed.
Notewcrfchy the preference recently
shown for the employment of Highland regiments
in Britain’s little wars. In the recent Soudan
battle Se,f„r t h, a „d Cam™, led the attack ; „„
tne Indian frontier, the Gordons mopped up most
of the glory; and when Crete seemed likely tc
provide work, either the Seaforths or Camerons
r h ra^a 8 h it k
naught Rangers-were always at work Remark-
able also how the papers have lately lumped at
any chance of allusion to Highland pipers’ bravery
—but the piper’s body riddled with bullets in the
Soudan only indicated the fuzzies’ wisdom in rid-
ding themselves of his discomfiting skirl.
Alr.no- “ NTnf.’oo o, r j i .
Alone . Notice the strong development
ot the tunny-man that is setting in amongst the
eyan parsons. It an effort to make the
servioes more cheerful and attractive. The
humorous and mirth-provoking joke, even the
si esp i mg nigger-gag, is being freely inter-
spersed through the sermons with great effect,
And by reason of the contrast with the otherwise
dull and solemn surroundings almost any decently
good joke becomes inexpressibly funny when deli-
l e rV!iT PU i plt ’ • 5- tachurc h this scribe
attended last bunday night the most obese and
most profoundly respectable male saint, who
never before was heard to make any noise during
service except emphatic amens and violent and
pious groans whenever the pastor mentioned the
oven, was so tickled by the humorous discourse
that, after bravely struggling for some minutes to
keep it m, he forgot himself and exploded with
lau g hter. It sounded as if Peacock had collapsed
after being inflated to bursting-point with a three-
horse-power cycle-pump. It set the whole church
giggling, brought some of the choir to their feet,
rattled amongst the rafters, and caused the shep-
herd to fax a glare on the offender that struck him
like the shock of Gideon s hosts, and knocked him
back lnb > hls saintly owhshness with a sickening
tfaud. then, when we had regained our com-
posure, the good man told us some more jokes for
the good of our souls.”
Christie Murray is responsible for the
statement that Dreyfus has a loaded pistol placed
w l thm bis reach—but with the assurance that
Sg^it^U™? 01 ™" 6 Pr ” f h "
“The reason I dislike Ranji,” writes
“Mummer ” to The Bulletin “is because he is
rr^^AdT 0 !:^^^ Britisher - wl r
if land ® d ln Adelaide he would not be interviewed,
WOl V d not th ® toadying press a line of
C ? P , y :he anted 5t all for ‘ friend ’ Stead the
® toler )' g° ods purveyor and literary ‘fence
,gq ° r \ ng the fact * hat > but for th e press, which
\ gets cp) "’ n . on its baggy knees and worships his
bogus Frinceship ’in every paragraph, he would
never be heard of outside the field where they play
the game of ‘Nigger with the stick.’ He.takes
the first opportunity, however, to assure the public
that he is an arden't Britisher ; his uncle, too, is
bravely fighting his Empress’s battles in India;
that is, said uncle was ardently murdering his own
countrymen in defence of the ‘ rights ’ of a white
robber and invader; and Ranji is proud of the
renegade. Of course, one does not expect much
brains in a man who devotes a lifetime to lash-
ing out with a club at a ball thrown at
his legs by another fellow ; but, surelv, cricketers
should be grateful to the press which boosts
the dark man’s game to a heroic altitude and
wastes whole columns debating whether the
‘ checker ’ ‘ chucks ’ or slings the ball, or the bats-
man snicks or glances it. Is there any other case
m the world’s history where such an insignificant
combination as an Indian, a bat and ball, has
been raised to such importance ? Besides, Ranji
is not the best, even at the idiotic game ; one man
on his own side, and two or three on ours, have
outshone him; but he is dark-skinned, and so
appeals to the affections of a verv large class of
Australian women. The Georgia minstrels, with
their monkey heads and thick lips, had just as
great a charm for our white women in years gone
by—so the women’s homage does not go for much,
But, such as it is, combined with the press, it
made the Ranji boom.”


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere. *
Here To-day!
Yesterday!
and To-morrow !
WE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
’ ’ We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machfnes that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street. SYDNEY.
&3T Agent for “Naumann” and “ Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES
Won’t Slump.
Our factory two months behind their orders. 400 men working
10 hours a day. No slump there. Good quality don’t go begging,
j. .... It’s cheapest in the end ....
Honest Cycles at Honest Prices m
That's where we stand in “The Slump.”
KASSEY-HARRIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Established
1847.
Australasian Branch S 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots: 245 Collins Stre t, Melbourne; 88* George Street, Sydney
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Ell-s’ Kin "-street Collee Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
:
T 0....
PIGEON SHOTS
..AND OTHERS.
A GENUINE Greener
Gun can now be ob-
tained from all the principal
dealers in Australia, bearing
the well-known GREENER
marks. Write for a Gun
bored like Mr. D. Macintosh’s,
who has just returned from
Europe loaded with trophies
of his skill and won by his
favorite “GREENER” to
HI J. greener,
BOX 326, G.P.0., SYDNEY ; or to his Yic. Rep.,
C. W. BUCKLAND, 16 Ourral Road, ELSTERN
WICK, MELBOURNE.
OTJXRELL’S Fluid Di.siufcctimtAs invaluable to
Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
B’eauty. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
without doubt a household necessity. Sold everywhere.
riIHE LAST OF SIX: TALES OF
A THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
“DOWRIDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
(|Jolf American High Art Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English $ American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
{>
MACK LIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
20s.
in the £
Is what our Guarantee is
worth to all Cyclists.
SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
GIVEN WITH . . .
44 Humber”
4 4 Swift”
44 Ariel”
. . AND
44 Singer”
CYCLES
Fitted uiith Dunlop Tyres.
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,-
391 George-street, SYDNEY;
AND AT
MELBOURNE AND ADELAIDE.
izvmmw %mw
W&m
Imii
m
I*l
1
ott juigjtxai
■a
V ■:■ :
• -
18181
IS*
■ ;
-
: h ■
US
•:m!o
ab&rcss '
3j-3 IbCivl'V OuaranteeC: to be free from alt imperfections ut tenterwt 3116
‘ » tUorkmaitsinp. XElcwitt malic flood at our tdorfosnt amt time wttlnii one
'.2m from date of pm-dciec am? meets not caused By accident*, reuiptt tisane, or
neglect, ail part* to be wtunwO to us (camanc twis) for cjflmtmttion, tegctl'cr
wttlS tbe 'lHlimber, of the ffcaclnne to wtKcb ttxr fcioiin. Before aiiy claim is
allowed.
Cbc ioveatest Care is tahen in tbc selection an& ntiina nt “ Buniop"
Cmemnatic Cyres, wWci> we strongt? recommend, nut* our tmatsmtec runs cou»
cuviStitrwitt) tbat otocitUs tbe SlntiloiJ fticumatic ISsre CompaHfcUtinitfed,
vrtw guarantee twin tor Cwcloe fflkmtlM, _•
2>ate of gMuebase 18
limit of Coitaramcc is
t'oc %mnnX Ci'cu tt&.
One well-advertised but very amateur
swashbuckler proved himself an absolute martinet
at Rookwood (Sydney) encampment. During
manoeuvres by his tired and thirsty squad, a
subordinate officer had the temerity to give some
order, whereupon the haughty field marshal (or
something) turned upon him and ferociously ex-
claimed—“ How da-ah you give commands when
I am present, sir! ” But the gallant amateur’s
effort to ape a seasoned militaire hadn’t enough of
the “blanky” ring about it to seem convincing,
and onlookers merely guffawed and advised the
junior officer to “punch ’is jore.”
Write “ The Heavenly Twins " :
Like Montgomery’s Thurston, we too once had our
beautiful theories re the Child of Nature, and Becke’s
first yarns made us yearn to dwell where our chief worry
would lie in futile attempts to restrain the deliciously im-
moral advances of the black-haired maiden of the sensuous
curves. But we’ve learned a little since then — not much,
it's true, for we’re of the class who need to be taught by
experience, and even then we have to fall over a thing
several times before we realise it exists. But we have
learnt, and now we would gleefully' pawn our Waterbury
to aid a fund for the propagation o'f fatal diseases among
every colored race on earth—for our united knowledge em-
braces all other types of color, the Kanaka having wrecked
the last remnant of our dying belief in the alleged
virtues of the Child of Nature. In the aforementioned
days of our verdancy, we viewed the Q. Kanaka through
the eyes of Westerners, and, while denouncing the fact
that the nigger ousted the white worker, the main stock
of our spleen was directed at those responsible for that
fact, our feeling being one of pity that he should be
decoyed from his island-paradise to be educated in the
meanest vices of a rotten civilisation. But now, we think
that Queensland is the fittest place for the nigger, and
that the islands should be inhabited by the weary white
man. In short, we would recommend that every colored
person on earth should be dumped into Queensland, and
so leave the really decent places (“ the green fields afar
off ’) to folks that could appreciate them. We don’t
blame the Kanaka for his laziness—we are somewhat
“tired” ourselves—but we detest him for his smell—
especially in wet weather. For wasting, not using,
water in drought-time the average new-chum is
an old Western-stager compared with the guileless
Kanaka. For filthiness in the tucker line an alli-
gator, with its preference for putrefied corpse, is com-
paratively' squeamish. The Kanaka’s love of home is
“ all our eye.” He prefers to be a “ slave ” where he can
get drink and loaf on his weaker mates. And for mean
■villainy and lying and treachery—only 7 modified bv his
wooden-headedness and distrust of his mates—the Kanaka
beats the Javanee, and the missionary-boy tops the pile
every time. The Kanaka is better off in Queensland
than at home. He is better treated than the white
man being paid sick or well (he mostly is sick, for he
lies up for the least “tired” feeling); he mustn’t work
in the wet, mustn’t be sworn at, or punched, under
penalty of £5. His pay is better than that of many a
cookie’s laborer in N.S.W. ; his food is better, and quite
as varied as the tucker on a Western station, and he
mustn’t be worked over 10 hours a day. When his time is
??i a fi" ee Passage home (and must be provided for
it k j vesse l can take him), but his repugnance to the
alleged “ slavery ” is so great that he mostly'refuses to
leave it. As for the “ island maiden,” we never met her,
but, if she resembles the specimens of the sex we’ve met
in Queensland, we can cheerfully endure the disappoint-
n) ' el K t ' , We have developed lately a strong sympathy
with the Dutchman, who sits severely' on his nigger;
with the chartered companies who are stealing whole
countries from the black man ; and we want to pat the
head of the juvenile Boer who learns good marksmanship
at the expense of the casual African.
LITTLE GLFFEN.
Out of the focal and foremost fire,
Out of the hospital walls as dire,
Smitten of grapeshot and gangrene
(Eighteenth battle, and he sixteen !),
Spectre such as we seldom see,
Little Giffen of Tennessee !
“ Take him and welcome ! ” the surgeon said ;
‘'Much your doctor can help the dead ! ”
And so we took him and brought him where
The balm was sweet on the summer air ;
And we laid him down on a wholesome bed—
Utter Lazarus, heel to head !
Weary War with the bated breath,
Skeleton boy against skeleton Death,
Months of torture, how many such !
Weary weeks of the stick and crutch I
Still a glint of the steel-blue eye
Spoke of the spirit that wouldn’t die—
And didn’t! —nay, more ! in death’s despite,
The crippled skeleton learned to write !
“ Dear Mother,” at first, of course, and then,
“Dear Captain,” inquiring about the “men.”
Captain answered : “ Of eighty and five,
Giffen and I are left alive ! ”
—American.
A Ballarat Chow was run over by a lorry,
half-smothered in slurry, and caught in a fall of
dirt, all in one day, and next morning he turned
up to work as usual. Ah Cat has nine lives.
Delcomyn :—
When the details of the stranding of the China come to
hand, it will probably turn out that lovely woman was,
indirectly, the cause of it. Not the new woman, but- the
old, old woman, Eve’s own daughter. From the state-
ment made by the good Bishop of Melanesia, it would
seem that one of the usual entertainments was in full
swing when she drove on to the rocks, as the ladies were
sent ashore in evening-dress. The Bishop, as he
was neither a dancing man nor a flirting man
seemingly, saw the reef, but, not being in charge
of the bridge, was not able to stop the steamer.
Nearly any captain of a large passenger steamer
will tell you that he’d rather carry convicts than a saloon
full of women. He may be adamant himself, but it pla3 r s
the devil with his officers. Girls seem to think they have
a special license when on a long voyage, and a right to in-
vade every portion of the ship, the bridge included, no
matter how they impede and hinder the navigation, and
risk the safety of the ship by taking off the attention of
those on duty. The only place safe from them is the
engine-room. The “steamer-hack” is beginning to be
as well-recognised a type as the garrison-hack of the old
days. Some captains hold out and chance their popu-
larity, others are bamboozled. Let the new woman set
about teaching her giddy sea-going sisters sense.
But we never heard of a woman on the bridge of
a P. and O. steamer —nor of a P. and O. officer
neglecting his watch for the sake of a woman.
When you come to think of it, the company’s luck
has been marvellous. Which is only another way
of praising its discipline.


The best preparation for preserving,
restoring, and beautifying the hair is
Ayer’s ♦ ♦
Hair Vigor.
It keeps the scalp free from dandruff,
heals troublesome humors, and pre-
vents the hair from falling out. When
the hair becomes dry, thin, faded, or
gray, it restores the original color and
texture and promotes a new and vig-
orous growth. Wherever used, Ayer’s
Hair Vigor supplants all other dress-
ings, and becomes at once the favorite
with ladies and gentlemen alike.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
GOLD MEDALS at the World's Chief Expositions.
cECOND-HAND
I=3 AND
TVTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing- of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Ladies.- Can and
see our OH HAP
■UACiI I N KS, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc.
! s. ROWLEY & C 0„
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
-n
w
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood,
an i enabli g the consti-
tution o resist climatic
influences.
PER BRATAIS
Invaluable in all cases of.
anaemia, Influenza and
general debilit ■.
FER BRAVAIS
Highly recommended for
weak and debilitated chil-
dren
LANGt-T 4 A beautiful and interesting -preparation?'
[BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. “ It has all
' the good effects of iron without producing consti-
pation or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
(blacken the teeth.
Sold by Chemists all the world over.
PcafQess
and HEAD
NOISES
Wilson’s Common n n l : _. • _
Sense Ear Drums
Relieve all conditions of Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
'Aural Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment,
ecommended by physicians. Write for book —Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAItS and TAILS,
20in. lons, f/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, ye per oz.
AVe are the ciieapeetin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. W~igz«ll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe List).
Prompt attention given to Country Orders,
Public Notices.
SATURDAY, 30th APRIL, 1898.
AUCTION SALE at LISMORE, RICHMOND RIVER.
Two Dairy and Cane Farms, one mile from Billenudgee
Railway Station. 640 acres Rich Scrub Land, partly
improved ; 200 acres Splendid Scrub Land, divided by
a main road only from the foregoing property. Good
soil, well situated; must be sold ; unreserved sale ;
easy terms.
[C W. MACKAY has been favored with instructions
' ’ from Thos. A. Powell, Esq., to sell by public auction
at his Lismore Auction Rooms, on Saturday, 30th April,
1893, at 12 o’clock, the undermentioned valuable pro-
perties, all that piece or parcel of land in the parish of
Billenudgv, county of Rous, being C.P. 81.21, taken up
by T. G. Hugh, portion No. 6, and containing 640 acres
(more or less), together with all improvements thereon.
All that piece also or parcel of land in the same parish
and county, and being C.P. 81.19, taken up by W. D.
Small, containing 200 acres. These properties adjoin the
holdings of Messrs. Gerald O’Connor, P. Nelson and
Russell Dowling, and are watered by Marshall’s and
Wilson’s Creeks. The soil is of good quality, and the
property is for absolute sale. The auctioneers will be
glad to show intending purchasers over the property, or
communicate-any required information. Remember date
of sale is SATURDAY, 30th APRIL, at Noon.
A ferryman at one of the Brisbane ferries
told the present scribe his hours were 12 a day for
the whole seven. He had only missed three days
in four years, through “dengue” fever, and his
pay—4s. fifd. a day—was stopped. The muni-
cipality farms the ferries out—a municipality run
largely by a set of glorified hucksters.
Dear Bulletin.— How would Philipia, or
Philipland or Philippi do as a new name for
N.S.W. ? Surely appropriate in that Philip signi-
fies “a lover of horses.” Then a few thousand
years hence a legend would gather around us that
Paul’s epistle to the Philippians was written to
comfort the primitive lags of Botany Bay.— J.F.P.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
I
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO
Happy is the Man who has a (rood Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article—
A. Soyer’S Bakii>g Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes pastry rise and he so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/6 and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article —guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENTAROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by expert Chemists at
Low Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiQgtoQ H.Sotil &Co.,m’sp.s.
153, 160, a.xxdL 268 Fitt-street, Sydney; and at
Clmrcli-Btreet, Parramatta.
9
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Blackboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
SSW Send for Price List. YSit
The Sydney Carriage MVfg Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Carriage Man’f’g. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicl is
The Best and Cheayies
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing C
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotati n
by return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
r
¥
m
T*«t
M -J
_ v<: ; ■ !t«'*•• 17
'■rrcr^r
jggj.
[> A-«-
w
m
> c
%
jg
£
4tk
rhc
r^rr
aw:
v^wr
V- ' •
„ ,r* v - c
+ ‘%4&~
J
irt-
iTOEP’SWtf
‘GUINEA-GOLD’
CIGARETTE}.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD F ° R
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Mouses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.
Reaping.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a week in the year when your troubles
never trouble,
When you’re up with the sun and a-working at
the double,
And there isn’t time to grumble as you slip along
the stubble
On the old twine-binder in the morning !
Then it’s turn out, boys, to the cleaner
by the heap,
For the stack’s a-growing bigger, and
there’s plenty more to reap.
Oh! the world seems better when you’re
in waist-deep
On the old twine-binder in the morning !
You may talk of the times when the concertina’s
playing,
When the boys give a spree at the shanty where
you’re staying,
And Matilda Maud’s a-blushing at the things as
you’re a-saying
Like a rose what never has a thorn in !
But there’s whips more fun at the cleaner
by the heap
When the birds begin to warble and the
day begins to peep ;
Oh ! your life’s not long enough, and joy
seems cheap
On the old twine-binder in the morning !
There’s a day in the week when you’re finished all
but carting,
When the last bushel’s bagged and the teams are
all a-starting, '
And you seem to lose a comrade when the minute
conies for parting
From your old twine-binder in the morning!
So it’s good-bye, chaps, to the cleaner by
the heap,
For we’ve got to leave the paddocks to the
milkers and the sheep,
And the rooster’s a-crowing and the dust
lies deep
On the old twine-binder in the morning !
NIL.
The “ church with a chimney on it ” is an
accomplished fact, and can be seen in Thomas-st.,
Ultimo, Sydney. The chimney is no architect’s
dummy either, but a real working smoke-stack,
15ft. high. An inscription on the foundation-
stone of the edifice, which is just completed, states
that the building belongs to the “society of the
New Church.” Is the New Church a culinary
cult?


1
1
Herr Rassmussen, Celebrated Herbalist.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF TIIE
lifeline Verbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS FOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary procaut’ ~i asrain« f ill-
health.
Many peopit. have heavy doctors uma uo meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsenso view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the cause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur dailv, and an
INFALLIBLE " CURE
is found in taking the
Alfaline Herbal
Remedies.
S*»L
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging 1 to
Business,
c.
**srm
taking little interest in
topics of the day, who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home —and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Hemedies,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Fills, which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness-
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
whic h keeps
them i n d oors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, they espy
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE SISTER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEALTH,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house, and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
A. brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
&
v\
HERR
Medical
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches —well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER FELT BETTER in their lives.
f'G
sn
m tD
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due to
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
ALFALINE
Blood Pills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
w
m
• HOW OAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ”■— Shakespeare.
w
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The AlFa ine
Pat-Reducing 1 Powders are a CERTAIN
CURE } packets, 6s.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those suffering
from Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twitoh-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
Hei’r Rastmus-
sen’s Alfaline
Herbal Reme-
dies.
IK
w
CHILDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmussen’s AJfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
V¥i
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying over every IEOe
disappointment or t id ■,
their complexion suffer-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies, and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
themselve-
The Alfaline Cal versa Pills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANCE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
V
r 1 1
pi.
-
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager,banker, exnert, and politician,
&c., and at the same time be tormented by some
ailment which has baffled the MEDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY A BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL, he tries some of HERR RASS-
MUSSEN’S ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at 6s. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
e /:
How to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
tlm cue in his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Itassmu:-sen’s Alfaiine Vitality Pills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
How to Obtain Free Book.
jJST When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION, just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to HERR RASSMUSSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent FBEE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmnssen’s
wonderful Alfaiine Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaiine
Remedies can oidy be obtained from his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
Mi $
s.?
M
PF=ffl
it
V!
K
<U
2
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
——■■■■■■■■■——■—P——■— raM*
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure tor all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. ; Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Fills
Are unequalled as a HOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLOOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Bcxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Pat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cur*
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent fret
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills-For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy ana expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney !
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne — 150 Bourke Street ;
Brisbane—l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade ;
Adelaide—ls 4 Rundle Street ;
N.Z.— 9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W.A. :
Perth— Hay Street ;
Coolgardie— Bailey Street ;
Kalgoorlie —Hannan Street ;
Fremantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
arana
30IAQV
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c o any of his Intercolonial
Branches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply address your Letters thus for privacy sake—
“ PROPRIETOR, Box 208, Gbnkral Post Ofkicb,
SYDNEY."
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
money, without iaiu


Ihe ancient of 99 who tried to suicide in
Melbourne the other day attributed the act to
weariness of life. He probably feared that if he
waited to put up the century Death would forget
nun altogether.
There has been much wrangling over the
nval claims of certain applicants for Adelaide
lown Clerkship, vacant through Mr. Worsnop’s
death some months ago. The rival applicants are
an outsider, who h is much political and legal in-
fluence, and \V right, acting-Town Clerk.
lhu Kingston (>S.A.) Ministry weakens by
Butler s accession to Cockburn’s old billet as Edu-
cation Minister. Butler, as Govt. Whip, was a
fur i 1 And as a politician he was always mediocre.
Of the original Kingston Govt., formed in June,
J 3, only two (Kingston and Holder) remain. In
succession, Gordon, Playford, Gillen, and Cock-
burn have gone. . Yet, mainly through King-
ston s ability and vim, the Government majority
is at present larger than ever !
Will the Sydney solicitor who made the
will of the late J. Loftus Irving kindly communi-
cate with Mr. O’Hara Wood, Selborne Chambers,
Chancery Lane, Melbourne?
HEALTH IN ; THE BOTTLE.
“ D.C.L.” Scotch is a delicious and finely
blended whisky of excellent flavor, which, while
maintaining all the due stimulating properties of
the spirit, has been mellowed by age into a per-
fectly wholesome and mild beverage.*
Harry de Windt, the well-known traveller,
describes Chilkoot Pass, over which so much of
the traffic to the Klondyke goes :
The passage of the Chilkoot is generally made by night,
as the soft, deep snow is then in firmer condition. The
outfit was despatched at 3 p.m. to await us at Stonehouse,
about 2000 ft. below the summit, where a halt is made to
gather strength for the real struggle. By 10 p.m. all is
ready for a start. We have no mountaineering parapher-
nalia, and are armed simply with three stout wooden
staffs cut that afternoon, but these are discarded long
before the summit is reached. Passing the silent white
tents of our sleeping companions, we enter a dark and
narrow defile that becomes steeper and steeper as the
Pass is approached. The trail is rough and stony and
intersected by numberless streams, while tree-stumps,
gnarled roots, and tangled brushwood occasionally bring
us down headlong. Presently the forest becomes less
dense, and patches of snow__appear on either hand. An
hour later we take our first rest, drenched with perspira-
tion, at. Stonehouse, a rocky ledge overhanging the first
of seven or eight snowy “plateaus” that must be crossed
to reach the foot of the actual peak, which is itself nearly
1000 ft. high. The Chilkoot cannot really be called “a
Pass.” It would he considered a dangerous mountain in
Switzerland, and a question of guides, ropes, and ice-
axes. Stonehouse is the limit of trees. A huge granite
rock, shaped something like a human dwelling, suggested
the name. We found our Indians huddled up under
this, sheltered from, an icy wind that whistled through
my fur jacket as though it were muslin After a brief
halt, we pushed on, ascending a steep ridge until we
stood on the first ice-plateau. The travelling here was
much easier, and we went, cautiously ahead in Indian
file, two “Siwashes” (Indians) in front, two in the rear,
anil ourselves in the centre. And yet this portion of the
ascent is, perhaps, the most perilous. This “ plateau,”
like all the others, was broken away beneath by numerous
watercourses, and was simply a kind of crust, suspended
15ft to 20ft above the ground. Had there been fir-t.rees
below we should have been standing on the upper
branches ! There was absolutely no path or trail to guide
one, and huge crevasses where the snow had fallen in
upon some foaming torrent appeared at frequent inter-
vals. We progressed but slowly, for our guides probed
the snow carefully at every 'step. They knew that a
break through would mean certain death. These plateaus
increased in steepness uritil, midway up the last,
we had thrown Away our sticks and were scram-
bling painfully on hands and knees. It was necessary
to scratch holes in the snow with our fingers to
gain any ground. The Indians, with their heavy
packs, used short knives for this purpose, but stopped
every few moments to regain'their breath, for which I
was not sorry. It was impossible to rest for more than a
few moments, for to let go would have meant a fall of
perhaps a couple cf hundred feet to the foot of the slope.
The Bishop of Alaska has described this portion of the
ascent as “ hair-raising” work, and he does not exag-
gerate. To make matters worse, a thin drizzling rain
now fell, which chilled us to the bone, and made the
?oing even worse than before. These plateaus appeared
40 be oval in shape. Each terminates in a kind of nar-
row antechamber formed by enormous boulders. These
gloomy portals, which were passed with some difficulty,
recalled Dorb’s pictures of the “ Inferno,” and the out-
ook when we emerged from them on to another almost
perpendicular wall of ice, was not a cheerful one.
The scene was one of utter desolution. Here and
here, below us, masses of black rock dotted the
white expanse, like islands on a sea of snow ;
while overhead towered the grim spectral peak of the
Chilkoot, rendered still more vague and terrible by a
rapidly rising mist. This presently grew so dense that
further progress became impossible. Scaling the rocky
ridge that encloses the last “ plateau,” we descended into
a kind of cavern, which, though open to the rain, afforded
Home protection from the cutting blast. Here we managed
to light a smoky, spluttering fire, over which we shivered
until the grey dawn partly dispelled the fog and enabled us
to resume our journey. We soon reached the actual base
of the Chilkoot, and here hard work commenced in grim
earnest up the granite face of the mountain. The dis-
tance from our camping-ground to the summit is barely
000 ft., but the ascent occupied nearly two hours. There
8, of course, no path, nor would it be possible to make
one, for the rocks are loose and insecure, and the passage
of a man will often send a boulder crashing down, to the
‘eadly peril of those below. In some places it was
lecessary to squeeze round the wall of the precipice
*n narrow ledges of rock that trembled underfoot,
.nd threatened to dislodge and send one whirling
through space into eternity. The last 300 ft was like
scaling the walls of a house. With ropes and proper
•ppliances, the passage of this mountain could be made
ar easier ; but it was, under the circumstances, such ex-
lausting, heart-breaking work that I more than once had
erious thoughts of turning back. Finally, however, at
•bout 4 a.m., we stood on the summit, breathless, bleed-
og, and ragged, but safe. My aneroid gave the altitude
as 3620 ft above sea level.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Perhaps the enclosed British Medical
Journal advt. may account for ?
ASSES’ MILK.
For Infants and Invalids.
Notice the Medical Profession.
DAWKINS & CO.,
Purveyors of es' Milk to the Royal Family,
Beg to state that they trade in no other milk but
Asses’, and that F niilies can have the Milk drawn
from the finest milch sat their own doors. This
is the Original Business. Established a.d. 1780.
Do you ever have a headache ? Would
you not have a cure—simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble ? Then, write or call on Newman and
Snelson (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets—
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post.*
“Five shillings or one month” is the
decree of a Bombala magistrate against a person
accused of an offence. This is a record proof of
the unmistakeable scarcity of money at the present
time in N.S. Wales. Or perhaps it proves the
scarcity of magisterial common-sense out Bom-
bala-way.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Amusements.
mHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers,
Messrs. Chas. Holloway and William Anderson.
OVERWHELMING AND MAJESTIC TRIUMPH!
EVERY EVENING!
Mr. Charles Darrell’s Thrilling Drama,
Wl ien London Sleeps.
Interpreted by
Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY
And His Specially Augmented Dramatic Company,
er- POPULAR PRICES! Plan at Allan’s
Public Notice.
yO WN HALL, SYDNEY.
Tuesday Afternoon & Evening,
- - 26th April - .
Dr. Win, Fletcher Hall,
The Eminent Diagnostician of the Polvpathic
Institute, will deliver his FAMOUS LECTURES—
TUESDAY AFTERNOON,
April 26.
LADIES ONLY.
MEN ONLY.
TUESDAY EVENING,
April 26.
ADMISSION Fee SEATS Free
In any part of Hall.
DR. WILLIAM FLETCHER HALL,
The very eminent Diagnostician,
whose wonderful faculty in diagnosing disease by simply
lookmg at the patient, has been the wonder of the scien-
tmc worid, will deliver the following very interesting
and highly instructive lectures :
TUESDAY AFTERNOON, APRIL 26, 3 p.m.,
Private Lecture to LADIES ONLY.
Subject :
“ Suffering Woman, and her Heroic Fortitude to Endure."
This lecture is for ladies only, and no babies or children
under 16 years of age will be admitted. In its educa-
tional work for women it has received the highest encomi-
ums from the Press of all countries. No woman who
values her health or home should fail to hear it.
TUESDAY EVENING, APRIL 26, 8 P.M.,
Private Lecture to MEN ONLY.
Subject:
“ Our Disobedience of Nature’s Laws.”
This lecture is for men only, and no boys under 18 years
of age will be admitted unless accompanied by their
fathers.
Columns might be written on this lecture, as it is a
masterpiece both in its subject matter and its delivery
and Dr. Hall is entitled to great credit for the good he
has been instrumental in accomplishing throughout the
world by his timely words of warning to men, both young
and old.
, IT SHOULD BE LISTENED TO BY ALL.
A MYSTERIOUS GIFT:
Something that confounds the best philosophical ex-
perts. The sick are cured and the Sceptics left to wonder.
Some of the marvels of the
Polypathic Medical Institutes, Sydney & Melbourne.
A Man who has ability to read disease like an open book,
at an glance, without asking any questions of the patient,
looking at the tongue or feeling the pulse.
IS IT INTUITION?
An investigation which discloses facts of the most
startling character.
For the purpose of extending their already world-wide
popularity, and with a desire to extend their system,
which can best be done by cures made, THEY WILL
GIVE TO ALL WHO DESIRE CONSULTATION, Advice
and Examination, for the first three months at the Syd-
ney Institue, for the reduced charge, i.e., 65., thus giving
sufferers from all forms of chronic diseases personal atten-
tion, and thereby all the advantages of this new system
which has worked such marvellous cures. Although the
time and expense to them in this reduction of both Con-
sultation and Treatment will be very great, yet the num-
ber they will treat will be so large, the cures they will
make will be so varied, the good they will do will 'cover
so large a field, that the advertisement will be double
what could be obtained with the expenditure in any other
way. They also hope to bring to the notice of all invalids
their Institutes as well as their especial system of prac-
tice. All they ask in return is that every- patient so
treated will appoint themselves a committe of one, to state
to all their friends the results obtained in their individual
cases by the Polypathic System. So the rich and poor
may come daily from 10 a.in. to 1 p.m., and 2 p.m. to 4
p.m., for the entire time (three months) as above.
Hundreds Cured Annually.
The Management of the Polypathic Medical Institutes
have leased the ENTIRE BUILDINGS, 29 York-street
Wynyard-square, Sydney, and 84 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. These buildings have been most thoroughly re-
modelled, and are now fully equipped, and furnished with
Reception Rooms, Consultation Rooms and Laboratories
all complete. All of the Polypathic Institutes are pre-
sided over, in the Medical Department, by fully qualified
medical men, whose credentials are second to none in the
medical world, and they are fully registered by the
Medical Boards of the colony in which they practice in
full compliance of the medical laws.
The Polypathic Institutes have the Largest Private
Laboratories of any Private Hospital or Institute in the
World, and they are also presided over by expert chemists
fully registered by the Pharmaceutical Boards of the
co'ony in which they reside.
polypathic [|)edical Institute
29 y ork-st., Wynyard Square, Sydney. *
Don’t forget the Lectures if you are
interested.
A SILVER WATCH FREE.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE?
A*L G*o*S_jGr*A*A*T**D.
We will Present to Every Person SOLVING the above
Puzzle one of our Splendid
SILVER. WATCHES,
LADY’S or GENT.’s, having
SOLID SILVER CASES, Jewelled Movements, and are
Reliable Timekeepers. List Price, 60s.
Send your answer at once, with a stamped addressed
envelope, to know if you have won the PRIZE. If so, and
you purchase one of our SOLID SILVER CHAINS to
wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will be sent,
securely packed, free by registered post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
■ROVAL STANDARD THEATRE, SYDNEY
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereasrh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SAfURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
7 8th )
WEEK f
HENRY’S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
7 8th
WEEK
Reappearance of Miss BILLIE HOVVARDE in
The Little Det' j ctive.
Wed., N. Sydney ; Thurs., Waverley ; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN—ADMISSION.
HARMSTON’S
GRID CIRCUS * Z00C0GIR
Location : BELMORE PARK.
Our JNTe'w -
IT'S GOOD FOR ALL AILMENTS. SEE IT !
To-Night! To-Night!
Oar Second Programme has proved superior to any
that has been seen in Sydney, and History will record on
its bright amusement pages the name of Harmston for
future generations as the one great organisation perfect
in every detail that makes good all promises to the public.
Family Matinees—WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Children and Servants Half-price.
Doors open 1.30. Commence 2.30.
All Matinee Programmes are a facsimile of the
evening one, and in no way curtailed.
. PRICES—Private Boxes, (6 chairs), £1 4s; Single Seat
m Boxes, 4s; Dress Circle Chairs, 3s : Stalls, 2s ; Pit, ONE
SHILLING. Box Plan at Elvy’s, George-st. Children
Half-price to Matinee ONLY.
Mrs. HARMSTON-LOVE, Sole Proprietress.
ROBERT LOVE, Manager.
Col. C. B. HICKS, Representative.
JOE BROWN, General Agent.
TYCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
"Under the sole direction of Messrs. J. & C. MacMahon.
LAST TWO NIGHTS!
Of Conquest’s and Shirley’s Extraordinarily Successful
Drama,
PHAKrTOMS.”
SATURDAY NEXT, Magnificent Production of the Latest
London and American Success,
"L'li© Wh.ite Squadron.
Dress Circle, 2s 6d ; Reserved Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is:
Family Circle, 6d. Box plan at Nicholson & Co’s.
jjER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Mr. WILSON BARRETT
AND HIS COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS !
“The Silver King.”
SATURDAY, April 23, and for Six Nights only,
HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK
Plan, Nicholson’s. ISi 1- PRICES—5s., 3s., 2s., and Is.
fJlHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
AGAIN A TRIUMPHANT INAUGURATION!
BLAND HOLT’S
EASTER MELODRAMATIC PRODUCTION,
The Cotton Ki lg,
Written by Mr. SUTTON VANE,
Has scored a Distinct and Emphatic Success.
Prices—3s, 2s, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day tickets at Power’s Hotel Cigar Store.
T H E A T R E, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
AN UNPARALLELED STAR PROGRAMME.
*Tlie Kell ino Family.
AUSTIN RUDD. The HAYTORS.
The TILLRRS. LEON and KIRK.
An original Grand New First Part, Fetleria.
THE GRAND BELL BALLET,
AND A BRILLIANT ARRAY OF TAT,ENT.
/CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BRILLIANT RECEPTION! BRILLIANT RECEPTION 1
«|1 I V O L 1
| Mr. CHAS. CARTWRIGHT |
And his Complete London Company in the Great London
St. James’s Theatre Success,
THE TREE OF KNOWLEDGE.
FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES—5s, 3s, 2s, and Is.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
JOHN H ULI3MES JAMES
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
BELLMAN & MOORE. Mr. MICHAEL NOT,AN.
WILL WHITBURN. FRANK YORKE.
The 3 Kegelmanna.
And Our Great Double Company.
fST- PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
s
T GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
FOR A SHORT SEASON.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING 1
T. A. KENNEDY,
•• HYPNOTIST
KING LAUGH-MAKER OF THE WORLD.
Under the Management of J. Kennedy.
CONTINUED FURORE.
LA UGHTER ! LA UGH TER !
FRENZIED FUN.
FUN ! FUN1
HUNDREDS TURNED AWAY NIGHTLY.
T. A. KENNEDY’S
Hypnotic Entertainments would compel Laughter
in a thousand-year-old Mummy.
People’s Prices—2s-, Is- and Sixpence.
Doors open at 7.15 ; Begin, 8.15.
RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING!
The Brilliant, Spectacular and Amusing Extravaganza,
Tbe BabcS It) tl>3 Wood.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies’.
Day tickets at Stegmann’s, and Princess’s Cafe.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Management of Dan Barry.
SATURDAY, 9th APRIL.
DAN BARRY'S dramatic company
In the Great Popular Play,
TJncle Tom’s Cabin.
TREMENDOUS ENTHUSIASM.
The Immense Theatre Again Overcrowded.
A TUMULTUOUS SUCCESS!
Uncle Tom’s Cabin.
JUet Note the Prioee—Se., Is., and SIXPENCE.
A Silver Watcb
** GIVEN AWAY. *»
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE
A*V*N*E
A*S*R*L*A.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver
Chains to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
EXTRACT FROM LETTER RECEIVED.
I have just received the Watch and Chain, per
terms of the Advertisement, in perfect order, and the
quality of which gives me more than satisfaction. —
Yours, etc., Mrs. W. M’CARTHY, South Broken Hill.
Address-THE MANAGER,
The English Watch and Jewellery Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney;
and No. 28 (4th Floor), Tuckett’s Chambers, 859 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
ATKINSM
Newest Perfume
§
I
t
“ Most Refreshing - ." (Keed)
NICE ALWAYS, BUT
DELICIOUSLY REVIVING IN
HOT OR CROWDED ROOMS.
A true natural perfume
made from flowers.
Not a Chemical Preparation.
“AOlIIME” perfume.
“ AO LINE ”
“ AOLINE”
AOLINE”
« AOLINE”
“.Most Refreshing.”
TOILET SOAP
For the complexion.
TOILET POWDER
Impaits a delightful bloom to
tbe complexion.
SACHETS.
i lelightful for Handkerchiefs,
Gloves, &c.
TOILET CREAM.
Softening and beautifying for
the complexion.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
i. & E. ATKINSON, Ltd., 24, Old Bond St., London.
INVENTORS OF THE CELEBRATED
WHITE ROSE” PERFUME.
u A Charming Scent ” — ll.li.H. The Duchess of York.
This well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
TTVi2M^
COUGH —STOPs
Cql
SPOONFUL A DOSE
Gives Immediate Relief and Rest.
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
See that HAYMAN’S is supplied.
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER.
mSL
HAS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations.
“ BEETHAM’S" is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/-& 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO., Melbourne
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
*#itl ufss
aiMfsouo MonoH nvw>j33* : iv^|
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADEC
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale ; OSBORNE, GARRETT, & Co. e LONZC: '
Married Ladies.
BST Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,"
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
65 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
UIHKhL’H Dipped Wool trumpets its own fame
Realiaed top price, 12J4d., for N.S.W. wools ••
Sydney Wool Salaa.


FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free front
Starch and Cane Sugar*
When ddded tb diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong as well as for the sickly babe.
Mellin’s rood
sud plies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
Converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLiN’S FOOD
hiay be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS;
Reckham, London, England;
Mascotte
TOBACCO.
H
V-
LlI
S
r
-
<
o
OOA
MASCOTTE
MASCOTTE
KSSiSsSJ
Sole Agents-S. HOFFNUNB & CO., Brisbane.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
to tHe Trade.
. Just Landed.—Special Shipment HUMAN
HAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24
inches Best quality English Clubbed Hair, inahi tve
variety of shades; also, Turned Hair from 16 to
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inches.
Croquignolle Hair in: all shades, for fringe-mak-
ing.. White Straight and Crop Hair, all lengths.
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Blocks,
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongs,
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Lounge
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs,,a large stock
to select from. We always have on hand a large
variet y Of Hairdressers’' Requisites, including
Minors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushing
Machinery;, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urns,
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’Poles,
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cutting
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware and
Perfumery, Shaving Soap, .Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients and
give trial in our own saloon before sending away.
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
to THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality; best manufacture, newest
design, 10,6; Wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes made,
from own pattern of hair and design, 10/6. Best English
Hair Tails from 6/6 to 42/- each. Wigs, Scaipets, &c.
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations.
CRAIG &TaITKEN,
NEW- SOUTH WALES BABBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 tl 682 (li'orgc Street, Sydney.
55 .
<m\i
'foun Life, or thatSioale.T tobacco!
SMOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY.
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
MARCEILA CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
Tales of the convict system, by
Puice Wahung ; Is. 3d. posted.
Melb. : “ Federate the Protestant Nuns.
A new vafiety has just come; to bewilder us, in
the maze of several brands of Anglican, Wesleyad
and what hot. The mischief is; the attire is found-
so attractive in the marriageable line, wherefore
Protestant Nuhhood itself is ajpt to be ugly.”
One lady of the Sydriey pavemeht pursues
her calling (thus described because it consists sd
largely in calling out “ ducky ” after the male
passer-by till he stops; and calling out “blanky”
after him if he doesn’t stop) on a bicycle. Also
she carries ah elegant card-case. When she sees
the affluent-looking male lingering at the street
corner, she deftly steers her wheel alongside him,
dismounts with a giddy hop, and presents the
pasteboard. It reads—
, MadamE smitM,
WomAn or Loose Character.
Melbourne City Bench struck d new kind
of rogue the other day. His name was Jones, and
when asked if he had anything to say for himself;
he cleared his throat; and in respectful and well-
chosen language informed the court that he was a
bad lot who was already Serving sentences for
previous iniquities; and, said Jones, “I cannot
in decency ask your worships to cjeal leniently
with me.” Jones further remarked that a mari
couldn’t expect to go robbing add rogueing at
large, and playing the deube with law and the
decalogue; and, then throw himself on the mercy
of the court; he had hot, he said, the cold cheek
to do it. Then Jones subsided, add took his twO
years like a man, and marched out with the proud
consciousness of having thoroughly deserved all
he got.
3007 Newspapers
Recommend MACNIVEN & CAMERON’S (Ltd.) PENS.
The Waverley Pen, fOr JCasjr Writing.
. ThE Flying Scotchman Ben, instead of a Quill.
The FlPing J writes 200 words per dip.
Sold everywhere. WaverlSy Works, Edinburgh
Mahlstick to The Bulletin :
“Many will recall having admired Charles Summers’s
little clay statue of Pan, at the entrance to Melb. Public
Library,reading-room. It is about 31ft. high, and Red-
mond Barry loved it, as afl emanation of Summers’s
Original genius. Pan, with a most expressive face and
gesture, squeezes drinking water out of a bag, under his
arm. What a contrast, this, to the slop of Summers’s
colossal sitting figures of Albert-, Victoria, Wales, and
Alexandra downstairs, done hv the disgusted artist for the
money of Baronet Clarke. But Pan has just been taken
off his perch, arid tossed aside, as lumber. The conse-
quence it that two nasty chips have been knocked off
him, and the attendants are evidently going to Aunt Sally
him out of recognition.”
The game of . the newspaper is always
to make War. Anyone with the slightest
touch of the press knows that an ounce of War is
worth a ton of Philanthropy, and very much more
than anything else. Wolf ! wolf! The cable-
grapher’s bit of War is as indispensable as the
“You here!” of a melodrama. Whenever the
newspaper gets hold of a real danger, for which
“ wolf ” has flattened the public appetite, it does
everything to enlarge the sore, salt the wound,
and make peace impossible. The big papers of the
globe want to get their correspondents at work in
the gory shambles. Then those who cannot afford
to hire theaspiring Forbeses, Stanleys and Yillierses
are glad to be the little belligerent fleas ad in-
Jinitum.
In Victoria the orthodox barrister and
solicitor has a hideous loathing for the “amalgam”
—the matt who practises under the new Act as
both kinds of devil. The amalgam takes his
Client’s base straight into court; instead of telling
your solicitor all about your grievance against
Hooligan, aiid paying him to listen to you, and
then paying him to relate it all to another mail,
and paying the other man to listed to the first
man, and then paying him to tell the Judge about
it, one man does it all, which saves costs and
trouble. Lately barrister Topp got so enraged
that he declared before the Law Commission that
“only men who had been failures in ohe branch
or another practise as amalgams.” Now the
amalgams, who include such men as Fink,
Gaunson and Matthew Davies, want to find out
some way of falling on Topp for about a million
in libel damages.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (under cover)
to any part ot Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,,
Price, 10s. 6d.
“I'll Try It.” Sole Agents: The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George- st,, Sydney
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW, MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind UVEills,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Outfits
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE.
ASSEMBLY & THEATRE CHAIRS
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
am
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
"to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
DEAF
*•-■4*3
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
A
30y
FORTUNE
SECRET
l'liotos,
(2) Is.
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever rtead, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
o 2 TRANSPARENT CARDS. 3s.——
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Continental Supply Agency,
Box 1402 G.P.0.. Sydney.
anoYowv „
MaV lYjioly/i
6latiiWo)ifi *
Q
PMRoT
P HFl OiUtt*
cs^ a T'J^s
sfz.A\t\s \voondc
(dVGHS (pLPj if
Beware ofr->
UmiwtS'S
WBh
POST FREE
MwcHes - Clocks-JEVifeLLERY-BißTrtDAf*
Weddiinlg z CHristepJkvlg Presents
rj-NEY/MArJ- 1755177-ELIZABETH ST*
OPPOSITE G:P.Q. -
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE.
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homceopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re-tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter Sc Bligh Sts., Sydney.
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
Ladies should always Knit with
n
KNITTING
Wools
Scotch Fingering', Wheezing, Soft
Merino, Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softness and durability.
£
■ .■ --
trade MarlCtl
13 ON EMERYaSKEJN;
Trade JUh. k Rcuixl
Estab ishedl7Bs.
San-pie .SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
A!- ■ " I'eeliive ”
Hosie> 5 SUnder-
w ar liibnnlac-
tured from the
‘i et-liive Wools.
J.*J. Baldwin
HALIFAX,
englano.
ILL!
iSDIHBUR
vm
Trade
* _ opr 1 trout > 1
Distillers Company IT
EDINBURGH. «■>»*
!, ntt ■" *%
jf'A' —■•'l
I At//..,/ V
~4 w r -' ■•*>•••
i" l '"‘ r i nil Jsftj '/„{ fjj A>/.*MvWyfr W, *S^
Ki - ' 1
rSf
j)rink
moderately.
Take a little Whisky
“for the stomach’s sak e”;
avoid excessive drinkings
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass d.t Meals, diluted
either tvith aerated ot
plain watfer, assists di-
gestieri, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pute stimulant.
“iD.C.L.” stands with-
out a rivah
Insist on
D.C.L/
POWER WITHOUT GAS OR STEAIti
THE
Hercules Oil
Engine*
(land or marine)
The Simplest, Cheapest;
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from 7.\ to 200 H. P.
No Engineer requited.
J xplos ons Impose b'e
Always Ready foe Use
MHBB
aaisrU
We have one of these Engines running at our preni -
ises, where full particulars can he had on application
INSPECTION INVITED.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
8? CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address * —
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
m
%
v -
WM
IQUOR
HABIT
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
ennessandits cure sent Free, sealed.
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
Eucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
EASILY
CURED
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia, and in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS ,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NcnfoGS Weakness . . .
AND
Cerebro-Spioal Diseases,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every means in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, ■-
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G. P. 0., Sydney'
Please mention this paper when writing.
THE LAST OF SIX, by Ernest Favenc; price
1/-; posted, 1/3.


YORKSHIRE RELISH
/ 'THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORI D.
Y 2,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES
S BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold in Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2/- each.
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO,, LEEDS ENG
Sole Agents for New South Wales: 5 '
TILLOCK Sc CO., KENT and IJYERPOOL STREETS, SVONET.
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.
THE PLACES
WN€R€ THIEVCS BRCAK THROUGH
■A.KTD STEAL
WITH IMPUNITY ARE BECOMING FEWER EVERY DAY, because
MDERMOTT’S BURGLAR ALARM
IS BEING FITTED EVERYWHERE, AT SMALL COST.
See the WORKING MODELS at OUR OFFICES.
PRICES QUOTED for Installation to Any Extent at Any Address.
The M'DERMOTT BURGLAR & FIRE ALARM CO.,
CASTLEKEAGH ST. (Opp. Australia Hotel), SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE No. 1674.
HI *
1335
1
CORNETS.
F. BESSON & CO.’S
Celebrated "Prototype” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per Illustr’n., £l4 7s 6(1
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. „P. SYKES,
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO. *
227 Lit. Collins=st.,
fYlrlUrnnrnr —m
Agent for F. BESSON & CO. throughout Australian Colon
ies.
Cellular
COOL, COMFORTABLE & DURABLE.
The very Best for Cricket, Tennis, Cycling,
Boating, and all Sports.
White Cotton, 5/- and 5/6; Ecru Cotton, 6/-: White or
Ecru Lisle, 6/6; Fancy Cotton Stripes, 7/-; White Lisle,
with Fancy Silk Stripes, 8/6; Cream or Grey Merino, 8/6.
Cellular Pyjamas, Night Shirts,
Dress Shirts,
Hosiery and Underwear.
• • Illustrated Pamphlet and Price List of Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Goods sent Post Free.
Cellular Clothing Depot,
Note New! 73 & 75 King Street,
Address:/ (near York Street), Sydney.
D. BRAHAM & 00.,501e Agents for New South Wales.
I
1
Wm
•: .
Kiss!
SaciSS
POKER MACHINES.
iiniiiniiniiiimmiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiniiiimtiiutiiniiiiiintii
liiimmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
ilium
IIQnS3HJ.NI i£dOUa
ni
13 >
wo
33 HJ
SmVOIO
No Extortionate Prices.
We give Value for Money.
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Value
in N S.W.
LAWRENCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter.
* *
*
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
s
E
L
r
p
t
E
B
I
N
G
For
Counter
Use.
SOLE AGENTS EOR AUSTRALASIA :
fflick Simmons, Daparket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’Fancy Goods, Cutlery I’riisb-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’ Requisites. Send for Price List.
fldams’s Tattersall’s Hotel,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
This Establishment has recently undergone the most EXTENSIVE ALTERA-
TIONS, and is now one of the MOST COMFORTABLE RESIDENTIAL
HOTELS IN SYDNEY. The following Additions have been made:—
NEW ENTRANCE HALL and GRAND STAIRCASE:
COMMODIOUS SUITES OF ROOMS;
DRAWING and READING ROOMS ;
SMOKING ROOMS, &c. &c.
BOILING WATER for Baths, &c., and
ELECTRIC LIGHT all hours of Day and Night.
Tariff Moderate.
This Establishment has TWO Entirely Separate KITCHENS and TWO DINING ROOMS,
thus giving to Visitors an advantage offered by no other Hotel in Sydney.
For further particulars apply to
WM. J. ADAMS,
Telephones 728 and 1938. Manages.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
(LIMITED).
■Hh
5k
PURCHASERS OF ALL CLASSES OF
Gold, Silver, [ead $ Copper Ores $ products.
WORKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.’
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemore, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
12-
BOOK OF NATUKE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK POR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream op Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post £s 6d.
Heftameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron op Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
Miner’s Handbook : Simple Tests for Minerals ;
Every Man His Own Analyst, illus., 3s 6d post free.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Oustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works op Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained,
simplified, for home and public amusement, Is; post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
. The Secret op Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
HOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, oh^£,“£,
Depot,
SYDNEY.
-L^O-A-ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
«ss
rs?*r
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY - , STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c. ( &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO (Leeds) Ltd.
II Al) COLON! \L OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
. WALTER M. NOAKLSS, Al. Colonial Alanager.
Also Representative for the “ THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
“ A.PEHTTA.,”
The best Natural Aperient Water.
Relieves the kidneys, unloads the liver, and
opens the bowels.
Sole exporters : The Apollinaris Co., Ltd., 4
Stratford Place, London, W. #
Freslx.
Cooling.
Sp arkling.
VELTEN LACIER
THE NEW FRENCH BEEK.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH,
W
Best Value
In the Trade!
We have to beat the other fellow.
We do not worry about the pre-
sent Losses.
The Profits will come afterwards.
Our Motto: “ Keep the Mill Going.’
If you want to BUY in the CHEAPEST MARKET, we are ready with LARGE STOCKS in
Pure, Healthy, Sanitary Bedding-,
Superior Woven Wire Spring Mattresses,
PATENT COMBINATION BEDSTEADS.
1000 Bales of Best Java Kapok, in 80lb. Bales at 6d. per lb.
AMERICAN & AUSTRIAN CHAIRS.
FURNITURE, &C., &C.
To give you just the kind of value which will enable you to offer your own Customers Bargains, and
also to largely increase your turnover.
Write for Designs. Our Prices will induce you to give us a share of your trade.
Telephone No. 66. Established 1860.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
Warehouse: 608 to 610 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Factories : Nos. 1,3, 5,6, 8 and 10 Union Lane (adjoining Warehouse).
mb.
WH’MSf
MARK ; ;
\ corset
WiuoWAiST Corset
THE BEST IN THE MARKET.
ONCE WORN , ALWAYS WILL BE WORN
PERFECT in SHAPE.
LEN GT HENS THE WA IS T.
BE A UTIFIES THE FIG URE.
W'tfc’oWA'Sf CorSET
MARK
THE MOST PERFECT
PARISIENNE STYLE.
ASK FOR
W'utov/A'ST Corset
OF ALL DRAPERS & LADIES OUTFITTERS.
WHOLESALE ORDERS TAKEN DV
P. W. LEE, Camden Buildings.
2 IS. GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY,
the MOST REFRESHING, COOLING. & HEALTHFUL BEVERAGE.
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat lame Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WAGES:
Sydney—Davidson Bros., Jules Renard & Co., Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co., D. Cohen & Co., and The Australian
Drug Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
&d., 6d., & 1/- each.
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything-. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given art
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greates' confidence in the article, and caurecom-
meudit to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a,good Cusard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPuOL STREETS, SYDNEY
mmfnli
WM
Mil
SEND Y. DR ORDER TO-DAY.
We will more than please you,
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 ios., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 ios. Descriptions Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, 80 inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 octave manual of keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-toned neds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £l9. Reference, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co.,
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
Alice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was away when it happened, so he heard
nothing of the gossip which flew from tongue to
tongue in his native township. His sister could
have told him in her letters, but she didn’t, and
because he had no other correspondents he re-
mained in ignorance.
He did not remark the absence from his sister’s
letters of theonce-familiarstatements, “Alicewas
over last night and we had some music,” or “I
met Alice at church to-day,” or yet again “Alice
sends her regards.” At first he had wondered at
these omissions, and pictured some girlish quarrel,
and then, in the midst of the city world, it became
merely as an incident that is lightly touched in
passing.
But, going home for the Christmas holidays on
the box-seat of the coach, the driver told him,
coarsely enough, as some men tell such things ;
and he knew why Alice’s name had been dropped
from his sister’s letters.
He asked for details. “ How does she take
it?”
“ Oh, easy enough ! Seems as if she don’t care
a rap. Looks to me as happy as ever.”
Then there was silence, and the man saw himself
walking by her side away from the merry dancers
in the schoolhouse by the road—homeward across
the paddocks in the moonlight, her eyes glancing
up into his, her touch upon his arm, and her face
dimpled with rippling laughter. Two years ago!
Later on, in his bedroom, the thought returned
to the man and made him sleepless. “If he had
known, that night—if he had only known ! ”
In the morning the thought was with him still.
He turned his steps up the hill and down the other
side. The narrow path, since he last followed it,
had changed into a tiny watercourse, but the gate
creaked on its hinges just as it had creaked that
night when Alice was so late and tried to open it
softly. He remembered how they had both
laughed at her failure.
She was not much altered, he noticed now, as
she placed a milk-dish on the bench and came
towards him, wiping her hands on her apron.
“ When did you come home, Walter? Father
is down thtS garden.”
“ I came to see you,” he answered, looking at
her strangely.
“ Did you ?’’ she rejoined, smiling. “ I haven’t
many visitors now.”
lie ' made no reply. The idea that he had
nursed all night was uppermost, and he could
think of nothing to say to her.
At-length she said, “Will you come inside?
I m -just clearing up,” and he followed her into
the kitchen: silently. She placed a chair, but the
baby, sitting cm a mat, caught sight of him and,
holding out its little arms, called “Da-da!”
Suddenly then the mother picked it up and held
it close to her. It was the first time it had uttered
these words, and she burst into tears.
The man stole softly out again through the
creaking gate, and over the hill.
DARGO.
Retribution.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I AM a coward ! From boyhood I had known
the disgraceful truth, and had resolutely thought
it hidden in obscurity. But to-day it came out
into the broad daylight, and paraded itself before
my eyes in naked brutality.
It was a lovely summer day. The sun shone
hotly upon the water, as, standing on the quay, I
watched the attack of a tribe of sprats upon a
piece of half-submerged bread. Near me three
little girls were romping and laughing. No other
person was about.
The bread had been devoured, and the fish had
disappeared. With a yawn, I turned from the
spot. There was a sudden splash. I missed a
curly-haired girl, and che other two children were
clinging to my knees, beseeching me pitifully to
save poor Annie.
Poor Annie !
The sweat rushed out upon my forehead, and a
hand of ice seemed on my heart. I trembled vio-
lently and did not move.
A second time the scream of the drowning child
rose above the feeble splashing. The cry lingered
in my ears, indefinitely prolonged. With an oath,
I cast the two children from me, and rushed out into
the roadway in a horrible race with Time, but the
third and fatal scream seemed to paralyse my
limbs.
I hurried away, away, I knew not whither. I
chanced to enter a park, and, throwing myself
face downward, I listened breathlessly, fearfully.
Splash—splash ! I heard it a thousand times.
“ Murderer ! ” I cried aloud.
A city vagrant, close by, jumped to his feet, and
ran off, crying “ Police ! ”
The fool!
* * * *
We met by the merest chance. Her pretty
black eyes had looked into mine ; and the maddest,
merriest love that ever spurned the senses danced
us off in a whirligig that might have ended in
“ Tears, idle tears, my dear girl.”
“ I cannot help it. Say you never will leave
me.”
Thus love had tricked poor Daisy. Love,
with all its follies and extravagance ; love, with its
bitterness —and clinging arms around my neck, as
though the girl were drowning.
“ Don’t leave me, George, don’t leave me ! ”
I could put the question off with a kiss easily
enough, but a promise hurts my throat.
“ You don’t love me now, George.”
I was thinking deeply. The question made me
angry.
“ No, I don’t,” I said.
And flight suggested itself in a dozen different
ways. I grasped at an idea, and made up my
mind. I would leave secretly for Melbourne.
For Daisy it meant ruin, I knew, but I was. con-
tent to go through life with a troubled conscience
rather than marry her.
She wept, and spoke about her sister Annie. I
caught at the name, and the horror of the story of
the child that I had let drown before my eyes was
like the tightening of a rope around my neck.
They were sisters !
The fatal splash, rung out by every bell, by
every sound that woke me in the night, was back
upon my ears just then. The breaking of the
spray a hundred miles away seemed to flick upon
my cheeks—to blind my sight, and there came a
horrible dream of a ghostly girl who walked the
waters seeking with uplifted hand to point me
out.
“ Spare me ! ” I cried ; “ I will save her.”
The ghost-child smiled, and dropped her hands.
I caught the sister in my arms and kissed her.
“Daisy,” I said, “let us get married.”
And, looking through the mist that dimmed my
eyes, I scarcely knew whether it was Daisy or
Daisy’s sister who smiled radiant upon me.
Whoever it was, she was a very happy girl.
J. J. O’M.
A successful plaintiff in a recent Australian
breach-of-promise case lately conferred her hand
and the amount of the jury-awarded damages on
a fresh sweetheart. That gentleman has now dis-
appeared, leaving the hand but holding tight the
“damages.”
In a Sydney merchant’s office :
A. (the merchant) : Do you know what I think
you are ?
B. : Can’t say, but your expression indicates
that it’s nothing complimentary.
A. : It isn’t. I think you’re a d d rascal.
B. : Then, mj' dear sir, I have the advantage of
you, for I know you are.
In at least one N.S.W. constituency the
ensuing Parliamentary election threatens to de-
velop intense personal antipathies. The wives and
daughters of the voters on the roll of one district
are to be informed by circular of the morals of an
ostensibly religious candidate, at present the
sitting member, in the hope that votes shall
be thereby influenced. The MS. of one of
these circulars was submitted to a city printer in
the course of last week, and 10,000 copies ordered,
but the printer, dreading libel, dropped the job.
The recent hop-beer prosecutions in Mel-
bourne cast a flood of light upon the temperance
curse. Analysis showed that the proportion of
alcohol in the “temperance drinks ” under notice
was larger than in “colonial” beer. During all
these long and weary years this valuable informa-
tion has been confined to a little coterie which has
been having a high old time on ginger-beer and
dandelion ale, and branding as a moral outcast the
man who straightforwardly looked at the sun to
see if it was yet eleven o’clock.
London weeklies of the inane Snappy
Snips order, occasionally do strike something
original. Pearson’s Weekly published diagrams
of the feet of the Queen, Prince of Wales, and
others. Why this particular issue was not seized
by the police is a mystery. Her Gracious is shown
to have “ plates of meat ” shaped for all the world
like the south island of Maoriland, and one of
“ Tummy’s ” feet has a large number of treason-
ably irregular valleys and ridges in its north-west
aspect, so to speak. This latest phase of Cockney
journalism is calculated to do irreparable damage
to the cause of loyalty throughout the Hempire.
Weather!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gold in the Klondyke and Yukon country ? I
should smile ! See my nose?—you chumps think
drink made it that color, but did you ever know a
man’s ears go blue from drink ? Yet my right ear
is the same color as my nose. That’s frost-bite,
and it was got in that same Yukon country. You
Tasmanian West Coasters think you know a lot
about severe weather, but let me give you a bit
of my experience in the Hudson Bay Co. service
collecting skins from the depots from Alaska Bay
(belonged to Russia then) down to the Skeena and
Naas rivers.
We were anchored off Fort Yukon ; the Indian
summer was over, and there had been a heavy
fall of snow during the night, which gave us a bit
of trouble to shift in the morning ; however, when
’twas shifted and things straightened a bit, the
skipper told the purser to serve out an extra gill
of rum. Now it was the ship’s cooper’s work to
get the cask of rum out of the spirit-room onto
the half-deck and pump the rum from the cask
into the grog-tub; and if ever you saw
a man look foolish, ’twas our cooper when he
got the bung out and found the rum frozen into a
solid block. The “skipper” was taken aback
too until he had a look at the “ themomoter,” but
presently he slewed round to the purser and
ordered him to find the cubic measurement of a
gill of rum, and serve it out in the solid. After a
little calculation the purser declared that lg-inch
cube would be the quantity; so the cooper knocked
the cask to pieces and sawed the block of rum
down longways with an ice-saw. Then the two
segments were cut with a tenon-saw into as many
inch-and-seven-eighths cubes as there were men,
and we took our rum as kiddies do their sweets.
This went on for five or six days before the ship’s
fitter remarked to me that the cubes were getting
very small, he thought." I thought the same, so
next day he put his callipers on his cube and
found it only lf-inch. We were being had for a
|-inch of rum, and we determined to watch his
nibs cut up the next cask. Well, there was the
cooper with a half rip-saw with a set on it that
was sending out rum - dust as thick as Yukon
snowflakes, and as he had a tarpaulin spread
under to catch ’em—you see, he scooped all the
saw-dust! No wonder he was drunk every day.
After that, we stood the rum-cask in the galley
for three or four hours, to thaw before serving out.
Yes, it is cold up Yukon way !
YANKEELAND.
The Maoris believe that lawyers, when
they die, turn into pelicans. Yes, they can gobble
up anything, and hold it undigested for a low
time.
Sample of Melb. Paunch social items :-
A very pleasant “At Home” was given by Miss Lin
Wills, of “ Sunflower Cottage," Beeac, to a few friends i
Friday evening, the 18th March. Amongst those preseni,
were Mr. and Mrs. Harvey, Miss Brennan (“ Juba Villa ”),
Mr. Ainscough, Mr. and Miss Tatchell. The refresh-
ments, which were on a most lavish scale, were specially
ordered from Melbourne and were much appreciated by
the company present. The “At Home” was given in
honor of Miss Wills’ change of residence.


A HINT to OPPONENTS of FEDERATION.
■ fr- n
You Are Bilious. Your Liver Aeeds Stirring IJp.
We Kecommena
Bile Beans for Biliousness.
STRONG PRAISE FROM A MELBOURNE MAN.
SUFFERED FOR MANY YEARS FROM ACUTE BILIOUS ATTACKS.
UNABLE TO ATTEND TO HIS BUSINESS.
MANY DOCTORS AND VARIOUS MEDICINES UTTERLY FAIL.
BILE BEANS COMPLETELY CURE HIM.
In the person of Mr. F. J. Boustiere, of 67 Toorak-road, Melbourne, one finds a splendid specimen
of the French people who was born in Paris some 45 years ago. Mr. Boustiere is a well-known ladies’
coiffeur, of South Yarra and Toorak, who has patented a very successful article. well known as
“ Lotion Infallible.” This gentleman for a number of years suffered
from severe chronic biliousness from which he was unable to obtain
any permanent relief whatever, although many doctors were con-
sulted and patent medicines taken in endless variety. In Mr.
Boustiere’s case, as in nearly all cases of biliousness, there were
violent headaches, indigestion, bad breath, loss of appetite, and
many other more or less severe symptoms which usually accompany
attacks of this sort. On being asked for details of his case, Mr.
Bostiere said :
“ For years I had scarcely any appetite, and every morning on
rising from bed a dreadful fit of nausea, accompanied by violent
vomiting and headaches, attacked me with unerring regularity.
My throat felt parched, and a yellowish fluid was emitted from the
stomach. This continued for years. Naturally enough, my busi-
ness suffered to some extent, as a feeling of lassitude and drowsiness
prevented my devoting much energy to it. My attention was called
to Bile Beans by seeing in the papers one or two cases of biliousness
which had been cured by them, and I decided to give them a trial.
No sooner had I begun to take them than immediate relief was
experienced. Shortly afterwards the morning vomiting ceased
altogether. Then my appetite regained its former satisfactory state,
and the whole system was toned up. Thanks to this excellent
remedy, I am now able to throw myself with renewed energy into
my business. My wife, who has been a chronic sufferer from various
digestive ailments for over twelve years, has also been cured by this
wonderful remedy. Her experience was almost exactly similar to
mine, only, as her case was of much longer standing, the cure was
not effected quite so quickly. She is, however, quite well now, and rapidly regaining weight which
she lost during her long illness.”
Mr. Boustiere, true to the characteristics of his race, is never tired of singing the praises of the
wonderful remedy that has done so much for himself and his wife. He has the fullest faith in the
efficiency of Bile Beans, and never misses an opportunity of letting others know that there is a remedy
now on the market that will absolutely cure the most obstinate cases of biliousness or other digestive
troubles. - -- - - * ■ • ' ■ .....
f
-5^
A LAMBTON RESIDENT CURED.
BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHES, AND INSOMNIA, BILE BEANS AGAIN SUCCESSFUL.
Young Road, Lambton, Newcastle, March 14, 1898.
To the Bile Bean Manufacturing Company, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —
For some time past I have been suffering from a variety of ailments —mostly biliousness and head-
aches, combined with pains in the chest and between the shoulders. I was often unable to sleep, aiifl
would toss about in bed all night. I read in one of the papers of a friend of mine who had been very
; bad, and who had been cured by Bile Beans, so I thought I would give them a trial. After taking
part of the first box, I found there was a decided improvement, so I kept it .up, and now I’m quite
well. I have taken three boxes of the “Beans,” and the pains and bilious feeling have altogether
disappeared, and I can always manage to get a good night’s sleep ; the headaches don’t trouble me
now, and, in fact, I have never felt better in my life. I have lived here for 18 years, am well-known,
and will be glad to answer anyone’s questions about Bile Beans.
You can publish this if you want to. Yours truly, SYDNEY KNIGHT. '?
A VALUABLE DISCOVERY.
(From a Sydney Paper. ) *
Scientists tell us that in this nineteeth century of ours about the greatest strides made in the
(discovery world have been in medicine. We have to record a discovery by an American medical man
jof a certain vegetable substance that has the effect in the digestion organs of nature’s own animal bile.
This discovery is revolutionising all the present methods of treatment for digestive ailments, j The old
(theory of pepsin, bismuth, starving, purging, &c., &e., is to be done away with. This great vegetable
substance is compounded with other ingredients to facilitate
(the working, and to-day can be purchased the world over and
in Australia under the name of Bile Beans for Biliousness.
Bile Beans possess the peculiar properties of acting on the
bowels without purging or otherwise weakening the patient.
This is because the substance that relaxes thehowels has
(about the same action as the natural bile. Bile Beans are
purely vegetable, and a course of them will probably success-
fully oust the most chronic cases of piles, indigestion, chronic
[.headache, biliousness, rheumatism, constipation, and l a host
(of other ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow,
(assimilation, and digestion. These beans are placed on the
(market in a form that anyone can take them without medical
(supervision, and as the price is so very low there are few
(homes that cannot afford to always have a box on the
;shelf for emergency. For sale at all Chemists. The Bile
(Bean Manufacturing Company, Australian Depot, 19 Mac-
iquarie-place, Sydney. Victorian agents, Rocke, Tompsitt
and Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne. South Australian
agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., Adelaide.
|ILE
E/^iS
ILIOUSNESS
A Night at Kelly’s.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It looked like rain as I got off the coach. Leaving
my bags and rug on the road, I climbed the hill-
side, on which Pat Kelly’s pub. was fastened in
some mysterious way that kept it from being
blown over by the tornadoes which rushed up and
down the narrow cleft between the hills.
Arrived on the verandah, I said to the landlord,
“ These are my bags at the foot of the hill.” The
information did not seem to interest him much, as
he made no reply, but went into the bar and began
rubbing a dirty glass with a dirty towel, as if ex-
pecting an order ; also, he wiped his sore eyes
with that towel. No business eventuating on this
point, he called a servant to show me a room.
While waiting, I noticed that the passage was
sprinkled with straw and stable litter, which the
wind had blown in at the back door and had not
strength to blow out at the front, so the refuse lay
there waiting for th e next squall. A crowd of d irty,
bare-legged children ran about, crying and fight-
ing, and, as I stood in the passage, a lady with a
Sat, bloated face and swollen eyelids came
to a bedroom-door and looked at me with
that serious intentness assumed by most
drunks when trying to appear perfectly
sober. I was not sure whether she was my hostess
until she clouted one or two of the howling chil-
dren in an absent sort of way, as if it were a
matter of habit. After this she shut the door
with a lofty look that seemed to say she thought
it would be unladylike to speak to me without an
introduction. The servant now appeared, a fat
girl with uncombed hair and bare feet. Her dress
was open for two or three hooks at the neck, and,
as if that did not display her charms sufficiently,
there was a spacious rent above the collar-bone.
She showed me to my room with many smirks and
coquettish looks, and—though her dress reached
only to her ankles, and had a gap in the placquet
three inches across—grabbed a handful of it at
the back and lifted it up, after the fashion of a
lady crossing a muddy street.
By this time it was raining heavily, and I con-
gratulated myself on being housed for the night.
After half-an-hour I thought of something I
wanted in my bags, but, on going to the room,
they were nowhere to be found. I then went to
the bar and asked Kelly. He looked astonished :
“ Bags, is it ? Shure I dunno; barrin’ they’re
wher ye lift thim.”
“ But why were they not brought in ? ”
“Ye niver said annythin’about wantin’thim
in.”
“ But I told you where they were.”
“ Yis, ye did ; but I taught ye only mintioned
it t’ make the conversation interestin’ loike. But
hould an ; I’ll call Mike. Mick ! Mickee !! ”he
shouted ; but there was no response. “ Ah, niver
moint; I’ll sind him for thim bine-boi. He’ll be
afther gettin’ the cows now.” And, as if the
matter were finally settled, he languidly wiped
another glass.
Not being willing to wait, I went out through
the driving rain and brought up my sodden pro-
perties. As I climbed the slippery bank, I heard
loud peals of laughter above me, and, looking up,
saw a girl about seventeen who was evidently en-
joying my struggles with the luggage and the
mud. She was the landlord’s daughter—as she
told me after she had got over the humorous ap-
of the wet luggage. Her name was
Gladys Ethel, and,-even in this house of wild dis-
order, she was a unique figure. Jet black masses
of tangled, touzled hair fell over her shoulders and
straggled over her face. Her mane had probably
never been combed, and nothing but a garden rake
would have gone through it. Her face was dirty,
and the unlaced boots that hung on her unstoek-
inged feet had the tongues hanging out, while the
• laces went clickety-clack as she stamped along the
echoing floor. Large teeth, a loose, thick-lipped,
open mouth, and large, staring blue eyes completed
Gladys Ethel’s outward personality.
I fled to my room to wait for tea, but when it
came, it was not an unmixed joy. Pat Kelly
stood at the head of the table clashing
a knife and fork together with a sound like a
broadsword combat. In front of him were corned
and roast beef, and, as I came in, he was shouting
loudly, “ Now then, ye chaps; come in to tay, or
divil a bite ye’ll get.” Mrs. Kelly, whose only
toilette had been evidently a couple of “ snifters,”
sat at her husband’s right, and was comporting
herself with much dignity. As Pat carved the food
he cried out, “Now, what’ll ye hov, misther?
Cornbafe or mate ? ” but Mrs. Kelly corrected him
sharply :
“Pat Kelly, why d’ye be comincin’ to ate like
wan o’ thirn blackfellys ? Why the divil don’t ye
be afther puttin’ the Crass o’ Christ an the beauti-
ful mate ye have forninst ye? Annybuddy ’d
think ye wuz brung up like a haythen, so they
wud. Put an the Crass o’ Christ this minit, I tell
ye, Pat Kelly. ”
“ Och, I can’t be bothered ; let thim that wants
put it an therselves.” But Mrs. Kelly’s company
manners were not satisfied until Pat mumbled a
“ grace “ For what we are about to resave ”
“ Daddy, make Johnny kape still ; he wants to go
out an’ play futball”—may the Lord make us”
—“Ye’re a liar,” said Johnny, in reply to the
football accusation—’“Amin. If ye don’t kape
quite, ye divil, I’ll trow the kyarvin’-knife at the
hed o’ yez.”
Then the feeding began. Mick, who had got
back with the cows, sat next me. He was aged,
deaf, and dilapidated, and he shovelled his food
into his mouth with a knife and a stolid determi-
nation to lose no time. Utterly oblivious of what
was going on around him, he did not hear Reginald
Kelly, aged five, saying, “ Mick, my soup too ’ot.”
Mick took no notice, so the boy, to prove his
words, ladled up a spoonful, and held it to the old
man as a sample, but it spilled down his shirt-
front. Again the boy said, “ Mickee, my soup
too ’ot,” and held out another spoonful, which was
spilt also. At last the hot soup penetrated his
clothing, and, looking down, he discovered the boy
giving him a soup bath. A sounding whack sent
Reginald to the floor, and the veteran resumed his ■
shovelling unmoved till the boy came at him
under the table and bit his leg. Mick replied to
this with a terrific kick, and Reginald was led
howling away by Gladys Ethel, who promised
him his tea in the kitchen.
After tea a young man came to see Gladys
Ethel and sat beside her in a dark room off the
bar. He was evidently a very devoted young
man, for loud smacks, as of kissing, were heard
frequently, especially when footsteps approached
the door of the room. Everybody knows that a
kiss broken off suddenly in the middle gives forth
a sound like the first efforts of a pump-sucker to
draw water when the well is low. Kelly appar-
ently disliked the youth, for he left the bar several
times, and “ hunted ” him with much bad lan-
guage and some cuffs on the ear. But the lover
was not the sort to be discouraged by any little
thing like that, for he invariably came back, and
he and Gladys Ethel resumed their affectionate
communings with renewed ardour. When parent
Kelly had “ hunted ” the young man for the fifth
time, I judged a little fresh air would do me good.
I came back from my walk an hour later, to find
Gladys Ethel’s parent kicking the lover out for
the last time, while Gladys stood at the door and
laughed loudly.
I went to my room and found, in addition to my
luggage, a large, greasy swag and a black tin
billy. This seemed to indicate a room-mate, and
was a distinct violation of my agreement, which
was for a room to myself. I called Kelly, but he
made light of it: “ ’Twas only an ould frind of his
that kem in afther tay ; he was a very ‘ quite ’
man, and he might as well be usin’ the spare bed
as it layin’ idle.” So, making the best of it, I
turned in and was soon asleep, dreaming that wild
mermaids, with snaky hair, were chasing me all
through Kelly’s premises for a kiss.
I was awakened by Kelly’s voice.
“For Gawd’s sake, Rine, do be quiet; ye’ll be
wakin’ the jintleman there.”
“ T’ hell wid the jintleman ! Shure, I’m as good
a man as him, an’ betther too, for all I bruk me
leg; wake him up an’ I’ll fight him.”
“No, no ! Go to bid, Rine, that’s a dear man.”
“Wait till I show ye where I bruk me leg,”
said Ryan, whom I judged was the “ quiet ” man
Kelly had told me of. He took off his trousers
and showed his skinny leg—bent, stiff, and knobby
at the knees like those of a ’bus-horse. He danced
around, clad only in his shirt, begging Kelly to
let him get at me. He would show me his leg,
and then fight me for drinks all round. I thought
it best to sham sleep. Eventually he fell into
slumber, and I followed suit. Kelly came in half-
an-hour later and woke me up to say that Ryan
was now quiet, and that I might go to sleep with-
out fear of further disturbance. I daresay I
should have found that out myself, but Kelly
evidently meant well. About five in the morning,
loud shouts and sounds as of someone being
strangled awoke me, but, to my relief, it was only
Ryan snoring and probably fighting me in his
sleep.
Finding it impossible to get off again, I got up,
dressed, and went to the parlor to read. An hour
later Gladys Ethel, mooning sleepily down the
passage, saw me and came in smiling, showing a
wealth of mouth that in the morning light looked
appalling. She had not washed her face, and her
hair was even wilder and more matted than
before. Also there were some bits of straw and
feathers amongst the locks—which, no doubt, the
wind would blow out later in the day.
* • * *
The next time I went that way I camped out,,
but a passing swagman told me Gladys Ethel was
married. It seems that Kelly, being extra busy
in the bar one night, neglected to kick the lover
out as often as usual, and when he did go into the
room the pair had eloped together. I also heard
on bad authority that Gladys unaccountably
reformed after marriage, and kept herself reason-
ably clean, and wore stockings, and fixed her
mane in a knob at the back of her head. But
this statement rests on no satisfactory evidence.
P. ABBOTT.
Northern agree that dengue
fever is coming south like the ticks. Next Novem-
ber will find it in N.S. Wales, and probably in
Victoria.
Mulligan’s Shanty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Things is just the same as ever
On the outer Never-Never,
And you look to find the stock of liquor scanty,
But we found things worse than ordin’ry,
And in fact a bit eirtraordin’ry,
When myself and Bill the Pinker struck the
shanty.
“ Shanty,” says you. “What shanty ? ”
Why, Mulligan’s shanty!
I says “ Whisky ” ; Bill says “ Brandy ” ;
But there wasn’t either handy,
For the boss was out of liquor in that line.
“ Well, I’ll try a rum,” says Billy.
“ Got no rum,” he answers, chilly,
“ But I’ll recommend a decent drop o’ tine .”
“ Tine ? ” says Bill; “ what tine? ”
“ Why, turpentine ! ”
“ Blow me blue ! ” says Bill the Pinker,
“ Can’t yer give us a deep-sinker ?
Ain’t yer got a cask o’ beer behind the screen ? ’ ;
Bill was getting pretty cranky,
But there wasn’t any swankey. /•
Says the landlord, “ Why not try a drop o’ sene ? ”
“ Sene ?” says Bill; “what sene?”
“ Why, kerosene ! ” . , i
Well, we wouldn’t spend a tanner,
But the boss’s pleasant manner
All our cursing couldn’t easily demolish.
Says he, “Strike me perpendic’lar
But you beggars are partic’lar,
Why, the squatter in the parlor’s drinking polish 1 ”
“ Polish ? ” says Bill, “ what polish ? ”
“Why, furniture-polish!”
Orange, N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
Some old-time Sydney pubs : The Jew s
Harp, The Crooked Billet, The Crooked Six-
pence, The Three Jolly Fishermen, The Cat and
Bagpipes, The Hen and Chickens, The Black
Bull, The Red Cow, The Honest Irishman, The
Honest Lawyer. All imported names —nothing
original in any one of them.
One of the finest peaks in the Owen
Stanley Range, (N. Guinea) is named after More-
head, the bullet-headed Q. N. Bank director —
always a political mediocrity anyway, but by luck
Q. Premier at the christening-time. Owen Stanley
commanded the Rattlesnake which in 1845 ex-
plored the Barrier Reef and the sea between it
and New Guinea, with Prof. Huxley aboard as
assistant surgeon. Mt. Huxley would have been
worth having, but Mt. Morehead Pooh !
Ladies and Gentlemen in the Country.— lf you should
come to Sydney at Easter for the great Agricultural Show,
((which promises to be the great, event of ’9B ; over £3OOO
worth of prizes will be given away), call in and leave a
record of your measures with our dressmakers or tailors.
(No charge for registering measures). Many ladies and
gentlemen have already taken advantage of this free
registration of measures, and find that it is most conve-
nient, and a saving of time and trouble when ordering
garments of any description from us. — Hordern Brothers
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*


A WELL-KNOWN CYCLIST
Regains Health and Strength by the Use of the Great
Blood-Purifier and Tonic, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. HO
Sends his Portrait, and Writes as Follows:
M
r
/:■
t A
<1
fs.-
%
V
c
&
>
Gentlemen: Being a racing cyclist and consequently having to
go through a severe bodily test in way of training I was, after a long term
of constant practice, entirely run down, and had decided to abandon the
track for awhile, but having heard a great deal as to the blood-purifying
and strengthening qualities of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla I determined to give
it a trial. I am glad to say that I have been greatly benefited by the
medicine, so much so that I am again able to go on the bicycle track,
and can recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to anyone suffering from loss of
strength and weakness of the system.
Yours respectfully,
Frank Watts, Sydney, New So. Wales, Dec. 29,1896.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
The Strength-Giver and Blood-Purifier.
See that the name-AYEE’S SARSAPARILLA—is on the wrap*
per, and blown in the glass of each bottle. Accept no other.
Scale of Aavertislng
« -IN-
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ... ... ... ... ... 6s. per inch per insertion, netk
Quarterly Contracts (13 insertions) ... ... 10 per cent, discount.
Half Yearly „ (26 insertions) ... ... 20 ~ ~ ~
One Year „ (52 insertions) ... ... 25 ~ ~ „
Specified Positions, 10s. per inch per insertion, subject to the above discount. By Paragraph
or on Reading Page, 15s. per inch per insertion, nett. On Front Cover, 10s. per inch per insertion.
fS r " Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland.
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HEADACHE
Readers of this paper should
i know that Bishop's Citrate of
t Caei'kine, which obtained the
highest award at the Chicago
Exhibition'of 1894, is an imme-
diate cure for headache. It is
'pleasant to Jake, and will be
found s mohf^refreshirig’'after
shopping.^or ' as "a* morning re-
storative. fTiie com-
mends it. Of all Chemists in
twpsizes. A Booklet on Head-
ache sent post free on,applica-
tion to their AustralianlDepdt,
O’Connell - street, Sydney.
Inventors and Sole Makers—
‘ALFRED BISHOP^Ltd.,
48 Spklman St.*, f London,- E.
fcUKEDV
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence £1 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing- virtues of these grand medicines have not seen
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nbw Oxford-st. , London. I[W~ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fH LORO DYNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, Ac., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung. Is. 3d.
BEECHAATS
PILLS-
Have achieved the proud distinction of being what may
be called A National Medicine. This has mainly
been brought about by the British Householder—that clear-
headed and deliberate individual whose judgment must be
the ultimate foundation of all enduring reputation.
Beecham’s Fills have very literally found their way
to his heart through his stomach, and he has undoubtedly
raised them to the high position of a Family Favorite.
This almost affectionate reliance on Beecham’S Fills
has been the steady growth of more than fifty years ;
during which time wives and mothers, husbands and fathers,
sons and daughters in tens of thousands of happy homes,
have renewed their vigor, avoided serious illness, and
maintained perennial health and spirits by no other means
than Beecham’s Fills, the sale of which is ever
increasing, and now exceeds
SIX MILLION BOXES
Per Annum.
The Snffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Stop tliat Cougli !
Don’t Delay.
. . . TAKE . . .
IRISH moss
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s. Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating, Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids. Stimu-
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Boac.


“OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S , Botanist to
H.K.H. the Brince of Waleß
ECZEMA
Permanent Cure, Self Applied,
3oz. Jars 2/6 By post 3A
“OLEAC"
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melfo.
55Pfe@iiS
SMELLING SALTS,”
As supplied to the Queen. Regd.
The Perfume is specially distilled for these Salts. Invaluable
in Hot Assemblies. Always Refreshing. Of great value
in the Sick Room. The best Companion at C hurch, Chapel,
Ball, Theatre, or any Heated Assembly.
Sold in Plain or Cut Bottles, price 9d., 1 /-, 1/6 & 2/~
“BABY’S SOAP” (The ORIGINAL).
A Superior Mild Soap, prepared for the INFANTS FIRST
SKIN. Delicately Perfumed. Recommended for Children
and Adults with TENDER SKIN. In use 30 years. Price <sd,
The above sold by all Chemists and Stores. Sole Manufacturers
OSBORNB, BACJER A CHEESEMAN,
Perfumers to the Queen,
l 10. Golden Square, Regent St., London, W. .
58
YEARS DYEING 1
FOR THE LADIES.
- C- BIjDBIDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Covntry Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
WortbiQgtoi) PGrgpiog Ei)gii)€ Corppaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SlUipSOll BrOttLorS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
WORTHINGTON
trade mark*
Sydney, X.S.W.
Agencies :
REGULAR
PATTERN.
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: MoLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept ixx Stools.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
What is Health.?
Ifheumatiam, Sciatica,
Itimbago, &c.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
PA UK Fit, 145 Victoria Paradb,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
NOTICE.
Headers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, witl greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be v/naUe
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
*HE
' Plum ’
v:.'.
tsa
* Plum*
('I ENTLEMEIn who find their Razors unsatisfactory should nob fail bo give our oelebrabed Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
Ib is specially-temviered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price
J Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
(Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered, and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
THE SWISS PHOTO. STUDIOS,
King-street, Sydney<
OPPOSITE FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. IN THE HEART OF THE CITY.
The Most Central, the Most Comfortable, the Most Up-to-Date, the Very Latest, the Very Best. A Broad. Well
Lighted, Easy and Comfortable Staircase leading to the Studios. Charming Reception Rooms, Comfortable Dresaing
Rooms, with every convenience, and courteous attendants.
' THE HANDSOMEST AND COOLEST PHOTO. GALLERY IN AUSTRALASIA.
THE PRICES ARE UP TO DATE
12 Cabinets, with a 12 xlO Bromide or Opal Enlargement, 10/6
and absolutely no other charge.
«{ 10/6
To celebrate the opening, we give an Extra Position FREE to eaoh Sitter, and, as there is no charge for re-sitting,
this is a guarantee for the Excellency of our Work.
No Disappointment. No Delays. Inspection Cordially Invited.
The Swiss Studios. (tetJSSS.So3j.st* The Swiss Studios.
Have in Stock—
Ingersoll Air Compres
sors and Rock Drills
of all sizes,
Knowles Pumps for
all services,
Blowers and Ex-
haust Fans,
Rockbreakers
and Rolls, G
Pulverisers,
Sample
Grinders,
Ore
Feeders,
£
<-
m
Forges,
Screens,
Horizontal
and
Vertical Engines
and Boilers,
Horse Whims,
Water Wheels,
Engine
Governors,
Dynamos,
Electro-Copper
Plates,
Retorts,
Bullion
Moulds,
Shafting,
Bullies,
Belting, Oils,
All kinds of
Engineers’
Tools and
Fittings, and
Mine and
Mill Supplies,
Cl 4p
%
%
**l,
s ?lt
Sole
Agents for
“ Three
Bullet ”
Brand
Steel.
THE - -
THE - -
mAT> OSCILLATOR
AEE SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
X AJL I J -
VIBRATOR
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE -
CHAIN STITCH
Batho s Baking Powder .
INSOLVENTS ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
& Co., Gunmakers, corner Little Collins and Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loaumg Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price £B, reduced £2 17s 6d each, complete.
s’ Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
nortridire machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 1 10 10s, reduced £3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rehounding locks, snap action, left-hand
. f ,.ii „hnke bore right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
nnd f. e- new complete ’ Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid bar action, highly finished, with all the latest lmprove-
L fnrunalitv with cartridge machinesandcleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7losea. complete.
“ nartrZes can be supp ied for the Breech-Loading Guns at 6s 6d per LOO in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
SrTnwnON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
X H J!LhusivPhMoest inAustralia for BIOYGLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
I wqSnirtfLnNiclSe Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (lid. gross),
Tangent SpOkGB(aII l C » . / i_i._ ts\ Anfoirla Prtvpra /Hnnlnn nrmnmlo 19 ft") TnaiHo Tnhoc 3fi P.i’nolro'a
per
LUt
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. €« 345 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Steam Engines,
Horizontal and Vertical,
of the Most Approved Designs
and Highest Workmanship, from
one horse-power.
A ll our Engines are fitted with The Pickering
Governor (for which we are Sole Agents), the
most Perfect Governor ever made.
Every Description of Engineers’ Hand & Machine
Tools in Stock.
All kinds of Engine & Boiler Fittings, Machine & Mill Supplies.
Write for particulars and prices. All enquiries promptly and intelligently replied to.
