

ILIO WHISKY.
,OY’S
rn FRY’S MALTED COCOA
OXJ AR A3XTTEBD PURE COCOA. AKTD EXTRACT OF MALT.
R. G. WATKINS «&£ CO.,
107 Kent Street, Syaney, 7
*. . —FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Minina Requisites,
ItXLM OSJVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER L.OU E &€?
I
odern
ber-cutting Machinery
D (V/l i l i c rnn am v £M-»p Ar i />/>£> V
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR ANY SIZE OF LOGS.
U p-t o-Oate
lour Milling Mach.inery, Engines & Boilers,! Steel Windmills.
Mills Erected and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
24 Chi re nee Street,
SYDNKy.
see
gfp ; -; ■ J ‘
Prize
Medals,
Steam
Engines
Sold.
IBS
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
fix
OTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMI>OI, H'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
A A
OC v ’’Bs Pitt Street,
mm
Rnston,
Proctor
SOLE AGENTS
&
FOB
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
bccbsttric T3E3EnFtA.sia:3:Krc3-
&C., &CS.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
Kilminster’s Clarendon Hotel,
Overlooking the Pacific Ocean at
BOWLING GREEN, TENNIS COURT, BILLIARDS.
MANLY BEACH.
■ ;
The FAVORITE SEASIDE RESORT,
kept by Mrs, Kilminster for the last
Twenty (20) Years.
71
•m?
mam
. ..
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating', Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
beiritf issued at most Hail way Stations. Steamer com mu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto.
HOBART.
Hadley’s Orient fiotel.
-/
V
to
cM
u
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. G. ludowicF& son, ltd.,
3.3L7 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, (Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania; Adelaide, S. Australia.
‘Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
:V AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
•iSighest Awards wlierever Elaclaibited.
VAMDYCK
CIGARS
rrs
&MO.
MB'
©P 2
F@® |s.
The Bulletin
Voi. 19.— IMq. 985. j
[Saturday, December 31, 1898.
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newswer.


JUST OUT!
TN€ NEW YEAR
Begin it well Smoke “ CAMEOS.
99
The Bulletin will publish,
about Ist January
The Bookfellow.
A Monthly Magazinelet
Tor Book-buyers and Book-readers.
Subscription, One Shilling
per annum.
Specimen Copies Free
to any address.
J3Y APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS and stationers.
PER R.M.S. ARCADIA.
Del poises’ Referendum in Switzerland, 7s 6d, post 8s ;
Hissey’s Over Fen and Wold, 16s, post 16s 9d ; Poems of
Love and Pride of England, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and
4s ; Highain’s Hydraulic Tables, 7s 6d, post 8s ; Clifford’s
Since the Beginning, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Brooke’s English
Literature to the Norman Conquest, 7s 6d, post 8s;
Wakefield, by Garnett (builders of Britain), ss, post 6s 6d ;
Lyall’s Hope, the Hermit, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Gunther’s Lost American, 2s, post 2s 4d ; Harrison’s
Triple Entanglement, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, pqgt 3s and 4s;
Mitford's Ruby Sword, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Griffiths’ Destined Maid, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Mather’s By Roaring Loom, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and
4s‘; Weyman’s Castle Inn, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s;
Mailing’s Romance of the First Consul, 2s 6d and 3s 6d,
post 3s and 4s.
JUST PUBLISHED :
A BARRIER BRIDE,
By Garnet Garnet, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s.
SPIRITUAL LAW THROUGH THE NATURAL
WORLD, By the. Rev. S. Hector Ferguson, 3s 6d,
post 3s lOd.
Warrigal Series, No. 4. «
THE ONE BLACK SHADOW,
By Bessie Cole and F. W. D. MOORE,
narrow wrapper, Is 6d, post ls'9d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE.
J. Brunton Stephens writes 1 —
In the notices called forth by the publication of
the “.Life of Tennyson by tiG Sou,” reviewers
evidently felt disposed to criticise the poet’s work
more freely than at. the time of his death, when
the sense of national bereavement would have
been less tolerant of dispraise. In some quarters,
indeed,, it seemed almost as if there were a re-
action against Tennyson or, rather, as: if the
publication of bis memoirs bad furnished occasion
for the manifestation of a long-sup)iressed reaction ;
but, now that one is neither influenced by the
pathos of a recent death-bed nor by the novelty of
biographical revelations, it may be a fitting time
to say a few words respecting one or two of the
adverse criticisms which touch most closely upon
Tennyson’s claim to supremacy among the poets
of his generation.
* * * *
The most formidable criticism brought to bear
upon Tennyson by those who are chiefly concerned
with pointing out his limitations, and even' by
some of those who are among his most ardent
admirers, is that he was not a great thinker. From
many quarters comes the insinuation, and even
the explicit statement, that he was merely a writer
of verses, that what power he had was in such
selection and collocation of words as exhibited a
mastery of rhymes and cadences and harmonies,
and in the use of a felicitous imagery, the chief
success of which lay at once in the glorification
and the concealment of the commonplace.
Now, this is a very serious form of disparage-
ment to be directed against the reputation of one
who made so great an impression upon his age,
and upon its highest and most representative
minds. But without admitting for one moment
that Tennyson’s poetry is lacking in what has
been called “fundamental brain work,” that he
was not a creator except in the sense of an ‘ ‘ in-
ventor, of harmonies,” I am inclined to think that
underlying this objection there is a fallacy which
consists in a misconception as to the true function
of the poet. The poet is not a Spencer or a
Darwin expressing himself in rhyme. It is not
the function of the poet to formulate new intellec-
tual conceptions. His proper work is to heighten
and intensify the conception, to quicken the con-
sciousness of that of which we are already pos-
sessed as a thought, to make us emotionally alive
to what we have hitherto only intellectually con-
ceived.
Nor is this to be regarded as an insignificant
work in comparison with that of the originator of
new conceptions. For, first of all, ideas are only
valuable to us in so far as they are potentialities of
emotion. The whole value of the intellectual
nature of man lies in its relation to his emotional
nature, or, in other words, in its relation to his
happiness.
In the second place, ideas which are not merely
ideas about abstract relations, are only half
possessed by us until they are possessed emotion-
ally as well as intellectually. Even when logically
formulated, a thought does not wholly belong to
us if it goes, no deeper than the intellect. The
consciousness must be emotionally quickened to its
reception before it is “brought home to us.”
When it is thus received, it lies no longer on the
convex or intellectual side of our nature. It is
received within, into the heart, is assimilated,
becomes part of ourselves. It is in this direction
that the work of the poet lies. He fuses with
emotion what has hitherto been only logically
accepted, and the truth thus dealt with is received
into the highest mood or mode of realisation. The.
question, then, with regard to the poet, should not
be, how many new truths has he uttered, how
many new ideas has he originated, but how far has
he quickened your consciousness, and thereby
enlarged your life? For this quickening of con-
sciousness is enlargement of life. “In each of
*s,” says Novalis, “ the larger half of our nature is
still asleep. ” To awaken this slumbering half, or -
even a portion of it, is to add to the life of the
soul, and this is precisely what the poet does,
whether the awakening is brought about by his
organ rpsh of mighty harmonies, or by the sweeter
enticements of his lute. Emotion upon an in-
tellectual basis is the highest mode of self-
realisation in relation to all that is not self, and
such realisation is life. This is what the poet gives
to us—something infinitely more valuable than is
bestowed on us by the musical composer, whose
work is most successful when it leads us, not to
realise ourselves and our relations to other things,
but to utterly forget ourselves and all else in a
trance of sensuous enjoyment. Therefore it is
that the great poets are loved above all other
writers, and that our love is so mingled with
gratitude. They have not discovered the circula-
tion of the blood, but, to use Tennyson’s own
words, their thoughts have enriched the blood of
the world. They have not formulated new laws
of nature, but they have done something greater.
They have revealed new relations between our-
selves and Nature, and have created, actually
created, new relations between the two great powers
of our own nature, the apprehending mind and
the aspiring soul. Tennyson (though not the
greatest, while high among the great, of the poets
the world has produced), is of all others the type
of poet who has given himself to fulfilling, and
has succeeded in fulfilling, this characteristic func-
tion. It was to this special work that he conse-
crated himself, as a priest devotes himself to the
service, of his God. It was in subservience to this
special aim that he laboriously cultivated and ac-
quired a technical excellence in expression so
amazing, so dazzling, that it blinds the . eyes of
even admirable critics to its subordination to the
higher purpose. Why was it that Huxley and
Tyndall and so many others of the foremost
scientific men of the day admired him, re-
vered him, loved him as they did ? Simply be-
cause he made them fed what they had hitherto
only known, because he gave worth and dignity to
the results of their researches by making things of
the intellect become tilings of the spirit. It was
because lie invested their knowledge with spiritual
attributes, and because under the exercise of his
magi an spell the material issues of their own
familiar and special work suffered a spiritual
change which transformed them into something
richer and stranger than they had appeared in the
dry. light of Science.
* * * *
As for the criticism which represents .the bulk
of Tennyson’s work as the glorification of the com-
monplace, I can only say that, to my mind, the
glorification of the commonplace is the most
notable achievement which a poet can . perform.
Almost all that can be thought and said about all
that most concerns the human mind to think, and
the human heart to feel, has been thought and
said long ago and ten thousand times over ; and
the most important truths upon all the most im-
portant thingsare commonplace. Take the whole
body of the stock quotations from the supreme,
poet of the world, which indicate his mode of re-
garding whatever there is of moment among the
subjects of human reflection—can you extract one
truth from them which was not familiar' to the
mind of the ancients, or which required any very
freat wisdom even for its earliest utterance ? Has
hakespeare revealed any profound mystery with
regard to life or death of which we can point to
him as the discoverer ? The whole thing lies in
the way of presenting it, in the art of putting it—
in throwing such illumination upon the common-
place that it stands out 'like a revelation. How
many . average persons have you not heard
express themselves, let us say, upon the
illusoriness of life ? How many average
persons are incapable of finding out for themselves
that they emerged originally from a state of non-
consciousness, and that the rest of the grave awaits
them at the end of life ? But when Shakespeare
says
We are such stuff
As dreams a/re made on, and our little life
Is rounded with a sleep ”,
what reader does not experience a new and solemn
realisation of the commonplace old truth of the
fleeting and unsubstantial nature of all that plea-
sures and frets us during our brief day on earth ?
... If I tell you that nature continues her pro-
cession and life maintains its ordinary course, but
the dead do not return, and there can be no re-
currence of any portion of past time, I am surely
not uttering anything very original or profound.
But —
Break, break, break
On thy cold, gray’ stones, 0 Sea,
And I would that my tongue could utter
The thoughts that arise in me.
0 well for the fisherman’s boy,
That he shouts with his sister at play ;
V O well for the sailor lad,
Thai he sings in his boat on the bay.
And the stately ships go on
To their haven under the hill ;
But 0 for the touch of a vanish’d hand,
And the sound of a voice that is still.
Break, break, break
At the foot of thy crags, 0 Sea.
But the tender grace of a day that is dead
Will never come back to me me. —
Is that commonplace ? Yes, but it is common-
place glorified. The sentiment is only too com-
monplace in the sad experience of us all—“Ay,
madam ; ’tis common ” —and it is just because it
is the-transfiguration of the commonplace that this
poem is a supreme achievement, supreme in the
effectiveness of its absolute simplicity.
A'nd let it be remembered, still in connection
with this part of the subject, that Tennyson’s
power of revelation through the medium of ex-
pression was not a mere matter of word-monger-
mg. It was from the intensity of the inner vision
that arose the craving for adequate expression. It
is a mistake to think that his careful elaboration
in this direction, his long search for what has been
happily called “ the predestined word,” his skilful
marshalling of his vowel and consonantal sounds
so that each becomes the co-efficient of the other,
and each co-efficient is raised to its highest power
—it is a mistake to think that all this is a matter
of mere verbal artistry. All this word-manipula-
tion was but the carrying out of the sacred duty
which he felt to be laid upon him of communicat-
ing through the fittest medium the inward grace
which had been bestowed upon himself. If his
spirit was “finely touched,” he knew that it was
“ but to fine issues ” ; and if he was so careful to
perfect his medium, it was that the “fine issues”
might pass through it to the world not only un-
corrupted from their native quality, but enriched
in the passage.
*"* * *
Let us turn now to another of Tennyson’s alleged
limitations. It is said that he lacks passion. It
is complained that he had too little of the element
of disturbance in his nature to be a sympathetic
exponent of the passions of humanity. It is re-
gretted that there is not more self-abandonment
about him. It is desiderated that he should come
down now and again from those classic heights of
his, and “let’ himself go.” In his treatment of
passion he is not wild enough to suit the advanced
ideas of the age; there is too little of the riot of
tlie blood ; there is too much restraint; too much
reticence ; in point of fact, too much morality.
Now, it appears to me that, the critics who pass
this judgment on Tennyson limit the meaning of
the word passion to passion that Iras broken
through the barriers of self-control. Of course, it
is the passion of love they are referring" tb, and
when they say that Tennyson lacks passion, it is
too evident that what they are really lamenting is
the comparative absence from his pages of “ the
raptures and roses of vice.” But what, right have
then to limit the clamant insistencies of sensuous
humanity to the sphere of the illicit ? What
reason have they for assuming—unless it be that
they are unable to conceive otherwise—that where
self-control.is strong, passion must be weak? I
shou ,d say the reyerse is more likely to be the case.
Self-control, like every other, acquired power,
attains its strength through.exercise, and this very
exercise consists in a constantly-renewed trial of
strength between the will and the force of desire.
It was owing to no tameness of spirit or poverty
of blood that Tennyson preferred to , let his
thoughts dwell among whatsoever things are pure,
and lovely, and of good report. Every constituent
of his nature was characterised by virility, and
virility is the last .'word that one would apply to
the imps of misrule by which the neurotic de-
cadents of the day are possessed, and which they
are pleased to call tlieif “passions.”
For my own part,. I consider -that in nothing
does Tennyson show himself a truer artist than in
his treatment of guilty love. If vice: does not run
rampant through his pages it is because it does
not run rampant through real life. In real life,
tlie concealment of vice is as. much a fact as the
existence of it. It is characteristic of vice to seek
obscurity, and he who sees life clearly, and sees it
whole, will not try to ignore it; but neither will
he sin against his sense of perspective by giving
it a prominence and a dominance which, if carried
into reality, would make social .life impossible.
* * * *
It is because of Tennyson’s avoidance of the un-
seemly, because of his love of the lovely and the
pleasant, that, by the class of critics we are speak-
ing of, he is charged with being “conventional.”
Conventional as regards his choice of subjects he
may have been—though I, for one, do not admit
it —but conventional in his mode of presentation
he certainly was not. His manner may have
become conventional now, but the fault is that of
his imitators, and the very fact that the poets of
the day find such difficulty in getting away from
the Tennysonian manner is sufficient of itself to
prove that, with him, it was an individual origina-
tion, and was therefore not conventional as far as
he was concerned. ‘ ‘ Tennyson, ” says a critic in
a recent issue of Literature, “has fixed the form
of expression for all nineteenth century poets of
thought on all the greater things of human life and
destiny; and adhesion to. it, conscious or uncon-
scious, is probably a necessity for any later poet.”
In other words, Tennyson, by the suffusion of his
immense individuality, has made Tenriysonianism
conventional, but that is a very different thing
from being . himself chargeable with conven-
tionalism.
*: * * *
And here I should like to make a remark which,
though perhaps not altogether in sequential .con-
nection with what has gone before, is not entirely
alien to"the subject. It appears tome that a large
number of the poets of the present day are en-
slaved by a much more baleful influence than the
seductive easiness of conventionalism. The dread
of being, or of being thought, conventional plays
havoc with their poetic faculty. Instead of hold-
ing on to the truth that to conceive greatly, to
conceive finely, is the characteristic exercise of
the highest poetical activities, they give their
approbation and their labor to the evolution of
originalities, singularities, eccentricities. In their
fear, I would say their snobbish fear, of being
classed with personally-conducted travellers over
the old routes, they turn aside into by-paths in
search of the morbid, the corrupt, the grue-
some and the brutal, not because they really
prefer this , class of research, but because of the
facility which it offers for reporting something
new, something that will communicate a sensation
even if it be nausea. No wonder so many of them
are pessimists. But theirs is not the philosophic
pessimism. The beaten highways of life along
which all the great poets have travelled are odious
to them simply because they themselves lack the
faculty of glorifying the commonplace. _ The real
defect of these writers appear to me to lie in their
failure to perceive that, after all, the principal
phenomenon of social life is health. But, alas,
health is conventional! . . . And, to turn again
to Tennyson, if he preferred to dwell chiefly on
what was sane and wholesome, such preference
was only a part of the insatiable hunger after
perfection which was in him a passion—a passion
that was not less fervent because, after his
long upward struggle through clouds of doubt
and over the molten lava of fiery emotion, it
manifested itself, when he had reached his majes-
tic calm, in a serenity of thought and clarity of
expression which makes us forget that the steady
beauty of the light which illumines his pages was
the result of inward processes of heat. Had he
stopped halfway, and showed us only the cloud and
the lava, he would have been lauded nowadays as
one of the “poets of revolt.” Yes: that is it.
The “poets of revolt” are the poets who have
stopped half-way. But Tennyson climbed the
whole way, nor lost in. his, upward struggle one
smallest portion of the equipment with which lie
started on his journey. Sympathy, clarity,
sanity—sympathy of feeling, clfirity of thought,
sanity of soul—these were his equipment. (Sym-
pathy, clarity, sanity; these three; and lam
almost inclined to say, the greatest of these is
sanity.
■ .
“Scot”: Forming# has been under discussion
in Dunedin. A witness in the Laira case in the Supreme
Court, spoke of the Wakatipu being foreninst the sand-
dredge. “This is the first introduction of Scotch into
the evidence,’’ commented counsel Solomon. “But,”
said .In t.ice Penuefather, "foreninst is every hit as good
Irish as it is Scotch.” And a newspaper corr. added:
1 No Scotchman says foreninst. . . . Forenenst is a good
old English word, as jiirehiiist is good present-day Irish.”
[Murray's dictionary gives foiiwnt and fornemt as .current?
Scotch and N. English ; says nothing of the Irish use,
comntnn enough. It is a compound of fore and orient,
and means “ right opposite to, over against.'’ But there
is a second (Scotch) meaning, “ with regard to.”]
E. J. : Some years ago a man named Hobler
published a biography of his father. He declared that
the old man was one of the first to take up and stock
country on the Murrumbidgee, and that the blacks called
that, region “Nivya Nivva.” Since then the term has
been applied to all back country in Australia.
“ The mere opinion of tlie literary critic, then,
his I-like-it or I-like-it-not, is at bottom of liLtle value.
Indeed, whenever he ventures upon dogmatism, whether
in laying down the rules and canons of art or in passing a
sweeping judgment upon anyone’s reputation, he is try-
ing to do what no predecessor has successfully accom-
plished. But a useful career lies before him if he will be
content to bring into harmony a man and his work so
that, the inevitable excellence and the equally inevitable
blemish may be seen in due relation to their cause. In
fact, his worthiest ambition is to reduce that mass of
ignorance and prejudice which prevents the vulgar from
choosing between good and evil. For to glorify the
worthless is an injury to the worthy.”— Lond. Academy.
TEE GHOST SHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Behold her on the silent sea,
Yon vessel like a spirit there!
Moved in a dream’s reality,
As if she trod the air.
None can tell from what creek or bay
She sailed out, or by night or day j
They watch her like a vision gone
Over the Sea’s oblivion.
And, lo ! she fades a spectre thin,
Part of the moonlight and the sea,
As if the waves and stars met in
A moment’s phantasy !
Or is it they stand hushed apart
And listen to her breathing heart
As the ghostly pulse is stirred
To the voice of a faery bird ?
—A bird that chaunts somewhere between
The waters and the starry skies
A mystic song of what has been
Seen not of human eyes
Since when the world grew into birth,
And the white Moon enamoured Earth:
And she as in a vision gone
Moves to the music on—and oil.
R. Crawford.


■ ■
a
F-
Sydney’s Leading Specialists,
-WARN-
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
QtrTn-nfrvmq of Dreaded Diseases whioh
oyinp lUm» deßtroy the peace of mind and hap-
piness of thousands every month.
The great number of men, young men, iniddle-
aged men and men of mature years, afflicted with
chronic ailments of a more or less series nature
is little short of appalling. Drs. FREEMAN
& WALLACE have been gathering statistics
along this line, and the result is alarming.
The ghost of chronic affliction hovers about and
haunts two-thirds of the men you meet on the
street or in business. It is the dreaded nightmare
of thousands. When they would make merry and
be joyous it points its bony finger and says,
“ Stop —be sad !” It turns light into darkness.
It lowers a cloud of gloom and despondency over
its victims. It makes life distasteful. It destroys
the peace of mind and blights every hope of the
future. It says to the young, unmanned man,
“Beware of matrimony, for your offspring would
only perpetuate your affliction.”
It is to this class of chronic sufferers that Drs.
FREEMAN & WALLACE address this
straightforward business proposition.
Blood PoiSofy-
This is a most loathsome affliction. Blood poison is a disease very insidious m its first stage.
Its first appearance is not attended by pain, as some suppose, but when once contracted it is a very
troublesome disease to eradicate from the system. Paint a picture as dark as the darkest night, en-
compassed with all the horrors imaginable—with shrieks, groans, cries and utter despair, and then
you’ll have a picture of blood poison in its last stages. It is then that the bones begin to decay, and
chunks of flesh drop from your body. Your eyes become weak and watery, your throat and tongue
are affected and life becomes indeed a burden. If you are so unfortunate as to be afflicted with blood
poison, we would implore you to take treatment without onei moment’s delay Don t wait until you
are a complete physical wreck. We have Remedies which effect a POSITIVE CURE of this techie
affliction * We treat and cure blood poison at any stage, but the sooner treatment is commenced the
better. If your affliction has only reached the first or second stages your system can be cleansed
soeedilv and nermanentlv. A longer course of treatment is necessary to effect a cure of blood poison-
i,'i wU>n in P tlmTast Saget We GUARANTEE TO CURE, ABSOLUTELY and PERMA-
NENTLY every case of blood poisoning undertaken. When we are not absolutely certain of accom-
plishing a cure, we say so frankly and decline to take the case. If you live out of the city and cannot
(■dll personally, write to us. Remedies can be prepared and sent yo.u, and you can be cured at home.
300-page
MEDICAL
WORK.
s
60 Engravings.
16 Colored Plates.
Price, 10s.
NcrVoCis Pcbility, LoSS of Vitality.
WE CAN CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY, in any stage, permanently at the Office, or by a
course of home treatment especially prepared to suit each case. Nervous Debility is not a chance or
natural affliction In its early stages it is not attended by a great amount of discomfort. It is an
affliction that begins as a moLhffl and ends as a mountain At first, the only symptom noticeable
is a feeline' of unrest attended by gloomy forebodings of the future. Your sleep at night is not
peaceful. By and bye you have an aversion for society—you are troubled with stupidness, bashfulness
and loss of energy. You soon become ambitionless, and your purpose in life is aimless. You find
little'enjoyment in life, and just at this stage your thoughts run more or less to suicide. The cemetery
looks beautiful, and you think of the peaceful slumber of those beneath the sod. You grow melan-
choly. Life becomes visionless and tiresome. You become troubled with an aching back, and if you
indulge in excesses there is likely to develop a breaking-out of pimples It is the broad and certain
road to PREMATURE DECAY. Stop for a moment. Call together your better nature. Don t
despair. Think the matter over coolly and calmly. You need treatment for Nervous Debility.
Consult us, either at our office or by mail, and learn the extent of your affliction. We can cure you
speedily and permanently. We can regain your lost nopes-bnng back the iustre to your eyes and
make of you a perfect inan-with an object in life-ambitious-successful. Don t delay. Immediate
action is far the best.
LOSS OF VITALITY.
This is a common affliction among young men
and men of middle age. It is the result of indis-
cretions, follies of youth, and excesses in maturer
years. It saps your life’s blood. It destroys your
manhood. It makes you old and stupid when you
should be young and vigorous. Loss of vitality
grows the longer the affliction is allowed to con-
tinue, and it becomes daily the more serious. It
is not a disease that should be looked upon as of
little consequence. It is easily handled by the
skilled physician, and we are able to guarantee a
permanent cure of every case undertaken.
I ake time by the forelock —nip your affliction
in its incipiency—and you will save yourself both
anguish and money. We treat with unfailing
success all those afflictions which unfit men tor
society, marriage, and the sacred duties of life.
Skin diseases, eruptions, pimples, ulcers and
chronic sores cured speedily and permanently.
The latest and most scientific mode of treating
and permanently curing stricture, and varicocele,
rupture, piles, and fistula. No pain. No cutting. , _ . , m . .
No detention from business. A sure and permanent cure ra every case. No matter what your affliction
may be, remember that we are prepared to give you every advantage, ability, experience, modern
equipment and low charges. n u
WRITE and tell us about your afflictions. Don't be afraid to state your case fully. Do all you
can to help us and we will help you. Be honest. If you are sick and want to be PERMANENTLY
CURED we are ready to help you. Don’t keep anything back. All communications are sacredly
confidential.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration open to inspection.
-ADDRESS ALL LETTERS TO
CJ
<SK
3
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
Correspondence P.O. Box 1359.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
DR.
GIBBONS,
is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish univ< rsit ns, and
Who :
and Surgeon,
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe,
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He lias made a life-long
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He lias, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young" men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffe
from any of the following symptoms, namely:—Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during: sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sib
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBBONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
presorilus Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—•
137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS-Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who
TRUTHS, the PLAIN
would KNOW THE GRAND
FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
EREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘TRIUMPH,’ P.O. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IMMEDIATE STRENGTH,
Young and
Old IVlen ! !
who have lost their manly
power vitality strength
may regain same easily
and permanently Prof.
Bead’s LIFE SYRUP cures the most obst’nate cases
of Debility, Atrophy, Varicocele, &c. _ A Written
Guarantee given in all cases Ihe Life Syrup stim •
ulates and strengthens the nerves, and by restoring
contractile power to the seminal vesicles and ducts
prevents the constantdram of vital fluid, which so weak
ens and destroys If discouraged, send 6 stamps foi my
book, “From Bondage to Freedom, showing how ah
nervous disorders are cured, and in many cases by diet
alone. Prof. H. READ, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TRADE
MARK.
This successful and highly popular remedy, as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Ricord,
Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to be sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses everything hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
in a reraaikaoly short time, otten a tew days onij ,
removes all discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections, the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serious diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
for impurity of the blood, scurvy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, <fcc., to the destruction of suflereis
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
the whole system through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every poisonous matter from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nervous exhaustion, waste of vitality,haiassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess, residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses surprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION
is sold by all
the principal
Chemist* ami Merchants throughout the World.
Price in England 2/9 & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
ab ive Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“ Thebahon ” as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Agents for THBttiU*ION— FELTON, GRIM WADE & Co., and ROCKE, TOMPSrTT & Co.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicoeele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANGSTON, M.8.C.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Kollauiay Remedies
DEFY DEFEAT.
NO CURE-NO PAY.
This is absolutely GUARANTEED in all
cases undertaken of Nervous Exhaustion
and Weaknesses, no matter from what
cause arising.
Send for a copy of testimonials and be
convinced. You will save pounds, and be
speedily cured.
A Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
always in attendance.
CONSULTATIONS free.
Address—
The Hollaway Remedy Agency,
NOTE
No money is
required in
your first
letter.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY, NS W.;
or 80x.775 G.P.0., Sydney.
NERVOUS
Absolutely and
Permanently
CURED by
In its very Worst Form,
Despondency, DEBILITY,
from any cause whatever,
EXHAUSTION
Mumford’s Vegetable Medicated Nervine Tonic Pill*.
Truly a Marvellous Medicine. No poisonous drugs; no
vexatious disappointments , simply a Genuine Cure. £1
per COURSE; Pamphlets Free. F. W. MUMFORD,
•Herbal Specialist, 51 Bourke Street, E. Melbourne.
Established 20 years.
Atrophy
, IN MEN.
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size and
vigor by the Vacuum Process. A wonderful in-
vention, instant benefit—a benefit that you feel, know
and admit the very first hour of its use. Strength,
Vitality, Manhood. Losses, drains, cease
at cnce. Send six stamps for descriptive
i book containing tindni bted evidence of mar-
velous cures by the Vacuum Appliance.
Address :-DR. HINTON-WILLIS CO,,
Cor. Bourke and Liverpool Streets, Melbourne.
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For he Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, De-non
dency, etc., are to be found in the
“ Light axxcl Life."
Tnis valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address—S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY .


TATTERSALL’S
•.. Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERS ALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
SPECIAL. —AII the Year Round.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To be Drawn on the Anniversary Handicap,
28th January.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
«
Name
Address
GEELONG 0. January 18, 1899.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
in the above.
Name
Address.
ANNIVERSARY H. January 28.
60,000 Subscribers at 6.
To TATTEKSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name .
£
Address.
HOBART C. February 1.
50,000 Sulbscribera S.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
Address
LAUNCESTON C. February 8.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
£ e :
COOTAMUNDRA C. C.P.C. February 8.
10,000 Sutsscrilbera a>t S.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
Address
BALLARAT C. C.P.C. March 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
s t
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


T
be Glass
of FaSbioi)
ANTHONY • dORDERN’S
PORTFOLIO OF . . .
SPRING & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists—
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &0.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Cuns and Ammunition
Underclothing for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Garden Implements, &c
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
CELLULAR
COOL AND
COMFORTABLE.
Healthiest and
Very Durable.
UIIDEMX
. . FOR SUMMER
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Cotton, Lisle Thread,
Silk and Merino, etc.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
j&W CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
David Braham $ C°*
73 & 75
King -st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
XJSE
Spooijer’s
iRQYALNAVY DRESSIRC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
OIRECI lONS FOR USE
fthWWti
ROYAL NAVY
PRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil.
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powder, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, etc.
P.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda,
Chloride of Lime,
AND ALL MINING AND ASSAY CHEMICALS
AND APPARATUS.
CATALOGUE of all Mining: Requisites, fully Illus-
trated and revised to date. Post free, Is. 3d.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO.,
MelL> ourne.
THE
DEAF
HEAE
J3F" “Common Sense Ear
Drums ” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
l Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
Icomfortable, invisible, no (dan-
•gerous) wire or metal attach-
*fnent. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Hollow GROUND
il
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
Mine IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
MA m BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & C 0„ LONDON. W.
EmBB
jHMfPENNY
CrO *l*o HBLL-
I GOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
U Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
7\(iStraliao fiGtGal
JUBILEE YEAR
Established 1849.
ProVideot Society.
With the close of the year 1898, the Australian Mutual Provident Society will complete FIFTY YEARS of its
existence. Members are invited to make this a RECORD YEAR by taking out additional policies themselves, and by
inducing their friends who are not already assured to become members. ALL POLICIES ISSUED before
the end of the year will share in the division of profits to be made as at 31st December next. Amount of Cash Surplus
divided amongst the members during the 49 years ending 1897 was £7,726,170* The Cash Bonus distributed amongst
the Policyholders for the single year 1897 was £445,235. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Accumulated Funds, £14,479,578. Annual Income, £2,094,706.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Chairman ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Chairman ; A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq. ; R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street, Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£3 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
AST Send for Price List. IEJi
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
15s
SB
Bent-Shalt Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
ENOS 'FRUIT SALT’
g Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
w
&
All Functional Derangements of tlie Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
■with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYA2MIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
overestimated.” —A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEYERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
The ONLY practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE
COMPLAINTS, arising from SANDY BLIGHT, SUN GLARE, INFLAMMA-
TION, Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, &c.
Mr. J. HAYNES, M.L. A., states that “ while in Wellington, N.S. W., I saw two
children suffering badly from sore eyes, the flies being an awful infliction.” He sent
the mother two bottles of Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion. This is the reply : “ I
thank you for the lotion you sent me for the babies’ eyes. The lotion is doing them
good. They are so much better.”
Mr. E. MORTLOCK, Rooty Hill, says: “ I have used your Eye Lotion, and
find it most invaluable for all eye complaints.”
Sold by All Chemists and Storekeepers. Beware of Worthless Imitations.
SOLE IPIROIPIRIIIZET OIR, :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
Plum
Plum
(GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell an i never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, »e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We (guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Ruzoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
J Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
(.Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole
Agents
Ref lister ed and sent Post Free to any fart of the world.
Please add Gd. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
■
t&W
mm.
Telephone, 26 KOQABAH —connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On tue Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Roomte, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Hull will accommodate 500 persons, l arge Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Sal®
\A ater Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating >
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation. TERMS MODERATE.
U.S.W. Carriage & SacldLlery Mianf Company.
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a SULKY,
BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of SADDLERY ?
If so, send for our Price List. You will save 20 per cent,
by buying from us. .
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ; 3-Spring
Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft Sulkies, the
best and strongest in Australia, £ll. Double Buggies,
£*>o Buckboard Buggies from £9los. Ladies’Pheatons
(single and double), Dog Carts, and every description of
vehicles in Stock and Made to Order.
HARNESS and S ADDLERY of every description at the
very Lowest Prices. Send us your address, and we will
forward you our Illustrated Catalogue and Price List,
NOTICE.—Do not be misled by any firms who say they
will deliver for less than we can. They cannot do so, and
you pay 16 per cent, more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
Our Special
No. 2.
bs\J
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8 18. 6.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rebels.
("And some are rebels on the hills!”)
A flowery path was our path to tread,
A beaten road that the rest had gone,
But how could we stay when our hearts were wed
To the mountain-tops and the cliffs of stone ?
In vain for us down in the valley shone
The golden sun and the white mists whirled,
And out on the mountains lorn and lone
We are the rebels of all the world.
The clouds stoop chill to us, overhead,
And round us for ever the chained winds groan ;
Beneath us the warmth of the world is spread
And the garden grace of the Earth lies prone
Where roses are ruddy and brown bees drone,
And, lover to lover with leaves dew-pearled,
The oak-trees croon in an undertone—
We are the rebels of all the world.
Why have we climbed to the cliffs and fled ?
And why from the fairest hopes have flown
To war with a wandering weird instead,
By all stars flouted and all winds blown ?
Because we are heirs to an outlaw throne
Where Freedom flaunts on the flags unfurled,
And the mountain tracts are our own, our own •
We are the rebels of all the world !
l’envoi.
We have charted a realm on the hills unknown,
We have chosen a home in the cloud-wreaths
curled;
Though princes may pity and kings condone,
We are the rebels of all the world !
WILL H. OCILVIE.
The Honeymoon Trip.
Oh, this ’ere little ship is a tough, taut ship,
An’ she creams the billows around
With snow from her prow and the froth of her lip
As she leaps to the outward bound.
The wind is a-singin’ in the low, grey sky
(An’ the cap.’s as drunk as a lord),
There’s a star in the west like a tomcat’s eye
Or a jewel in a rajah’s sword.
Oh, she’s sweet as a bride with a long white train
A-trailed on a carpet o’ blue;
The wind an’ the waves make the organ’s refrain
As she hastens the aisle-way thro’.
An’ the six little stars that glimmer astern
Are the bridesmaids decked in their best ;
An’ the lights of the “ Cross ” right royally burn,
And the moon is a lonesome guest.
Ah, you’re off, my Ship, on your honeymoon trip,
And the waves fall sobbing behind ;
The lights of the Home-Land sorrowf’lly slip,
And the sails swell out to the wind.
Good-bye ! Au revoir ! For ye’ll comeback a-day,
Your breast to the lolloping sea,
Till you swim the warm wave of the green wide bay
In the peace of the ’long shore lee.
HUGH RAYMOND M'CRAE.
When the Kain is Makin' Crosses in
the Air.
You ken hear the old man shoutin’
As us kids start fer an outin’
When the rain is makin’ crosses in the air ;
In his voice a tone complainin’—
“ Carn’t yer see how rough it’s rainin’?
Come inside an’ stop yer sniv’lin’. Do yer hear ? ”
So us boys an’ little Linda
Flatten noses at the winder
Watchin’ other kids a-playin’ on the square ;
An’ it makes us sulky—rather !
He’s a fair dead nark is father,
When the rain is makin’ crosses in the air.
Fer it’s ree-ly only spittin’.
But the sunshine on it sittin’
Makes it look as if the clouds were in a tear;
There’s a rainbow in the sky, there,
But —the old ’un won’t look nigh there
When the rain is makin’ crosses in the air.
But we beat him now quite easy
Ev’ry time the grass gets greasy
When the rain is makin’ crosses in the air,
Fer it goes without me sayin’—
When it’s jest too wet fer playin’
Why it’s jest too wet fer workin’ —which is square.
An’ nex’ mornin’, risin’ early,
Don’t the old un’s tongue grow curly
As he looks about for wood that isn’t there ?
An’ the balm he gits to stop it
I s —“ Well, dad, how could we chop it
When the rain was makin’ crosses in the air ? ”
MILKY WHITE.
Ariel’s Song.
I drink thee, breath of the soft June air;
The blue-bell sweet shall my beaker be.
The draught I drain has a fragrance rare—
(O ! where is the drinker to match with me?)
To thee, sweet maid, with the soft blonde hair
And blue eyes smiling—a melting pair,
To thee!
I drink thee, silvery morning dew,
The tulip tall shall my beaker be.
The fairest tulip that meets my view—
(O ! where is the drinker to match with me ?)
To thee, sweet maid, with the nut-brown hair
And dark eyes dancing—a witching pair,
To thee !
I drink thee, beam of the morning sun,
The rose, the rose shall my beaker be.
Spring—wine —sunshine in my draught are one
(O ! where is the drinker to match with me
To thee, sweet maid, with the raven hair
And black eyes flashing—a roguish pair,
To thee !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.


MANUFACTURED BY
Washington H.Soulx C° Pitt St. Sydney.
AND SOLD BY ALL CROCERS & STOREKEEPERS .
BAKING
POWDE
Tl*® Australian dJidouis’ Fund [ife Assurance Society jLtd.
Established 1871.
T™ KSfcSff *" ““ '»™» °< » »>* ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
k through illness to earn a livelihood.
Hon J H (S^RUTH]^S H M^'^^^f^^ C^ I ’ R^! ™’^ S Chairman;
J - CAKRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated e * ceed ***oo,ooo Annual Income exceed, £211,000
w, 263 GEOIIGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ai Prospectus.] GIEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
Ask: for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.
QOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
Delicious to delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit
TT., ~ , r , Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone
ininlicitlv followed e ?.M rposes “tended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
mend hto s e, P n7K ° r c S eute f rt , ai “ tl, f *est confidence in the article, and camecom
eepers s eueially as a useful agent 111 the preparation ofa good Cusford Giveit a trial
_ . . Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSF & CO iPPnc '
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO ENG.
KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
WHAT FOLKS SAY ABOUT
p$ B
BUILDING PAPER
Tfn«« Hr TAnir * i » „ , Wellington, N.Z., 39th February, 1898.
KObS & JACK, Agents for P & B Materials,
10 Custom House Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
__ ,Slr ?'T, We have resolved to use P & B Building Paper in all our houses, and
we shall probably enclose them from the roof to the ground. It would be as well there-
3°ply only°— Yours Certam ° f havir ' B ' a sfcock al "’a.vs on hand. We shall use the
CLERE FITZGERALD & RICHMOND, Architects.
-FOR SALE BY
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Agents, Elizabeth-st.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Agents, Adelaide and Port
Adelaide, S.A.
Ross & Jack, Agents, Custom-house Quay, Wellington N.Z.
Frank Logan, Agent, Eagle-st., Brisbane, Q. ° ’
Burns & Twigg, Rockhampton, Queensland.
Kirk & MThkrson, Ltd., Townsville, North Queensland.
Agents : E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney, W.S.W.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
CARLTON AL
VISITORS
Families, Tourists, Business or Pleasure-
seekers should stay at the most modern of
Sydney’s hotels—
to SYDNEY
fit
'u
aa m
Tattersall's
hotel
Telegraph Office; Telephone 728 ; Elec-
tric Light. Three minutes or less from
four leading theatres and G-.P.0.
TARIFF: 10s. per Day.
W. J. ADAMS, Manager.
THE ....
[ondonflental
Institute.
Painless Dentistry.
Dr. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASHER, Dentists.
Jgg*" Modern. Dentistry in all its Branches
Legititnately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Keform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY —9B KING ST., SYDNEY-ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
CALVERT'S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
ILLE
QMPAN
unit;
ESI
Trade
'Ti _ PnopHitront 1
ConeahylT
**■ EDINBURGH. «uW(
‘f‘;l ‘■■t rn.o, „.i\M /Hull
A"* •“ Jj<L
moderately.
Take a little Whisk}
“for thestomach’s sake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “D.C. L. ”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L.’
PURUU
THE PERFECT TABLE WATER
Is bottled direct from the famous New Zealand Springs.
Has cured numberless cases of Gout, Indigestion,
Dyspepsia, and Rheumatism.
Can be obtained at
All Clubs and Leading Hotels.
Retail from
The Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, Sydney.
Agents for N.S.W. and Q’land: E. RICH & CO. Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
Agents for Victoria: E. SAMUEL & CO., 376 Little Plinders-st., Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
To DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only oj
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
HISTORY or
YANKEE DOODLI
SEE
DIXSON’S TOBACCO HOARDINGS.
lO An>?ri?a. |0 AGstralia.
IT was in the summer of 1778, Wash-
ington, with his army ever active,
determined to oppose the British
General, Sir Henry Clinton, who, having
evacuated Philadelphia, was retreating
through New Jersey on New York. The
forces met on 28th June at Monmouth.
La Fayette conducted the attack. The
heat was so intense that some refused to
fight, and many fell dead from exposure
to the sun’s rays. Both sides fought
desperately. As the day waned, and the
flagging spirits of La Fayette’s soldiers
were at a low ebb, a strange sight
aroused them. Marching with drum
and fife was an old man, Jeremiah Wyn-
ton, and his son and grandson. The
old father, with silvery flowing locks,
sturdily strode through the field. The
son with bandaged head fifing lustily,
the youth, catching the spirit of his
grandsire, rolled out with him the soul-
inspiring rattle of the drum. Father, son,
and grandson had accompanied the
troops as volunteers, and were ever in
the forefront of the fight. The fierce
light of battle was in their eyes, they
knew no fear, and many a wild cheer
ai ose, as on that fateful day Yankee
Doodle was heard as never was heard
before or since.
YANKEE Doodle as a Trade Mark
is admitted by all to have no equal
on this side of the World, and, as
a Tobacco, Dixson and Sons determined
that it should enjoy an equal reputation,
consequently the resources of their great
establishment, and patient trials and ex-
periments (involving several visits to
America in search of suitable leaf with
which to produce the tobacco sought
after) resulted in a Dark and Bright
Tobacco, which to-day CHALLENGES
THE WHOLE WORLD IN COMPE-
TITION, and that it is appreciated may
be gathered from the fact that the sales
for New South Wales alone now reach
Tons per Day.
The objection of many smokers to
Dark Tobacco is its strength. Dixson’s
have overcome this, and Dark Yankee
Doodle, while possessing a delightful
flavor, is not strong. Then again, Light
or Bright Tobacco, although mild, burns
the tongue. Bright Yankee Doodle is
equally mild, richer than other tobaccos
in aroma, and DOES NOT PARCH
THE TONGUE. Every smoker should
TRY FOR HIMSELF.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Off.ce, Sydney, for Transmission ly Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 985.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 81, 1898.
Price 6d.
/
IF
Mr
ZF
w
A DOG, SOME DYNAMITE, AND
TWO DIGGERS.
7—“ I say, Bill, I’m sick o’ that dawg's everlastin’ scratchm'
of hiss elf.” “So am I, Tom,” says Bill; 11 lefts
get rid on. Mm ”!
2. —“/ have it!” says Tom. “ We’ll tie his 'edd up m a
bag, along with some powder, and fire it with a
slow fuse. See?”
3. —“ Then, I move we toss to see who touches her off, and
then we'll run for dear life. Of course ! - Just my
luck ! ” says Tom, striking a match.
4 . —“ Look there, Tom,” says Bill, " I’m if the
mangy cur ain’t a-follerin ’ at our 'eels with a bag'
full o' ceriain death / ”
<5 —“ Good-bye, Bill l ” “ Good -bye, Tom; for
hiss elf, and dawg blast the hindmost” ..." I say,
we won't refer to this in our letters home l ”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence" column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tun Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Mlaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
Jc Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. S Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription, is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition ofl\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
7%^sxzlZeZz/7i.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1898.
The Broken-down Machine.
Three Legislatures—those of Maoriland,
Victoria, and New South Wales—got to the
end of their session almost simultaneously,
and the end of them all was more or less
chaotic. That is to say, two of them closed
up badly, and the third did it much worse.
The last days of the Cornstalk session were
mere football scrum and dog-fight, and there
were 50-hour sittings, and everybody’s temper
got on edge, and quarrels and riots arose,
and Bills were either rushed through without
consideration or thrown out without thought
or intelligence. Each one of the Par-
liaments hove a great part of its cargo of
legislation overboard within sight of port, as
always happens in the last days of a session,
and the remainder was landed much damaged.
Premiers Seddon and Turner kept a firm
hold on their respective parties to the end
and fled into recess with some kind of dig-
nity ; and Premier Reid, who lost his hold
of everything in the latter days, was kicked
there without any dignity at all. But the
verdict, even in the best of these cases, was
that Parliamentary Government, as it is now
practised, is a failure and a fraud.
* * m *
Every session sees the same record. It is
an understood thing that all important
reforms must be introduced first into the
Assembly, because it is the House that
represents the people, while the other isn’t.
If any of them were first introduced in the
Council, and that unrepresentative institu-
tion threw them out without the Assembly
having a chance to consider them, the
visible result would be the same as if it
threw them out after the Assembly had con-
sidered them. They would only be thrown
out in either case. But the people, through
their representatives, must have a chance to
express an opinion, and reform measures
must go to the Council with all the weight of
popular opinion behind them, if they are to
have any show at all—not that they have
any too much show even then. If the Vic-
torian One-Man-One-Vote Bill, for instance,
had been thrice started in the House of 48Rich
Landlords, and thrice rejected there, it would
be technically no worse off than it is now,
after being thrice passed by the Assembly
and as often thrown out by the Landlords.
Also, a great deal of the Assembly’s time
would have been saved. But any possible
hope that it has lies in its presentation to
the Council as a measure that is backed by
a large majority of the people’s representa-
tives, and it is the same with every other
democratic idea. Therefore, it is necessary
to originate all important Bills in the Lower
House, and in the early days of the session
Bills rain on that Chamber like locusts. In
these early days the House sits about three
days a week. It adjourns early. It wastes
its time over abstract motions about the
abolition of sin, also motions of censure,
personal explanations, and complaints about
the late lamented dog that was found in the
Government tank. As a rule, the session is
two-thirds over before anything is really
done, and before the slipshod Ministry
awakes. Then, in the frantic tail-end of the
session, the Estimates are galloped through,
and £2,000,000 of loan money is voted in
five minutes, and forty unworkable Bills are
passed without consideration in the small
hours of the morning when the Assembly is
practically dead to the world, and fifty more
are thrown overboard, and the session con-
cludes with all the repose and dignity of
something that is blown up by dynamite.
» * * •
The Upper House has practically nothing
to do in the first half or two-thirds of the
session but drowse and accumulate bitter
contempt for the people’s representatives.
But in the last week or so it receives about
two dozen long, intricate measures that the
tired Assembly has rushed through without
really knowing what is in them. The
Council is requested to consider all these in-
telligently and in detail, and to do them at
the rate of about one important measure per
half-hour. Any brain it ever had grows
addled with the pressure, and any good-will
it ever had grows sour. The Council’s
situation is an anomalous fool of a situation
anyhow. It is supposed to put right, in
about a week, all that the Assembly has put
wrong in four months. At the same time it
isn’t supposed to make any serious amend-
ments because that is flying in the face of
the people’s delegates. And if it rejects
Bills it is jumping on the most sacred
principles of Representative Government.
And if it passes them with all their faults it
thereby shows its own uselessness, and fails
in its duty as a revising Chamber. And if
it does revise them carefully (it never does,
but this possibility is mentioned to round off
the argument), then the prorogation over-
takes it in the middle of the work, and half
the results of the session are lost among the
unfinished business. The average Council is
stupid and old and Tory and cantankerous,
and has no constructive power worth men-
tioning, but the kind of treatment it meets
is a fair excuse for some of its vices. A few
rare Premiers, like Atkinson, Ballanoe,
Seddon, and Turner, contrive to make a
semblance of keeping the Assembly up to
its work, but in New South Wales, at all
events, half the legislation is done by the
Lower House in its sleep in the last days
when everything is falling to pieces, and the
Council either kicks it through or kicks it
out at random. And the awful state of that
legislation, when it is done, is fully ex-
plained by the mode of doing it.
* * * *
The Bulletin has an idea of a new kind
of Upper House which would put an entirely
different complexion upon this dreadful
business. It would have the Upper House
paid like the Assembly, equal to it in num-
bers, equally responsible to the people, and
elected on exactly the same franchise, with
only one difference—that it would be chosen
by the whole nation voting as one constitu-
ency, while the Assembly would be elected
as at present. To make the new system
workable it would probably be necessary to
elect Ministers for a fixed term by the com-
bined vote of both Houses, instead of letting
them happen accidentally as at nresent; and,
as both Houses would have equal power, it
would be essential to make a provision for
deadlocks by referring disputed points to a
joint sitting. This scheme would make the
Upper House useful instead of useless as at
present. It would be a working body,
whereas the present institution has either to
say “ditto” to the other House all the time,
and be absolutely superfluous, or say “no ”
to the people's chamber, and thus outrage
every principle of Representative Govern-
ment. Also, it would create a legislative
body which would represent the country as a
whole, and whose business it would be to
consider the interests of the country as a
whole, whereas at present every man only
holds a brief for the interests of his one little
constituency, and the country at large hasn’t
a single representative.
* • * *
And, in addition to everything else, it would
subdivide the work and give Parliament a
chance to get its head above the slough of
arrears of legislation. If both Houses were
equally powerful, equally representative, and
equally democratic, then new business could
be started in either Chamber indiscrimin-
ately. Half the Bills of the session could be
started in one House and the rest in the other;
the Houses could do an equal share of the
dreary digging and delving in committee, and
divide the work of throwing out undesirable
products between them. Each one, of
course, would have to revise the other’s
work, but if they represented the same
people and interests and popular senti-
ment they could take a good deal of
each other’s work for granted. Between
them there would, at least, be twice
as much time to do the work in,
and there would be a fair chance that every
important measure would be carefully over-
hauled in every detail by one representative
House anyhow. A good many of them might
have the luck to be intelligently considered
by both Houses, but as a general thing the
fresh intellect of one people’s House would
get a look-in at every measure. The pre-
sent system works very differently. Taking,
as an example, the chaotic session of Now
South Wales Parliament which has just
closed, fully one-half of the most important
measures were huddled through by the
Assembly when it was in the last stage of
weariness and aggravation, and had no brain
for details, and was half-asleep and one-
quarter dead through continuous sittings.
They were badly drafted in red-hot haste,
and most of them went through with all
their imperfections still in them. Then the
Council looked at them for a moment with
the last exhausted scrap-end of its intellect
also, and in most cases let them go into the
statute-book or the waste-paper receptacle
promiscuously. The Council had very little
power to do good if it had wanted to, and it
was too tired to want to, and it hadn’t the
time in any case.
* * * *
The parliamentary machine as at present
constituted is in a constant state of partial
breakdown. If it doesn’t relegate some of
its work to somebody it will probably get
more broken-down each year till there is
very little of it left. The Council, as at
present constituted, isn’t an aid, but an
enemy. Not only has the Assembly to do
all the hard work itself, ( but it has to find
time to jump on its nominal partner and
keep him from undoing it. The Council,
being Tory by the very nature of its consti-
tution, can t be trusted to do any detail work
on democratic measures, or to sift out good
schemes from bad, or to initiate anything
that is reasonably desirable. If it rejects
measures that doesn’t mean that they are
probably the kind that a democratic com-
munity should reject; it only means that
the Assembly has to do all the work over
again. If the Assembly sends up a demo-
cratic measure in a crude and unwork-
able form it knows in advance that the
nominee Chamber doesn’t want to make
it any less unworkable, and that its
amendments are probably intended to make
the scheme more impossible than it was be-
fore. The Assembly, instead of having a
packhorse to carry part of its goods on its
uphill journey, has to carry all the goods it-
self and the horse too. And the uselessness
of keeping ahorse that won’t carry anything,
and which has to be carried itself, requires
no demonstration.
South Australia’s Xmas Crisis.
South Australian Parliament adjourned for
the Xmas fowl in the middle of a political dead-
lock ; and unless the ameliorating influences of
that bird help to soften the asperities that now
exist, it will meet again about three weeks
hence with the deadlock in as good working
order as ever. The two Houses have come into
violent collision, and, as usual, the House of
Property—the one which represents far the
smaller body of electors, and to which the
Government isn’t responsible—has a certain
advantage. The popular Chamber wants to do
something, and the unpopular one wants to
leave things as they are, and so long as the two
Houses have equal power, and there is no joint
sitting or Referendum, or other authority that
can be effectively appealed to in case of dis-
agreement, the House which is quite content
to leave things as they are starts with a few
yards lead. It has merely to lie down and
sleep and wait the course of events—unless the
country wakes it up with a brick. The South
Australian Upper House is certainly the most
Democratic thing of its kind in Australia—not
that that is saying much. South Australia is
the only one of the five mainland provinces
which pays its Councillors, and there is no
rigid Fat qualification for members. But
its constituency is narrowed by a property
qualification for electors, and the result is that
the Council represents 46,000 electors, while
the Assembly speaks on behalf of over 138,000.
Moreover, the Council is a continuous body.
One-third of its members retire every three
years, so it takes nine years to make a complete
change in its personnel. Even a pretty good
Democrat is liable to go bad when he is freed
from all responsibility to the electors for so
long a period as nine years. The Council can’t
be dissolved at a crisis. It can’t be cleaned
out and completely renewed when a wave of
popular fervor sweeps over the land of Crow-
eaters. It never represents the popular senti-
ment of the people ; just before a Council elec-
tion due in (say) 1899, one-third of it would
represent the way the people felt in 1896, and
one-third would have a mandate dating back to
1893, and the remainder would have no in-
structions from its constituents of later date
than 1890.
* * • •
Therefore, even in Democratic S.A., the
Upper House is mostly a slow and eminently
Tory institution. There was an occasion, some
years ago, when for a little while a democratic
majority had possession of the House of Sleep,
and on that occasion the Ministry foolishly
threw away an opportunity which may not
recur again for a dozen years, or a century. It
ought to have dropped everything else and
spread itself on the work of liberalising the
Council franchise while it had a majority to do
it with, and shortening the Councillors’ tenure
of office, and making the Upper House dis-
soluble like the Assembly, so that it would be
as directly responsible to the people as the
other branch of the Legislature. Then, having
made certain that the Council would not re-
lapse into its usual state of Toryism, it could
have proceeded with other reforms at its
leisure. But the S.A. Government let its one
opportunity slide. It passed some valuable
measures, certainly, during the brief period
when the progressive party bossed both Houses,
but the usual Council bye-election came along,
and the Fat element got on top again, and the
chance drifted away, to return in the year of
GoD-knows-when, A.D.
* * * *
Premier Kingston’s Household Suffrage Bill,
devised for the purpose of largely widening
the Council franchise, was presented to that
body when it was too late to hope for any good
results, and the Council carried it outside with
contumely, and rolled it downhill with derision.
Whereupon the Kingston Ministry proposed,
in the Assembly, to submit the matter to a
Referendum at the coming Assembly general
election, and obtain, from the Assembly’s con-
stituents, a direct expression of opinion as to
whether they were or were not in favor of the
proposed liberalising of the Council’s constitu-
tion. The proposal was, to a certain extent,
mere frill and ornament. Nobody doubts the
result. Nobody supposes for a single moment
that a solid majority of the Assembly’s con-
stituents—the manhood and womanhood of the
province—is not in favor of the wholesale repair
of the obstructive House of Slumber. The
mass of the people has stood by the Kingston
Ministry with a steady persistency and an un-
wavering confidence quite novel in the un-
settled, stormy, changeful politics of S.A. And
there is every reason to believe that it will
continue doing so. In any case, the direct
announcement by the Assembly’s constituents
that it was in favor of Council reform would
make no legal difference at all in the situation.
The Council is only responsible to its own con-
stituents, who are the Tory fragment of the
community. And, according to the letter of
the law, it doesn’t need to pay any immediate
attention even to them, for if the Council is
wholly Tory now, and its constituents, having
changed their views, wanted to make it wholly
Liberal, it would take them six years to bring
the change about, and the Upper House is
under no legal obligation to take the slightest
notice of anybodj'’s new ideas till then. If the
mass of the people said they were in favor of
Council reform they would only tell the Council
in a formal way what it knows perfectly
well already. The only difference would be
that the Council would then have to give up
swearing that it didn’t know it.
* * • *
But the Council’s attitude is that no Referen-
dum can be taken without its consent, which it
has no intention of granting. On the other
hand, Premier Kingston maintains that the
Assembly can take a Referendum of its own
constituents who naturally include the
Council’s constituents—whenever it pleases, on
its own responsibility. According to the strict
letter of the law, it is quite possible that King-
ston is wrong; according to equity and the
principles of popular government, it is dead
certain that he is right. The theory of all
popular government is that the majority rules.
The majority can’t rule unless it has the means
of definitely expressing how it wants to rule on
the matter under discussion, and the Govern-
ment which proposes to lay a disputed question
before the entire adult community has all
the moral right on its side, as against the
House which refuses to let the people be heard.
Yet there is no written law authorising a direct
vote of the people, and there can’t be any such
written law unless it is passed by both Houses ;
and the Council, which doesn’t want to hear
from the people on any such unpleasant subject,
certainly wouldn’t pass the law in question. If
Kingston now formally introduced a Bill
authorising the Referendum, and got it passed
by the Assembly, and saw it ignominiously
fired out by the Council, he would thereby
admit that the Council’s sanction was
necessary, and, failing to get it, the
appeal to the nation would have to fall
through. So he wisely goes on the principle
that there is no law to prohibit the Referendum;
and on the broad and rational idea that the
Assembly has a right to ask the opinion of its
constituents as freely as it pleases, on any sub-
ject it pleases, and in any way it thinks best;
and that the people, in a community where the
people are supposed to govern, have a right to
express their opinions fully on any matter of
national importance. According to the narrow
and literal reading of things, Kingston may
be wrong ; the man who is right in equity is
generally wrong in law. But it is a hundred
times better to be wrong by trusting the people
too much than be right by trusting them too
little.
• * * •
The S.A. Council expressed its lofty disap-
proval of the whole matter by refusing to pass
the Appropriation Bill and closing its front
door with a bang for four weeks. The Assembly
replied by again asserting that the Referendum
should be taken, whether the Council disap-
proved and banged its door or not, and that it
had an absolute right to consult its own con-
stituents if it wanted to. The Council alleges
that it won’t proceed with any business, or
vote any money, or do anything except
curse about its offended dignity, until the
Assembly backs down, and the Assembly
practically defies the Council to do its
worst. It is fervently to be hoped that
the Assembly will stand its ground to the
bitter end, come what will. Whatever the
dry, yellow parchment aspect of the case may
be, or whatever the bloodless letter of the law
may say, the Kingston Government has every
principle of justice and fair-dealing on its side.
Even the law is a dubious matter ; there is no
statute dealing with the case, and there is
nothing to go upon save mouldy precedents—if
there even is a mouldy precedent. In any case,
statute or no statute, every genuine Democrat
must be on the side of the party which proposes
to carry its appeal to the nation at large, and
against the one which refuses to let the nation


be heard. Also, every Democrat must be on
Kingston’s side if only because he is the first
Australian Premier, since the far-back days of
Higinbotham and Berry and M'Culloch in
Victoria, who has shown himself ready to fight
for the rights of the people’s representatives
against the arrogance of the House of Property.
For the sake of a good cause whose supporters,
as a rule, are woefully gone at the knees, it is
to be hoped that he will maintain his attitude
to the last. The Council will pass the Appro-
priation Bill, anyhow, before the interest on
the public debt falls due, for if that went un-
paid there would be such excitement in com-
mercial circles that Property would be in-
juriously affected.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Vic. Railway Deficit.
The great Mathieson, who took over the Vic.
railways with such a blare of trumpets, is fall-
ing into disrepute with politicians. And his
hustling Traffic Manager, W. Fitzpatrick, is
spoken of as his successor when his term ex-
pires. The Age keeps asking why, under the
Mathieson regime, the Victorian railways lost
£400,000 last year, while the N.S.W. lines
made a profit of £30,000, and begins to broadly
hint that Mathieson must show r a £30,000
profit also, or else go as Speight did. Yet the
reasons of the discrepancy are perfectly plain
and obvious to anyone who is willing to see
them. N.S. W. didn’t make a profit of £30,000;
the Auditor-General reports that the railway
accounts are the usual “ fake,” and that there
was really a loss of over £30,000. Victoria’s
railway expenditure includes about £60,000 a
year for pensions; N.S.W. railway pensions are
charged to the Superannuation Fund. The
Melbourne suburban railway traffic is cut into
by the competing trams ; the Sydney trams are
State property, and don’t compete. Victorian
rates are a shade lower. Its railway system
has to pay interest on some of Gillies’ boom
lines that have been wholly abandoned,
whereas there is nothing of the sort in N.S.W.
Victoria has four times as much railway
as N.S.W. in proportion to area, and 25 per
cent, more than N.S.W. in proportion to popu-
lation—in other words, it is over-railwayed;
and its lines are crowded together in the centre
of the province where they compete ruinously
with each other. Also, Victoria has no great
coal traffic like N.S.W.; and its harvest for
the last three years averaged 5£ bushels per
acre against N.S. W.’s 10 bushels, which badly
damaged the grain traffic. Finally, its railway
debt bears a higher average interest than
N.S. W.’s because less of it was incurred since
the era of 3 per cent, loans. These are the
obvious reasons why Mathieson doesn’t make
the Victorian lines pay, and when the auto-
cratic Syme, of the Age, tells him vaguely that
it has to be done Syme is demanding that bricks
shall grow on trees.
The Moral of Joe Myers.
Joseph Myers, the Wellington (M.L.) munici-
pal councillor, who lately made a sprint for
parts unknown, whereby various people were
greatly surprised to the extent, it is alleged, of
£6OOO, left a letter behind him in which he
stated that bookmakers and 100-per-shent
money-lenders had been his ruin. Inquiry
seems to fully bear out his statements, too.
There are two notable features in Myers’ case.
One is that, though he was a vigorous gambler,
it wasn’t the tote which wrecked him. Nor
did it ever wreck any other gambler that this
paper knows of. No one ever puts sensational
sums on a horse per medium of the tote,
because one peculiarity of that instrument is
that the more you put on your particular
horse the less odds you get. If there are 10
horses in a race, and each has 10 £1 subscribers
on him, then the odds are 9 to 1. And if the
plunger—the man who has ultimately to bolt tor
Monte Video—comes along and puts £2OO on
one horse, then he reduces the odds he is get-
ting to much less than two to one, while raising
the odds to the people who have backed the
other horses to something over 25 to 1. The
tote is a pleasant thing to put a pound or two
on, but it is discouraging for the man who
wants to put on £lOO or £2OO, therefore it is
distinctly unfavorable to the huge kind of
gambling which made Joseph Myers light
out for South America, or Greece, or space.
If there is any individual whose promising
career has been blighted by the tote his address
and the way he managed to blight himself are
at present unknown, and if the M.L. Govern-
ment had the courage to trust to the tote alone,
and make bookmaking an offence punishable
with five years hard labor, the next Joseph
Myers would probably be able to stay at home
in the buzzom of his family. That is one
point. The other is that an anti-usury
law which will come down on the 100
per shent man like an avalanche might
also help to save the next Joe Myers from
downfall. The tremendous frauds charged
against Joseph may or may not be proved, but
the fact remains that he was a promising pub-
lic man who lost all his own money—whether
he lost £6OOO of other people’s or not; and he
did it neither through drink nor through
the totalisator. In fact, it seems that if be
had stuck to the tote he would have been
Saved, for the machine wouldn’t have given
him credit. It was wild betting with book-
makers, who took his p.n., and thereby led
him into debt, that made the trouble. A
machine which would never have allowed
Joseph, even in his wildest moments, to bet
beyond the cash he actually had in his pocket
would have been his salvation—provided he had
been absolutely restricted to it.
David of Macedon.
David Syme, the Melbourne Age autocrat, has
felt called upon to refute, in the columns of his
journal, certain charges against his character
levelled by Tory Frank Madden on the floor
of the House. " Angry Syme’s refutation suc-
ceeded in making Madden look an even more
wrong-headed politician than he was known to
be previously, but it did not leave him entirely
dead upon the field. Assuming that his princi-
pal allegations are satisfactorily squelched, he
still can raise a kick. Madden stated that
SvtUE had come by crooked ways to the posses-
sion of 60 acres of land at Mbunt Macedon,
Vic. He told the Legislative Assembly that
the land was selected under circumstances of
jobbery and corruption in 1865, as being aurif-
erous soil, and that 40 of the 60 acres were
obtained by “dummy” means ; whereas David
SyMEclearlyproves that he got the land from the
Crown for residential purposes in 1872, without
“dummying” or false-pretences of any kind.
In his statement of the case concerning the sale
of the aforesaid freehold estate to the Vic.
Government, in ’B5 or thereabouts, Syme cuts
a less triumphant figure. Madden practically
accused him of “ squeezing ” the Government
when the bargain was made, and his explana-
tion doesn’t get away from the fact that Madden
had cause for suspicion. Governor Loch wanted
a country residence. Up to then, Governors
had not enjoyed the free run of a “ summer
retreat,” where they could breathe cool moun-
tain air at the country’s expense. The first
time Gov. Loch went to Macedon he rented
David Syme’s suitable homestead ; later on, he
suggested that the Macedon property should be
made a vice-regal possession. Therefore the
obsequious Government bought the “retreat”
at Macedon, and added it to the other expenses
of vice-regal maintenance. Here is David
Syme’s own account of this transaction ;
Mr. Skene (Surveyor-General) was instructed by the
Government of the day to visit the place and value the
property, but I never saw him and was not aware at the
time that he had been instructed to make a valuation.
Mr. Skene’s report is amongst the papers filed in tins
matter, and in that report he values the land at £1145,
improvements, £2684; total, £3829. And he adds, “ I
have no doubt but that the buildings and other improve-
ments cost in the course of completion a much larger
sum than is set down by me as their present value, on
account of the much higher prices then ruling for mate-
rial, and the enhanced cost of transport arising from the
entire absence of road communication at the time. This
I would estimate at not less than 25 per cent.” According
to Mr. Madden I . . . put it into Mr. Skene’s head to in-
flate the valuation by 25 per cent. All this is so utterly
and absurdly improbable on the face of it, &c., &c., &c.
Here the influential newspaper proprietor fails
to show himself ill-used by the vituperative
Madden. The value of any property is the
price at which it can be replaced and not the
price which it cost to put upon any given spot
at a time when material and labor were dearer,
and the accomplishment of the work involved a
larger expenditure of time. Still in these gaudy
days the Government was understood to exist
for the purpose of being a fool, and apparently
it simply “ resumed ” Syme in the same regard-
less fashion as it did everybody else. The
transaction was a small Government job, but
pretty nearly everything that happened about
then was a job. And if any government
offered to buy Frank Madden’s property at
25 per cent, over its present value ! !
Forty-Eight Hours on Melbourne Trams.
As a result of the Commission of Inquiry, Melb.
Tramway Go. throws a sop to the growling dog
in the shape of 2s. per week increase of wages
to its drivers and conductors. There is no pre-
tence of generosity in the matter —it is purely
a piece of policy ; and at the same time that
the left hand offers the increase the right gets
in a back-handed blow in the shape of a warn-
ing that any demand for shorter hours will be
strenuously resisted. Yet the Sunday follow-
ing this announcement a meeting of over 800
employes unanimously demanded the eight-
hour day, with extra pay for overtime, and
forwarded to the Premier a request that the
recommendation of the Commission in this re-
spect should be given effect to. Premier
Turner was lauded at the meeting for his
pluck in appointing a Commission ; it will be
interesting to see if his alleged backbone re-
tains its pristine stiffness. Meanwhile the
5 per cent, rise is not such a gaudy circum-
stance as it appears. It apparently applies
onlv to drivers and conductors, though the
whole of the employes have, during the last
seven years, suffered no less than five reductions
of 5 per cent. each. Furthermore, comparing the
returns for the last-published four months of
’9B with those of ’97— all slack months—the
income of the company shows an actual in-
crease of .£7320, or about £22,000 per annum,
out of which the shareholders throw these
employes £6OOO per annum. It was stated
at the Sunday meeting that the men were
willing to forego all increase of pay, willing to
put up with their five reductions of wages, if
the Eight-hour Day were granted them. This
in face of the fact that sec. 62 of the Tramways
Act provides that neither men nor animals shall
be worked for more than 48 hours per week,
except on special occasions, and, even then,
for not more than 60 hours per week, overtime
to be paid for at a special rate. It is this
“ special ” rate for all time over 48 hours that
the company disputes, yet the Act distinctly
uses the word “special,” and it may be
pertinently asked, What and wdiere is this
“special” rate of pay? furthermore, the
company calmly and persistently refuses the
right to combine. Any man who talks
“ unionism,” or who speaks out too freely, is
quietly discharged, wherefore the number of
new hands being continually trained ; even
many of those who gave evidence before the
commission, and to whose action the increased
wages received by present employes are due,
are not now to be found wearing the uniform.
Also, the two plucky individuals who, after
great pressure, moved the chief resolution at
Sunday’s meeting, will probably be induced to
resign shortly. And what does it profit the
province at all ? The sole profit accrues to the
original holders of the watered stock, and to
those who bought, and to those who gamble
therein.
The Great Failure.
What an admission of the utter failure of
Christianity as an improving force in Australia
was Anglican Bishop Thornton’s hysterical de-
nunciation at Ballarat Church Congress of the
vice and crime of country and town life ! Yet
nobody in Victoria has had such encourage-
ment, such a free hand to apply its panaceas,
as have the churches. They were endowed
with princely estates, given the picked sites of
city and town and village for their machinery
depots and “ w’orship-sheds,” and they had the
free run of the education system until enraged
people, in desperation at their feebleness and
chaotic methods, had to expel them. The press
has reported everything they have wished to
say without stint of space or of encouragement
—to such an extent, in fact, that if the Social-
ists or Anarchists had had half the same chance
Australia might now be an organised Social
Democracy or a Free Community. They have
had all the financial and social support that
squatters, bankers, importers, manufacturers,
Bumbledom and Government House could give;
they had on their side all the Conservative
inertia of centuries-old habits of churchgoing,
reverence for the cloth and coupling of the
Bible with Magna Charta ; they have had all
the advantages which a practical monopoly of
university management could give ; and, after
all, one of their highest dignitaries at this time
of day pronounces the most disgraceful of all
words in such circumstances —failure ! And, as
corroboration of the miserable verdict, the
Australian public doesn’t worry its head one
jot about the matter, and is probably rather
satisfied than otherwise that it is so.
Sisyphus and Co.
The Vic. House of 48 Obstructives had matters
pretty much its own way during the last hours
of the session. The People’s Chamber had
been sitting night and day rushing Bills
through, and, on the Friday night, it sat wait-
ing and fuming while the “ other place”—the
Place of Unspeakables—in a calmly deliberate
and leisurely fashion, dallied witli sundry
amendments. The Land Bill was amended,
and, sooner than lose it altogether, the Assem-
bly accepted the alterations. Then the Plural
Voting Abolition Bill —which had already been
amended by the solid 48 —was once more re-
turned to the Assembly with contumely, in a
take-it-or-leave-it manner, whereupon the
Lower House regretfully and painfully laid
it aside in the uncertain hope of an in-
glorious resurrection. The Meat Supervi-
sion Bill, which had occupied a lot of
time in both Houses, being considered too
heavy a morsel for final discussion at the fag-
end of a session, was gently discharged. The
Amended Poisons Act was also assisted outside
and deposited in the rubbish-box ; and the Im-
migration Restriction Bill, which the Council
had so altered that it had become instead a Bill
for the Encouragement of an Unlimited Influx
of Niggers, was cast out, the Assembly refusing
to take any Unlimited Nigger, and the Council
insisting on its amendments. The Turner
Government carried one progressive measure of
some note—the Factories Act Amendment;
but in the main the session ended with the Fat
element on top, as usual.
♦
Gaol for Costs.
A Democratic lawyer to The Bulletin :
Judge Moleswortii the other day issued an attachment
against a Victorian insolvent for failing to obey an order
of the court for the payment of £92 costs, incurred when
insolvent unsuccessfully applied for a certificate of dis-
charge.
The Judge was reluctant to do this, and in fact directed
that the order should lie in the office for a month, but
felt himself compelled to grant it, on account of a
Supreme Court precedent. The Judge said to the
counsel against the insolvent, “You are asking me to
send a man to gaol for not paying a debt which he is un-
able to pay.”
The community is under the delusion that a man cannot
now be sent to gaol for debt; although it is also aware
that a fraudulent omission to pay a debt is punishable.
There was no question or charge of fraud in this particu-
lar case ; and accordingly the attachment order issued
will cause an uneasy feeling of insecurity in many an un-
fortunate debtor’s mind. Other creditors will hardly
view complacently a situation which leaves them out in
the cold altogether or shies a small dividend at them,
while it gives Gent One his costs in full, payment en-
forceable by imprisonment for an indefinite period.
Surely if it is right to allow a man to go insolvent on
account of his inability to pay his debts, it is wrong to
subject him to the worst consequences of non-payment, in
the days before insolvency facilities were allowed, for a
debt incurred by reason of the insolvency. If it is right
that all creditors, before insolvency, must take what they
can get, and he profoundly grateful that the trustees and
lawyers don’t take it all, it is surely wrong that a lawyer
creditor should have the privilege of gaoling the insolvent
in order to get his pound of flesh. It almost looks as if
the lawyers had succeeded in entrenching themselves
above the ordinary law ; that, in fact, the position of
things is “ one law for the rich, six months’ gaol for the
poor, and full costs, enforceable by imprisonment, for the
lawyer.” Such a straining of the doctrine of contempt of
court tends to bring court into greater contempt. It
amounts to a practical repeal by judicial finesse of the
Act for the abolition of imprisonment for debt. Since
the breach of any order of the court is a technical con-
tempt, any refusal (through inability) to pay a debt after
a court has ordered payment thereof is punishable by
imprisonment if there's any logic in Judge Molesworth’s
order. Yet we know that, as a matter of fact, such is not
the case except where lawyers’ costs and such like are
concerned.
The only chance a man thus imprisoned has is to work
up the sympathy of the Cabinet in the matter, and get
released as a favor. The whole thing reeks of the worst
Fleet prison days, and what gets the average man’s dan-
der up is that it’s all for the benefit of the lawyers.
Support—and no Concessions.
The late session of N.S.W. Parliament was a
deplorable affair from a Democratic point of
view. Everything that presented any sem-
blance of progressive legislation went over-
board in the last days of utter demoralisation,
when the House fell to pieces, and grew tired
and snarly, and looked like the man who had
backed the wrong dog coming back from the
dog-fight. The Navigation Bill was dropped—
not that it was much of a Bill in any case.
What is fVanted is a measure to prevent old
worn-out soft-wood coffin - ships—the con-
demned hulks that are bought cheap in South
American ports and sold here for a song
—going to sea and drowning their crews, and
Premier Reid’s pompous, useless, flabby little
measure left things in this respect exactly as
they were. It didn’t fasten the responsibility
of the departing ship’s seaworthiness on
anybody, and when nobody is responsible
nothing is done. Still it threatened to do a little
good in a few small ways, and it was carefully
dropped with the cordial approval of the Govern-
ment’s representative in the Council. The
Early Closing Bill was dropped also. The
State Land Bank Bill of Minister Carrothers
never got really started. The promise con-
tained in the speech at the opening of Parlia-
ment that “ a Bill to give effect to the long-felt
desire for a change in the constitution of the
Legislative Council will be submitted ” proved
to be the same old lie over again. The Local
Government Bill promised in the same speech
never arrived. The Bill providing a very half-
hearted and inefficient court of arbitration in
industrial disputes vanished somewhere, and so
did the measure for abolishing the attachment
of wages for debt. And, by way of making the
collapse complete, Premier Reid broke his pro-
mise to the Labor-party, as he breaks all his
other promises, that he would allow a night for
the further consideration of the Suffield case ;
instead he allowed a minute or two at four
o’clock in the morning, when the dog-tired frag-
ment of a House refused to listen. After this
session it looks as if N.S. W. might as well give
up all hope of getting any good whatever out
of the Labor-party which started with such a
blare of trumpets in ’9l, and might throw that
broken joss in the dust bin. The election of
last July put the Labor-party back in its
original position as the party which held the
balance of power. Reid and Brunker and
Potato Young are men who want office badly
and would do almost anything on this earth to
’ retain it. Reid especially is notorious as a
man who must have office, for sufficiently
obvious reasons. Their valued billets are
wholly at the mercy of the Labor-party. And
if the Labor members had cared to intimate
that the passing of a genuine Navigation Bill—
one that would really put an end to the mur-
derous coffin-ship industry, and an Early-
Closing Bill, and a State Land Bank law,
and a measure for placing the Council
on a democratic basis, was the lowest
price of their support they must have got
their price. The Reid Government could
pass all these things if it liked, by the simple
process of sending enough new democratic
nominees to the Council to carry them—but it
doesn’t like. And the Labor-party made not
one serious effort to force the Government into
motion. The doctrine of support in return for
concessions appears to be played out, for the
support was there all the time and there were
no concessions. The Labor-party still talks
democratic ideas as much as ever, but it does
practically nothing for democratic principles
nowadays.
♦
Drink on the Premises.
A miserable, half-fed, frowsy person named
Tregaski lately broke into Christ Church
(South Yarra, Melbourne) and looted the sacred
fane of its sacramental wine. He devoured
two bottles of the accursed drink in a con-
venient porch. Then the liquor demon caused
him to return to the massive building, and he
was found next morning slumbering placidly
w’itli his pants hung over the altar, and his feet
in the font, and all the communion service
spread on the floor around him. When he was
taken to the local watchhouse Tregaski ex-
plained that he never robbed houses where
people lived, but stuck to churches. Judge
Madden awarded this particularly poor speci-
men of a criminal five years (!) for his last.job
—as much as a man would get for any brutal
assault short of actual murder; and a
particularly vindictive Christian Govern-
ment is now making preparations to go
for him on other charges of church robbery.
There are one or two striking features about
this case, and about cases of sacrilege in general.
When a man burgles a church he gets from
twice to five times as much punishment as if
he broke into any other kind of building, and
the churches are apparently quite satisfied with
this arrangement. At least no one ever heard
of them asking that church burgling should be
reduced to the same level as plain burgling,
or that the miserable wretch who gets an
appalling sentence for entering the church
should be let off a little easier. It is, presum-
ably, because the churches preach the doctrine
of forgiveness in theory that they are so much
more vindictive than the publican or the
tobacconist in practice. Another point is that
the church, which preaches the blessed doctrine
of poverty, shouldn’t have rich communion-
plate lying about to tempt weak brethren to
crime. Third point is, that it doesn’t look well
for a church to keep intoxicating liquor on the
premises, especially as it speaks very severely
about drink on every possible occasion.
♦
The N.S. W. Labor-party hardly made even a
pretence of being in earnest in its demand that
its fellow-toiler, Suffield (at least he was a
fellow-toiler in the days when the Labor mem-
bers really toiled) should have the inquiry to
which the law clearly entitles him. Though it
holds the Ministry absolutely at its mercy, and
can obtain pretty nearly any concession it likes
to demand, it didn’t keep Premier Reid up to
his promise that a night should be allowed for
the further discussion of the matter. When
the subject drifted casually across the horizon
of a thin House at 3 a.m., it hardly even asked
in an audible voice for what it said it wanted.
It didn’t point out that the law distinctly pro-
vides for an inquiry in any case where there is
a doubt as to the righteousness of a conviction,
and that the Government’s persistent allega-
tion that there could be no inquiry except
where fresh evidence was adduced was untrue,
and a grossly illegal contradiction of the
letter of the statute. It didn’t explicitly
tell its bond - slave, G. Reid, that his
billet depended on his doing justice in this
matter, and giving Suffield, the miner, the
same treatment which was so cheerfully conceded
to Rofe, the solicitor. The manner in which
it compelled Reid to back down over his pro-
posed new duties showed clearly that it could
have exacted justice in this matter if it had
wanted to—only it was blankly indifferent. At
the same time, it hadn’t the brutal honesty to
tell Suffield that it didn’t care whether he got
fair play or not —that one worker and one vote
didn’t matter much, anyhow—that it was tired,
and wanted to be left in peace, and didn’t care
a straw for abstract justice. So it mentioned
the matter with a yawn at 4 a.m., and the
House looked at it for a minute or two, and
then the proposal that Suffield should have
the. inquiry to which he is legally entitled was
rejected by a majority of six.
Q. Government is going to the country
without a solitary reforming plank in its platform.
It ran for some years on the Paraguay fiasco and
the “ Socialism in our Time ” bogie ; then it raised
the Q.N.B. scare ; now it bases its claim to re-
election on the “ improved financial prospects and
improved outlook for the country.” Northern
ministers take as much credit for good seasons as
an African medicine-man.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, IS9S.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1897
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1897
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1897
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
g. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
£49,349,231
4,187,992
10,508,995
1,513,749
198,159,549
7,513,284
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & O 0.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS St.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, Ac.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
Simplest—Most Durable —Best.
semachines5 e machines
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Rkr Majesty's “ Forty Thieves.”
Lyceum “Carmen.”
Criterion “ Robbery Under Arms."
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Palack Jubilee Singers.
Alhambra Wilson and St. John’s Variety Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess “ The Geisha.”
Bliou “ Madame Sans-Gene.”
Theatre Royal “ Neiv Babylon.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Alexandra “ Jack and the Beanstalk.
Exhibition Building.... The Aquarium.
Flinders st. & Spring st. Corner—Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
“The Forty Thieves” opened their box
of tricks at Her Majesty’s on Boxing Night to a
house which was crammed and something over.
The libretto of the pantomime is by Mr. Arthur
H. Adams, the Maoriland poet, and the work is
reasonably well done. Of course there is an
abundance of “gag” by the leading performers, for
which Mr. Adams is not responsible. The panto,
is, however, a great affair—from a scene-painter’s,
musician’s, costumier’s and limelight man’s point
of view—and is noteworthy for certain nega-
tive features. There are no ugly, awful, grue-
some mannikins with little bodies and Gargantuan
heads; there is no transformation scene with its
tinsel splendor and magnificent surprises of ex-
ploding water-lilies giving birth and expansive
Eink exposure to large stuffed fairies ; there is no
arleqmnade. There are, however, some weary,
weary things that are not good even of their kind.
There is a caricature of Hooley, for whom Sydney
cares not a problematical Federal capital. There is
much reference to De Roguemont—-and barely a
word concerning George Reid. (Let us say right
here, in parenthesis, that the comedy honors of the
pantomime belong to Ali Baba’s Ass, Edward, the
Ever Faithful, as quadrupeded by Mr. William Has-
san. Strange how the mention of a politician’s name
should suggest the other.) “ The Forty Thieves ”
is really the production of Messrs. Phil. W.
Goatcher and Geo. and J. Gordon, scenic-artists,
assisted by musicians, dress-makers, perruquiers,
dancing-masters, property-men, mechanists, and
calcium illuminators. The librettist and the mimes
for whose eccentricities he catered, are barely in
it. Geo. Gordon paints in hues caught from a
sunset fantasy such scenes as the Market-place in
Bagdad, Ali' Baba’s garden, and streets of the
f olden Orient. J. Gordon is happy in the interior
armony of the robbers’ cave and a street snatched
en passant from an imaginative glimpse into Bur-
ton’s-land. Phil. Goatcher scores pride of place
with his pictures of naval battles —the Defeat of
the Spanish Armada, the Capture of Manila, the
Destruction of the Spanish Fleet at Santiago—and
the fine tableaux of the Death of Nelson and the
Battle of Omdurman.
* * * •
The music is bright, catchy and effective.
The ballet of the Corn, the Poppies, and the Field
Mice is an idyll, the tiny grey rodent robbers of
the wheat-fields gamboling with quaint, nursery-
rhyme gravity about the living poppies and corn-
stalks of scarlet and gold. The Kaleidoscopic
March of ladies of noble proportions, clad in coats
of shimmering mail, with plumes and glittering
helms, and glistening gems, and hashing battle-
axes, is a sight for the imperial eye of Tamerlane
when he rode in triumph through Persepolis, or
something to make glad the soul of Kubla Khan
in Xanadhu. These scenic grandeurs are the
pantomime. It owes little to the performers.
Little Stella Tracy must be excepted, however.
Her imitation of Miss Peggy Pryde is a
fem. Little Gulliver, too, as Zig-zag, the
(lighted One, has a pair of very humorous legs.
Apart from Ali’s ass the funniest performer is
Cogia Baba John Coleman, the spouse of Ali Baba
Berkeley, who deserves passing mention. Princi-
pal Boy Pattie Browne, beautifully dressed,
shapely, piquinte, and all the charming rest of it,
is badly cast —what business has Pattie in panto-
mime, anyhow? Mr. George de Lara, with a
voice like Brough, enacts the part of the Hooli-
man with some measure of success. Miss Jennie
Opie is a vision of beauty and expansive magnifi-
cence as Abdallah, the Captain of the Forty
Thieves. She sings well, too; though vocally she is
not powerful enough to fill the big theatre. Mr. J.
W. Sweeney is worthy all sorts of commisera-
tion in the awful and thankless part of
Hassarac, the Lieutenant of a bad battalion of
puns. Miss Cesca Yollugi plays Haidee, Ganem
Pattie’s sweetheart, not too powerfully. Miss
Carrie Moore does excellent work as Morgiana.
She sings, she dances, she plays excellent comedy,
and she dresses herself with the exquisite taste of
the artiste. The bird imitations of Mr. Fred
French could easily be dispensed with. Spectacu-
larly, the present panto, is a glorious victory cal-
culated to give joy to all. The writer closes by
wishing Ali Baba’s donkey Edward a happy and
succulent New Year.
** * *
A valiant attempt at Bizet’s ever-rosy
“Carmen” was put on at Sydney Lyceum on
Christmas Eve, and didn’t fill the house with too
much audience or melody. Another week’s hard
rehearsal and an entirely new chorus, and some-
body very different from several people on the
stage, might have made the performance a success.
But as these alterations could not be effected after
the curtain rose on Saturday, this scribe came
away with the impression that he had not been
having a good time. That fascinating gypsy imp,
Carmen, received fairish treatment from Miss
Lilian Tree. This lady plays on much broader
lines than of yore, and has improved in the quality
of her acting and singing, but you are never de-
luded into. the belief that she is who she says
she is. This is partly due to the fact that she is
very large and fair and civilised, and partly to the
lengthy business she makes of getting off a table,
and partly to the absence of mercury in her fan-
dango and general movements. Farley, in his old
part of Toreador, knew his business, and gave you
a blissful few minutes of security, but persisted in
singing out of tune, especially in his warmly-
colored Toreador song. As for Leumane, as the
lover before the last, ne “ dried up ” so often that
it was scarcely possible to distinguish between the
actor and the prompter. Also, he seemed afraid
of Lilian Tree, and his clothes, and the audience,
and the sound of his own voice. The chorus
livened things up a little with a novel habit of
starting one after the other, and stopping con-
stantly to take a little air. And the orchestra,
under the gifted Allpress’s biiton, drove that long-
haired genius frenzied, and had to be beaten into
silence now and then. This was on Saturday, but
probably the opera is running more smoothly by
now, otherwise it could hardly be running at all.
** * *
The fearful and wonderful production en-
titled “ When London Sleeps, ” presented for the
first time in Sydney at the Royal last Saturday
night, by the company run by Mr. Charley Hollo-
way and Mr. William Anderson, is a lurid melo-
drama in four acts and 29 “ billed ” characters, to
say nothing of nondescript circus performers,
grooms, guests, waiters, crowds, and Hindoos.
As a guarantee of a highly sensational and
strongly-spiced article, the somnolent city has been
written up by a Mr. Charles Darrell—and the
Darrells have a monopoly of this class of work.
Also, Mr. C. R. Bailey is strongly to the fore as
manager, and one could forgive Mr. Bailey many
worse things, if only for the sake of his clever im-
personation of Citoyen Simon in Signora Maje-
roni’s production of “Marie Antoinette.” Mr.
Holloway is emphatically a coming manager.
Bland Holt will do well to look to his laurels, for
the shovv under notice is distinctly a “ Produc-
tion, ” with a cap. P. The scenery and costumes
and tableaux are splendidly picturesque, sumptu-
ous, and artistic; the ballets are quaint and ex-
ceptionally well executed ; and the chant and
adoration of Somnath, with its bacchante finale in
a fluctuant en wreathing of white-robed supple forms
is weirdly suggestive of the mysterious hidden
faiths of India. The play itself is unconvincing,
and not too ably constructed. Act succeeds act
with no very necessary continuity of plot, and one
grows weary of the absurd persecution of the
heroine by the tom-fool villain, who bangs a din-
ner-gong on the coping-stone of the General
Post Office, and puts an advertisement in the
morning papers whenever he meditates a new
brand of murder.
• * • *
The hero of the sleeping city is Mr. Robt.
Inman, who, as David Engleheart, a circus
Sampson, earns his living with his little sling, and
falls in love, in his intervals of “putting up”
5601 b., with Queenie Carruthers, “the white
queen of the slack wire. ” For a mere circus rider
David is a perfect Crichton, talks like an encyclo-
paedia, and behaves like a “blooming toff.”
Queenie Carruthers is a foundling, who is after-
wards found to be an heiress, with a male cousin
attached, the villain aforesaid, one Captain Rod-
ney Haynes. His wickedness is held aloft to
public scorn by Mr. Charley Holloway. Hence-
forth the play works out through a maze of
machinations on the part of Captain Rodney
Haynes to secure possession of the fortune of Miss
Eugenie Duggan (otherwise Queenie Carruthers)
even by murder, or worse—marriage. He is, how-
ever, continually thwarted by Sammy Blyth, as
Mr. William Gourlay is called for the nonce, a
circus clown with a gag (verbal) and a brace
of Colt’s revolvers. Mr. Gourlay is the
keystone of the piece. There is also an
intolerable policeman, who pockets tips and
bilks his tipsters. He is filled with Pod-
snapian remarks about the Queen and all the
Royal Family, and the extent of the British
Empire, and the morality of the constabulary.
The “ second villain ” and aid to the schemes of
the ■wicked “ Kapting” is a clever study in browu
umber and Indian properties, and the “chappie ”
and the circus boss are also worthy of mention.
Miss Eugenie Duggan is very charming as Queenie
Carruthers, with a lot of reserved power in her
acting and a number of delightful costumes in
white. Miss Ada Gresham enacted the part of a
lady with a past, and counterfeited so well that
she deceived even the stage policeman. Miss
Georgie Leighford was an admirable Signorina
Roberti Jonesio ; and little Lelia, as interpreted
by Pearl Hellmrieh, was a charming bit of child
acting. There were as many characters as ships in
the list of Homer, and some can be mentioned at
intervals during the coming year.
** # *
The Jubilee Singers have lifted up their
Elaintive melody to good cash purpose through the
oliday season. This writer never fully appre-
ciated the restfulness there is in the half-mournful
cadence of the Jubilee melody till he came on it
in that holiday week, amid the yell of the stuffed
duck, and the trampling of the mince pie, and the
rush and racket, and the falling of an intoxicated
Santa Claus against the back-door, and his un-
Kblishable expressions as he tried to get up again.
e Jubilee Singers were a streak of holy calm in
that time of unrest, and to hear them was like
getting away from a mad dog and taking refuge
in an old Gothic cathedral combined with refresh-
ments. Just for the Xmas week this scribe would
have felt better if the juggler and the other worldly
elements had been left out, though, but even with
them in he was well pleased. The evening he
heard the dark Jubilators was the only time he
felt really well towards his fellow-creatures all
through the glad season, when man is full of good-
will towards his fellow-man and helps him home
at night.
** * *
There is nothing to be reported from Syd-
ney Criterion save that “ Robbery Under Arms”
still holds out in many acts beneath its native gum-
tree. At time of writing it was in its sixth week,
and the hairy bushmen were going to see it in con-
siderable numbers, and coming away in great sad-
ness as they considered how very little there is in
the backblocks now to be robbed—under arms o r
otherwise.
** * *
Peggy Pry de and the Boneless One at
Sydney Tivoli have been reinforced this week by
sundry new arrivals. Fred. Poplar and Miss
Kitty Wager are the most notable of these, and
The Bulletin will probably say something nice
about them next week when its head has got down
again to its normal dimensions.
* * *
Sydney Alhambra has dropped into comedy
this week, “ Mixed, ” that fine old evergreen joke,
having been staged with Frank Hawthorne in the
part of Bosco Blithers. Hawthorne is a promising
young actor, and in the present lamentable dearth
of comedy there is abundant room for a show of
the kind. The Alhambra is a rather remote spot
for a comedy theatre, for the very best sassiety
doesn’t usually stream down Brickfield Hill ; still
the venture has done very well through the Xmas
season.
** * *
If the Brough production of “Madame
Sans-Gene ” is to get the success it merits, busi-
ness at Melbourne Bijou will presently be boom-
some. All who have read the pretty story of
soldier Lefebre and his irrepressible wife are bound
to take kindly to the stage version of it. Those
who know nothing of the book will find the play
bright and stirring in its sketches and suggestions
of Buonaparte court life. This is a much more
convincing work than the “ Royal Divorce, ” for
it deals with the homely side of imperial greatness
and rubs the gilt off the Napoleon dynasty’s ginger-
bread. Madame Sans-Gene, a laundress in the
prologue and a duchess afterwards, is the embodied
spirit of the French revolutionary times. The
emperor of to-day is the corporal of yesterday,
whose shirts she had darned and washed gratis,
and when his sisters refer to the duchess as a
former purifier of chemises she reminds them that
she did not put their underlinen into her tub,
because in those days they had none to send to the
wash. Sans-Gene is a woman who holds fast to
the naked truth in all matters. Her husband re-
proves her for trying on a new gown in the recep-
tion saloon, and showing her bare neck and arms
to the costumier, but she dismisses his protest
with the remark that she will be less decently
covered up when she is full dressed. Mrs. Brough
is unable to play the name part for all it is worth,
seeing that her voice and style are not typical of
the vulgar, warm-hearted matron. Ellen Terry
was open to the same objection, yet she made the
character effective, and Mrs. Brough does likewise.
For the rest, Brough, as Napoleon, is not so stagey
as Julius Knight, but the make-up of his face and
shoulders is rather disappointing. From the waist
downwards Brough seems very true to history, and
some of his comedy-acting is as humorous as his
legs. Joseph Carne gives a good, manly perform-
ance of Lefebre, and -Rotherham is a picturesque
Fouche, Minister of Police. A number of minor
parts are neatly filled, and the show as a whole is
an imposing entertainment.
** * *
“New Babylon,” at Melbourne Royal, is
not the drama where Bland Holt gets hanged
without the option of a fine, so The Bulletin’s
preliminary misstatement to that effect is hereby
cancelled. Bland Holt wears the blameless frock-
coat of a Yankee detective, and he tracks the
villain through a maze of exciting tableaux,
beginning with a shipwreck and ending with
revels in a thieves’ kitchen. The old reliable plot
of “ New Babylon ” is somewhat complicated by
the principal lady appearing in two different capa-
cities. Sometimes Miss Watson is an innocent
victim in a suburban cottage, and at other times
she is an abandoned female, who persuades a
jockey to pull his little tin gee-gee for the
Goodwood Stakes, wherefore Walter Baker wallops
the jockey and wins the hand and fortune of
Miss Ross on the understanding that he will retire
from the turf. There is sure to be a moment in
the dramatic career of Miss Ross when she ex-
presses her love for Baker before all the world, no
matter what drama is on the bill. Also, the un-
happy girl from the cottage is able to get married
again because her first husband committed bigamy,
and her wicked duplicate girl turns penitent over
the corpse of the light-weight who went astray.
Furthermore, Mrs. Bland Holt secures the affec-
tions of a cheerful idiot named Jeremiah, and
Detective Bland is understood to have a wife
saying up for him somewhere. The villain, together
with nis various-accomplices, are arrested for steal-
ing documents and things, but probably they are
better off in prison than if they had stayed outside
to meet their dooms at Trinity Church. The
spectacular greatness of “New Babylon ” is quite
appalling, and the efforts of the company can be
unreservedly praised. It is a very numerous co.,
but in consequence of this week being Xmas the
writer has enough peace and goodwill to meet the
emergency.
** * *
The sudden attack of pantomime at Mel-
bourne Alexandra is not quite a hopeless case.
By the time Melbourne in general becomes aware
of this unexpected event “Jack and the Bean-
stalk” will probably have put some flesh on
its second act, which was distressingly thin
and feeble last Monday night. The first
act had something to do, and did it in an
old-fashioned manner with the assistance of a pan-
tomime cow, but the cow retired from business
during the interval, and the after part had no
strong point except a respectable transformation-
scene. If the cow can get its sphere of action en-
larged by the stage-manager, the pantomime may
come to be graciously pardoned for the sake of the
children. Misses Ray Jones, Minna Phillips,
and Blanche Lewis, also George Leopold and D.
H. Caston, are the people chiefly concerned in the
outrage. Caston is the comedian who sings about
bis little back room in Bloomsbury, and he will
probably give valuable assistance when he has
learned his part. It takes the average comic
vocalist a week or more to learn a few lines of
doggrel.
** m *
“ The Geisha ” made a good start at Melb.
Princess’s, and would probably have travelled
faster and have scored higher notes of admiration
out of doors but for some excessive applause in
certain quarters on the first night, and the mis-
taken policy of forcing “encores” afterwards.
-Daily newspaper notices are to blame for this
managerial error. They mention the “enthu-
siasm ” of an audience in a cross-heading, and
seem anxious to boom the efforts of those tiresome
individuals who make a point of barracking for
every new show on its opening night. This hrs
e < r|f ec t ; °f getting the majority’s back up, and
the Firm suffers thereby. In the case of “The
Geisha” the indiscriminate encoring of the
first night couldn’t possibly be maintained by
future audiences. So the conductor last week was
giving them an encore on the slightest provocation.
The same rule is followed in a Rickards “ first
part,” but whereas the warbler at Rickards's
merely arises from his or her chair and repeats the
tail-end of a refrain, the comic-opera performer is
brought back to the footlights to sing the whole of
a long verse over again. “Geisha” verses are
very long, as a rule, and they don’t improve on a
second hearing. Besides, the opera in its natural
state is somewhat overweighted with melodies,
and too muchee encore tends to make it drag.
Miss Florence Poole’s solo numbers are especially
unsuitable for repetition on account of their foolish
lines. The really very popular numbers are the
Nursery Days duet in the first act, and Lauri’s
“ Ching-chong-Chinaman ” towards the end of the
opera. There are several other fairly joyful
ditties, but it is not until Lauri produces his song
and dance that the great difference between an
encore complimentary and an encore unanimous is
forced upon public notice. The glitter of “ The
Geisha” doesn’t fade on further acquaintance, and
the show looks quite enough like a pantomime to
be a howling success during Xmas week.
** m *
Fitzgeralds’ Circus surprises Melbourne, in
the first place, with the vast dimensions of its
tents, for the Fitz. Brethren had not previously
set up their biggest canvas in Australia’s horsiest
city. The much-postered spectacle of the elephant
and lion on a trike doesn’t come as an astonishing
surprise after one has seen them doing the same
thing all day long on the hoardings, but this is
the first time it has happened in Melbourne, and
it will serve to fill the tent eight times a week
until further notice. The circus which contrives
to be different from every other circus in its prin-
cipal feature is accepted with thanks by this
comparatively un-horsey journal.
At Poverty Point.
“ M‘G.” : The allegatiorf of plagiarism against Marshall
Hall has fizzled out very miserably. The common, ordin-
ary man in the street, who is unable to perceive any tune
in either Hall’s or Brahm’s passages, thinks the darned
thing isn’t worth stealing, anyhow, and the incident
seems less interesting than the arrest of a vag. for rob-
bing another of a dead dog.
Constance Clyde : There is a time to throw bouquets
and a time not. The time not is when the heroine and
the villain are despising each other to that degree that he
can’t with any consistency stop in the middle of it and offer
her the donkey-feed. Consequently, at the Lyceum, the
other night, the bunch of pink and white lay in all its in-
appropriateness for a full 2(1 minutes beside the triangles
whereto the obviously female Kirkland is tied up for that
good old stage-flogging that never quite comes off—till in
pity Parson North bore it off the stage and a ghostly
hand was seen receiving it at the wings.
“Jinda”: Visited a Sydney side-show t’other night.
One act was Rontgen rays applied to a Cinematographe
love-scene. Directly in front of writer sat a girl and her
beau. During first part of performance the swain’s arm
encircled his charmer. Her back hair rested lovingly on
his shoulder. Every lovey-dovey action of the phantom
pair on the sheet was copied. Suddenly the skeleton
part of the show' started. The amorous animated bones
continued hugging, and two ghastly skulls met in a loving
kiss. Ugh ! The flesh and blood lover gave one horrified
glance at the sheet, withdrew his arm—ostensibly to rub
his ear—and, turning around, whispered to me: “ It’s
red’ot, ain’t it, mate?” The girl was unaffected. She
simply nestled up closer, and cast a reproachful glance at
her rapidly cooling lover. He had one more look at the
antics of the shadowy sets of bones, then reached for his
hat, and muttering something about “ missing the ’bus,’
dragged the girl out of the show.
“ H.” : I notice it in print that a daughter of Mr. J. F.
Cathcart was lately married in England.
“ Paradis" : Alack ! A recent A (tans leader referred to
dear old Billy as David Hoskins. Such
“ Professor" Kennedy, the awful mesmerist who quitted
Australia in an unexpected way some few months ago,
and left many hired candle-eaters and kerosene-drinkers
in grief, is reported dead at Chicago. Bright’s disease
was the reason of his decease, and his tombstone alleges
that he was 45 years of age.
_ “ Melb.”: Fitzgeralds’ pitch is virgin, as regards a
circus—Flinders-street, next Australian Church. Credit-
able to the military eye of agent Morris, who did not
care to follow Probasco, on the Hippodrome enclosure—
site of Coppin’s Iron Pot, the Olympic, and of Row'e’s
antique circus—nearly opposite the Alexandra. Fitz-
geralds’ circus is just opposite where Wilson’s was pitched,
many years ago—where the railway-yard is now. It has
always been hard to locate a circus in Melb. G. B. W.
Lewis had to build Astley’s, afterwards the Princess’s.
Noble’s wa3 on the north-east corner of Bourke and
Spring streets. Chiarini pitched in Lonsdale-street east,
back of where Coppin’s Our Lodgings now is. Cooper
and Bailey, Cole, and others, took a site between Melb.
and South Melb. Fillis was on St. Kilda-road. Fitz-
geralds' circus is close to the site of G. V. Brooke’s
residence—a brick villa which stood amidst a nice garden
in Flinders-lane, next the superb mansion built by
lawyer Duerdin, with his historical cellar full of law-
books.
Continued on page IS).


Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
Melbourne, Vic., assay ores, and treat samples up to
5 tons, by chlorination, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet
or dry crushed. Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp
Batteries, Roasting and Smelting Furnaces, and General
Mining Machinery.*
Gilfillan and McCrcery, mining engineers,
metallurgists and assavers, 434 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Reports on mines, prepares plans and specifications for all
kinds of mining plant. Complete plant for bulk tests.*
The Ballarat Woollen Mills lately called for
competitive designs and tenders from builders of steam
engines, that of the Austral Otis Engineering Company,
South Melbourne, being accepted. These engines are of
the compound surface condensing type, with cylinder*
17" and 38" by GO" stroke, and will indicate 700 h.p. on a
consumption of 151 b. steam per hour. The design is a
handsome and massive one, and they are probably tha
finest example of engine-building yet produced in the
colony.*
Mephan Ferguson, engineer, &c., of Melbourne,
Adelaide, and Perth, the sole agent in Australia for J. and
E. Hall’s patent carbonic anhydride refrigerating and
Ice-making machinery, is at present showing a large stock
of these machines, which have been got ready for the
summer season. The cost of refrigerators to produce
Ccvvt. of ice per day has been reduced to £lOO each.
Special prices are quoted for machines to make up to 50
tons of ice. The patent carbonic anhydride system has
been adopted bv the Victorian and other Australian
Governments ; also by all the leading steamship com-
panies, meat companies, dairies, and butchers of the
world.*
LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A pure Can Mic Disinfectant.
FOR GENERAL USE.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
A. E. 60LDSTEM,
(c/o S. nOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires i» the Rough.
On Invitation will Fisit any Gem Field.
“Tbc R€ALMACKAY”
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison, &s Attwood, Solo Proprietors.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36 3?/,
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
guaranteed
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 71°»
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 37 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.
MERCHANTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OP ALL HEAVY
CHEMICALS.
Mining Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE AND PERTH.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Mutual Life Association presents
its second balance-sheet since the amalgamation with the
Mutual of Victoria. It is now the third largest insurance
concern in Australasia, the £900,000 which the Mutual of
Victoria threw into the partnership having lifted it into
that desirable position. Its premium-income for the year
ended 30th September, 1898, was £347,417 ; interest on
investments, £132,248; total income, £479,665. The
amount added to the assurance-fund was £152,821, malting
the total t‘2,765,571. At this rate, the National Mutual
should close the century with a pile of over three millions.
The year’s expenses were 186,398. It is difficult to make
any comparison with previous years, for last balance-
sheet contained the accounts of the National Mutual for one
year and those of the Mutual of Victoria for nine months ;
and previous ones showed the two institutions separately.
But the expenses are equal to £24 19s. per cent, of
premium, or barely 18 per cent, of total income, which is
a trifle better than last year. Also the investments yield
£4 18s. 2d. per cent, per annum interest —a very good
return as present interest rates go.
The assets look very good on the whole.
Certainly the £48,480 described as “ deferred instal-
ments of annual premiums ” is a rather shadowy
security, and one which very few societies reckon
nowadays. It is arrived at by assuming that the
policy-holder ought to pay his premium annually in
advance, though he is allowed to pay it half-yearly
or quarterly. And if he pays it quarterly, start-
ing from, say, 2nd July, the society, when it
closes its accounts on 30th September, puts down
the other nine months’ premiums as an asset. Also,
if the policy starts from 2nd July and the insured pays
his premium quarterly, and dies on 30th September, the
society deducts the nine months’ premium from the sum
due to the widow, which is probably a surprise to the
widow in some cases. Apart from this, however, the
assets show no cause for serious objection. The expense
rate is still somewhat high, but the National Mutual looks
very sound and is moving ahead steadily. Still it ought
to make a better showing as compared with the Maoriland
Government Department, if private management is all
that it claims to be. The two offices are practically the
same size and the same age, the private society having a
year’s start. And at the end of 1897 the Government
Department had rather the larger fund ; it spent £4 less
in expenses out of every £lOO received ; it based its esti-
mates of future interest on investments at £3 10s. against
the private society’s £4, thus leaving a much larger mar-
gin of security in case of a fall in interest rates ; it charged
much lower premiums, and paid practically the same
bonuses.
* * * •
The National Bank of Tasmania—one of the
youngest of the Australasian banks—steadily improves
its position. For the half-year ended 30th November,
1898, the net profits were £4516, which compares with
some previous profits as follows :
November, 1892 £5,382 May, 1896 .. £4,299
May, 1893 .. 4,776 November, 1896 3,534
November, 1893 4,701 May, 1897 .. 4,012
May, 1894 .. 4,618 November, 1897 4,127
November, 1894 4,695 May, 1898 .. 4,129
May, 1895 .. 3,989 November, 1898 4,516
November, 1895 4,136
The usual dividend at 5 per cent, per annum (£3801) and
dividend-tax (> 190) absorb £3991, and leave £525 to the
good. There is still a lot to do before the National repairs
its position. It wrote £15,000 off its reserve in 1893, re-
ducing it to 122,500, and since then it has done nothing
to replace the loss. It paid 8 per cent, dividends from
May, ’BB, to May, ’92; 7 per cent, in November, ’92,
and 6 per cent, for two years after that, and this craving
for bigger dividends than the bad times warranted made
it impossible to do anything to make good the vanished
£15,000. And a reserve of £22,500 is a very small
affair for any bank which hopes to own the earth
some day. Still, the profits are increasing, and if the
National has sufficient grit to keep its dividend down to 5
per cent, for a few years more, it should become a strong
and profitable institution again in course of time. It has
a small but steadily-growing business, and a respectable
cash-reserve equal to over 22 per cent, of all liabilities to
the public, and there is a balance of £2395 at credit of
profit and loss —£2000 of which should be immediately
put to reserve lest the bank should feel tempted to go on
the burst with it next half-year, and have another 7 per
shent dividend.
* * * ♦
Dalgety and Co., one of the very few big pas-
toral companies which have kept their heads above water,
reports a profit for the year ended 30th June, 1898, of
£83,571. Profits for seven years past have been
1892 .. .. £80,979 I 1896 .. .. £83,672
1893 .. . 79,553 | 1897 .. .. 83,002
1894 .. .. 80,913 I 1898 .. .. 83,571
1595 .. .. 83,896 |
The co. has paid an 8 per cent, dividend (£80,000) each
year, so on paper it has improved its position by £15,586
in seven years. But the deadly accuracy with which it
earns just about its 8 per cent, dividend suggests that
these are not the real profits, only the amount that it
seems desirable to exhibit to the public, while the balance
goes towards that old, old spectre—depreciation, or
to the enlargement of the inner reserves. If this con-
jecture is nowhere near the truth, Tiib Bulletin will
be glad to publish the usual contradiction. Dalgety
and Co., though it is far more fortunate than most of its
kind, is, in one respect, very like the rest. It trades on
£1,150,439 of its own funds (paid-up capital, £1,000,000;
reserve, £130,000; profit balance, £20,439), and on
£2,604,960 of debenture money and about £1,000,000 of
Other borrowings or amounts owing. All the large
pastoral concerns in Australasia seem top-heavy in this
game respect. And though the reserve looks large a
depreciation of only 3 per cent, in the assets would
swallow it all.
• • • •
The Fourth Victoria Fermanent Building
Society (Melbourne) has a profit of £3353 for the year to
81st October, IS9B, which compares with some previous
results as follows :
1892 Profit .. £9,916 11896 Profit ..£3,520
1893 „ .. 1,021 1897 „ .. 2,912
1894 Loss .. 33,375 | 1898 „ .. 3,353
1895 Profit .. 2,711 |
The year 1894 was the one when the Fourth Victoria held
its great clean-up and wrote off the losses of the boom.
Since then it has paid 2 per cent, dividends, and shows
signs of recovery.
* * • •
The once great St. JamesßuildingSociety (Melb.)
fcts along with its lamentable winding-up process. Its lia-
ilities other than to shareholders are down _to £37,453,
and its paper assets are £121,229, so there is, on paper,
£53,776 for the shareholders out of their one-time capital
of ±215,515. But the tail-end of a big liquidation is
generally made up of very unsaleable derelicts, and pro-
bably the St. James’s shareholders will do well if they save
£20,000 out of the downfall.
* * * •
The National Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne) follows its old policy of damning the con-
sequences so long as good dividends are forthcoming. The
net profit for the year ended 31st October, 1898, after
allowing a humble £l6 for depreciation of office furniture,
is £2390, and an 8 per cent, dividend absorbs £2400,
leaving the co. £lO to the bad. The doings of this co. for
the last seven vears have been as follows :
Net Profit. Dividend paid. Surplus
1892 ..£4706 15per cent. .. £4500 .. £6
Deficit
1893 .. 4442 15 „ .. 4500 .. 58
1894 .. 2813 10 ~ ... 3000 .. 187
Surplus
1595 .. SOOl 10 „ „ 3000 .. 1
Deficit
1896 2986 10 „ .. 3000 .. 14
1597 .. 2353 8 „ .. 2400 .. 12
1593 .. 2390 8 „ ... 2400 .. 10
£22,526 £22,800
Therefore in five years out of the last seven the National
Trustees has paid away more than its earnings, and the
management of an institution which would trench on its
reserves to pay a 15, or even 10 or 8, per cent, dividend
is a woeful example of blind greed and incapacity.
During all this period practically no provision has been
made for possible depreciation of assets other than office
furniture, despite the extreme badness of the times. The
reserve has stood at the same figure (£23,400) for a long
time. Whether it is intact, or whether part, of it has
been absorbed by depreciation of assets it is difficult to
say, for the balance-sheet lumps the profits of the trustee,
business, and the receipts from interest on investments
together, and it is impossible to say how the latter are
panning out. Also, it is impossible to say what kind of
profit the trustee business yields. In any case the reserve
isn’t large, and a more prudent management would have
abstained from 15 per cent, dividends till it was a good
deal stronger. The National certainly has one of the
best trustee businesses in Australasia, but in these times
of slump, and at all other times, any concern which gets
into the habit of declaring big dividends that are not fully
earned is to be viewed with some suspicion.
* • * *
Tho Derwent and Tamar Fire and Marine In-
surance 00. (Hobart, Tasmania)—the oldest concern of
its kind in the seven provinces—finished a disastrous
year on 31st October with a net loss of £10,780. This
includes£soowritten off securities on re-valuation. A divi-
dend ofsper cent. (£2500), and dividend-tax thereon (£125)
absorb another £2625, so the Derwent and Tamar ends
the year £13,405 to the bad. Until quite recently, this
co. pursued the curious old Tasmanian custom of keeping
its accounts strictly dark, but for the last three years its
results have been as follows :
Profit. Dividend and Div.-tax.
31st October, 1896 ..£8,175 .. 15 per cent. = £7,875
„ 1897 .. 8,481 .. 7i „ = 3,937
Loss.
„ 1898 .. 10,780 .. 5 „ = 2,625
Three years’ profits .. £5,876 Dividends .. £14,437
This means that things are £8561 worse than they were
three years ago. Still, the institution paidall its heavy losses
(arising mainly out of the great Melbourne fire of a year
back) without trenching on its reserve ; it always kept a
large floating balance at credit of profit and loss, and it
has still £5799 at the credit of this account. The share-
holders’ funds even now consist of £105,799 (paid-up
capital, £50,000 ; reserve, £50,000 ; profit balance, £5799),
so it is a very strong affair with immense resources in
proportion to the size of its business, and a good record of
60 years’ standing. Also, its investments are solid, and
no breath of suspicion has blown on the character of the
Derwent and Tamar within the memory of anybody this
paper has ever heard of —not even the dreadful oldest
inhabitant. As a rule, it is alarmingly bad policy to pay
l dividend in a losing year, but the D. and T. manage-
ment is so steady-going that there is hardly any doubt it
will see the breach repaired before it resumes the 15 per
cent, dividends of former years.
* * * *
Joyful item from the annual report of the Free-
hold Assets Realisation Co. (Melbourne): “ During the
year sales of properties have been made to the book-value
of £74,250, realising £15,978.”
* * * *
The Executor, Trustee and Agency Co. of
South Australia, has a year’s profit of £l3lO. A 5 per
cent, dividend on the little capital of less than £ll,OOO
absorbs £536 ; £5OO is added to reserve, making it £lOOO ;
and the remainder (with previous balance of £201) leaves
£475 at credit of profit and loss. This concern started in
1880, so it took 17 long years to build up a reserve of £5OO
and a profit balance of £2Ol. In fact, it seems to have
done more to build up its reserves last year than in all the
previous 17.
* » » *
A few days ago the S.M. Herald did its usual
shriek about the evils of State Life Insurance as
compared with the privately-managed article. The fol-
lowing is the shriek:—“A short time ago, when
correspondents in New Zealand sought to show that
a State Life Insurance Department could be conducted
more economically than a private life office as an argu-
ment for the extension of Government undertakings to
fire insurance department, we showed how different a
conclusion was borne out by a comparison of the results
of the New Zealand Government Life Office with those of
the Australian Mutual Provident Society, the only private
life office whose business could be fairly compared. Com-
parisons warranted the belief that the members of the
private office obtained better results in the shape of
bonuses than were received by the insurants in the Go-
vernment Life Department. Mr. Robert M'Connel, a
solicitor, of Christchurch, New Zealand, gives a forcible
illustration of this. He had policies in both insti-
tutions, running for 27 years. The bonuses on £3OO poli-
cies after 27 years amounted to £lO7 in the Government
Department, and £271 in the Australian Mutual Office.
But the premium was only £5 18s. in the former, as
against £7 11s. 9d. in the latter. Supposing the same
premium were paid to the Government as to the A.M.P.
Society, his life would be insured for £386, and he arrived
at the conclusion that his policy and bonuses would be
worth £555, against £630 in the A.M.P. Office—a differ-
ence of £75 in favor of the latter. These considerations
show that the people of New South Wales have nothing to
gain in life insurance from the establishment here of a
branch of the New Zealand Government Office, as has
been suggested.”
The Herald’s clumsily-concocted case against
State management grows rather wearisome, and it be-
comes clumsier than ever as it goes on. In the first place,
it always starts its comparison between State and private
enterprise by drawing a parallel between the Maoriland
State Department (28 years old) and the A.M.P. (50 years
old and five times larger). A large old office always
works, or ought to work, at a cheaper rate than a small
new one. Any comparison of the M.L. State office with
private institutions of its own age is carefully avoided,
for it is miles ahead of them all in cheapness of manage-
ment and in every other way. The A.M.P.’s own ex-
penses were once—only once—in its very young days,
over 48 per cent, of its premium income. And in regard
to the case quoted, it seems that if Robert M'Oonnel,
solicitor, had insured his life in both offices, and paid
£75 17s. 6d. premium in each case, and then been fatally
dropped on by a brick the same afternoon, the Maoriland
State Department would have paid his widow £3S6O,
while the A.M.P. would only have paid her £3OOO.
Most people insure to get the biggest immediate pio-
vision thpy can for their dependents, not for t e
sake of the big bonuses that may accrue in the re-
mote future, and which have to be paid for bv less
protection in the immediate present. Supposing lionett
M'Connel had paid the same premium to both offices,
then for over 22 years the Maoriland State Department
would have kept him insured for a larger sum than the
A.M.P., but in about 23 years the A.M.P’s bigger bonuses
would begin to place it in front. In the case of the man
who doesn’t live 22 years, and he is reasonably numerous,
the advantages are with the institution which gives the
biggest amount of immediate insurance for the money.
Dear Bulletin.— Nothing irritates the N.S.W.
wheat-grower more than the oft-repeated, yet never
realised, statement by Sydney scribes that “ we are going
to be a wheat-exporting province this year ! ” One would
think that there was a fortune for the country in wheat
exportation, judging' by the elation of S3'dney journalists.
I would ask them to reflect on the fact that to grow wheat
in N.S.W. for export is generally to grow it at a loss. Ex-
port price on the farm means about is. 9d. under London
prices, which Is. 9d. is about 45 per cent, of the whole on
the present prices. The only result of all this talk about
a wheat surplus is to reduce prices for the benefit of the
Millers’ Association. The estimates of the N.S.W. wheat-
crop are all wrong, and, in place of exporting wheat, the
millers will have to import some. The Sydney dailies which
issue estimates of our wheat-crops have brought forth an
exportable surplus by alleging that we are to have an
average of 10 bushels to the acre, and this in the face of
the fact that west of the dividing range we are suffering
from an awful drought, and that it is west of the dividing
range most of the N.S.W. wheat is grown. Melb. Argus
estimates the Victorian crop at only seven bushels to
the acre notwithstanding the fact that Victoria is enjoying
a very much better season than we are ; and the Argus
forecast has been undeniably accurate for the last four
years. Take the district along the Murray served by the
Oorowa and Albury train-service. The Telegraph esti-
mates that district to yield 11 bushels to t.he acre (over
2,000,000 bushels or about one-fifth of the whole produc-
tion of N.S.W.). I live in the centre of that district and I
estimate it at about five bushels to the acre. If the Syd-
ney estimates are correct one ought to be able to buy
150,000 bags of wheat in Corowa during the first ten
weeks of the new year. I predict that it will be diffi-
cult to buy 50,000 bags. I would ask all the men who
have wheat to hold it tenaciously and not take export
price.— Wheat-Grower (Corowa, N.S.W.).
• * * *
v Chairman Howe, of the B.H. Junction, owned
up, at a recent, shareholders’ meeting, that 55,000 shares
were now held abroad as against 45,000 on the Australian
registers ; but the proposed transfer of office to the other
side could be blocked so long as a fourth of the shares
were held here. Further, there had been talk of amal-
gamation with the Junction North, and an English co.
was prepared to buy the mine straight out ; but nothing
would be done until the shareholders had been consulted.
The English co. is no doubt the Camden Syndicate, of
which the Ulawarra (Australia) Smelting Co. is an off-
shoot, and which is the holder of most of the 55,000
shares mentioned. The other affair —the proposed amal-
gamation—probably explains the recent loud booming of
the Junction North; though certainly that in-and-out
show has improved again.
* * * ■
Stated that all negotiations for the purchase of
the Great Cobar Copper-mine have ended, hence the two
representatives of big Bull concerns have had a lot of
work for nothing. Terms could not be arranged with the
tributors.
* * • *
When Somerset was sent up the other day in
Brisbane on a charge of embezzling certain Imperial funds
to the tune of £7OOO, it transpired that the cash in his
charge had not been audited for 20 years.
Mt. Morgan half-yearly report is interesting
reading. Firstly, no accidents at the big mine for 12
months. Gold per ton has declined from loz. 2dwt. 7grs.
for vear ending May 31st to 15£dwts. for half-year just
ended. Reason—increase in amount of low-grade ore
treated. In the corresponding period of ’97 the quantity
of low-grade ore treated was 28,387 tons for an average of
7jdwt. Last six months gave 69,081 tons (low-grade) for
7|dwt. to the ton. Increase in low-grade ores, therefore,
40,694 tons, or about 80,000 tons for the 12 months. The
total quantity of ore treated was 107,860 tons ; total
yield, 84,0870 z., ora thousand ozs. less than the last half
of ’97. Forty-four p.c. of all gold obtained was got from
high-grade mundic ore ; about 30 p.c. from low-grade
oxidised stone ; the balance from medium-grade oxidised
ore and slimes. Changes are imminent. The upper
works will have to be adapted to the treatment of sulphide
ores. Dividends for the last six months gave £175,000.
To reserves was carried a sum of £30,000. M ages for
period, £72,931.
Croydon items : Further rumors of sale of No,
1 North Golden Gate to Bull at a diminished figure ;
operations practically suspended at mine lately. No. 7
North Gate raising estimated Boz. stone from new under-
lie. At the 5 and 6 North eight-ounce stone was being
paddocked at latest advices.—Banner of Freedom Block
struck good reef. Party of lucky claimholders on Gate
line recently put through about 250 tons for over l£oz.
per ton. The stone came from the Nos. 3 and 4 South
Golden Gate. Paid all preliminary expenses and divided
£25 per one-sixteenth share. Diamond Jubilee tribu-
tors : 39 tons, 102 oz. ; £5 per week per man clear.
Terrific drought, stopping all crushing, but large quantities
are being accumulated for treatment after rain falls.
Prospects for next year very bright.
* * * *
Deakin, the new lessee of the Westralian
Govt, colliery at Collie, gets to work with vigor. And
Premier Forrest, now the mine has got out of the State’s
hands for a long term of years, is “ surprised and de-
lighted at the quality of the coal,” and can’t understand
how it came to be neglected so long. Meantime his im-
pecunious Govt, takes hold of opportunity with both
hands, and sells Collie township blocks at from £3O to
£270.
• • • •
More about the Golden Zone, the boss news-
paper mine of Kalgoorlie—this time that the cross-cut is
12ft. in the lode, and a big improvement is expected
when the footwall is reached, as that was where rich ore
was got in the upper levels. From which it may be taken
for granted that the 12ft. mentioned is mighty poor, or
we should have heard all about it. The public are about
as tired of the Golden Z. as the shareholders are of paying
calls, and, on their behalf and its own, Tub Bulletin prays
for a rest.
• • * *
Associated Gold Mines, the biggest producer on
Kalgoorlie, milled for November 3050 tons f0r29300z., and
smelted 720 tons for 6050oz—89S0oz. A nice change for
manager Irwin after Brown’s Creek, N.S.W.
Westralian mines The Adelaide market in
these has probably seen its worst, and is winding up a
year of shocks with a fair tone, though there isn’t much
trade. London seems inclined to move again. Adelaide
and the W.A. market generally had a sharp shock last
month and at the end of Oct., but all the heavy clearing-
up has been done, and there is no forced selling. In
fact, there is no big supply of scrip. London is
mopping up quietly a lot of Associateds. Said to
be a move on to change the directorate. It may
be Kaufman and his Horseshoe crowd at the bottom
of it. Great Boulder development at 600 ft. perfectly
satisfactory. Australia East lode, at 200 ft., said to be
going into the Oroya southern boundary—if so, will make
a bis; improvement in that mine—and it can stand it.
Still much talk about the absence of Ivanhoe and lAk*
View Consols divs. Expected now that both will declare
before the end of this month, though it is thought that
Consols will be cutting it very fine if it pays 10s. a share.
Calculations have been made showing a very heavy ex-
penditure in equipment and development. Queen Mar-
garet, at Belong, is going to be a good mine yet. Con-
sistent! v improving—average and output increasing, ine
Premier, Kunamulling, is another good mine, cheaply
worked, with a good sum of money in hand for develop-
ment.
• * • •
Woolcock, an ex-Barrier manager (though of a
boom-time show only), and for two years past manager of
the S.A. Govt’s crushing and cyanide plant at Arltunga,
in the far north, talked enthusiastically of the Macdonnell
Ranges country on quitting that district. Declared that
on one claim alone he had seen enough ore to keep GO-
- of stamps going five years— a pretty big order, by
the way.
• • • •
So much winze-sinking is done for the deep
levels of Bendigo mines now that it has been found most
convenient in some cases to fix up small poppet-legs un-
derground—at (say) 2800 ft. down.
New Chum Railway (Bendigo), which is chip-
ping away below 3000 ft., has paid £78,391 in divs. from
workings’ beneath the 2300 ft. level. And there are several
more little ones in sight.
• • • *
E. W. Carey, Consulting Accountant. Investi-
gations conducted. Financial matters advised upon.
Trust moneys to lend. No commission charged to clients.
237 Collins-st., Melbourne.*
* • * *
About the richest of the little revivals at Castle-
maine (Vic.) is the Central Lady Brassey, Sandy Creek.
The co. was formed in Sept., ’97 ; 30,000 shares, 3d. paid
on each. With that capital—there was £375 available-
gold was got, and a first div. paid in Dec., ’97. Since then
15 others have been paid ; total £ls,ooo—twelve months
interest on £375 ; for the reserve-fund more than cover#
the original outlay.
The splendid show which Bendigo makes for '9B
in any comparison of divs. with calls steadily turns more
of the syndicates’ eyes that way. The latest of the old
runs of country to be resurrected is the Shellback —a reef
running parallel with the Princess Dagmar, Golden Age,
and Constellation. The ancient Shellback co. paid a good
many divs., but is now quite forgotten.
Another of the apparently interminable cases
turning on the ownership of abandoned heaps of tailings
has just been decided in Melbourne by Judge Holroya.
The tailings in this case had been originally taken from
heaps in the neighborhood and passed through a battery
in slack seasons. They then meandered over the ground
on which the battery was, until 100,000 tons accumu-
lated. The owners of this ground became insolvent, and
the forfeited lease was issued to the defendants in this
action. Tailings are a great deal more valuable now than
they used to be, and the new lessees proceeded to treat
them for their own profit. The assignee of the old, insol-
vent lessees sued them for wrongful conversion, and Judge
Holroyd, following the trend of previous Vic. decisions,
held that tailings are chattels, that they don’t pass with
the lease, and that they still belong to the previous
lessee. This may be law, but it lookslike an arrangement
which will make heaps of trouble through its want of
common sense. The previous lessee, according to law,
has a better claim than the present one. But that pre-
vious lessee had gathered a lot of the tailings for battery
treatment from various other people, and his claim is
apparently only good till these other people or their heirs
turn up and identify their separate tailings from the heap.
There seems to be no finality about tailings, in fact. And,
assuming that they were the previous lessee’s tailings, he
should be liable "for trespass or for storage charges,
because he left them on the present lessee’s ground.
Where, on Judge ilolroyd's system, is the tailings ques-
tion to end ?
Williams’s mine, Bendigo, largely owned by
the Vic. Railway Minister of that name, has decided to
approach York and Durham with a view to amalgamating
both companies. A wise thing that ought to have been
done many years back, and might well be done by others
on the same line. Small areas may have worked for good
in the old days, hut nine cases in ten the folly of mining
below 2000ft.’on little claims has been very dearly paid
for. It is amalgamation or liquidation with many claim*
on Bendigo. The Williams has paid no div. for 15 years.
York and Durham, so far as this writer knows, never
paid any at all.
Timber, for fuel especially, has become a serious
item of mining expenditure on the principal Vic. fields,
and it is only a matter of time when it will be cheaper to
use coal. Recently the conservator of forests intimated
to the timber-cutters of Maryborough that they must go
further afield for supplies, and this will mean the closing
down of some of the poorer mines.
• * • •
So many dredging lease applications made in
Vic. that the Mines Minister says the matter want*
special attention. Many of the beds of the stream*
applied for are the “ fossicking-grounds of old diggers,
who would be deprived of their livelihood.” At the same
time he has no desire to block the operations of capital*
ists. How very like the average Mines Minister ? Every
old digger and every dredging lease to be dealt with on
his and its merits. Why certainly.
Three Tas. divs. for November: Tasmania
Mine, £3OOO ; Golden Gate, £2400 ; and Bisehoff, 13000.
Total, £B4OO. Small, but very constant.


»
ORIENT
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND for samples.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID
JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
/ Opposite \
\ G.P.O. )
SYDNEY.
(ijake a |)ote of this!
THE BEST HOUSE in AUSTRALASIA
for all kinds of
Photographic Supplies
is
HARRINGTON’S OF SYDNEY
Everything you want for SUCCESSFUL Photography
Outfits from ss. upwards
Our New Illustrated Catalogue contains
you must want. Send for one and see.
many things
Professional Requirements. Amateur Outfits
Process Workers’ Materials of all kinds.
Harrington’s Duplex, 255.
J4-Plate Twin Lens Hand Camera.
Queensland Branch —
-64 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Melbourne Agents —
Craven & Co., 179 Collins-st.
Address: - - 66 King Street, Sydney.
Society
VCRY DLO SPECLAS
[?]
“Constance Clyde”: “Closed-Up Shop-
keeper ’’ wails in a Sydney paper over the threat-
ened early-closing movement. Morning trade, he
says, isn’t half so good as evening, and when there
is no longer any evening biz a lot of shops will
have to close and a number of shopkeepers go to
doss in the Domain. Of course, so pig-headed is
humanity in genera], that, if forbidden to shop
after six p.m., it would go about naked and
starving rather than buy anything before six. Is
it not well-known, for instance, that in Maoriland,
where compulsory early closing is the rule, the
streets are crowded with affluent people going
about in the altogether because they aren’t
allowed to buy clothes late at night.
* * * *
The huge Tyson estate was soon pounced
upon by the hungry N.S.W. bar. At its debut on
Friday, Dec. 16, Salomons, Q.C., Barton, Q.C.,
Pilcher, Q.C. and Want, Q.C. represented the
senior bar, George Reid, Q.C., not getting a place.
Although about a dozen of the contending parties
were not represented by counsel, the court could
barely contain all the barristers appearing in the
case. The solicitors employed are also a goodly
array. And yet it was only a small formal matter
which one cheap junior could have attended to.
* * • m
Gem of eloquence from Murphy, M.L.A.
(Vic.): “His Excellency is at present enjoying a
well-earned holiday in Gippsland, with his wife
and other strangers.”
“ S.S.” : A burg-
lar breaks into Christ
Church, Toorak, Melb, 1
and is charged with sacrilege.
Yet only a Sunday earlier a local
Anglican was deploring the fact that
“the lower orders” rarely enter a church.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Domestic points noted :
Directlya woman marries she sheds her enthusiasm
for female suffrage. The married woman has real
eloquence when she confidentially gives vent to
her views on her mother-in-law. How such a
creature ever gave birth to a baby destined to
become her darling husband passes her compre-
hension. She would spit in her face every time
she saw her were it not rude and against her
better breeding as a lady. And the woman with
a daughter-in-iaw would rather eee chaos come to
earth than that“ that hussy” should be entrusted
with the franchise, in addition to the dragging-
down of her son. A wife never forgives her
husband for having a mother at meeting distance,
and a, mother never forgives a daughter-in-law at
any distance. On the other hand, the mother
loves her son-in-law more dearly than her daughter,
while the husband generally regards his mother-
in-law as a rather agreeable old lady, who clearly
understands that he is lord and master, and
thereby shows her good sense. It requires a
violent provocation to set him at her.—o.
« * * ,
The great precedence question has broken
out in a fresh place in Melbourne. Admiral Pear-
son started it ; and he was so boiling mad over
some person’s alleged conduct in standing on his
corn that Lord Dicky Nevill supplied the papers
with the Government House table of precedence.
Then the Legislative Council got on its hind legs.
The said table places the bishops and the arch-
bishops before the President and the Speaker.
Ihe lat Men, being mostly Presbyterians, object
fiercely, and President Zeal will boycott Govern-
ment House until the affair is settled in his favor.
Strictly speaking, there is no bishop and no arch-
bishop of Melbourne, though two men call them-
selves such.. Whenever a bishop petitions Par-
ham ent, it is entered on the minutes as “ Bill
Smith ” (or whatever his name may be), “ styling
himself Bishop of Such-and-Such.” And they
are, in the eyes of the law, of no more importance
than the heads of the Presbyterians, or of the
Baptists, or even than Jos. Syme, the Bishop of
the Atheist denomination.
• • * *
“Lemuria”: In N.S.W. Assembly, the
other evening, Yacker Member Sleath referred to
the awful females who compose the committees of
many “charitable” institutions—particularly those
that look after the Girl who Did —as “ long-nosed
haybags.” Ribald, but true. The immorality of
the average young person who has to go before
these committee ladies and explain the details of
her “fall ” is a gem of rare beauty compared to
the callous and skinny virtue of her interrogators.
The self - appointed “ ladies’ committee ” is a
grisly horror that should be suppressed with
dynamite rather than allowed to handle public
money.
m * * *
“ N.” : The Chapter of St. Paul’s has de-
cided to sell the Hooley Communion plate for as
much over thirty pieces of silver as it will fetch.
Hebblefchwaite’s “ Red Page ”
word-picture of Tasmanian scenery re-
minds the writer that last summer’s
bush-fire was said to have totally de-
stroyed most of the island’s beauty-
spots. Van Dobson was chief mourner
at the funeral, and managed to extract
some £2OOO from Government as com-
pensation for the destruction of his par-
ticular beauty-spot. It is now locally
printed, presumably at the instigation
of Dobson’s own Tourists’ As-
sociation, that the burnt-out
beauty - spots are this year
more beautiful and more
numerous than ever. A Ho-
bart weekly pertinently asks
when the Treasurer may rea-
eon ably expect to receive Van
Dobson’s “conscience-money.”
* * * *
Several Adelaide clergymen announced
recently that they have decided to make nightly
visits to the squares and park lands with a view
to suppressing the alleged improprieties that
occur there. This is about the rockiest job any
parson can undertake, and unless they are built
on fighting principles these rev. gentlemen will
be sorry they were ever born with a face. It isn’t
many years since an Adelaide social purity official
took on a similar job, with the result that his
features for weeks resembled a plate of scrambled
cat.
Alice Cutmore, the very first prisoner to
give personal evidence for the defence in an Eno-.
lish police-court, got off without the option of °a
fin f- .The “coppers” swore she had been drunk
and disorderly, but she convinced the Bench to
the contrary. Since the new Act ca-toe into force
lots of prison-
ers have made
out satisfac-
tory cases for
themselves
from their own
mouths, which
suggests—as a
London paper
puts it mildly
—“ that up to
the present the
uncontradicted
oath of the
policeman has
been accepted
by stipendia-
ries (and
Judges?) for
rather more
than it is
worth.”
HE LIES LOW .
SHE : “ Yes, you know, dear, God always sees
you when you do anything naughty
LITTLE BILLY : “ Yes, mamma; hut He don't tell
you if He does. ”
Two hundred and twenty-five . persons
called at the Melbourne morgue in one day for
the alleged purpose of identifying the body found
tied up in a box floating seaward down the Yarra.
Almost every one of them stated that he or she
had lately been harrowed by the loss of a dear
female friend exactly answering to the description
of the deceased, and their object was to take
away Jane or Sarah from her damp slab and give
her Christian burial. The attendant kept moving
them on persistently, for the front rank wanted to
stay and look at deceased too long, and the rear
of the procession wasn’t getting a fair show.
Some of the visitors had their pockets bulged out
—apparently by lunch ; and they were all sickbed
over by the craving to stay and keep identifying
the body till far on into the night. In its own
small way the Yarra body is a great draw, and a
morgue admission fee of Is. —to go towards re-
ducing Turner’s deficit—is a matter worth con-
sidering.
* * • *
The Congregational Church, which owns
Dr. Bevan and Dr. Jefferis and half-a-dozen other
conspicuous men, is harder up for parsons than
any other denomination. The explanation is that
when the shepherd gets old and can’t hustle round,
or when he loses his front-teeth and can’t speak
with his original clearness, the flock thanks him
for his long and invaluable services—and sends for
another man. TheC.C. has no provision for keeping
a man in harness as the Methodists have, and no
provision for old-age pensions. A minister who
had preached for nearly a generation to one of the
wealthiest down-south congregations was thus
lately informed roundaboutly that he had become
a back number. He had to go out of the
church he had built up, to face the task of build-
ing another ; and, though he succeeded better
than most, the struggle ended in paralysis and
death.
* * • *
At the recent destruction by fire of the
Royal Oak Hotel, Wellington (M.L.), while a
frenzied mob of half-dressed women and men
rushed shrieking through the smoke-laden corri-
dors seeking a way out, a calm and superior
tourist rang for the porter to help him downstairs
with his luggage. The porter, who was feeling
his way through the smoke, trying to find and
arouse stragglers, told him to go (unnecessarily) to
blazes, and get downstairs quick. One man
jumped out of the window on to a lower building,
and went clean through the roof, escaping with a
broken leg. An American got out on the tele-
graph wires, and thence per ladder to the street.
Many ladies escaped in nightdresses, and two
commercial travellers were burned to death. And
the man abovementioned calmly humped as much
of his luggage downstairs as he could manage, and
then found the half-dressed and singed landlord,
and complained to him very severely of the porter’s
discourtesy and neglect of—haw—business.
Adelaide’s river,
the Torrens, is con-
verted into a lake in
the city by damming,
and it generally
happens that when
any personage
comes along
to view the
city some
official has
opened the
sluices and
left the al-
leged river
an unsight-
ly mu d-
bank. Pre-
mier King-
ston, tra-
velling re-
cently from
Mel b. to
Adelaide,
admiringly
described
the beauti-
ful stream
to some
fellow - tra-
vellers and it re-
sulted in his escorting
them to the scene.
As usual, the river
was empty. “ Par-
don me,” said one,
“is this where
1 you deposit the
city refuse?”
• *
A suffering hus-
Oand, suing in formd
pauperis, urged the assigned
official in N.S.W. Divorce
Court to rest his petition mainly
on the fact that, for the last three years, his
wife had left him without sufficient support,
sometimes for days together wholly neglecting
him.
In the book published by the Sydney
telephone people appear the following addresses :
827 State Children Relief Department, Accounts Branch
967 General Inquiry
732 Do do do do Dep6t
The “ ditto ” has been omitted in the case of 967,
and the public regards it simply as a place of
“general inquiry ”—an encyclopaedia, free in-
formation bureau, oracle, and general know-all.
They use it accordingly. Some specimens from
one day’s list of questions :
What is the Daily Telegraph pay-day ?
What is the cost of a cablegram to Maoriland?
When is the next mail-steamer to America?
What is the present wholesale price for bonedust?
When does the early train leave for Moss Vale?
Is a horse-box going- to Berry to-night?
How far is it from Hay to Aibury ?
Inquiries start: “ Hullo ! is that 967 ? ” “ Yes.”
“Who?” “What?” “When?” “How?”&c.,
&c. Querist No. 1, a city merchant, was highly
wrath at the “ misrepresentation of the Govern-
ment publication.”
* * * *
“J.A.A.”: There are dog as well as
human Domain dossers in Sydney; a friend who
has studied them tells me they are, in condition
and habits, very like their human brethren. I
have not had the opportunity of observing them,
but know that in Melbourne there is a tribe of
“ unemployed ” dogs (so designated). They do not
live by picking up scraps in the streets and right-
of-ways, for in the day-time such are monopolised
by owned dogs of the particular neighborhood,
and at night there is little to be found. Some
make house to house visits to solicit alms of food,
and others burglariously enter back-yards at
night, finding out places where no dog is kept, or
Kate
FOR THE BULLETIN
* ove > d.njpled aijd delicate,
4.W & .,n-,rv ;er .« d/ &a , ocy , soijfay Kale,
pear iT) e lulled rpu&ic oV d^oveswino',
5«-ai-, opd ur>n?olferabten ?0 lfe ra bte
*0 p<afas,iop n/ade onTrtvdetir S
%.
o pampered, m a Dy worpoijed poTepte.lt,
Mil faur-Jjebed ot- luxioos. c jjorpbennOs
/7e o v.ed . ©I,, njerpory tlipg*, -
little I ovo !
years, Ijave po.g>secl -E>ince
lasd-
. &l)e.'fa
O a fat ijigfjb; I alt,
0 n; e -t- w,T£ her dol1“ irj
kad.rjg & tnr,g & .
(,-Jer jat Qep ftxf
- } , Starred wilt) rirytyt,,
-enabled - ■ • £l»ct
■ 'j ° r oCl Ofyy pKt«,
love 1
[?] MO[?]
TWO PHANTOMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, when all the light is fled,
Are you ever visited
By two phantoms, wan and gray,
Who would lead you far away,
Past strange faces, ghastly pale,
To the Land of No Avail ?
They are Memory and Regret-
No one may their names forget—
In their hands they hold the years
Once baptised with scalding tears ;
Years in vain you would recall,
They have bound them all in all.
Through each haunted, spectral street
Of the Past, their noiseless feet
Still will lead you on and on,
Till your face grows old and wan.
And the years are waning pale
In the Land of No Avail.
No sweet voice will greet you there,
No glad face will meet you there.
Joy and Mirth, and Love and Song,
All were crucified by Wrong.
’Tis their voiceless souls that meet
In the haunted, silent street.
They will bend stern eyes on you
When your feet are passing through ;
Eyes that burn through unshed tears,
Gathered there with tortured years;
And your heart will weep and wail
In the Land of No Avail.
CARINI.


V,
MtjAvE Y OH
FoROOTTEM
IlHlll
s®
HOT WINDS
Sydney Lager Bier is a delicious,
nutritive drink for weary men and
women in baking, enervating weather.
are borne easily when the
system is sustained with
SYDNEY
LAGER
BIER
RAFFAN'S HEPATIC
EhXSANT AND
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
66 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our SILK bTRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OF TARTAR,
Glucose, Oarb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
178 William-st., Melbourne
, 11 Pitt-street, Sydney;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide; 27 Easiest., Brisbane; Lambton
Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Hy. Markwald,
Soft CapVaS Sfjirts
Made to Mhasurk.
Post free 30 /- per through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 6/8.
X
Very Strong 1 , Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE RROTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
where there is a good-natured one who will permit
them to feast on the refuse. Some appeal to the
well-fed dogs they meet, who often show them
where there may be scraps lying unappropriated,
and sometimes invite them to a feed or occasionally
bring something to them, but this hospitality I
have only seen extended by large dogs to those of
small size ; a dog of, say, retriever size whom no-
body owns is an outcast indeed, and speedily suc-
cumbs to hardship and peril. Some of the dogB
appear to take kindly to their condition ; others
seem to feel their position very keenly, and roam
from house to house, or accost persons in the
street, making overtures in the hope of finding a
home and lawful visible means of support. I have
seen them holding a public meeting late at night,
in the Treasury Gardens ; they assembled from
all quarters, apparently carried a resolution, and
then the leaders, with a part of the crowd, went
off together, whilst the rest straggled away to
accost human passers-by and beg for leave to
accompany them.
* * • *
The ‘ ‘ Yarra tragedy ” was a most accept-
able throw-in for the Melbourne dailies, and they
gloat over the details of the boot-box packed
with nude female as though it were a Xmas box.
Said the respectable Argus last week : “ The jaws
are to be removed and placed in spirits, and there
is little reason why-this course should not have
been pursued immediately after the inquest. Froifl
the first day the body would have been extremely
difficult to identify, and the steadily-increasing
heat since then has so hastened decomposition
that the face of the deceased has now lost all
semblance of humanity.”
In a family difficulty which recently broke
out in a small Victorian town the respondent was
found in the co-respondent’s bedroom at 2 a.m.,
and trouble arose. Respondent said she had gone
there to ask co-respondent what was the best way
to make ginger-beer. The- explanation looks per-
fectly feasible, too, for any lady is liable to wake
up in the small hours of the morning and feel a
IN "PUSH" SOCIETY.
(Bound over to keep the
piece.)
TOMMY : “ Say, dad, wot’s
the meanin' of bein’
bound over to keep the peace?”
DAD : “ Why, I was in the very same fix meself, when
I was made to marry your mother.”
desire to know at once how ginger-beer is made,
and if she can’t sleep for wondering, and the co-
respondent knows how to make it, she would natur-
ally wake him up to inquire. Better to do that
than lose her sleep, anyhow. A lady who has
been awake all night strucking to remember the
ingredients of ginger-beer always looks drawn and
haggard and old in the morning.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —That woman who wrote
about “ Widows and Other Women ” condensed a
lot of solid fact into her screed ; but she gave the
average male thing over 24 credit for a lot of
emotion that he doesn’t possess. The great over-
ARISTOCRATIC
INSTINCT.
OCCASIONAL GRAFTER:
“ Don’t yer think yer
ought to go to work
so metimes,
same as yer
brother? I
wonder they
stand it at
home. ”
DOOLEY (of the push): “Surely to ’eaven
a family can support one bummer!”
whelming attraction of the widow is that she
generally has the first old man’s assets. A little
income, or at least a snug home, or a house full of
furniture, make a mighty impression on the heart
of man. The widow’s charms look brighter in the
glitter of the loot that hangs around her. If there
is no loot the average male thing is very prone to
regard the widow as damaged goods. Truly, her
greater knowledge of exactly how much ankle and
underskirt go to the ounce may balance that, and
just place her level with the garden variety of
female—but nothing more. As a 30-year-old male
thing, with a jaded appetite, the writer honestly
believes that any male over 24, having the choice of
a gilded widow and an unplucked peach with an
equally valuable bullion stem, would five times
out of six bite at the younger delicacy. These re-
marks only apply to males over 24 years—under
that age they are not responsible for their actions,
and should be kept chained up. — Rangitata.
* * * *
An unmarried woman died in a Southern
city recently, and at the inquest three doctors
were examined. Dr. A. deposed that he had profes-
sionally attended the woman, and she had in-
formed him that she fell downstairsand injured her-
self. On his advice Dr. B. was called in, but she
died in less than a week afterwards. He attri-
buted death to “ exhaustion following on hemorr-
hage, resulting from an injury, causing miscarriage
and local peritonitis.” Dr. B. deposed that death
was due to peritonitis following on abortion;
Dr. C., who post-mortemed the case, said ditto,
but added that he could not say if violence had
been used. Neither Dr. B. nor Dr. C. considered
it probable that the abortion resulted from an
accident. If they had seen the infant they would
be able to say positively whether or not an illegal
operation had been performed. But the infant
was not produced, Dr. A. stating that it was in
such a condition that he had thought it best to
carry it away in his valise and drop it overboard
from a penny steamer. The “coroner’s ’quest”
evidently considered this the proper thing for a
respectable family doctor to do under the circum-
stances, and verdicted : “ We find that death was
due to peritonitis, resulting from natural causes.”
Of course, had the mutilated remains of the infant
been produced in court the verdict might have
been different; or it might not. But the law
should certainly object to any doctor dropping
valuable evidence overboard in this fashion.
• * * *
“ Constance Clyde ” on erotic literature :
The solemn words of the Sydney School of Arts librarian
re woman’s fondness for the worst sort of fiction have been
duly sent on to Maoriland, and wicked woman is being
once more held up to the contumely of Man, the Chaste.
This would be all very well, but for one unrealised fact:
it is only the reading man that reads ; whereas of the
women who read, the majority are those who, if they
were men, would go for whisky instead. That the library
is their pub., and that they prefer to read about vice
rather than indulge in it is surely a step in the right
direction ; and, anyhow, it is the only outlet allowable to
the numerous woman who is virtuously married to the
large red man, called Sandy. With vice as with cruelty !
Most of us would go into convulsions if forced to witness
torture cL la Chinois ; but we all like reading about it.
In fact, the more you want to read the description, the
less you desire to see the reality. Similarly, a certain
amount of so-called immoral literature is necessary to
mental health. It is, in fact, the virus which preserves
you from the real small-pox.
Thus the
recently elect-
ed mayor of a
West ralian
mining town :
—“Gintlemen,
the praspictor
is the man vve
should
»hi 1 p
//H\' along.
1 H e
goes out
in the wild
country wid a pick and
shovel in one hand and a
warter-bag in theother,
and sometimes his
loife in the other,
tofoindtheprishes
mittel. He goes out
in the back country where
whoite man has niver
been, and orpens it up for
those that come before him and those that come
after.”
• • • *
A witness told old Judge Maule he never
cared for anything but horses and women. Judge :
You had better have your skin made into a side-
saddle.”
Dear Bulls tin. —Am
agent for the letting of some
workmen’s cottages in a Syd-
ney suburb at rental of ss. per
week. A well-set-up young
fellow applied for one, inform-
ing me at same time that he
was to be married that after-
noon (Saturday). When asked
to leave a deposit on key, re
marked that it would be all
right as he was moving in his
furniture. Afterwards met the
newly-married couple moving
in. He was wheeling a barrow
which contained all necessary
goods and chattels—one mat-
trass. Fact.— O.S.S.
• *
At the recent sitting ot
the Grand Jury in Melbourne
to consider the alleged con-
spiracy charge against the de-
tective and the Crown’s hired
widow, two jurors were stone
deaf. This was represented to
the Chief Justice. He said the
Statute didn’t provide for such
a contingency; didn’t seem to
care whether jurors had their
senses or not. So the deaf ’uns
were sworn and had to be yelled
at by the foreman, and gesticu-
lated to, and have the matter
explained to them by signs and
grimaces. For all the Statute
cares, a Grand Jury may be
formed of seven deaf men and
five imbeciles.
* * •
Publican up South, retir-
ing from business, sues member
of local Licensing Bench for £7,
amount of unpaid grog bill.
Latter pays £2 (maximum re-
coverable) into court one day,
and next day sits on Licensing
Bench to pass transfer of said
publican’s license!
Dear Bulletin.— The Yarra boot-trunk
tragedy has been the means of exposing the un-
suspected friskiness of many a Melb. damsel. All
day long sorrowing parents stroll into the Melb.
morgue to see if the body is that of their daughter
Mary, and they all have the same story to tell:
“ Mary left home a week ago, sayin’ she was
goin’ to stop at Mrs. Smith’s, an’ we’ve bin to
Mrs. Smith’s, an’ they told us she’d never bin
there at all. Two or three times before she said
she was goin’ to stay at Mrs. Smith’s, an’ it turns
out now that she never went there.” The writer,
who was in attendance at the morgue for three
days after the discovery, must have heard that
story related fully 50 times, without a single
variation, except when the daughter’s name was
Ann, and she was supposed to be staying with
Mrs. Jones. The awful tendency of Mary to say
she is going to Mrs. Smith’s, and then go some-
where else, is a question which may be studied by
Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat, and the spectacled
harridans of the W.C.T.U. So far as the present
scribe is concerned, he is quite content to study
the photo of Mary, as produced by her sorrowing
parents, and to pronounce the judgment that Mary
is a very nice girl, and would have been wasted at
Mrs. Smith’s, anyhow. —M‘G.
* * * •
Melb. detectives waited anxiously for the
boot-box murder reward to be gazetted before
they made any rash promises to informants, for
the Crown has a mean way of going back on its
promises. At the time of the murder for which
Castilla, the Philippine boy, was hanged, ,£lOO
reward was announced ; but, before it was formally
gazetted, Castilla was arrested. Then the Crown
didn’t gazette the reward at all, and nobody got
anything.
A South-suburban Melb. clergyman, who
is a conspicuous figure in the teetotal interest, has
just ceased bragging about a notable convert of
his. The convert was a local exhibition inebriate,
who became suddenly sober and l’espectable, and
his acceptance of grace created quite a sensation
in hop-beer circles. Of course he reverted, and
he fell in a disgustingly ostentatious manner. The
first the cleric’s family knew about it was when
the awful example clamored at their door at the
dead of night, and then raised Gehenna and fits
because they refused to take in a beer-sodden
companion of his, who he insisted was the Rev.
Blank himself. The clergyman has since learned
that the horrid example had awakened half the
suburb, hauling his shocking friend from door to
door, endeavoring to get people to take him in,
A VERY SIMPLE QUESTION.
Teacher: “And who were the chosen people ?”
Johnny: “Hill, Darling , Gregory, Jones ” . (Goes down
bottom.)
with the assertion that the alcoholic paralytic was
the Rev. Blank, a “ p’tickler frien’ ” of his whom
he had undertaken to see home. The worst of it
is the dead-drunk actually looked rather like the
Rev. Blank in the dim light, and people generally
believe the worst because it is the most interesting.
* • • •
Extract S.M. Herald, 21/12/’9B :
X> EQUIRED at once, a thorough Teacher of Music
- L * J only; must have certificate as to theory and
practice of piano, and be a very persistent teacher,
one willing to assist domestic duties; homely, oon-
tented, and healthy. Remuneration, £lB per annum,
fare paid one way. Submit testimonials in first in-
stance to
A thorough and persistent teacher, must be
homely, contented (with the screw) and healthy,
certificated, and help wash up, all for 7s. per
week !
TO MY LADY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I love to think of thee at night,
Thy snow-white body laid asleep
Within a room which moonbeams keep
Tender and pure and pale with light.
I love to muse upon thy charms,
The beauty of thy perfect form,
Lying in slumber soft and warm ;
The splendor of thy restful arms.
0, night-wind blowing from the sea,
Heart-soother, sweet, consoling South,
Haste to that rosy bud, her mouth,
And kiss her thrice for Love and me.
Toy with her cheeks and glittering hair,
And perfume all the dim alcove
Where lies the lady of my love,
My goddess most divinely fair.
Thinking of her I wander on ;
Thinking of her, so pale and still,
I linger on the moonlit hill
Till night and all its stars are gone.
L. G. D.
BEYOND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Columbus of the Worlds, I felt the Night’s embrace,
And heard the winds that break upon the Shores of Space.
I saw the shadows flit across the mighty arc,
And watched a waning Sun that dwindled to a spark ;
Conceived the Awe of Life and knew that Time had died,
And I was not alone—my Soul walked at my side !
“Is this—is this the end ?” my heart cried, and a breath
In all the Silence stirred and whispered, “This is Death 1”
Then through the trembling void there throbbed a vague
unrest,
As when the Motherhood first swells the Mother’s breast,
And I, with eyes of light, that looked at Fear and smiled,
Saw DEATH at last—and, lo ! I saw a little Child 1
BERNARD ESPINASS[?].


HOTEL
AUSTRALIA.
RATES from 12/6 per Day
inclusive of all Meals and Attendance.
To select your hotel when
you come to Sydney is to
stay at “ The Australia.”
Visitors find there all that is
best in the principal hotels
of Europe and America ;
whilst the reasonableness of
the charges gives everyone
perfect satisfaction.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh St., Sydney.
About the best fortnight’s record of a
young Australian down-to-date is that of a South
Australian—N. W. Jolly. In the local senior
public (matriculation) exam, he came out easily
first, with the altogether unprecedented distinction
of “credits” in English, Latin, Greek, German,
pure mathematics,applied mathematics, chemistry
and physics. And while the result-lists were being
prepared, he did most to win the annual inter-
college cricket-match for Prince Alfred —as in past
years Hill and Darling did. He not only wicket-
kept brilliantly, but made top score. Then, in the
next few days, he went across to Melb. and per-
formed with equal brilliance against Wesley
College. Jolly was also the first to win the very
valuable Elder students’ scholarship. L'eitch,
probably the most precocious Adelaide ’Varsity
scholar hitherto, studied his life away at about 25.
But, then, Leitch didn’t play cricket.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/0 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommenced by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOU.NTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
GLOBE TEAS “ ave wo ***■
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
“Our Teeth.”
CatapboreSis
in Connection with
DENTISTRY.
BY this PROCESS, TEETH can be Prepared
and Pilled absolutely WITHOUT PAIN,
even if the nerve he exposed , thus
PREVENTING the
EXTRACTION
of TEETH. All Particulars published in Book
Form, a copy of which will be posted, Free of
Cost, upon application to
CHARLCSI. HARRIS,
DENTIST,
St. James’s Chambers, King St.
(Opposite the Queen’s Statue),
SYDNEY.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
_ ~ Sydney, December 27, 1898.
My Dear Myee—-
Christmas again, and the old comediettas play-
ing as freshly as ever in the crowded shops. Timo,
half-past four, day before Xmas. Customers five
deep round the fancy counter. Small, thin woman
with roving eye manoeuvres through the crowd
and settles on a chair, asking vaguely for “ white
ribbon.” Harrassed shop-girl wants to know is it
to be “ wide or narrow ? ” “ I’m making a cosy.
Its I don t want it too wide.” ‘‘ 33aby ribbon,
then?” “Yes, baby-ribbon.” Box of baby-
ribbon produced, “Is that about the width,
madam?” “Is that white ribbon?” “Yes,
madam, that is white ribbon.” “That’s nice. I
wonder if that would do. Oh, that’s pretty with
the edge.” Looks at one sample five minutes.
Then looks at the other five minutes. “Is this
what you require, madam? (Yes, Mr. S., I’in
serving.)” “I’m just thinking. . . . That’s
pretty, isn’t it?” “That is twopence a yard.”
“ Twopence a yard. I wonder how much I would
want. It’s got to go round the edge of a cosy.
I m making one for a Christmas present
to” (this confidentially) “his aunt.” (“ Yes, Miss
8., I’m serving.) What length shall I cut?”
“I forgot to measure. Do you think it’s wide
enough?” (“Attend to you in one minute.)
Three yards, did you say?” “I’m just thinking.
Don’t you think it’s a little cream?” “No,
madam, these are white ribbons.” “ Well, I don't
know, I’m sure.” “Is it too narrow? Shall I
show you a wider one ? ” “I’m just thinking, ...
You see, I don’t know how much I want.” Her
eyes roam all round the shelves; suddenly she
asks, “Have you got any pink velvet ?” “Yes,
we have pink velvet. And shall you not require
any of these ribbons ? ” “ I think I’ll see the pink
velvet.” Shop-girl (aside): “It’s no good calling
to me ; I’m serving one of these women that won’t
buy anything because we’ve got everything she
wants. ”
The only pantomime of the season ought to
have snared more bruit and brilliancy than the
Firm is putting into “ Ali Baba.” The thin book
is eked out with barest helpings of pantomime
sauce, and the doings of a donkey quite eclipse the
principal actors’ share in the business. Johnny
Coleman’s method of playing lady makes up the
rest of the hilarity. As Ali Baba’s wife, the
gentleman wore the usual flat Coleman face, sug-
gesting that all the expression has been battered
out of it, yet highly expressive all the same. His
drollest frock was a crinkled yellow, that tried to
be stylish, and was ever so short in front. Elastic-
side cloth boots clad his turned-in toes, and, if he
had never said anything beyond “Fancy meeting
you,” the audience would have felt their money
well spent.
Pattie Browne. asGanem, looks as if she doesn’t
quite like her part. She wore an uneasy look at
the first night’s performance, possibly because she
hadn’t enough to do, which, in stage-land, is a
much greater trial than having too much. The
dapper little white suit of the first act made
a most dashing boy of her, and was composed
of a short white coat,, opening over white blouse,
white tights, and white cap with white feather.
Her second suit was a chic affair in cigar-brown,
braided or embroidered in white. This was fol-
lowed quickly by an elaborate creation in pink
silk decked with diamonds and emeralds, which
faithfully pursued all Pattie’s undulating lines. I
was sorry that her part gave her so poor a chance
to show what she can do well, for neither her sing-
ing nor her dancing are electrifying, and the
sparse bits of business that come her way are so
aggravatingly well done that you long to give her
a better opportunity to be the only Pattie.
Pretty Carnl Moore made her hit with the long
white legs and short skirts showing golden lining
. that figured in her gay little Parisienne song and
dance. That handsome, well-proportioned young
actress, Miss Jennie Opie, dressed Abdullah in a
telling uniform, carried herself like a soldier, and
sang as well as anyone in the piece. Little Francie
Adler was another successful vocalist. She made
an artless little fairy-queen in yellow tulle, and
was allowed to sing a pretty fancy-song in the
midst of those magnificent fairy corn-fields which
are really the chief feature of the piece.
This scene, one of Goatcher’s happiest, shows a
background of golden corn-lands, realistically
Eainted, and is livened up by a gorgeous poppy
allet. The poppy-frocks frill out like scarlet
lamp-shades from the waist, where they are nipped
in with a touch of green, and pale green legs carry
out the idea of the most effective flower in nature.
In among the poppy-people run a mass of little
grey field-mice, with long, grey tails. Child-faces
show under the mice’s visages, and little child-legs,
in grey velvet tights, skip about to the delight of
the children in the house, who don’t get their nor-
mal amount of amusement from other scenes in
this panto.
You would think that Saturday at Rand wick
gave nobody a chance to air a feather. The love
of racing must be a natural affection with Sydney
women, for the stand had quite a big complement
of sodden skirts and cloaks, and drippy men
cursed audibly at the crowds of female punters
fighting their way through torrents of rain to lay
’arf-a-crown on their fancy. Frocking, of course,
was nil ? Not at all. Rows of airy, filmy frocks
suggestive of garden-parties and clear skies
slavered conspicuously from all parts of the stand.
There seems to be one idea re race-frocking that
sticks in the public’s mind, and wouldn’t be
washed away by the second deluge—namel.y, that
your gown must trail yards behind and
before, must be composed of palest grey,
mauve, or dead-white, capped with nothing
more substantial than white feathers, and
shaded with a parasol too delicate to stand the
sun. Wet or fine, you will always come upon
bevies of these dresses at race-meetings, and on a
day like Saturday I never want to see them going
home.
Boxing Day’s sunshine brought out lots of well-
dressed women who pass unnoticed at more toney
race-meetings. Among these was the wearer of a
lovely Parisian frock of royal blue voile, the
clinging skirt built up in three simple tiers, a little
piping on the bodice, and a daring sea-blue waistbelt.
An original fancy completed this creation ; diamond
rings were worn in the ears instead of on the fingers,
not a bad idea for refined people who cannot
go without gloves. The day of the ear-ring is
evidently coming quickly; I counted a score of
perforated ears from which the marks of bondage
hung mockingly in this day of new womanhood.
Mrs. Stanley Mylins, who used to be the beautiful
Miss Maud Roberts, looked as pretty as ever in a
blue-and-white foulard with a shell pink sash.
Her sister, Mrs. Ambrose Pratt, was in artistic
white with little yellow sleeves falling off her
white ones. . With this party was a beauty-man
who is coining out strong in literature shortly.
He walked the lawn in a pointed beard like a
sketch from Du Maurier. Mrs. Rennie’s black-
and-white muslin, worn with a touch of cherry
and a black hat, belonged to the smartly-simple
tribe that is safe at any sort of function.
Speaking of the races, the unfortunate gee-gee
that goes by the name of Cin set quite a blow of
witticisms going among women who don’t joke
easily. My belief is ’! it the horse heard them,
and was flustered out of his race. “ I’ll take half-
a-crown’s worth of Cin.” “ Oh, I think you ought
to take more than that,” went the whole gamut of
changes, and is still being repeated for the benefit
of those who don’t often hear such a good thing.
A much-enlarged edition of the Lilian Tree who
last played English opera here is personating
Carmen at the Lyceum this week—Carmen in all
the glory of scarlet raiment, and pink roses in her
hair —a plump, ladylike Carmen, in looks a long,
long way from the gipsy-maid of the tradition,
But English opera always fills a want. Every
vocalist with three notes and a shoulder-shake
comes in to criticise, and tell the people around
who don’t know anything how the thing
should be done. Therefore (and, mind you,
it’s a highly respectable Therefore, and testi-
fies to the songful Australian’s disdain of
comic opera, and may have nothing to do
with every amateur’s pet hope that English opera
is going to make a place for him shortly) Satur-
day’s d.c. was long-haired beyond description. All
the musical world was there : Madame Keller-
mann, who, by the way, has just invented a charm-
ing fancy in Christmas cards, adorned with the
picturesque heads of three little Kellermanns ; the
copper-haired contralto so hugely admired by any-
one with an aesthetic soul; and all the fat tenors
and baritones of the present and past generations.
Well for Lilian Tree that her shoulder-breadth is
a capable affair. The burden of the opera fell
heavily there on Saturday night. One could not
but admire the plucky way in which she squared
up, and put on sauce piquante and a dash of
diablerie, and sang and acted as though her sup-
port was the very cream of companies. She could
not altogether redeem things ; still, Carmen
is Carmen, even with a chorus that insisted on
solo singing, and a lover suffering from an unhal-
lowed combination of coyness and home-made
trousers ; and things may be better by the time
you read this.
A fiery scarlet satin, barricaded with a lattice-
work of gleaming jet, brightened Miss Tree’s
first appearance. What a wonderful trans-
formation from the rather prim, slim Martha
of ten years ago. She is quite a dashing young
woman nowadays, and has any amount of go and
exuberance. But someone ought to tell her not
to decorate her frocks with big trellis-work pat-
terns that would broaden a broomstick. Her
third frock, a purple foundation, had more of this
huge pattern worked over it in green, and was
further aggravated by white “pickings” on the
corsage.
A vigorous burst of young-man applause greeted
Dr. Philip Muskett’s t’other-night lecture in Syd-
ney School of Arts when he quoted “Will Honey-
comb’s ” sel f-gratulation on choosing a wife who
would provide him a healthy heir to his estates.
But this sort of thing provides Angelina with a
new cause for alarm when Edwin’s eyes begin to
wear that dreamy, far-off expression that used to
mean liquor or the other girl. In place of the
heiress and the fortune-hunter, novelists of to-mor-
row will portray the sorrows of the healthy
woman and her bitter—“ No, George, you do not
love me for myself alone, but for my Jane and
William and Johnny that are to be.” Butman
will cease to be man when he takes to troubling
about children that don’t exist. There are spots
of possibly unavoidable foolishness in Dr. Mus-
kett’s lecture. F’rinstance, the moral tag that
exercise and strength of body will make a woman
more refined ; whereas, as a matter of fact, it is
extremely difficult for a healthy woman to be a
lady. A human desire for vittles is destructive to
refinement, as most people persist in understand-
ing the term.
No less than three fledglings made their first
flutter at the last Liedertafel concert. Perhaps I
ought not to call Mr. Norman Alston, the new
baritone, a fledgling, as I understand he has pre-
viously sung somewhere or other with success. A
correctly callow young Englishman of the type
adored by the average audience, he was naturally
encored for all his songs. His underground organ
seems rather low down for a baritone, and his
manner was built up of the wood that never con-
flagrates. Then there was a pretty slender pianiste,
Miss Minnie Daniels, with bird-like wrists that
weren’t equal to the heavy weight of a big Liszt
movement. Anyway, her yellow silk frock was
charmingly worn, with dark hair parted on the
side in the one becoming fashion that is never too
widely adopted. A girlish ’cellist, Miss Amy
Browne, was the third to make her primal bow
before a paying audience; she put more than the
average girlish expression into her playing, and
promises to do well some day.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Vie. Legislative Council’s At Home, if not
the biggest, is always the best-to-be-seen-at
function of the season, and gloom sits upon
the brow of the society woman who fails to
get that particular invite. Kindly William Zeal
really does know how to make things nice for his
guests. The enterprising hot wind that made
the ilacked Council Chamber a sort of ante-room
to the Inferno, and Brassey’s stertorous reading
of ‘ The Speech ’ a thing for inward groans, caused
the cool banqueting-rooms to seem a Paradise by
comparison : and each elaborately-dressed dame
or damsel who held the coveted blue card joy-
fully ascended to where the strains of music led
her. A winding rivulet of pale green silk along a
snowy length of table, amid a wilderness of palms
and flowers, was as grateful to the eye as
the oasis in the desert. The dressing kept the
viands in countenance. Mrs. Brassey, in the
pale harmony of primrose silk and white gui-
pure she wore at the garden - party, was as
amiable to all and sundry as if she had been the
hostess of the day. Most of the selectest wore fine
India muslin over light-colored silk. Mrs. Wrixon
and Mrs. Sargood kept their reputation for serious-
ness before their eyes in the hues of their gowns,
and Mrs. Turner went in strongly for gold lace.
The host looked particularly happy in his black
velvet and ruffles—it is even suspected that he has
some lurking desire of matrimony hidden in his
bachelor-breast. The Labor-members and their
belongings had betaken themselves to the House-
garden, and quite an Arcadian-touch was given to
this part of the proceedings by the heavy Hancock
and little Dr. Moloney engaging in a contest of
knocking each other’s hats off with long crooked
sticks, while their ribbon-bedecked youngsters
sported round them on the green. It was possibly,
too, the nearness of Xmas that made a group of
fat members embrace each other with tears of
rejoicing.
“Janet, Lady Clarke, with a shade of disap-
pointment on her brow and funereal plumes in her
hat, leaned over the railing of the Australia when
departing from Melbourne the other day, possibly
meditating the worth of a goodly number of folks’
effusiveness. The Austral Salon didn’t put in
even the slenderest representation ; the Alliance
was chiefly there in the form of Mrs. (Justice)
Holroyd, panting up the gangway with a big
bunch of lilies, crimson carnations, and corn-
flowers, tri-colored with broad satin ribbons. Some
private friends arrived with baskets of roses and
sweet peas, fresh from the florist’s windows. Mrs.
Madden, with her sister, Mrs. Colonel Bingham
(neither of whom brought the parting vegetable),
elaborately dressed for the Parliamentary function,
hovered round for a few minutes, and then made
off for the Government show.
“An audience consisting largely of fat frauen
and buxom fair-haired fraulein assembled in the
handsome concert-room of the German Club on
Wednesday to hear a German concert. The
temperature was a hundred and numerous in the
shade, the frauen and fraulein perspired furiously,
and for an hour and a-half on end the music was
solid Wagner—the first act of the master’s ‘Die
Walkure. ’ Many of the English part of the
audience looked as though they would have pre-
ferred ‘Walker, London,’ to ‘Die Walkure.’
Moreover, the number of big German eagles that
glared at one from the walls made one feel rest-
less. There were four of these fearful wild fowl-
two of them in brass—at the platform end, one on
each side of the room, and two were at the back,
all of them ■ with their tongues hanging out as
though panting for a drink. Moreover, there was
a big bronze bust of Emperor Wandering Willie
towering aloft.. What with the heat, and the hot
frauen , and the national fowls, and the bust, and
the hour and a-half of ‘Die Walkure,’ and the
hard chairs, the ordeal was trying.
“But the music was magnificent! Madame
Wiedermann vvas Sieglinde, and she sang the
furious music with a passion that harrowed one’s
nerves. Indeed, so rapt was she in her part that
she(caused the great joke of the evening. She
sang with the full score in front of her ; and at
one part, where Siegmund (Herr Heinmer) ought
to have chimed in, she went on with his part,
having finished her own, and left him staring
with his mouth wide open, like the brass eagle at
his back, in sheer amazement. Then all the per-
formers burst out laughing, and Madame stopped
and let Siegmund take up the running as per score.
The present writer has not heard such music for
years. . The perspiring frauen, and the thirsty
eagles, and the heat would be worth enduring over
again to enjoy ‘Die Walkure ’ so sung.
“The big Alexandra Theatre was packed from
the front stalls to the back of the gallery for the
Conservatorium students’ operatic concert. And
the show was good. Miss Adelaide Donovan, who
appeared both in the first act of Nicolai’s ‘ Merry
Wives of Windsor ’ and (in page’s dress) in act 11.
of Mozart’s ‘ Marriage of Figaro,’ was a discovery.
She can act as well as sing. She was a bit shy of
her breeches in ‘Figaro,’ and moved about at first
as though in imminent dread that a button or a
seam was going to give way. But she soon lost
the sense of strangeness, and acted Cherubine with
rare spirit. Her Mrs. Ford, in the ‘ Merry Wives,’
sparkled with humor. Marshall Hall also had a
big reception.
. “The ornamentation on the women’s costumes
m the ‘ Geisha ’ is rich and beautiful enough to be
genuine Japanese gold embroidery-work. Perhaps
it is. Certainly it is done from Japanese designs.
Dragons and other wild beasts, worked in gold
thread, spread over the skirts of the principals.
Dorothy Vane’s last dress is a marvellous Jap
creation in gold thread and vellum silk. Cer-
tainly these ‘ Geisha ’ dresses are a vast advance
on the ‘Mikado ’ Jap costumes, either here or in
London, and must have cost the Firm a big price.
Lut why, seeing that the women are so adorned,
is not real gold lace used for the naval officers’
facings ? Unless the present writer is mistaken,
the adornments in these cases are only yellow
braid.
“Re current trial of medium for unqualified
‘healing,’ there are duller ways of passing an
evening than at a stance. My favorite medium
wears an imposing white vest and is generally in-
habited by the spirit of a German doctor. That’s
why he says, ‘ Goot efenings ’ so often. When a
snug congregation at one shilling per head is
gathered, the medium pulls faces and kicks up—
which are preliminary trance symptoms. Now’s
your time to stand up and, addressing him re-
spectfully as ‘Doctor,’ consult him re your ail-
ments in the presence of the listening multitude.
One girl, who had come in her mother’s bonnet,
veil, specs., and mantle, asked in a tearful, quaver-
ing voice : ‘ What’s wrong with my knee, please
doctor ?’ And the spirit answered, ‘You are old,
sister, and your leg will not be better this side of
the grave. If you have spasms, take tincture of
capsicum, dear sister! After this seance I will
speak to you privately through the medium about
your leg and give you lotions and mixtures. I
cannot say all I wish about your leg here, dear
sister, because of two unbelievers sitting near the
door.”
“Impecunious parents, with many daughters to
provide for, might do worse than apprentice one
of the tribe to a palmist. Local hand-readers look
twice as plump and prosperous as the average
governess. And their haughty demeanor towards
clients contrasts comfortably with the conciliatory
mien, characteristic of the worritted school-marm
in her professional dealings. One fat, frumpish,
ungrammatical sibyl, residing in a fifth-rate
suburb, can afford to rest on her oars the whole of
Saturday. You should see her turn away with
scant ceremony would-be customers who, ignorant
of her weekly vacation, arrive by every tram and
vainly entreat the soothsayer for two-and-sixpenny
samples of the Future.
“ Another futurist has elegant rooms in the city.
Cool, green matting, quaint rush chairs, plants in
Oriental jars and an attendant who interprets
dreams, and discusses signs and omens while her
employer peruses palms in an inner holy of holies.
If you desire a soothing half-crown’s worth from
this particular wise woman, speak her fair, and
tactfully ignore blunders. If she starts with the
announcement that you “sing beautifully and
associate freely with a widower, whose first wife
died of mumps,” better not gainsay her. If you
do, you will be baited with gout and consumption
in the family, near relatives in the lunatic asylum,
manners calculated to win you enemies, divorce
proceedings looming over your clan, no matri-
monial prospects, etc., etc. But if tenderly
treated she will probably paint you a rosy Future.
Caebinnation Peacock, Col. Secretary (Vic.),
told the kiddies at Brassey’s school-feed, the other
day, that when he was a small boy with a big
laugh he was a guest, like them, at a similar food-
scramble. That was in Governor Bowen’s day.
Peacock remembered it, because he lost his bun on
the occasion, and his Excellency commanded that
he should be supplied with another. This little
anecdote didn’t seem to make much impression on
the audience.
“On arriving at one of the Very Naicnst ‘At
Homes ’ in Melb., recently, each visitor was
handed an artistic card, embellished with the
words, ‘ Guests are requested to remain silent
during recitations. ’ Nobody had the pluck to bolt
there-and-then, and, scared by the awful mandate,
the whole assembly sat with a dazed expression
and twiddled its thumbs, and remarked, ‘Oh, how
nice! ’ at intervals, while the hostess led off
with ‘ Curfew shall not reeng too-o-night, ’ and
followed with seven other pomes in quick succes-
sion. Then there was a pause of 30secs., while
the lady got her breath, and all the people bounded
up, thanked her for the ‘ very pleasant evening,’
and bolted for their wraps like a routed army
lighting out for a place of safety.
“ That Gippsland matron, included by name in
the published list of the Tyson heirs, is remem-
bered by former school-fellows as ‘ Alonia Tyson,’
a dark-eyed, dressy, dashing damsel, haloed even
then with golden prospects and already well sup-
plied with beaux. Not a scrap like'frugal, flirta-
tion-shunning ‘uncle’!
“ In Gov. Norman’s later Brisbane days, by the
way, Mrs. N. took to quoting Mr. Tyson volubly
to sister committee-women at charitable meetings
and sich, enumerating his contributions to the
Cause with bated breath, and quoting his opinions
on social problems in self-important tones. Hearers
seemingly swallowed their president’s chronicles
like butter. Among themselves they talked with
the cattishness of their kind of a possible marriage
between Jimmy and Miss Norman (the Mrs.
Governor’s step-daughter). The cheerful spinster
in question didn’t seem to trouble much either
way. In looks she was like lots more English-
women—thinnish, blonde, blue-eyed, neat-nosed.
One of ‘ Uncle Albert’s’ daughters, by the way, is
engaged to Major Somebody or other.
"V ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


CO
Ui
-J
h
C 0
<
o
MUJ
otu
:
H
CIGARETTES.
CAN
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
| [Please mention this Paper.]
m
PRESCOTT’S
&. CO’S . .
Celebrated PARRAMATTA
LIME JUICE
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
The most Wholesome and Refreshing Summer
Beverage. Obtainable from all Grocers, Store-
keepers, Hotelkeepers throughout the Australian
colonies.
Sole Agents
or Sydney:
PRESCOTT, DUFFELL & CO.
91 Pitt Street.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Parnell habitually left letters unopened,
saying that whatever was urgent would come by
telegram.
“ Melb.” : All the copious MSS. remains
of Fawkner have just been added to the Publio
Library, and will deserve the attention of some
editor.
Wong Ming, executed at Dubbo last week,
was Nosey Bob’s fifty-sixth victim, and the fifth
Chinaman put through his hands. He was Nosey’s
seventh at Dubbo.
James Cannon went off the other day at
Portland (Vic.), aged 90. Lived and dreamed
there ever since March, 1839, when he and his
wife—who survives him—arrived overland from
Melbourne.
The just-published “ Two Stories from
Dante, literally tomslated in the original metre,
by S. W.G.,” is by Q. Chief Justice Griffith, who,
like Gladstone, is an enthusiastic admirer of the
great Italian poet.
“ M‘G.” : When Jiimhy Tyson was 18 he
was getting 10s. a week ; but the moment he
became his own master he promptly cut down his
wages and he remained an underpaid station-
manager ever after. •
Humored that Daniel Absentee Cooper
intends to realise on his N.S.W. property, and
will withdraw all his investments. And, as Aus-
tralia is about tired of paying Dan’l his great
annual income, the sooner he withdraws the
better.
George Jonas Johnson, of Gippsland, the
other day, applied for a certificate of discharge
from his debts. Filed 31 years ago, and only
whitewashed yesterday, so to speak. A clean-up
in his old age, and making ready for business
probabilities in the “strange countree.” The
estate paid 4s. Id. in the £ —3l years ago.
The lately-appointed Bishop of Papua, the
stately Stone-Wigg, goes shortly to England on a
begging tour. Papua probably needs a loud and
vigorous episcopal beggar more than do other
Anglican dioceses in the South—and, anyhow, the
new Australian bishop always has a pathetic
yearning to show h/s new gaiters in English
society.
A glance through any Australian criminal
album will show that the vast majority of con-
victed men wear moustaches. Clean-shaven crimi-
nals are fairly common, but whiskered ones are
almost as rare as feathered frogs. On the other
hand, the bearded “crook” belongs to the most
contemptible class of malefactor, chiefly compris-
itig as lie does the fraudulent trustee, the swind-
ling solicitor, the Sunday-school teacher who
“blews” the trust-funds of the widow and
orphan in riotous living, and the perverted-
sexual offender. After a look into
the crimes of whiskered convicts,
the average man turns the page to
welcome the burglar and he gar.
rotter as men and brothers.
Two prominent
Vic. politicians,
now fluent and
fo eib 1 e
s p e a k e rs,
wereinyouth
painful staui-
raeFers. One,
ex - Premier
Shiels, w a s
in Scots Col-
lege day s,
kno w n as
stuttering
Billy, 1 hough
he was ve y
popular with
his sehcio 1-
ma tes by
whom he is
spoken of
most affec-
tionately.
There is now
no trace of
an impedi -
m e n t in
Shiels’
speech. The
other is eon-
ventionist
Higgins.
When he first was called to the Bar he could
barely make himself intelligible, owing to his
stammering. It comes out now when he is ex-
cited, and there are some words which he ap-
proaches very gingerly ; but the impediment is
practically cured.
“M‘G. Ventriloquist Travis, at the
Melbourne Opera House, has one of his dolls
made up to repiesent Alfred Deakin, but the
reason is inadequate, as the dummy neither
blithers nor somersaults. (Bulletin doesn’t fully
agree with “M‘G.,” but it admires his grasp of
the British language.)
There died recently, in a Queensland laza-
rette, a leper who was once a wealthy and well-
connected resident of Darling Downs district.
Before being consigned to the place of living
death he was treated by several doctors and nursed
by a woman for some months. That nurse is now
also an inmate of a leper reservation.
Melb. Herald seems to keep a reporter
incessantly on the tracks of O.J. Madden. Scarcely
a day passes without Morejaw Reay recording
some thrilling incident in the life of his ex-
excellency. If Madden, C.J., is not saving the
life of some wandering infant lost in the bush, he
is seizing bolting horses by the mouth and throw-
ing them back on their haunches in Collins-street,
while during his visits to his country home at
Frankston he is continually engaging in hand-to-
hand encounters with infuriated cattle. Madden’s
struggles with infuriated cattle up and down the
Herald columns will make Victoria feel angry
some day.
Old Gavin Brown, who died the other
week, was the most respectable Melbourne stock-
broker on record. He even maintained a connec-
tion with the church—Strong’s Australian Church
of recent years—without laying himself open to
suspicion. But his appearance seemed almost too
much of a personal recommendation. No stock-
broker was ever quite as good as Gavin Brown
looked.
“ H.” : I
take up a
melancholy
series of por-
traits and
biographies
in the Paris
L’lllustra-
TION. It is
on “Les Dis-
Earus ” (the
► isappear-
ed), those
men who, yet
alive, once
boomed high,
were in
everybody’s
mouth and
now are for-
gotten. Such
a series, in
Melb., might
be led off
with Graham
Berry. Then
there’s Mun-
ro Jimmy
—it requires
quite an ef-
fort to re-
member who
he wa s
whilom Pre-
mier, Agent-
General for five minutes, now pottering in house-
and-land agency. I passed Bent in the street
yesterday, broad-backed and bunchy as ever.
He never wasted the fourteenth of a stone
over all his troubles. As for Mat. Davies, he
doesn’t reckon himself by any means disappeared.
Money is accumulating round him again, like
needles to a magnet.
The late Dean Macartney, of .Melbourne,
had a great “down” on smoking. Once, when
some candidates for the office of lay-reader ap-
peared before him for examination, he suddenly
turned to one and asked, “Do you smoke,
Mr. ?” “ Oh, no, sir: never!” “Then
what is this?” drawing out a pipe,
the mouth-piece of which pro-
truded from the candidate’s pock-
et. “Oh that, sir! that —er —
is a present for my brother-
in-law.” “Then let me tell
you that you are abetting
a disgusting habit.” “ Bet-
ting ! Oh, sir, I assure
you that I never ”
But the lie did not
save him. He had
to go down.
EVIDENCE.
DOLLY : “ Ma, I think that you and pa must have
had a very happy life.”
MA: “ What makes you think so, dear? ”
DOOLLY : “ Because I heard pa tell the governess he
only wished that he could live his life over
again.”
Patrick Jonah Perkins, Queensland not-
able, was, in 1864, a brewer at Woods Point (Vic.)
and made the best beer in the province—retailed
then at Is. per glass. It was a common thing for
miners on Saturday night to call for “Pat Per-
kins,” as in former times they used to call for
champagne. M'Lellan, of Ararat, talking to
Perkins once about his beer, attributed its excel-
lence mostly to the mountain waters. “Mebbe,”
said Pat, “but it takes a jaynius for all that to
turn water into good liquor. There’s Bible
authority for that same.”
Old Samuel Hanna M‘Connell, who has
died at Korong Vale (Vic.), aged 80 years, was
present at the Eureka Stockade fight—on which
side is not known. Subsequently lie assisted to
arrest the notorious bushranger, Capt. Melville,
who suicided in Melb. gaol in’s7. Melville was
sentenced to be hanged, but was reprieved—a fact
with which he was not acquainted when lie did
his suicide.
A WORD FROM THE WISE.
MATRON : “ It’s all how you begin with them, my dear. You take it from me —
husbands are not born — they’re MADE ! ”
Novelist William Black, dead in his 57th
year, probably fell a victim to his easy-going dis-
position. According to G. A. Sala, Black took
no exercise—wrote hard from breakfast time till
1 p.m. ; then devoted himself to a very hearty
luncheon, and sat around in his slippers for the
rest of the day, petted by his bevy of pretty
daughters. Black’s daughters were his heroines.
Most of the Tyson yarns afloat are as dull
as wet paint; but this looks characteristic. In
the very early days Tyson and another drover
were stuck up with sheep at the flooded Ovens
River. At Bendigo they were worth .£1 a head ;
but the other drover despaired of getting there,
and sold out to Tyson at 3s. Tyson built a bridge
of forked stakes, saplings, and bark ; got the mob
across, and took the profits. That, if true, argues
ingenuity as well as grit.
Melb. Corporation ought to cut up into
strips itd&atrocious portrait of Gov. Barkly. It
should be thrust in the coal-hole, with the bust of
John Thomas Smith. In the burst of enthusiasm
over Jaeky Tommy’s demise, they stuck up the
bust in the Council Chamber, as a memorial for
ever, but positively couldn’t stand his ugly mug.
Yet it is no worse than that of Socrates, in Melb.
National Gallery. The Bungaree man exclaimed,
“Blest if they ha’n’t got old Tom Carpenter
here!” Tom was the typical goldfields member,
the old Gobtie of Coppin’s famous Parliamentary
amateur night.
Vic. Judge Madden, when he first took
his seat on the bench of the Criminal Court, used
to follow the usual practice, and remind his
prisoners for sentence when they were found
guilty. But when all the sentences of the session
are delivered on the same day, the paper - give no
space to the Judge’s-weighty remarks, and merely
record that J. Smith got seven years. Madden,
C.J., has now given up the practice of remanding,
and when a prisoner is found guilty he gets
bis yard of stern admonition and his sentence on
the spot, and Madden’s scathing observations are
reported in full.
Sydney Mayor Mat. Harris and Alderman
John Harris, brothers, have each a son named
John, pursuing fame and fortune in the old lands.
The latest is that Mnt.’s John has attained a full-
blown lieutenancy in the 6th Enniskillen
Dragoons, and that John’s John hus flourished
into a full-blown surgeon in a London hospital.
Both Mat.’s John* and John’s John are .Sydney
youths. The Australian head of the Harris
family, “Surgeon Harris” of the old Fleet days,
was a man of clinging disposition, and the way he
clung to much land at Ultimo is the secret of the
Harris greatness.
Mayor Elliott, of Ballarat, is about the
most outspoken and fearless sort of civic dignitary
that Australia has yet possessed. He it was who
once publicly told Bishop Thornton that he had
“seen a better man made out of tea leaves,” and
he got home effectually on a temperance deputa-
tion. The cold waterists desired the abolition of
derrink at sports meetings, and as they had pre-
viously waited on Elliott without success another
councillor suggested on their arrival: “Perhaps
the gentlemen may have something new to say.”
“Yes,” observed Elliott blandly from his robes,
“they may want to tell the truth this time.”
Another time Elliott was in Melb. when a temper-
ano" deputation headed by ex-Premier Jimmy
Munro waited on Chief Sec. Peacock. Munro
desired an Act providing, among other things,
that all strangers found in an hotel on Sunday
should be punished by fine. “Yes,” growled
Elliott, “ and they should be allowed to pay their
“ 0.J.” : A smart man in New York has
published a book called, “ Americans of Royal
Descent.” Among other statements in this pub-
lication is one which “allows” that Admiral
Dewey is descended from Alfred the Great —twin-
ing along through three English kings, one French,
and one Scotch. English earls were also mixed
up in the business, up to the point where plain
Thomas Dewey left England for Amurika in 1633
—just 204 years before the admiral was horn. The
whole thing is perfectly clear. Where it touches
Australians is in the fact that the late Salmon
Wilson, big Victorian squatter, was also des-
cended straight from Alfred the Great. And as
Alfred hadn’t a large family, Australia rises to
state that it was there first, and if there wasn’t
enough Alfred for both Salmon Wilson and Dewey
to descend from, Dewey must go away and des-
cend from someone else.
Anging Judge ’Awkins, an old racecourse
identity, who had the job of smashing-up the
Tichborne Claimant when that bulky pretender
was prosecuted for perjury, has retired from the
English bench. Hawkins, although he went on
judging for 22 years, never quite outlived, the
ferocious failures of his judicial youth. He made
an absurdly bad start with the Staunton case, in
which two men and two women were convicted on
the charge of starving Harriet Staunton (wife of
one of the male prisoners) to death. Hawkins
summed-up in a Windeyeresque style, and. passed
the death-sentence upon all four prisoners with
great enthusiasm. Then there was a revulsion of
public feeling, and an enquiry which proved
that the wretched Harriet wasn’t deliber-
ately starved, or “done” to death, but had
been unnaturally treated by her natural pro-
tectors. The three Staunton prisoners got their
death sentences commuted to penal servitude, and
the remaining girl, not having been a “ natural
protector ” of the deceased, was set free, and be-
came a fancy-priced barmaid right away. Soon
after this, reckless Hawkins bounced a jury into
convicting another fellow on a charge of murder-
ing his drunken wife by giving her all the rum she
wanted. Hawkins assured the “murderer’’ that
he would be righteously hanged by the neck till
he was dead, but Hawkins was wrong again. The
sentence got reduced to something less than a
“lifer.” A hard, inflexible old sport with warts
on his face, is the ex-Judge. He happened to
marry a wife who dropped her aspirates and was
won’t to address him as ’Enryor “’Awkins ” at
the dinner-table, but he bears no blood-relation-
ship to the coster in the song.
OPEN CONFESSION.
SMALL BOY: “Phase, mother said to ask for a
pint of treacle and a loaf of bread, and to tell
you I had lost the money a-swallerin’ it.”
Some interesting reminiscences of the
early days of Maoriland have been published in
connection with the recent death in Wellington
(M.L.) of Mrs. Dougherty, relict of Captain
Dougherty. The. captain lived at a whaling station
on Queen Charlotte Sound, and at the time of the
Wairau massacre took the women and children of
the then thinly-populated settlement over Cook
Strait to Wellington in two whale-boats. He at
one time left his wife and family in Queen Char-
lotte Sound in charge of the stores, and two hos-
tile natives came to Mrs. Dougherty and de-
manded possession. She resisted their claims,
and they retired, threatening that during the
night the whole tribe would descend on the settle-
ment, burn the place, and murder the inhabi-
tants. An anxious watch was kept by the unfor-
tunate woman and her daughters, and in the
middle of the night a great fire appeared on the
summit of a hill at the back of the bay. As the
flames leapt up, innumerable natives were seen to
pass in single file, and the watchers gave them-
selves up for lost. An old “ shell-back,’’ however, ■
who was in Captain Dougherty’s employ, crept
up to reconnoitre, and discovered that the two
Maoris who had threatened the place in the day
were walking round and round the fire, to give
the impression of numbers.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his ■
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 4 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8, 4/8, in N.S.W. only. To all the other colo-
nies 1/8, 2/8, 3/8,5/2. Beware of imitations. Only
address: Senior, chemist, 246 George-st., Sydney.*


BREWED FROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN, AND
BOTTLED IN ENGLAND.
Holbrook’s Vipcgar.
Mr. WILL A. DIXON, F.1.Q., F. 0.5., SYDNEY, ANALYST UNDER THE
PUBLIC HEALTH ACT, WRITES AS FOLLOWS:
“ I find that it is a ‘ Pure Malt Vinegar ’ of the highest
quality and strength, being quite free from Mineral
Acids or other Deleterious Matters.”
Holbrook’S Vipcgar.
BEWARE OF COMMON AND LOW - PRICED VINEGARS.
THEY ARE MOST INJURIOUS
FRAFZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
Alligator tale from Cairns (Q.) Post
It will be remembered that a mule belonging to Mr. D.
R. Lewis had its tail bitten off while swimming the
Russell River some weeks ago, and that the animal
promptly retaliated by kicking its aggressor half-way
across the stream. Some people, especially our Southern
neighbors, affected to disbelieve this story, and made
merry at the expense of the mule, the alligator and the
allegation. Last week Mr. R. Cremer, photographer, of
Cairns, visited Mr. Lewis’s plantation, and while the
owner and the visitor were strolling along the banks of
the Russell they came upon the dead body of an alligator
about 12ft. long. The reptile had its skull fractured, and
closer examination proved the existence of a distinct
mark of a hoof. Mr. Cremer at once brought down his
camera, and secured a splendid photograph of the alliga-
tor. A glance at this will convince any doubting Thomas
that the reptile was killed bv the mule.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: With all that’s been said of
Eurombar and its lagoon, little mention has been
made of its brumbies, probably the largest herd
in Australia. In dry seasons trap-yards are made
A HANDY PAIR OF BOOTS.
PATSY : “ Where be yer boots, Tim? ”
TIM: “ Och, sure, an’didn’t yer know that th' owld mahn borried
thim to kick the concait out of Maguire the other night?
Maguire summonsed him nixt mornin', an’ he had to
pawn ’em ter pay th' foine.”
at water-holes, and the brumbies entering at night
are shot down in the morning for their hides. A
few of the best are drafted out, broken-in and
sold. Prices, £1 to =B3. In ’94-’95 no less than
4000 were captured, and as many as 600 were
trapped in four nights. The stench of the dead
bodies was horrible, while crows and hawks flocked
there in thousands. With the breaking-up of the
drought ends the trapping season, and the brum-
bies recruit again in the dense brigalow forests.
* * * *
In the old, happy alluvial days a party had
struck it rich on the west coast of Maoriland, and
when Christmas came they went on a riot that is
still remembered on the damp slopes of the Alps.
Towards the tail-end of the spree the flash men of
the crowd took to lighting their pipes with <£l
notes. After a while a wilder spirit lit his pipe
with a £5 note and excited temporary admiration.
But the big drink-proof Scotchman of the crowd
promptly extinguished him. He wrote out a
cheque for £lOOO, and lighted a cheap cigar with
it while the crowd fell back speechless, and the £5
note man dropped partially insensible in the door-
way. Then the Scotchman stalked away, and the
company looked at each other, and gathered round
the burnt fragment of the cheque, and looked at
it, and said “ My Gawd I ”
* * * *
Droving cattle from the Logan across Dar-
ling Downs in ’B4 ; man in charge decided to cross
the main range by an old bridle-track made in the
pioneering days by Fitz, of Hirst Vale. Tackled
it at daybreak. Mob strung out, and followed the
man in the lead until the steep parts commenced ;
then to keep those leaders moving was the devil.
Shouted, swore, and threw stones for 12 hours—
till our tongues were like leather and hands blis-
tered and bleeding. Half-way up the cattle got
timid and stupid ; some lost their footing, and,
rolling over, cut the legs from under others, and
in dozens they went bumping down. And the
great boulders that bounded in their wake were
things to dodge. At intervals a beast would slip
over a precipice, and twirl noiselessly through
space, and—crash ! —thud ! The old pack-horse
joined in the sport. Down he rolled, jingling
pannikins and hobble-chains, and scattering the
blankets and the bread and the corned-beef broad-
cast. Next day searched the gorges for a grey
mare we were bringing with the cattle, and found
her hanging, dead, in the fork of a tall tree at the
foot of a precipice.— Steele Rudd.
• * * *
“H.M.T.”: The hoodie rat of W.A. is
probably the easiest-tamed animal in the world.
All you have to do is to catch him young, which is
an easy matter, and he at once becomes domesti-
cated. He is about the smallest representa-
tive of the marsupials, and when he starts doing
his eight-inch jumps at your heels he sticks to you
like poverty, but you can shake him off by wring-
ing his neck.
• * * *
“C.J.H.": Re “J.R.B.’s” idea that a
log of wood in a tree-fork would-be raised by
growth of tree, have seen a dead spar piercing a
growing tree half-way down the trunk. Musb
originally have fallen into the fork and been sur-
rounded as the tree grew up. Hasn’t been raised
an inch since it fell. Also, a soft-wood like coola-
bah (with specific grav. greater than ironbark)
doesn’t float worth “shucks.”
“ Big Ned ” was sent out
to put some barbed wire into
an old fence. He had a whole
coil with him, and when he
“ let her go ” the wire made a
bound, and soon the whole coil
had wound itself around him
from knees to neck. When
the boss came along, Ned was
nearly dead, and it took hours
to release him. You want to
jump back the longest jump
you ever took in your life when
the coil is loosened.
* * »
The party was prospect-
ing for coal at the foot of Hun-
gry Ranges, Vic., and the
young Englishman who repre-
sented the funds - providing
syndicate lived apart from the
camp in a nice new tent He
was a nice new young man
altogether, who enjoyed the
“ wild life,” as he called it, in
a picturesque, London. Jour-
nal wayof his own. One night,
however, the others were awak-
ened by fearsome screeches,
and, rushing over in their
shirts, discovered England’s
tent twisted in a large ball,
rolling and bumping about
madly in the moonlight, while
from within it came heart?
rending appeals for succor.
The others flung themselves,
upon the mystery in a body,
and held it down by force
until the youth was able to
get out —a pitiful object, bat-
tered, scratched, and scared
into fits. The “thing’’ was
still snared in the tent, and
cautious investigation ascer-
tained that it »was a big old-
man kangaroo. He had jumped
over a breakwind of boughs
clean through the roof of the
tent, and in the ruction that
followed the two got hope-
lessly tangled in the ruins.
* * ♦ *
“Wallaroo ’ : Just now the N.S.W.
table-land is groaning beneath the inflietion of
countless herds of lean kine discharged from the
waterless west, and all stock routes are strewn
with emaciated corpses. On falling, a thirst-
stricken, exhausted wreck is abandoned to several
days of patient suffering before finally p gging
out, and yet how easy for all drovers to emulate
the example of a merciful few and carry revolver
and ammunition with which to put the poor plead-
ing-eyed creature out of its misery. For cold-
blooded indifference, however, the action of a cocky
publican (owner of an abundantly watered well)
takes the cake. Small mob of horned skeletons,
smelling water, were madly striving to make a
way to it. Drover explained that they had been
waterless for a couple of days, and that the
Government well, six or seven miles back, had
given out. Would Mr. Public-house supply them ?
Was not particular about charge. Mr. Public-
bouse refused. “It would make the yard too
dusty.” And so the unfortunate, bewildered
brutes were forced away with a pitiful lowing that
sounded like a despairing human moan, and with
another day of thirst and starvation before them.
to a wild, weird chorus. Occasionally a note best
described as a howling bark—the voice of a
hybrid. _ While all other Australian animals
harmonise, all marked by nature as loitering
along four thousand years behind the times, the
dingo is a discord. The pricked ears, the char-
acteristic face mark, the wild, distant look in
the eyes and the brushy tail, distinguish him from
the tame dog. The blaek-and-tan dingo, so pom-
mon at the present day, marks a cross with the
sheep-dog. In his way, he is the squatters’ worst
enemy, for, having ail the cruelty of the pure
dingo and his greed for killing, he is less distrust-
ful of man and consequently more daring. The
pure dingo has a slinking habit and a hang-dog
expression; he is a cur by nature and necessity.
Watch him as he conies with swinging trot along
a bush-track. The dejected, half-asleep look, the
drooping head and tail, give him an air of deep
sorrow and reflection. But if the smallest twig
be broken by the way he sees it and immediately
starts into the scrub as though his enemy had
swooped down upon him. His tracks over night
tell their own story. The small foot-prints in the
dust or sand show how he trotted along to a
certain point where they cease. The last marks,
more deeply sunk, show that something startled
him, and, sticking his claws down hard he took
his side leap for cover.
* * • *
Sam was a stockman of ye olden time.
Running brumbies one day with Splodger he
galloped into a clump of timber so thick at one
spot that the only opening was through the fork
of a tree. He could have pulled up, but, as he
said: “No bloomin’ brumby ever got away from
me once I set him, and that lot wasn’t goin’ to
best me. Put ‘Blue Blazes’ at it, an’ he went
up like a rocket an’ through as clean’s a whistle.
Jes barely touched each side with me knees.”
(Sam here spat three times into the fire to allow
time for impressions). “Splodger followed on
Streak-o -Steak, but Stieak was a bit fat and
jammed in the fork of the tree. I yarded the
brumbies single-handed—the very mob 25 Bunga-
bumby cracks ’ad been after for two years. Went
back then and levered Splodger out with a long
pole. Saddle came off with him.” Sam paused
and spat seven times into the fire. “Streak’ad
urt himself strugglin’, an’ I ’ad ter shoot him.
People often wondered after how the skeleton
come to be standin’ way up in the tree. Stranded
in a flood, they reckoned. I knew better.” Sam
laughed, then spat the fire out. He was a stock-
man of ye olden time.
* • * *
There are other things to contend with in
W. Queensland besides heat and flies. Applica-
tion for employment received by meat-preserving
firm :
Nov 12/98. Sir in ref to your advert, in press for bloks
looking for billets ied like to have the bijlit of manager
but as you are the luky one two cooks would spoil the
duff, so ill take any other billet am indifferent as to
sallery any thing over a quid a day an feed will suit iam
a tall slim man very stout on the forehead 14 inches be-
tween the eyes weigh 18 stone banged Paddy slaves when
on the towers fought and beat my grandmother on the
dust heap in 42 rounds wear a number 18 boot don’t wear
soks am a man of the world i smok drink and sin a little
and if required could lie like rougomont tozer or a parson
i can also preserve meat without burying it in the sandy
bed of a river, now old brute a bit of that thing that’s
never accepted that is advice, if you want capable men
to do your graft engage them first come first served, barr
the blok with the bundel of refrences as a rule he is a
fraud i talk from experience he is like the well advertised
patents good on paper only i could tell you a lot more
but the dinner hell is ringing dam writting anyhow.—
Sir Tozer Rocgo.mkxt KCMG reply early, item i forgot
i am a lazy dog therefore a capatil boss ill make the other
coves graft.
AN INDEX TO THE TIMES.
1ST: “ Yer see this rot in ther paper this morning
’bout things lookin' up?”
2ND: “ Yers."
1ST : “ Well, they don't kid me. W’y, I been lookin'
fer cigar butts all day, an’ on’y found two.”
Dear Bulletin.—lt is a mistake of many
“ t’othersiders ” to think that the terms “Sand-
groper” and “Straight-hair ” arc synonymous for
a Westralian (white) native. A “Sandgroper ”is
a white native of Westralia. The term “ Straight-
hair ’’ was given by the free inhabitants to the
convicts on account of their always having their
hair cropped short. It cost a friend of mine a
large black eye the other evening here to discover
the difference. — Outsider.
AMONG THE COOKIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down among the cookies, where the mealy murphies
grow,
Down among the delvers, where the dusty “ whalers’’ go,
Down among the cornfields, where the mortgage makes
the woe,
Down among the furrows dull a-harvesting we’ll go.
Where they’re up before the sunrise, and the work Is
never done,
And you’d wonder where the fun lies in a living hardly
won,
Where the binder sheaves they’re “ stooking ” in a straight
or straggled row,
And there isn’t any cooking much, a-harvesting we ll go.
Where the time to roam and love is when the roasting day
has sped,
And the laughing moon above is peeping from a cloudy
bed,
Where we love the maids and leave them with a feeling
kin to woe—
But it never seems to grieve them while the rovers come
and go.
Vio.
BEN-SON.
yo-J« fnar*\-r
f a STXTToH
A <£>ri< ) o\£{fiQ r *
tb l+\e. ,-
wl^/oHC.V
I=K vvKprl oi U)»r\«.
J 1 Hone.-/
I /\rvd tj toil ■ Oerter '
i 'tip +bp K<=.al|^~
he'll aeyfe^„
£)od d^,
A_r Chl\‘SThas q&pri .
jof ireported
Kelp "to a !t :
to o>->e.
a^pt^
°i MoN ]fij?OTfj
THE MAN WHO HADN’T GOT A THIRST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I reckon he’s the rummest cove that ever I have
knowed,
And I’ve been close on thirty year continual on the road :
I’ve run across all sorts of men when humping on the
track,
I’ve met some mixed lots going round with blueys
on their back,
I’ve heerd all kinds of notions—from the swell who
owned a run,
To the broken-down old drummer, grown cranky from
the sun,
From the mad Salvation soldier-man (who preaches to the
scrub),
To the weary-looking boozer that hangs around the pub.—
I’ve heerd them argue all day long the queerest sort
of rot,
But this cove in particular, he beat the blooming lot.
It’s this way—me an’ Greasy Bill was out at Yarranbar,
And this ’ere cove was sitting down a smoking a cigar.
He hadn’t got a word to say to Ben, or Bill, or me,
But sat there smoking by hisself as peaceful as could
be.
Some other chaps kep’ coming in, and drinking round the
bar,
But this ’ere chap he never spoke, but puffed at his cigar.
Just then, when Bill and me had drunk our grog and paid
our score,
A shearer chap from Bulyersi comes shouting in the door.
“ How are you Ben ? Let’s have a drink. Now you, what
shall it be?”
We named our liquors, one by one, until it came to he.
“ Now, stranger,” said the shearer-chap, “ I do not know
your name,
Don’t be afraid to call your drink, you’re welcome just
the same.”
Then this ’ere chap—it makes me laugh until my ribs are
sore,
For, blow me, if I ever heard so rum a go before—
He said he wouldn’t have a drink ; and then he told them
why,
And, blow me, if I didn’t think the chaps would mostly
die.
Old Ben was wiping out a glass when this ’ere chap, he
spoke,
And Ben, he gave a sort of smile—he thought it was a
joke,
Until he saw the covie’s face, and then I thought he’d
burst.
“ Oh, Lord ! ” cried Ben, “ my blooming oath, he hasn’t
got a thirst!
The man is mad, I’m sartin sure, or else he wouldn t
think
That thirst had anything to do with joining In a
drink.” '
The chaps they laughed until they shook the counter
nearly down,
And Ban, he dropped the glass he had, likewise a half-a-
crown.
“ Well, stiffen me!” said Ben, “ old man, you are the very
first,
The only man I ever knew who hadn’t got a thirst.”
G.S.E.D.
One hears the first dingo just after
sundown. A long, low, flute-like call out of
the distance, answered near at hand, then swelling


“APENTA,"
The Best Purgative Water.
“ The gentleness of its action makes it particu-
larly adapted for women.”— Practilioner. Sole
exporters: The Apollinaris Company, Limited,
London, W.
FASHION
Claipo6rS
For Presents in Perfect Taste—and Good. We
therefore stock them in endless variety, in SOLID
SILVER ranging from 5/• to 20/- each.
Every TOILET REQUISITE and NICK-NACK that Art
has produced is to be found in our Stock at
LONDON CASH PRICES.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
- (The Oldest Jewellers in Sydney)
23 Hunter Street (only),
. . . SYDNEY. . . .
5/9
We find pleas-
ure in sending
Goodson appro-
val to the coun-
try, and also
Catalogues.
Solid Silver
Pin Tray.
5/9
This Year
SILVER-
DAINTIES
are lower than
ever before.
T he Famous French
Chocolate.
cH ocoot - in E n i er
Obtainable from all Urocess and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents :
W. M. Cameron <St Co.,
249 Georye-st., Sydney.
A Beautiful Beer -
in a Beautiful Bottle with a Beautiful Label.
GEO. ADAMS,
Sole Agent.
WHITE LABEL LAGER
“ Snell Two men,
Dunstable and Grutt,
were paddooking in the
side of the hill, in the
vicinity of Cassilis, Gipps-
land, when suddenly the
latter noticed the hill
coming at him. He turned
to leave, and was pounded
in the back with a dull
thud,that drove him as a
bat drives a ball. When
he pulled himself to-
gether, he found a sloping
pile of gravel where there
had been a clean high face
in the hill, and, in one
spot, a little human hair
showed up out of the dirt.
This was Dnnstahie.
Grutt’s tools were buried
under the fall, but he
went to work with his
finger-nails, and clawed
the dirt away from the
face of his unconscious
mate, and then sat apart
to consider a very difficult
situation. He was miles
away from human aid,
and was so badly hurt
himself that he could
barely crawl It would
take him hours to drag
his battered body to the
nearest camp, and mean-
while the man pressed and
packed in the gravel there
would probably die of
suffocation if not of his
injuries. Grutt continued
to think for five minutes,
then he selected a stick
and started to dig, not
about his buried mate,
but along towards tliei
race, and presently he
had a small stream trick-
ling over the fall. He
dug and dug, and suc-
ceeded in turning the
race. After that, the job
was easy ; he sluiced Dun-
stable out of the fall in
40min., and a fortnight
later the mates were graft-
ing again.
“Yarrum”: Other day, whilst out on
Lake Illawarra with a boating-party, spotted a
black shag (“ Fisherman Jack ”) on a dead tree,
close by. Was just going to shoot; but he looked
so sick that I hadn’t the heart. Before we had
proceeded far, he disgorged two unfledged butcher-
birds, but was still looking far from well. It is
not generally known that these fishermen occa-
sionally rob birds’ nests.
• ♦ • •
“ Trav.” ; Was once on an out-back coach-
trip, in company with two constables, two long-
sentence prisoners, a drummer, and nine bottles
of whisky. Second day out, driver said “He’d
be damned if he was going to drive a coach for
any 50 bob a-week ; he was going to have a sleep.”
And he did, in the rack at the back of the coach.
Then argument started between a prisoner and a
constable as to which was the better waltzer, and
it was decided to settle it forthwith, with the
drummer as umpire. The convict’s leg-irons were
accordingly fastened up with a portmanteau-strap,
the other constable whistled an alleged tune, and
they started on the weirdest of fandangos. Pre-
sently the leg-irons fell down, and they both tripped
over them, and couldn’t get up, and it took half-
an-hour to bullock them back into the coach, where
the remaining Robert was weeping on the other
Erisoner’s shoulder, and swearing he d never hand
im over at the gaol ; he’d tear his blanky uniform
off first! It was a wild-eyed and drought-stricken
procession that reached the township, 10 hours
fate, next day.
• * » *
Dear Bulletin. —The peculiar twist of the
brolga’s wind-pipe, which “Barwon’ notes, is to
be seen in the males of a few other birds rurally
known as “buglers.” In the black-and-white
goose the wind-pipe makes a completo coil before
passing through the breast-bone. Undoubtedly
From their strange wind-pipes come the clear
bugle-like notes of these birds. As. to the emu, I
think he does his “ drumming ” with the throat,
and not with the foot as generally supposed.
* • • •
Re snakes’ life-tenacity. Recently put
14in. brown snake alive into methylated spirit.
Bottle quite full, no room for air; yet half an
hour later when I took snake out it was ready to
crawl off.
• • •
“7x7”: Up Inverell way t’other day met
a woman and five children with “bluey” up.
Every child had something. The youngest (three
years) carried a quart pot. They were making for
Bundaberg (Q.) so she said. She had a brother
there.
Dear Bulletin. —Reply to “ Barwon ”
(B. 3/12/’9B). Don’t know voice of emu or appear-
ance of brolya, but whistling swan and whooper,
which I have often shot in China, both, have in
breast-bone a cavity in which the windpipe coils
very distinctly, and thus, I understand, is produced
the clear whistling note characteristic of the swans
in that part of the world. Have heard of other
birds built in same way, but swan is only one I
oan personally vouch for.—C.F.
AN UNHEALTHY CLIMATE.
BROTRER JONES: “And what became of brother Brown?”
CANNIBAL: “I don't know exactly; but it was reported that he went
into consumption !”
Gov. M‘Gregor, of Papua, gives a descrip-
tion of a remarkable implement—the fishing kite,
used at Dobu. The kite is constructed of four
leaves, each a foot long and Sin. broad. Two
strings are required, one about a third of a mile
in length or perhaps shorter, one end of which is
in the hand of the fisherman, who regulates
position of kite. The other string attached to the
kite is long enough to reach the water and may be
from 100 to 300yds. long. To the lower end of the
latter cord is attached, not a hook, but a small
tassel, half-an-inch wide and three inches long,
made of spider’s web. The fisherman gets into a
AUSTRALIAN CHIVALRY.
1ST STOCKMAN: “Is that your wife chopping wood?”
2ND DITTO: “ Yes.”
1ST STOCKMAN: “I can’t bear to see my wife chop wood; I always yet up and walk away.”
canoe, goes to sea, flies his kite so as to keep the
tassel of spider’s web bobbing on the water. The
fish that catches this entangles its teeth in the
soft, loose, elastic bunch of web, from which it can-
not disentangle itself until it is quietly lifted into
the canoe by a small, triangular net mounted on a
forked stick. The web used is the product of a
large spider very plentiful at Dobu.
The “Godless Schools.”
Little faith can be placed in the Scripture
Education League of Victoria by either friend
or foe. Before the last general elections it in-
stigated a campaign in favor of the Irish
National Reading-book, and after the poll it
indicated that it had a majority in the Assem-
bly. Meanwhile, people had inspected the
reading-books recommended. They were found
to be thoroughly unfitted for the use of child-
ren, either on the mental or moral plane. They
contained many chapters full of recondite theo-
logical disquisition, and abounded in sexual re-
ferences not usually recommended tor the
close study of mere children. M’sP. who had
pledged themselves to the Readers, got marked
copies that filled them with horror. They were
particular in looking up the League officials,
when it was found that some of them had
never read the books. The League quietly
met, and withdrew the Readers altogether. It
was announced that a conference of the
churches would propound a new scheme of
lessons. This was repudiated, as the Irish
Readers were. Now the non-R.C. denomi-
national papers are beginning to attack the
League, as the R.C. officials have long done.
The Ballarat Church Chronicle refers to the
League’s operations as an attempt “ to tinker
up the faulty existing means.” Another reli-
gious paper, the Mitre, refers to the
League as “an undenominational hybrid.”
The league gets a certain amount of support
from politicians, because the religious crowd
needs placating. It is certain that the secular
features of the Vic. system will be kept un-
touched, and the politicians who are making a
noise about “ the religious training of the
young ” know they are quite safe in occasionally
barracking for the hopeless fad of a faction that
is doomed to be always in a minority.
“ Chqx”: James Tyson lived the miserable
existence of a gold-haunted hermit, piled up a
fabulous fortune, died in his sleep, was buried in
an ordinary timber coffin —and went the way of
all millionaires. He was followed to the grave by
about a dozen vehicles—filled mostly by expectant
legacy-hunters—and his remains had hardly settled
down before the nearest of kin were clamoring at
the law-courts for letters of administration.
* While Tyson was sleeping to death at Felton
station, another well-known man in Queensland —
Theodore Wood —was making merry with some
boon companions on the Wcdonga, just before
sailing for New Guinea. Wood came to Australia
some years ago with about <£loo,ooo, which he
razzled away in less than three years. Since then,
he has been private-secretary to almost everybody
of note in the South Seas—including New Guinea
Macgregor—and, in Tyson’s last moments, Wood
was joyously departing to fill a minor magisterial
post in Papua. The writer, who was present at
the “send-off,” couldn’t help contrasting the
animal spirits and boisterous good-fellowship of
the impoverished plunger with the bloodless
stoicism and narrowness of the millionaire. ’Tis
better to have had and spent than never to have
spent at all.
Tattoo inventory of an Australian criminal:
Man in fighting attitude, two girls under wreath, mal-
tese cross, and star tattooed on breast, sailor climbing
mast on inside muscle of upper right arm ; crossed flags
on outside of same ; flower, butterfly, two women’s busts,
and heart pierced with dagger on right forearm ; star,
crossed flags, and maltese cross on upper left arm ; cat,
woman’s head, clasped hands, Prince of Wales’ feather,
two doves flying, and cross on lower left arm; star on left
wrist; two doves flying over cross and heart pierced with
dagger with wreath underneath and scroll on top, three
stars, woman’s bust, star, cross, anchorand heart, clasped
hands, and maltese cross on thigh of right leg ; woman’s
bust on right calf, woman in theatrical costume on thigh
of left leg ; cross, anchor, heart, and woman’s bust on
calf of left leg. One previous conviction.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken or communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear oil MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
W. J.D. : In reality there never was any Clean
Shirt Ministry in M.L.; it was never formed. And it
wasn’t so named because its head was in his shirt-sleeves
when sent for, but because he stopped to put on a clean
shirt before attending- the Governor, and that shirt lasted
out the Ministry Violette: Nothing in fowl yarn.
May use other .'...E.8.W. : Venerable idea, with no re-
juvenation in treatment J.D.D.: Ponderous treatise
calmly awaiting luggage-van Kathleen E. : “Twi-
light” well-versed and simple. “ Bohetnienne ” trite in
idea and awkward in rhythm J.B.M. : What we count
decipher of it wasn’t worth the trouble Prooshan :
Not worth while Jep : Bunyip not only deads but
buried Van Demon : Both right, but the Professor
rightest. It’s one of those cases in which the colloquial
supersedes the academic; as in “the Miss Smiths,”
instead of “the Misses Smith” .H. Thomas (W.A.):
Funny, but too long Normanton : Noted, what s the
m0ra1?....6Y.H.:“ Stubbs” worthless G. Deane: Too
malodorous C.W.G.H. : Sorry unsuitable Andrew
J.fl. :No points about your fat doctor B.X. : Hardly
usable, as it stands J.N.L.S. : Barmaid par. is
too long, and hardly worth condensing Lance T. :
“Immortelle” wants to go in three. verses, and
better Trotter B. : This bald head is bowed to
your reproaches. But your variant is not evidence
against other man’s positive statements Tin-Lip :
Good jingle Eclipse: If we print a page of rotten
verses, we'll consider it .. Fred B. wants lines called
“My Sister’s Picture,” alleged to have appeared in Tub
Bulletin Adair W. (California): We’ve received ’em
(have you got ’em ?).... 64 A : There’s a poetical germ in
every Irishman ; but its development is sometimes Awful.
E. N. McCulloch :No Bulletin value ... G.L.: Doubt-
ful ... Sival: Possibly Private (Q.) : But if we printed
it, how much would the person then in charge of the
ke v vs ask for squaring? .. Nell Cook: Ant-yarn vague
and unconvincing .... Renar : Considering .W.H.P. :
Believe “Mountain-Top” acknowledged unusable. “Love-
o’-Women” doubtful De Profundis: Not up. ...
W.D.H. : Go two terse lines—
“ If yer wants any hell yer must pay yer toll,
Yer can get a bit o’ hell Out-Back.”
G.S.D.: “ Man who hadn’t got a Thirst” accepted
Narnalla : Thanks. Mostly good. ... Traveller : “ Tired”
makes us ditto all over . Kelly the Rake : Not much of
a joke J.H.M.A. : “Ballade of Western Plain” fills a
great want in our soul ... W.M. : The adjective horse
that went up the rigging dates from the galleys of old
Sidon .. VV.W.R.: Jokes not jocular enough W.H.D. :
Will probably use “Postponed Suicide.” E.jAV. : Will
print “On the River.” Co.nstant Reader(Colac): Many
thanks Policy-Holder : All the A.M.P. clerks that this
paper has heard of get very decent salaries, as clerks’
salaries go. Wants much more detail Totara : Don’t
think Carbine ever entered a show ring, but Mentor (a
previous Cup-winner from Wallace’s stable) took second
prize at an agricultural show.. The Rip : Can probably
use “ The Bald Brigade.” Other subject is old and feeble.
Take more pains with your metre ... J.D. : Is this a deep
conundrum or plain beer drivel ?
Here I sit upon a stick,
A stick that hit another stick ;
The other stick this stick has hit
Is hard to find—but I’ll stick to it.
The end has come—the day is done,
There’s nothin’ particlar
But a hill full of ditches.
Away from it—l shake my wits.
But here I find it is the stick,
The-stick that hit the other stick ;
The stick I would not have had missed—
A match for me, I’ll try a lit.
Peter Me. : Possibly one Ducas : Nobody named Bloggs
can ever be- a poet. Bloggses are predestined to be
butchers from before the foundation of the world Car-
bine : You don’t give names and addresses —even your
own Carini: Better stick to short verses ; they’re less
trouble to throw out 8.8.8. : Perhaps one. ..Bensuri:
“Blanket Flat” is nearly good enough Essor: Poor
attempt. ~W. Jara : Get an elephant to walk over you and
flatten out “poetical aspirations.” J.L. : Subject too
odorous for anything but allusion .... Lex (K.) : Very
mild case J.E. :No use applying trade formulae to
calculate the breaking-strength of Sampson’s chains. You
can’t argue from one unknown quantity to another un-
known quantity Jumbuek : Only two cures —arsenic
or “the Army.” A.C.C. : Stiff and choppy—one of
vour poems is as good as three trips to Manly ... John
Egan : Not up Walter B. : What in the name of purple
thunder is it all about? Felix H. : Couldn’t well be
more hopeless W.A.P.: No use Northener : Yarn
has come in a dozen times already Breaker : Prose not
up G.H. (Vic.): Will write Frank K. : "Hearts of
the West ” is more promising : but you haven’t skill
enough yet Cooee : Joke too small . Barney : Squashed. ..
Bunny: One may do ..Harp: Not good enough
A.P. : Cartoon idea not serviceable Pat Williams :
19th century expires at midnight 31st December, 1900.
The first century couldn’t expire till the end of 100
Yarrum : Old woman who died like blank quite
unpublishable Barkis (Tasmania) : A very fine piece of
verse. Thanks A.M.A. (Tasmania): No good flapping
vaguely at abuses with a vague wet towel. Remarks
about G.W.R. steal have all the facts left out L.G.D. :
Verses in type, but crowded out for some time past
Zebu : You would never say, “ Let the dead past bury
its dead,” for instance. A Johnsonese person like vou
would write, “ Permit the defunct previous to deposit its
Eersonal deoeased in the sarcophagus.” . The Harp :
ong, neat, ordinary poem about flowers and trees. The
neat ordinary poem is accursed Sliprail : Not in it
with some mean men we know... .Claudia : Will pub-
lish your drought-poem. .Yep: Cheerful as cold
gruel A. 8.8. : Not so very remarkable. The meat-
eating sheep is growing common in Australia. A time is
evidently coming when man will have to defend himself
from the carnivorous wether w hich pursues him for his
flesh G.G.; Poem under dubious consideration
Frances D.W-. : Interesting in a way, but doesn’t suit
Bulletin. Will consider anything else sent .. Diver :
Pity you ever came up again! Murra : Verse gallops
like a cow with her legs tied Anthony G. : “ After all,
manner’s nothing—the matter’s the thing.” Nonsense ;
what’s the value of your matter if your manner prevents
people from reading it?. .RufHer : “ You’ll have no more
to do with us.” Hallelujah! Jumbuek: Will consider.
“ V.K.” is his real name. Will look up address
R.E.H. : Two verses -of the poem on “Measles,” hereby
rescued from oblivion :
To-day you’re feeling happy and contented with your lot,
To-morrow you’ve the measles, and you dunne who you’re
not,
So you go to bed unwilling, feeling very ill indeed—
You’re confounded hot and oranky, and rather off your
feed.
Eels, castor-oil, and limejuice, with a little bathbrick, too,
Will soon effect a remedy quite good enough for you.
Mix the castor-oil and bathbrick. add the limejuice and
the eels,
And mark upon the bottle, “ to be taken after meals.”


A FOWL OUTRAGE.
FARMER TURNER: “ What! firing at the boss rooster! I shall give you into the custody of a select committee."


MACDOOLAN’S WHEAT.
m 7TTr kt tjac)oim srorfk! farming do dnonh sMtm
Jfnd li MQnkurj ad cd ylXi&
~p|
■ C Of fJacPooW bjiUiwiti!
Wld mhdpkjhmm
Or'potiitKj' tiitoftfW mat
too ,wfortosfiistpßßß
Of k mu§ for fa ter,
Ofk bdrMiqsk fik&iK'
\xi fe torm Mcf fg compte
we Are, a fad] mi harms kudn coi/my j whi) \u\.
W\ia h i\mm iMapbi&kmiMhrni
* ' *oJ hhw tfmHiJatyty caiii {m abhak cheat
A owed fa iMap {nug Ip mtjaj for m Hbe£'
aHGHw claiflM sMrmjUk^h.
feuapij: - gMocMm,
mk clrntd cat jd mm rnd fteato
<r ©iff fifefws until tk bmuks <sWung C)ac])flolati y (Mafoo.
Jfailh %nm fell; tfe stow U ffacMm iii km fkatf „
Mule fijpe- tmskp jfcj |kfjewfj|rt ulfjtfT


The N.S. W. Lager Bier Brewing Co., Ltd.,
of Moore Park, Sydney, has placed upon the mar-
ket a splendid Lager Bier called Sydney Lager
Lier. This bier is the choicest thing ever offered
to the people of N.S. W. Analysts praise it most
highly ; doctors recommend it to convalescents
and connoisseurs at the last Sydney Agricultural
gave it first prize against all competitors.
n £ troubled the rational people of
N.S. W. is ‘what to drink.” There is no fun
in summer weather in drinking .fiery alcoholic
liquors that break up the nerves, affect the diges-
tion, heart, liver and kidneys; and on the other
hand there is only an intense vagueness and total
dissatisfaction in drinking wish-wash. Sydney
Lager Bier is the happy mean between these ex-
tremes, and people in the country who desire to
have the newest and best drink going should com-
municate with the N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing
Lo., Moore Park, Sydney, for particulars. Al-
though'the-new .lager is so much superior to all
others, it is the most reasonable in cost upon this
market.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
_?• Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
lUizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest,buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Sydney D.T.’s London correspondent gives
some anecdotes from Barry O'Brien’s new life of
Parnell:—
“ How did Mr. Parnell look when he came to your
meeting?” an Irish member was asked bv an English
Radical after the divorce case. “ Well,” said the Irish
member, “he looked as if we had committed adultery
with his wife.”
Walking with his private secretary in the Strand, Par-
nell was one day saluted by a Nationalist member. “ Who
is that? ”he asked Mr. Campbell. “ Don’t 3 r ou know ?”
was the answer. “It is one of our party, Mr. ."
“Ah !” said Parnell, “I did not know we had such an
ugly man in the party.” ,
When the Lord Mayor of Dublin presented him, from
the Irish people, with the Parnell Tribute—a sum of
£37,080 —his lordship, who had a pretty knack of speech,
had naturally prepared a few appropriate observations.
The ceremony was to be held at Morrison's Hotel. The
Lord Mayor, having been announced, bowed and began,
“ Mr. Parnell—” “I believe,” said Parnell, “you have
got a cheque for me.” The Lord Mavor, somewhat sur-
prised at this interruption, said, “ Yes,” and was about to
re-commence his speech, when Parnell broke in, “ Is it
made payable to order and crossed ? ” The Lord Mayor
again answered in the affirmative, and was resuming the
thread of his discourse, when Parnell took the cheque,
folded it neatly, and put it in his waistcoat pocket. This
ended the interview. The whole business was disposed
of in five minutes, and there was no speechmaking.
Fruit in season. In summer she provides
her meat; in winter, finds her store complete.
This is the position the thrifty housewife finds
herself when she takes advantage of the bountiful
supply of fruit we are going to have this season.
M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg, of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, have anticipated the season and are now
landing their stock of specially-manufactured
fruit-jars. Lightning, Mason, Chicago, Perfec-
tion, &c., &c., all guaranteed and air-tight. Jam-
jars ail sizes and kinds.*
Messrs. Craig and Aitken, of 680-682
George-street, Sydney, are a famous firm of hair-
dressers and tobacconists. The excellent “plum”
razor which they put upon this market has made
shaving a real pleasure, and any man who goes to
the shaving-pot with the feelings of a martyr has
only to get a plum razor in order to negotiate the
business with the air of a conqueror. Craig and
Aitken, too, are to the fore with specialities for
ladies ; and, as the hair is so important a part of
a woman’s beauty, Craig and Aitken deserve the
thanks of the fair sex for the beautiful fringes,
wigs, &c., &c., which they stock. Country hair-
dressers and wigmakers should take care to keep
in touch with the popular Sydney fhm, for by so
doing they will get all that is up to date in the
way of their business. Country visitors to Syd-
ney should call at Craig and Aitken's for a hair-
cut or a shave ; and, if they feel inclined for a
good smoke as well, they will find at 680-682
George-street the best pipes, tobacco and cigars in
town.*
“ASK AND YE SHALL RECEIVE.”
The best is worth asking for. “D.C.L.”
Whisky is the best that Scotland produces and
you are not likely to get it unless you specially
ask for it—“ D.C.L.” Whisky, please.
A. Saunders.
8 Love Birds Pearl-set Gold Brooch, 20g
Plain Birds, 13s 6d ;
2 Birds Pearl-set, 17s 6d.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls,
££ 6s ; 5 Diamonds, £4 4s. Very strong
Brooch.
18c' Solid Gold, 17 Diamonds, £lO.
2 Bird Pearl-set Gold Brooch, Red or Blue
Stones, 17s 6d, latest style.
A. Saunders.
15c. Heart-drop, Diamond and Ruby, £2 15s.
New Style, Love Bird and Chain.
Gold, 8s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
Any Name or Motto Free.
15c. Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Registered.
Gold, 2 Love Birds, 2 Diamond-cut Heart
Amethyst, 205.; Pearl-set Birds, 225. 6d.
Procured only at A. Saunders.
m
A. Sounders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 255. Registered.
2-Bar Scroll Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
15s. Latest style.
A. Saunders.
2-Bar 15c. Gold, Pure Diamond, £2.
A, Saunders.
Ladies’ Long- Granny or Muff Chain*.
9c. Gold, 355, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
15c. Gold, £4, £4 10s, £5, £B.
We can make any special design.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires or
Rubies, 4 Diamonds, £3 ;
Double - cut Diamonds,
£3 10s and £4. Send for
illustrations.
18c. Solid Gold, extra Strong
and Heavy, one or three
Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s., £3, £4.
Pure Diamond Band Rings,
15c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
18c. Gold, Pure Double Cut
Diamond, t's 5s ; Larger,
£6 6s, £7 10s, £S 10a, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Anv Name.
00. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15c., 208, 255;
18a, 255, 80s, 358, £2.
#c. Plain Links, 10s 6d.
Chased, 12s 6d;
15c. Gold, 22s od.
Silver, 2s 6d and 3s.
15c. Solid Gold, .Hand-made Brooch,
60 Diamonds and 8 Sapphires, 15s.
58 Diamonds, 120.
A NICE XMAS PRESENT.
KSJP
GOEM—i
A. Saunders.
Large Size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
15c. Gold „ „ 455.
A. Saunders.
Gold Brooch, Bird Pearl Set, Amethyst Heart,
21s; 15c., 1.2.
Latest London Rage. Try One.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s t>d ; Extra Strong, 10s;
16c. Gold, 16s ; 13c. Gold, 208-
Silver, 8s 6d.
a. Saunders.
SoUd m GJd^« d M n ?s R M ntf ?n. and h Kee P er *.
16s ; extra heavy', Go ' d
heavy, 30., 365, 1
Mo. Solid Gold Hand-nmd* Bracelet, a? Diamond*.
Extra Strong, £22 10*.
20s.
eft
&
0
©
0
kgs
20s.
A. Saunders'
Unrivalled Non-Magnetic Lever : perfect timekeeper : stronr
Bushman Watch, 20/-. Written certificate 12 months. Last
T-, your life. Other styles, 7/6, 10/-, 15/. «
Pure Silver £2 £2 10s, £3, £4, i 5, £6, £7, £B. 2, 3, 4,6, and
6 years’ guarantee. Send for Price Book.
Gold Watches, £4 4s to £3O.
□
Extra Strong, 15c. Gold, Hand-made, 2 Heart Bracelet,
40 Diamonds, £22 10s.
25 Diamonds and 15 Rubies, £l6 16s.
Procured only at
A. Saunders’
Registered Pater Christmas. Bell and Peart-
set Bird, 13s 6d; 3 Bird Bell, only 10s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Solid Gold Hand-made Brooch,
21 Diamonds, £lO.
Very Pretty.
p
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 16a Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6, £6 Ida, £7,
£3, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s fld, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS’
vZ!^:p C ] f eS ’ Th n^.i^ er pl ate is a Panorama of Loveliness. Kindly call and
Trv’us o/ RP nH fn Th ® fi . nest Exhibition in Australia. We will do our utmost to please you.
rry us, or send for our Price List, Post Free.
(nearly opp. Railway Station)
815 George-street, Sydney.
..i C ?, mpt ? n .” : < - )ne interesting: class of play. dealing
tvithlreneh life, which turns upon the exploits of the
duellist the very best kind of melodrama—is practically
shut out from us in Australia. Such p.avs are produced
t,Ue ’ but thelr 111110 efft 'ct is lost. We have, appar-
ently, no men on the hoards who can handle a sword con-
V ?*" convey any suggestion of an actual duel
Under the Red Robe ’ comes in my recollection as a
to re thJ.‘ C p“ ,aX t 0 a J‘ n l 0f siuiilar P la - Vs stretching back
to the Corsican brothers,” in which the whole interest
culmtnatmgm a fight, was killed dead and flat by the
spectacle of two beefy and unconvincing thespians
w n he n leet • ” lued t 0 the stage, chopping
fierceness at one another’s
st ords. And yet, if stage-managers only knew it
one of the fattest things the stage affords is thus bungled’
uway. What excitement in melodrama is equal to the
-r? ° f a i d . uel V the cold'Wooded and courtly edition
° f .,i th . e Ide-and-death encounter—with ceremony and
frilled lace? bland Holt's horse-races, bike matches and
mreV^to 8 if ~e 'T' thl "' in d ,*: a,l . latic ‘"tensity when com-
?. a ‘f d . 1° IL . a realistic presentment of these,
though, the right kind of entrepreneurs are ready to lay
out their hundreds; and they fritter away the infinitely
keener excitement of a fight for dear life by engaging men
hlnnrt ha ' 6 t h .o ,'° Wh ly learnt their business. Our
“ Thl ReH C lfol dl -> n "rh the prelmiinal ' ies in the Hist act of
,. lhe Ked “° ,e j , ihere was not a man in the audience
who "rl ll .? t at point when swords were drawn—
who duln t realise that it was I)e berault, the first
swordsman in Prance, upon whom the youngster was
And whh thefir r°h e h T ISe L vaitcd for hii annihilation.
And with the first hopeless chop of the duel the illusion
\anished, and we knew it was only Knight and another
actor hanging unsatisfactory tin swords together It was
?hl'eTK "‘r 11 , 1 that lasted ali through the piece. If
the Three Musketeers, ’ now being produced at one of
hone°d that® the Pi? 8 Lond ° n > is hrooght here it is to be
hoped that the title roles will be filled by men who have
learned to fence. Otherwise I shan’t go.
Some excitement was caused in a certain Sydney
theatre at a recent matinbe by an inebriated elderly per-
son in the front stalls, w'ho proceeded to fire his worldly
possessions at an imported artiste. After emptying his
pockets and throwing the contents on to the stage he
took out his watch, and was removing his sleeve-links
and studs, when the lady finished her turn. The old
gent s ragp when a super. ca>"“ out and collected his
valuables was unbounded.
A push of pro’s, padding the hoof from Ballarat to Mel-
bodr''f’ advirUs . ed ‘‘Kast Lynne” for a one-night stand
teresf he cent, ' e of the Buncaree potato in-
terest. At the last moment, drinks, and other circtim-
®tanc.ef °' cr u ’h:ch the co. had no control, rendered it im-
possible to put up the simfflesome drama, and a farcical
comedy was substituted. The patrons were not made
a ". ari ; T of the change of bill, and apparently only knew
h.vreputation. Anyhow, the first act of
the comedy passed in mournful silence, and durin«- the
E? d nnHit o '"fl n were weeping piteously all ove~r the
Jv a ®’ a d ™‘. e ,nduence of a terrible visitation hung about
the men. The play was an unqualified success, and, after
the performance, a small deputation waited on the
manager, requesting him to stay-in the town for one night
more. That ‘East Lynne’ was all right,” said the
spokesman, ‘but its too doleful, and we want you to
give us something lively for to-morrow ni”ht ” The
manager decided rv‘ to stay, and his reputation is still
good in Bungaree,
A London theatrical costumier on the subject of stage-
illusions : Just as Sir Henry Irving had to be shortened
for Napoleon, so another celebrated actor, Mr. Wilson
Barrett, has often to be lengthened. Mr. Barrett is a
little below the average height, yet when he appears in
Kingly or other parts demanding physical presence his
aspect is that of a more than ordinarily tall man. An
inch or two is really given him by elevated boots, but a
good many fictitious inches are added by the illusion of
clothes and surroundings. His garments are cut low and
clear at the neck, and made to sweep round the fin-ure
These devices, with a careful regard not to place himself
in the vicinity of someone really taller than himself, raise
him from the undersized man of about Bft. 4in. ” (this
must be understating Barrett’s height) “ to the tragedian
king of 6ft.” All the same, the physical fraudu-
lency of Barrett obtruded itself upon Australian
notice from the first. As Claudian he had an unnatural
appearance, and women remarked that he was mostly
head and legs. It was as though a surgeon had sawn him
in two across the stomach, cut off a big slice from the
bottom half, and fastened the noble Roman together
«fain. As Othello, his boots were so bogus that he had
the effect of walking on stilts. His Hamlet irritated with
its stodginess. Physically, as artistically, he was always
a short man trying to bluff the public into believing him
great. With the exception of Miss Jeffries, every mem-
| 3 ® r . his co - was lacking in height and presence, and
their duty as a rule was to appear unimportant in the
background whilst Barrett made the most of himself in
the centre of the stage.
“Ancient”: As illustrating the force of habit, this
memory comes in. G. V. Brooke, when acting, used to
stimulate with brandy. His first wife used to stand in
the wings ready with bottle and glass. Gave him
homeopathic nips, which served as well as bumpers.
When she left him his nigger valet used to administer the
poison. He served out conscientious doses. Result very
often that Othello was as tight as Cassio, and the growth
of a, habit that fed upon itself. In the ecstacy of his
acting water would have served the man as well as
brandy.
“ O P.” : Remember, when a kiddy, seeing Helen
hancit as Desdemona to Phelps’s Othello. The impreg-
M '?, n Inow recall is that she was singularly free from the
stilted and conventional style of acting at that time in
vogue. But don't we, who howl at the artificial, some-
times knock our heads against the other extreme ? Is
mere not stich a mistake as “ artificial naturalness ? ”
All ai t is exaggeration, but it seems to me, an ancient,
that much of modern acting is an exaggeration of re-
straint, and, therefore, without salt and flavorless. Be-
lieve lne, there is as much cant in restrained passion as
torced passion. As things go now, if an actor depicted
the rage of the man in the street, he would be dubbed
emotional and a ranter 1 Why is it that we should now
demand upon the stage a repose of manner and action
which we do not observe in our daily lives?
“S.R.” : “ N." accounts for actors taking up the
religious biz by the statement that they are seriously im-
pelled thereto. Rats! I’ve seen as much of munimers
as most. Have, now and then, and here and there, been
one myself. And 3 say that when you hear of an actor
groing' in for the pulpit line, you may be sure there is
Coin in it. The elocutionary effects which are stale on
the stage, make’em sit up in the Lord’s house; where,
as a rule, the anointed are such dismal frosts. It is a
meie question of church and stage, and a revelation of
the circumstance that, to be successful, they must be
run on similar lines.
(( When the veracious Capt. William Jackson Barry was
lecturing” once in Melb., his announced chairman did
not turn up, and an old pal of Barry’s volunteered to act.
Unfortunately, however, he wasn’t in temperance .prize-
taking condition, and, though he held out manfully for
some time, he at last interrupted the captain in full
career with, “ Barry, old man, 1 think it’s time we had a
drink. The suggestion hit the audience straight, and an
adjournment en masse followed.
“ Shifter ” ; Apropos Caron, of the baton, shaving.
V\ hen Harwood had made an English trip, he made a
speech before the curtain in his long black beard. Ten
minutes .afterwards he bounded on the stage clean-
shaved, as Cassandra, in Akhurst’s “Siege of Troy.”
: When knocking about Maoriland (Mahurangi
district) just before the war, came upon a lady milking
cows. Struck me that there was something stagey about
her appearance and attitude. Wore bracelets. Hair
streamed, like Ophelia’s, down her lily-white shoulders.
An ancient dressing-gown trailed in the straw. When
she saw me, she sprang to her feet. I bowed, and inti-
mated that I desired refreshment, for which I was willing
to pay “Pay!” she exclaimed with staccato voice
» u ol hospitality. Never 1 Stranger, follow me.”
And she hitched her dressing-gown over her arm and
stalked with tragedy-step towards the house. We entered.
Barry ! ” she cried. “ Here ! ” returned a hollow voice,
from an inner room. “A stranger, Barry,” cried the
lady, who shelter seeks, and food.” “ What’s he like ?”
growled the voice. “ H’in 1 ” and she looked me over
‘ A goodly guest, my Barry.” As she spoke, there saun-
’■'e,*£c* i ; o, V the.room within a tall, clean-shaven man, with
ruffled hair, and clad in d*n£y shirt and trousers. I
recognised him instantly. It was Barry, an American
actor, who came over from California with Stark, the
tragedian, and who was not appreciated. So he had
bought a farm in Maoriland wilds, and there I met him.
Stayed with him a week, and left under protest. Next
time I saw him at Newcastle, where he gave a recital, and
got a vessel for 'Frisco. “ Australia is too young, my
boy,” said he ; “ Art loves a ripe community.'’
“ This actor retches, and calls it emotion.”— Anier.
Engaged one day in wordy war with another Milesian
lady, whose sons had frequently “ done time,” the
Hibernian mother of a now-deceased Australian actor
thanked God that none of her sons had ever been in gaol.
To which, promptly, the enemy : “ An’ thank God I niver
had a son a pla.v-aethor, annyway!” Shades of “Mr.
Wilson Barrett" and “ Mr. E. Lewis Scott! ”
“ Old Jack ” : When things are fixed up satisfactorily in
“ The Liars,” the bad-tempered husband of the play says
to his skittish wife, “ I know I have been harsh in the
past, but in the future I will do all I can to make your
life attractive. Come and have supper at the Savoy.” If
I were to pitch that slab of dust-cart bathos at the But-
LRTiN as part of a story, what show would that yarn have
of escaping the VV.P.B ? But the fact is that the man
who nowadays wants to write a popular novel or play
must steep himself to the lips in the slough of common-
place. Now I’ll go home.
Who can out-do the average musician for humorless
conceit? Related of a fairly successful young composer,
now in an Australian metropolis, that he was reoently
urging a friend to visit Madame ’s pianoforte
" "’bat is the programme?” he was asked.
'Veil, replied the gifted one, “ there’s some of Beeth-
oven, and Chopin, and Schubert, and Grieg, and myself."
A once well-known travelling-show pianist, recently
deceased in Sydney, had a curious antipathy to socks, to
conceal the absence of which he was wont to turn-in with
his boots on and remove the latter under the bedclothes.
Edwin Alexander, now-defunct comedian, was onoe
laid up with sore throat in a M.L. hotel, and a waiter was
sent to know if the invalid would like some tfruel. Said
he would—with some rum in it. And, as the attendant
was leaving the room, Alexander added, “ blot very
„“ oh * 1 know,'” replied the other, “ just a small
nobbier. ‘ Small nobbier be d d! ’’ exclaimed A.
Not very much gruel in the rum, I mean ! ’’
A well-known Teutonic orchestral player, while fulfill-
ing an engagement in Sydney, thought he would go fish-
ing, and, being advised to bait with prawns, had this ex-
perience : “I puy me a fishing-line and vent to a pork-
butcher und took for sixpence prawn (hrawn). Zen I go
fishing, und I stop zere all day, und catch nodings, und I
os ® m .v prawn. ’T vas better I eat him mineselluf.”
.'ooey-pervading German band recently performed
in front of the house of a well-known musician, and
when one of them knocked at the door for backsheesh
the musician appeared in person and said : “ Master says
he objects to give anything to a band which has not a
euphonium. “ Bot ve hef a euphonium.” “ Not aßb
euphonium?” “ No, an Eb.” “ Ah, you see, that’s the
difficulty ; and he closed the door and left the Teuton
petrified.


Federated Australia
The Two Principal Colonies agree to sail under the One Flag:
Bile Beans for Biliousness
n
6
V/,
m
m
4
a
m
Ya
n
m
%
(\
ST
V
m
m
'■V:Y
I
V
i
b
\
%
V
%
t
i
m
I
m,
7
/V/l
1
%
7/
/
7a
m
V/s
r
iV
h
w
V
/.
m
m
m
WM
W
//
j r-
V/.
mj
Gr.T, to Gr.K. : “Oh, Oeorgie, had you only given Bile Beans to the Convention delegates when I advised,
there would have been no ‘ Braddon’s Blot ’ to ruin the cause of Federation.”
bile beans.
BILE BEAN'S are an undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Female Weakness, Pale-faced
Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples, Blotches, Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney T roubles, Dyspepsia, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and Side, Fulness
after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn, and that Tired Feeling. They are manufactured in one of the best-fitted and equipped laboratories in the
world, at Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A., and they have been used throughout that country by the best physicians for years, and the amount of time and labor
expended in compounding them would, even if someone had the formula, exclude them from selling them, as it is only on account of the sales bein" in the millions
annually that they can be sold at the low price, owing to the great cost of the ingredients.


HOT WEATHER DRINKS.
Man’s thirst in days of heat and toil
Is boundless as the sea ;
But once the BILLY ’gins to boil,
The fragrant BILLY TBA
Cures cark and care, and stills turmoil,
And satisfied is he.
Then, if on Social pleasures bent,
When friend would meet with friend.
You seek for means of quiet content
A pleasant hour to spend,
Of all the gifts that gods have sent
None beats “ White He?,':her” Blend.
JAMES INGX.XS & CO.,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE ;
Agent s for “ White Heather ” Whisky,
Oranuma and Fodah Porridge Meals.
Kiippers Elberfeld Lager.
During the month of last Sept, the New
South Wales Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ltd.
supplied the German warship Falke with 6000
quart bottles of Sydney Lager Bier for use on the
voyage to Samoa and Apia. During the vessel’s
stay in our harbor 600 gallons of bulk Sydney
Lager were supplied her. Another tribute to the
excellence of the local lager conies from the Ger-
man warship Buzzard, which ordered 5500 quart
bottles of Sydney Lager for the return voyage to
Kiel. During this vessel’s stay with us she
received 50 gallons of Sydney bulk Lager daily.
Both ships’ crews cannot speak too highly of the
excellence of Sydney Lager. As the firemen,
officers and crews come from the country that has
always been famous for lager production, it is
clear that the Sydney Lager Bier Brewing Co.
deserves all that has been said by every con-
noisseur in favor of its lager.*
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art A uctioneers,
Auction Room-, 324 Gsorg? Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff,
jgg” Sales Held at the A action ICoorns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Seventeen N.S. W. military officers receive
over >£soo per annum. One expensive major
commands 25 heroic troops !
“ Vic.”: Our surviving ex-Premiers seem,
except Service, to drop into insignificance—
balloons with the gas out, lying flat on the ground
• O’Loghlen, Munro, Gillies, Shiels, Berry.
The N.S.W. Parliamentary sitting of 57
hours 55min., last week, was the record for the
province. The next best was the hours’ sit-
ting 12 years ago, when the Jennings-Dibbs
Ministry drove its ad valorem duties through in
the face of the great Parkes stonewall.
Postmaster Duffy, of Victoria, is of use
once or twice a year, anyhow. He is reputed to
be the composer of the Governor’s speech at the
opening and closing of Parliament, and his knack
of looking at the bright side of things and not
committing himself comes in useful there.
“ N.” : Premier Turner never made a mis-
take in polities, except when he dragged David
Syme and the Macedon selection on to the floor
of the House. It was hypocritical. He pretended
he wanted to vindicate the character of Land
Minister Grant, the long-forgotten, whereas the
eye of everyone was on David Syme. Nobody
cared a straw for Grant.
Art item from recent debate in N.S.W.
Assembly:—
Mr. Crick said that an oil-painting, which cost this pro-
vince either 250 or 450 guineas, was sent to the Adelaide
Exhibition. It was sold as an “ enlarged oleograph ” for
£l2 10s. (Laughter.) An Hon. Member : That’s all it is
worth. Mr. Crick : It is undoubtedly a very fine paint-
ing. Mr. Haynes : Where is it ? Mr. Crick : It is hanging
in the hall of my house. (Laughter.)
Hobart Clipper indulges in some plain
speaking :
It is notorious that Cabinet Ministers, leaders of the
Opposition, and members of Parliament have often em-
ployed election agents to facilitate the judicious trading
in votes, thus ensuring the return of a boodle gang to
power ; and, in Hobart, gangs and individuals make large
sums of money as electioneering experts. Low scoun-
drels, wife-beaters, brothel bullies, pothouse bummers,
blacklegs who have been warned off the racecurses, and
confidence men, enjoy powerful political patronage, and
are found useful as election touts.
About the most sensational part of the
great Westralian Post Office robbery was the fact
that the officials, when they went to lunch on pay-
day, were reduced to the expedient of hiding the
unpaid salary money,in the battery cupboard and
other weird places. Apparently the Porrest crowd
is so short of cash that it cannot afford safes for
its metropolitan establishments. Imagine having
to leave >£9oo hidden in a battery cupboard with
only one little Yale lock between it and the great
hungry world outside. Also, imagine anyone
risking it. The average person would have stood
there with his hair bristling till it was all paid
away, if he had to camp in the office and eat his
food off the point of his revolver.
By the Marine Act, 1897, to which the
Royal assent has just been given, Victoria brings
herself into line with British shipping legisla-
tion and consolidation on the following subjects :
Apprenticeship, licenses to supply seamen, en-
gagement, rating and discharge of seamen, wages
questions, power of court to rescind contracts,
property of deceased seamen, leaving seamen
abroad, distressed seamen, provisions, health,
and accommodation ; facilities for making com-
plaints, protection of seamen from imposition,
discipline, official logs, and mercantile marine
officers. This Act also makes the master of a ship
who arrives in Victoria with a submerged load-
line liable to =£loo penalty. There has been a
dangerous doubt on this subject since the repeal
of the old Merchant Shipping Act in 1894.
The N.S.W. Council, on the motion of
Dr. MacLaurin, made some much-needed repairs
in the supremely idiotic first clause of Premier
Reid’s Land and Income-Tax Amendment Bill.
As the Assembly passed it, if a man exported
£>50,000 worth of wool, or ore, or other goods, it
was to be taken as all clear profit, whether he
made any profit out of it or not, and income-tax
was to be chargeable on the whole lot. The
Council altered it to read that tax should be pay-
able only on profits derived from the export. The
Assembly and the Government actually failed to
see that (to take an easy example) the gold or ore a
mining co. exports isn’t all profit, because it has
to pay for wages, fuel, machinery, &c., out of the
proceeds. Think of the intelligence of a Legisla-
tive Chamber which wasn’t aware of a small
thing like that!!
The Protectionist parry in N.S.W. As-
sembly made not one serious protest against Pre-
mier Reid’s outrageous loan proposals for the ex-
penditure of over =£2,000,000 of borrowed money
in one year—in which the law-costs of the
M'Sharry case are charged as a “ permanent and
reproductive work ; ” also the “ landing of silt ”
and things of that kind. Apparently the only
chance of honest finance in Cornstalk Land lies in
the establishment of a representative Chamber
elected by the whole nation as one constituency.
The man who was elected by the nation might
oppose a loan on the ground that his constituency
—the nation—had to pay the interest. The man
who represents Smith’s Curse dare not —because
the Smith’s Curse wharf is down among the loan
proposals, and Smith’s Curse wants its wharf, and
his only hope of continued political existence lies
in pleasing Smith’s Curse.
Ten European lepers are
are rusticated on Stradbroke Is-
land (Q.). One female leper is
located at Dunwich. There are
13 alien lepers at Friday Island
tenS.S. Islanders, two aborigi-
nals, one Cingalee. “ There are
no Chinese lepers in Queens-
land,” say the Government apolo-
gists.. No— there are none in the
lazarettes. How many prowl
about unknown to the authorities
would be difficult to determine.
Meantime, the great fact is to be
noted that the disease flourishes
principally among those races
that hang about Chinese shops
in the Q. sugar towns.
The report of the British
Board of Trade of 1849, on which
the Constitution of N.S.W. was
based, recommended one tariff
for all Australia, however many
provinces it ni '.it afterwards
be divided into. To frame this
tariff, the Board proposed that
the Imperial Govt, should, in
the first instance, compile a list
of items, and that N.S.W. and
the provinces to arise afterwards
should create a General Assem-
bly to revise the list from time
to time. The General Assem-
bly was to be elected by the Leg-
islatures of the various provinces.
This and numerous other sug-
gestions and recommendations
of the Imperial authorities about
the same time show how clearly
the trained intellects of half-a-
century ago saw the necessity of
Australia being either a Union
or a Federation. It would have
been much better had Aus-
tralians seen it also.
Downer’s retirement from
the leadership (on sufferance) of
S.A. Opposition, if it comes off,
may make room for the rising
hope of the party, young John
Darling, a wealthy wheat mer-
chant, clever, ambitious and
otherwise famous as being the brother of cricketer
Joe. Pat Glynn, Downer’s rival of last June, is
now regarded as an impossible leader.
J. C. Campbell, M.L.C., is now sorry he
said those wild and untruthful things about the
Victorian woman suffragists, whom he described
as ladies of a class that stays out late at night.
Snowden, who sits beside him in the Patman’s
chamber, has announced publicly that Campbell
admits he “ went too far.” Campbell hasn’t the
manliness to offer his personal apology.
A bitter wail comes down from Thursday
Island. The whole of the slips or docks where
boats are built are owned by Japs. New boats are
being built despite the fact that the oyster-beds
are becoming impoverished. In 1890 there were 22
Japanese on the island ; in 1892, 32 ; in 1897 the
brown heathen number 331; and, at the present
time, 619. Other aliens, 575 ; total white popula-
tion, 608. . . . And the only restrictive legislation
likely to be carried is a measure to prevent Japan-
ese ownership of pearling-boats. It’s only alien
capitalism that Northern legislators object to.
The three “ commercial agents ” who have
lately been visiting the beauty-spots of Europe
and America in the alleged interests of Queens-
land trade, have already cost Piebaldland the
handsome sum of .£3779'65. sd. These three
gentlemen departed without any definite instruc-
tions, travelled promiscuously, and furnished no
definite reports of their doings. One is a
Councillor and a German ; his age is about 90.
Another was for a quarter-century clerk in the
Police Dept., and the
other was a Bris-
bane commis-
sion-agent.
AS OTHERS SEE US .
"Well, by cripes, Maria, that’s the queerest turn-
out I ever see."
As long as the N.S.W. Sand-Shifting
Ministry kept its relief works at an impossible
distance they were merely a name to the average
citizen. Scrub-cutting on the Bogan, sand-digging
at Kensington, forest-thinning at Narandera, were
too far off to worry about. But the spectacle of
some 2000 men working for charity under his very
nose has come as a rude shock to the average Syd-
neyite. Should the Rail-Painting Government
succeed in polling every vote of those so em-
ployed, it will not compensate for the moral shock
Sydney got this Xmas.
Melbourne City Council has placed its
printing contract h>r the next two years with a
non-union firm, to the evident satisfaction of ex-
Mayor Snowden. “If we were to go back on this
contract,” said Snowden, “we should be pledging
ourselves to accept no tender by any firm unless it
belonged to a union, and that would be an un-
righteous and unholy principle.” Snowden has
always been a warm defender of sweaters’ “ rights.”
He is one of those bloated capitalists who never
feel truly happy except in the summer-time, when
thev can sweat themselves.
THE GREEN HERETIC.
THE PARBOT : “To H—l with, the Pope!"
MICK O'BRIEN : “ Ye blasphaymin' divil! Ye may thank yer
starrs it ain’t a blashted canary ye are! If’twasn’t
for yer grane feathers I'd wring yer neck for yer before
yer cud wink, so I would!”
Two hard-fighting members of N.S.W.
Opposition walk down to the House through Hyde
Park and they often rest by the way on one
special seat and have a smoke. Possibly Premier
Reid noticed this habit ; anyhow, that seat was
the very first painted by Reid’s “Fat” Xmas
gang, and after the aforesaid members had flopped
into it they had to engage a messenger to scrub
them with turpentine and other smellful com-
pounds, and the language which arose in the
Opposition room when they walked in nearly set
them in a blaze. It took all Barton’s influence to
prevent them moving the adjournment of the
House, so that the state of the nether portion of
their raiment might be inquired into.
The M.L. gumfields are a menagerie of
curious animals. All the cranks, ne'er-do-weels,
and drunks of the two islands gravitate there
sooner or later. Ex-doctors, lawyers, dudes,
merchants, broken-down artizans, and the miscel-
laneous dead-beats, walk through these undulating
stretches of stunted tea-tree to their graves, pay-
ing their way with the precarious gum as they go,
and only dependent on charity for their funerals.
M.L. had a grand asset in its gum deposits. If
the Government.had retained all the gum lands in
its own hands it would have had a means of sup-
plying charitable aid in exchange for unskilled
labor that would have been invaluable. The sale
of so much of the gum country was a grievous
mistake.
According to a Parliamentary return (which
isn’t at all likely to make things look any worse
than they are, however it may err in the
otbej&lirection), there are 24,330 colored
aliens iii Queensland—one-twentieth
of the entire population. Lks.t year
the population increased by 12,000,
and of these 2000 (one-sixth)
were Asiatics, so the Piebald
curse is growing three times
worse than it was. If last
year’s appalling average
had been kept up from the
beginning, the nigger and
yellow multitude inQueens-
land would now be over
80,000 strong in-
stead of 24,000.
And still the Go-
vernment of Oily
James “sees no
cause for alarm,”
&c.
Victoria has
definitely started
to fool with the
construction of small
narrow -gauge railways,
which will all require
special rolling-stock of their
own and are likely to be a
cause of heart-break and failure all round. Aus-
tralia has three diverse railway gauges already,
and this streak of foolish economy will make four.
Dear Bulletin. —There may be no truth
in Lormer’s story that Judge Williams lost his
chance of getting appointed to the Vic. Chief-
Justiceship in consequence of his wife having said
she would exclude certain undesirable persons from
the Government House crowd if her husband be-
came Acting-Governor. There is probably less
truth, however, in the report that Judge Wil-
liams said his wife wouldn’t have made such a
“snobbish” remark. Why “ snobbish ” ? The
suggestion in the original yarn is that Mrs. Jus-
tice Williams had made up her mind to give the
cold shoulder to certain malodorous bounders of
the boom persuasion, whom Lord Brassey snubbed,
but who have been cordially treated by Waxel-
lency Madden in his periods of vice-regal distinc-
tion. The Melbourne belief has always been that
Madden got the billet over Williams’s head be-
cause he was the more gaudy and less inconveni-
ently particular man of the pair. The Govern-
ment'at the time wanted a gaudy and not too un-
yielding man to put a pleasant face on everything
and “ restore confidence. J. Pen.
“ Hermes ” on a large subject:—
For pure unmitigated bill.vgoatishness the cry that to
make the N.S.W. Land-Tax Declaratory Bill retrospective
is “ un-English,” takes a lot of beating:. Presumably
“ un-English ” is used for ungenerous, low-minded, and
several other nasty things. What about the un-English-
ness of wriggling out of paying a tax through a technical
crack in the Bill ? People who try that little game on
Bull generally get caught in the long run, for the English
rule is that if an Act is passed and fails to accomplish it*
purpose through being badly drawn, and has to be
amended, the amending Act, even if it takes 10 years to
get through, is retrospective to the hour the original Act
crystalised the intention of the legislature into law.
Which is only common-sense. The notion that the Eng-
lish are more generous-which is the same thing as being
more foolish—in these little matters is a burst-up fetish.
Another myth that wants badly to be smashed up is that
the British are invariably more generous than other
people to a beaten enemy. All depends who the enemy
is. If he is a more or less humble individual into whose
back-yard Bull has burst. With great success Bull is some-
times generous ;he can afford to he. But if the enemy
is an irreverent party who has irrupted into Bull’s pad-
dock, he gets no generosity worth having. “ What
do you offer Harold of Norway?” asked Tos-
tig. “ Seven foot of English soil for a grave,”
grimly replied Harold of England. And ’twas all he got.
They howled to Dauphin Louis to come over and smash
King John. The finger of God touched John, and the
English turned on Louis and made the largest holocaust
of his army they knew how. Whi n the Spanish invaded
Ireland, Elizabeth's troops surrounded them in Port
Deloro. To avoid being stormed, the Spanish surren-
dered unconditionally—and Italeigh'killed every man of
them. When Monmonth was smashed at Sedgemoor,
Judge Jeffreys swept the rebellions counties like a wave.
When the Young Pretender was flattened out in Scotland
tire same old generosity got, the upper hand, and set to
work to exterminate the disaffected, root and branch ;
and it is doubtful if the “ Bloody Assize ” of Jeffreys was
in the same street with the horrible butchery that set the
Guelphs firmly on the throne. And the army that next
invades Britain will have to fight for its life, for, if it goes
under, it will find British generosity just about as terrible
as Death. There is a tendency now to write books about
the great war that is to come—the great universal burst-
up or Armageddon ; and some of these books deal with
tlie invasion ot England by a foreign enemy. England is
always on top in the last, chapter, and the blast of death
that Joshua blew in Palestine is nothing, as a rule, to
that last chapter. Bull is as generous as anybody else,
and that is about all. But it is 600 years since a French
king was crowned in London and n French army raised
Cain by the Thames, and, through long immunity, the
Briton has eorne to regard his soil as more sacred than
the average. If it were invaded, he would probably con-
sider the episode not as the fortune of war, but as a
crime that called for the suspension of ordinary laws and
regulations. So probably would any other community in
the same conditions.
The secret history of the effuses chat
brought about Julius Vogel’s second lease of
power in M.L. politics lias never been written.
Here is a contribution thereto by one who was
behind the scenes. Having lost the Agent-
Generalship, Vogel arrived in Wellington in 1884,
almost unheralded. He was apparently without
a political feather to fly with, hard-up, and so
crippled with gout that he could not leave his
chair. Maoriland was in a slough of depression,
and the Public Works policy of the “Hebraic
financier ” was execrated from one end of the
country to the other as the root of the evil. The
Wellington papers ignored him, and the political
leaders kept aloof. Atkinson, Premier of the
“Continuous Ministry,” his old-time lieutenant,
whatever his private inclinations may have been,
foresaw, or thought he foresaw, that, with a
general election approaching and the star of Stout
beaming with dangerous luminosity, it would be
fatal to recognise Vogel as a politic al entity. But
on the very day of the dissole' : on of Parliament,
fortune thrust the chance of rehabilitation into
Vogel's hands. Two ga’lery reporters—one repre-
senting an Auckland and one a Dunedin paper—
finding time heavy on their hands determined to
pay their respects to Vogel. The' astute Julius
r eeived the pressmen with fl ittering cordiality,
and the, fruit of this casual visit was a four-column
interview, which was really a. Vogelian manifesto-
to the electors of Maor iland. In it, Vogel, with
consummate artifice, bid for support from every
quarter. He showed that the failure of his
policy was due to the fact that his successors
had not carried out the trunk railways in both
islands, but bad frittered away the loan money
in “spurs” to oblige political friends. A hint
about the Midland railway as a political possi-
bility made Canterbury and Westland reel with
joy. Otago Stout’s own country was pro-
pitiated by a proposal wild-cattish in the
extreme —to'divert the waters of the Molyneaux
to enable the rich “ gutter ” gold in the bed of the
stream to be worked As the glacier-fed Moly-
neaux discharges as much water as the Nile, the
paralysing magnitude of this proposal may be
imagined. The interview was reprinted every-
where, leaders were written about it, and minor
politicians made it a text for their orations. Pre-
sently, amidst the clash of parties shouting the
shibboleths of Stout and Atkinson, began to be
heard with ever-increasing distinctness the name
of Vogel. More than one seat was offered him,
and the party wire-pullers, much against their
will, were forced to recognise in the political dead-
beat of yesterday the kingpin of the situation.
Then it was given out that a rapprochement had
been brought about between Stout and Vogel, and
at the general election the verdict of the electors
was in favor of this hastily-made combination.
The meeting of the new Parliament saw the birth
of the Stout-Vogel Ministry, which held office for
12 days. Atkinson followed with seven days’
occupancy of office, when the Stout-Vogel Minis-
try again turned the tables, and held the benches
for three years.


XMAS PRESENTS & NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
Thousands of Latest Novelties .
OUR LATEST “REGISTERED" NOVELTIES.
nm
W
REGS
Us. 6d.
Solid Gold,
With Bell or Gem Heart
Pendant,
10s. Od.
REG 9
Without Pendant,
13s. 6d.
Solid
a. iii.
si
NEW BIRD
JEART AND
BELL
BROOCH,
Remarkable
Value,
16s. each.
REGS
14s. od.
Real Amethyst
BUTTON HOOK
Very Pretty and
Useful,
2s. 6d. each.
Solid Gold
Faith, Hope,and
Chari tv
PENDANT,
6s. each.
With Pin and
Chain, Bs. 6d.
□
Golrl Xmas Bell BROOCH, lfs 6(1.
THOUSANDS OF OTHER PATTERNS.
PLEASE
SEND FOR
OUR
ILLUSTRATED
SLIPS
OF
NOVELTIES.
New Gold Bird BROOCH, Bs. 6d.
With Looped Chain to Heart, 9s. 6d.
9c., 11s 6rl and 12s 6d ;
15c., 255.
Silver, 2s till pair.
100 DESIGNS.
K
Our New Gold Bamboo BANGLES, 22s 6d;
Broader, 32s Od; Children’s Size, 14s.
Also,
AN IMMENSE VARIETY OF OTHER PATTERNS.
Richly Engraved and Solid
Plain Flat.
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ; 15c., 355,
40s, 455. Silver, 4s, ss.
18c. BAND RING.
1 fine Diamond, 40s, 60s,
100 s; Ruby or Sapphire,
30s, 455, 60s; Opal or Pearl,
‘2ss, 40s ; 9c. Opal, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s.
18c. HALF-HOOP.
5 fine Diamonds, £1 10s ;
smaller St ones, ±'4, £5, £6 ;
2 fine Diamonds, with
3 Sapphires. Rubies, Opals
or Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 lovely Opals, 455, 60s, 60s.
POST FREE.
ISc. ENGAGEMENT.
S fine Diamonds, £5;
2 fine Diamonds, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal
or Pearl,
£3 15s.
Plain BAND RING,
9c., 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s ;
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d ;
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
With Any Name or Motto,
Is extra.
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address — 9o KING STREET, SYDNEY,
hons.
New Departure. Cash Trade Only.
All Sporting Materials at Lowest CGt Prices-
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and Most VARIED STOCK in Australia of
NEW SHIPMENT
JUST LANDED.
CRICKETING GOODS!
NEW SHIPMENT
JITST LANDED.
BAT?.—Special Line Youths’All-cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9,5/6
„ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4-, 4 6
~ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-cane Handle 11s 6d
~ F. H. Ayres’ditto (International) 16s 6d
~ Bryant’s Men’s All-cane Handle (President) 13s Od
,’, Bartlett’s Men’s All-cane Handle 10s Od
~ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive) 14s 6d
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 9s Cd
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring-) ... ... 12s 6d
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring) ISs Od
STUMPS WITII B AlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special) 5s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Steel-shod 7s, 7s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Brass-shod 9s 6d, 12s 6*l
„ Brass Tops, Revolving, Brass-shod 12s 6d
„ Full Size 4s 6d
TAN LEG GUARDS.—Youths’ ss, 6s fid
~ Men’s 6s, 7s 9d, 9s Cd
~ Men's Skeleton, best gold cape 10s 6d
BALES.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match... 6s Od
„ Duke’s P.K.D., 6s 6d ; ditto Best 6s 9d
~ Wisden’s Match 4s Od
CRICKET MATS.—Double wicket, in 2 pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the Vest value in Sydney)... 80s Od
CRICKET NETS.—Complete ... 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s Od
„ With pegs, runners, &e., &o. ... 40s, 60s, 60s Od
BATS.—Cobbett's All cane Handle, 6s 6d, Ss 6d, 10s (Id
„ Fcltham’s ditto 6s 6d
~ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s Od
„ Lilywhite’s All-cane Handle ]6sod
„ N'icholl’s ditto (Automatic) 15s Od
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury's ditto ... 6/0, 9/6,10/6, 12s Od
~ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 10s Od
~ Wisden’s ditto (herd's Driver) .. ]6sod
~ Dark and Sons’ Patent Cork-cased Handle... 15s Od
„ Dark and Sons’ All-cane Handle Ss 6d
GAUNTLE TS.—Tan, full size, ventilated, pair 0s 0(1
~ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s 6d
„ Black Rubber, ventilated(Backs), per pair... 8s 0d
„ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s 0(1
BATTING GLOVES ... 6s 6d, 6s 6d, Ss 6d, 10s (kl
~ Surrey Shields 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s 6d
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is Od, 2s6d
BALLS.—Wisden's Special Crown 6s Od
~ Wisden’s Match 3s 9d to 4s Od
~ Compo.—Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
„ „ Match, ls; Boys’, 3d, 4d, and 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
„ Youths’ 4s, 4s 6d, 6s Od, 6s Od; Men’s, 83, 10/0, 12/6
Youth’s Cane-handle Bat, Compo. Ball, & Stumps 7s Od
Men's Cane-handle Bat, Leather Ball, Brass-bound
Steel-shod Stumps 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW and COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE tho PUBLIC
THAT EOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st.; 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
Monday
Tuesday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Eair, Horns & Bones
Sheepskins -
Tallow -
Hides -
Thursday
Friday
Friday
Friday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goidsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Bill, Clark and Co.
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Bad eery, Limited.
Winchoombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. 0. Young and Co.
You
Have the
Advantage
If yoii BUY yotif
MUSICAL REQUIREMENTS^
from
W. H. PALING & CO. L™
SOLE AGENTS
fop tlio celebrated
‘WASHBURN’
BANJOS
BANJOS
BANJOS
BANJOS
MANDOLINS
MANDOLINS
MANDOLINS
MANDOLINS
GUITARS
GUITARS
GUITARS
GUITARS
Complete
31/6
VIOLINS
VIOLINS
VIOLINS
VIOLINS
The
Best
Value
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
PIANOS
Highest
Grade
lowest
Prices
ORGANS
ORGANS
ORGANS
ORGANS
ORGANS
ORGANS
CASH OR EASY TIME-PAYMENT.
CATALOG UES-POST FREE.
W. H. PALING & CO. LTP.
340 George Street, SYDKTEY.
TVR£S
T«r p£ST
£ Efffrfr >TiOT^44;
■t
»
firr
a
1
d
i
Compliments of the Season
g- —to all Ounlop Riders
From the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
AND AT
4:86 Kent Street, Sydney;
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
D.S.UI. P)°nt de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
■74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
■74
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).
Bawnbrohiny Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MiOWTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, V
v AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
AU
U
HEAD OFFlcj;
Intersection Hunter, Bughano
Castlereagh
• SYDNEY •
Tit. Established - 1079.
KFe Office in Austral* ’
Annual Income and Invested
Funds Exceed £200,000 frer/M.
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.;
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq.
Employers’ Liability Insurances at Lowest
Current Rates.
Write for prospectus of the combined Life-
Accident-Disease Policy.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
THIS ASSOCIATION
Is NOTED for its PROMPT and LIBERAL SETTLE-
MENTS, having paid away upwards of £200,000 in Losses
in Victoria and N.S. Wales. THE
UNITED AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Capital Paid-up -.. £38,000
Reserve Liability .. .. ' ... ..£213,260
The Capital and Reserve Liability, as stated above,
in regard to its liabilities to the public, are equal to
that of the principal Insurance Companies transacting
business in Australia.
HEAD OFFICES: 405 Collin s-street, MELBOURNE;
79 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
A. WEBSTER, General Manager, Melbourne.
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
The Bank of [|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
WM. C. SMITH. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
GRAPHOPHONE.
The Superior
TALKING
MACHINE
TALKS!
LAUGHS!
SINGS ! AMUSES ! and
ENTERTAINS !
PRICE (including Repro-
ducer, Horn, and Record),
£2 10s.
ALBERT & SON,
118 King-st., SYDNEY.
Sole Importing Representa-
tives for Australia. Agents wanted where we are not
already represented. Send for Catalogues of Grapho-
phones, Records, Portable Yapor Bath Cabinets, Musical
Instruments and Music; also for the best Mouth Organ in
the world—“ The BOOMERANG,” price 2s. 6d. Trade
supplied. Our Prices are considerably below others.
UP
AM
HE
gras
R. GENNERT,
Photographic Publisher,
49 Rue St. G-eorges, Paris, France.
Life Photographs for lovers of Art and Beauty ; only
High-class Work in elegant Parisian taste. Seventy
Samples, Three Fine Cabinets or Stereoscopes and Cata-
logue, Five Shillings. Money Order 01 London Draft.
OSTRICH TIPS
From the Famous Farms of South Africa.
Beautiful Black, White, Cream, Brown, Navy, Grey,
3 for 55.; worth 12s. 6d. Post Free, securely packed.
When ordering, send Postal Notes for 55., and 2d. in
stamps. Thousands have profited by us; join them,
write now. Miss Dare, Waverley, writes : “ I was more
than satisfied with the Ostrich Tips.”
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
213 CHAPBii Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb* Trustees, executors,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000
CAPITAL PAID-UP £60,000
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ... £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital . . £4,,800,000
Paid-up . .. £3,069,662
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esc., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Etnbling; Robert
Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ; Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: ffm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
and Arthur Walker.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Managers : Edward Smith and John Bartholomew.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Rishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John M'Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuehar.
Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. TAd. o/ 1.0 ndoyi.
Fidelity Guarantees. I'.nip. laabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jbssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFJTCE. 52 Market-street;
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees,
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.C. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M‘Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving,
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—ls 4 Collins st. corner William-s't., Melbourne
Cable Address—Riemseil.
Code—Moreing & Neal, etc.
Telephone No. 695
Box No. 237, G.P.O.
Adelaide.
Clarice & Oo
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE ” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
ST. PAULI
TRADE 'mm MARK
GIRL U BRAND
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRN AMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 31,12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Jan. 7, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Leura, Saturday, Dec. 31,12 Noon.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Leura, Sat., Dec. 31, 12 Noon. Takes
cargo and passengers for S.S.
Gabo leaving Melbourne January
4.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Saturday, Dec. 31, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra Tues., Jan. 3, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Jan. 7, 2 p.m.
BUN I>A BERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Peregrine, Saturday, Dee. 31, 2 p.m,
-Barrabool, Monday, Jan. 2, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Jan. 7, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST EH KIC ENT FAKES TO ALE PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Win. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via ambrioa
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Arrive ab
San.
Francisco,
Feb. 8
March 8
April 8
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins ana William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
J Afi>
4/y
QUEENSLAND POETS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TVESPATOH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
-L* STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
kfkin Wi6ea4e6.
s9leid Wkeotiery
“*£igmo{{iene. ”
The Great Australian Cure.
LTGM LLIENE never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease in the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
Ba.vswater, Sydney, October, 1898.
W. H. Malyon, Esq., Man. Chemist, Ballarat.
Dear Sir. -For years past (about ten), I have been
trouble with “Acne” in its worst form, and have sought
advice from the best Australian and London doctors, with
only fair results. A Victorian friend of mine, some four
or five weeks ago, sent me a tin of your “ Ligmolliene ”
and speaking very highly of its wonderful curative powers.
I naturally took same “Cum Grano Hall's’' and was in-
clined not to use it; eventually I tried your ointment
with truly marvellous results, and am now'entirely cured;
and think people who suffer from skin diseases are greatly
indebted to you for your wonderful remedy. I shall
advise all my friends with skin troubles to use same.
Wishing “ Ligmolliene ” all the success it richly deserves,
Yours faithfully, GEORGE J. O’REGAN.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
Doveton-street, Ballarat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great pleasure I now sit dow'n to record pro-
gress with regard to my old enemy “ Eczema Capitas,”
from which I suffered, notwithstanding constant treat-
ment for some years under the prescriptions of Pro-
fessor M’Oall Anderson and other eminent derma-
tologists, with only partial and temporary relief.
When I met you I commenced somewhat sceptically
your ointment Ligmolliene, and after about two months’
treatment I may honestly say my enemy is defeated,
and lam perfectly well. I will only add that since I
commenced the treatment of myself I have prescribed it
to others, and am still doing so with brilliant results.
Please accept my hearty thanks, and remain yours sin-
cerely, TIIOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.ILC.S., L.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
William Henry Malyon,
MANUFACTURING CHEMIST, Ballarat] Vic.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
5s and. 7s 6d each.
H2U” Posted anyw here when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Shipping. _
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Cintra, Friday, December 80.
S.S. Pilbarra, Saturday, Deo. 81.
ALBANY, -\
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports, j
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
December 30.
S.S. Pilbarra, Saturday
December 31.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Wollowra, Saturdaj',
December 31.
Best <£ Cheapest Boute to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
•Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
Western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
(Diluiraith, [fl'Eacharn l (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotal ions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
WORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
The IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS of this Company
will be despatched as under, and every Four Weeks
thereafter, to FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, ADEN, SUEZ,
PORT SAID, NAPLES, GENOA, SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, and BREMEN.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Agents,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. IM. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamship;* as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktovvn, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA—WeekIy.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
, Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge-street.
MELBOURNE- A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE AND PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agent*.


u
$
Wl
*2
m
*7?
A
■
■rfS
*)
~S>£
MS
\
2T
m,
n-v
<
i
S
m
/
s
U.
f
/
<\
//
&
sas
»
/]
h
/
K
/i
32
3
1A
J.
/
MtwitnL
M
K~
ti
S',
tr
>\
an
<■/
:m
Pnw%, .«*© mmM. #>f e*»& mmmm
When you’re OUT OF SORTS, you can’t GO for anything that will
SET YOU UP so well as
FISHER & COMPANY’S
HVLIG-ZEETTcr c AT.mr>
(Palatable)
(Original)
FAMOUS KOLA NUT TONIC
(Bitter)
Freshly prepared from the celebrated African Kola Kuts (Cola Acuminata). Gold Medal at the Royal Agricultural Show
Sydney. First Prize Medals at all other Exhibitions,
IN THE MORNlNG—
before taking
Eisher and Co’s
MIGHTY “ALOK.”
Madame ALBAN I,
THE QUEEN OF SONG, AND
THE FRIEND OF HER
MAJESTY THE QUEEN
OF GREAT BRITAIN,
WRITES UNSOLICITED
THE FOLLOWING TESTI-
MONY :
The “Australia” (Hotel),
Sydney, March 29, 1898.
Dear Sirs. —I shall be much obliged
if you will send me two bottles of
your preparation “ALOK.” I am
very glad to tell you that this Tonio
was of great service to me on the
sea, and in helping me to recover
from the effects of my long voyage.
IT IS OF GREAT BENEFIT
IN STOPPING SEASICKNESS,
AND OF GREAT ASSISTANCE
TO ANYONE WHO HAS FATI-
GUING WORK TO DO.
I am, yours very truly,
E. ALBANI GYE.
There is no greater believer in
Mighty “ALOK” than Madame
Albam. It is her constant com-
panion.
UNINTOXICA TING /
ISF' The Great Morning Drink *^3l
When your Head is heavy amd your Liver
sluggish, “ Mighty Alok ” will set you up and
prepare you for further indulgence during
the day. It is “THE” Pick-me-np of the
World. The King of Blood Builders. It
makes you eat and makes you strong. The
Drink of the Season. The Talk of Town.
Thousands of Ladies Drink It 1
y> v
s,/
'Cnx
“MIGHTY ALOK ”
LEAVES A GOOD IMPRESSION
Scientific
Examination of
Mighty 66 Alok.”
By the most Eminent Authority in
Australia, and for many years of
Sydney University, Dr. HELMS,
M.A., F.C.S., Consulting and
Analytical Chemist.
6 Bridge-street, Sydney,
February 1, 1898.
Messrs. Fisher & Co.
Gentlemen. I have examined
your preparation, Mighty “ALOK, ”
and find that it contains, besides
Kola Nut, only pure vegetable drugs,
having well-known Tonic properties.
—Yours faithfully,
A. HELMS.
GUARANTEED NOT TO CON-
TAIN QUININE OR IRON,
OR ANY INJURIOUS IN-
GREDIENT.
y». e--
5
7 r \
IN THE AFTERNOON—
after taking
Fisher and Co’s
MIGHTY “ALOE.”
spfo.iai WARNING TO COUNTRY RESIDENTS^—^
When ordering through Wine and Spirit Merchants, Brewers, or any Wholesale House, be sure that you receive FISHER & CO’S. Some merchants buy up cheap imitations at a very low price
and send these to their country clients, charging them full price, and stating that they are just as good as the original. Beware of these unprincipled men, and insist upon receiving FISHER & CO’S not
Fisher’s or any other colorable imitation. Why not have THE GENUINE and Original when you pay for it ? ’
MIGHTY “ ALOK ” contains all the Virtues and Properties of our Famous Kola Nut Tonic, the only difference being that it is more palatable.
It is the greatest Appetiser and Pick-me-up in the world. Mighty “ALOK,’’with cold Sodawater, is a most refreshing and beneficial drink in the morning—Cleansing the Palate, Clearing- the
Brain, doing the Liver good, and strengthening the whole nervous system. ®
To he obtained at all Hotels throughout Australia, with Sodawater, 6d per glass. 2/6 and 4/6 per bottle. All Chemists.
When the bottle is placed before you, be sure that the name FISHER & CO. is on the same. ABSOLUTELY REFUSE any other, for they are base imitations of the genuine article.
Pharmacy: 337 George-street
(nearly opposite \
G.P.O. )
Sydney.


The Dunlop Co. learns that the Tasmanian 25-
miles road record has been lowered to lhr. Tniiii. 57sec.
by the Tasmanian road-crack, M'Cann. The previous
record was lhr. 12niiri., held by A. Crisp, the '95 Austral
Wheel Race winner, so that M'Cann has beaten the Tas-
manian record by 4niin. The Australian record for the
same distance is lhr. lmin.*
Prevention of Seasickness.—Mr. F.
Mitchell, 60 Upper Fort-street, travelling from
Sydney to Brisbane and back, writes on Dec. 5
endorsing the testimony already published as to
the wonderfully efficacy of the new remedy “Sea-
joi.” He says : “For the first time I was free
from any feeling of sickness. I shall always carry
a bottle with me when travelling by water.”
“ Seajoi ” is sold by Albert Sharp, 257 George-st.,
Sydney ; 2s. 6d. and 4s. Gd. ; posted to any colony,
4d. and Bd.*
A week or two before the session closed
Vic. Assembly authorised “the expenditure of
.£5O for the purpose of the board appointed to
report upon the treatment of habitual drunkards.”
The Bulletin hopes that the board devoted the
money to a jovial treatment of drunks at Xmas.
One Futsch, a pious Roman Catholic capi-
talist, who expired in Melbourne recently, leaves
large sums of money to all the institutions con-
nected with the Faith tailing down to £lCft)—for
masses for the repose of his sowl. After this
comes a little unostentatious item of £50 —for the
Melbourne Hospital: £lOO for the soul of the
dead man, and £5O for the bodies of the living.
The N.S.W. Government promises to do
something next session with the great mass of
circulars and tracts and little church advertising-
sheets which go through the post at the tax-
payers’expense as “newspapers.” Alas, the Reid
Government is always going to do something next
session. Witness the Early Closing Bill, State
Land Bank, Arbitration and Conciliation Bill,
Navigation Bill, and every other democratic
measure of 1898. All waiting once more for
“ next session.”
What joy is there in any holiday festivity
—the hilarious picnic, the exhilarating social hop,
or even the gentle “ spoon” ’neath the umbrageous
eucalyptus—if you are not possessed of that
serene self-confidence which can only be bestowed
by good tailoring? If you would achieve this feel-
ing, and thus abstract the very best from every
joy that the New Year can offer, write for particu-
lars of stylish suits, head, nook, and foot-wear,
etc., to A. W. Feme and Co., London and Ameri-
can Supply Stores, Bourke-st., Melb. Prices
reasonable ; satisfaction immoderate.*
A Collingwood bootmaker, turned miracle
healer, has just been in trouble for obtaining
money under false pretences. Charles Bailey, dis-
covering that he was a competent medium,
“chucked” boot-clicking, and, placing himself
en rapport with the spook of a deceased doctor,
hung out his shingle, and undertook to cure sore
legs and visitations of Providence at cut rates.
He explained to his patients—who were frequent
—that he diagnosed cases in a trancs, having at
his command the spirit of the late lamented Dr.
Whitcombe. He didn’t have anyone to put him
into a trance ; he simply put himself into it, and
said, in a hollow voice, that it was a terribly bad
case, and charged 2s. od., which he collected in
his own person when he woke up. The advantage
of this system is that the live man gets the 2s. 6d.
and the spirit (who can’t be found) has all the re-
sponsibility. The disadvantage is that the spirit
flatly refuses to pay the £5 fine.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
!
)£-
w=- y
Tl>s AOStral Race
WAS WON IN RECORD TIME ON A
“RED BIRD.”
KELLOW still holds the record for that famous race, starting
from the 15yds.’ mark on a “ RED BIRD,” and winning bv yards in the
record time of 4min. 29 4-ssec. *
We put the money which other firms spend on racing-men into the
quality of our Bicycles. That’s why the 1896 Model “RED BIRD” is
faster than the 1898 Model of other firms, as proved by the above event.
Our new Models will open your eyes on Cycle Construction.
DON’T let silver-tongued salesmen persuade you to purchase other
wheels until you have seen ours.
Tha goold Bicycle Co. limited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., SYDNEY.
EDWARD ST., BRISBANE, Q
221 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Factories—BßANTFOßD, CANADA.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, Vic.
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
*
*
*
*
%
%
\£-
Agents in Tovm and Country.
USE T ZEE US
*‘New Sunlight
Sunligrlxt. in Your Homes.
Incandescent Burner.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burner
Complete, 6s. 6d.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
South Australia’s unexpected victory over N.S.
Wales in Adelaide was earned mainly by C. Hill, Darling,
Jones, and Geo. Giffen. Although a failure with the bat,
Giffen’s bowling at a critical time, when N.S.W. looked
like winning, was splendid. The wicket was fiery and
uncertain, but the ex-champion was aided very little
thereby, and he never bowled better in his life. The best
innings of the match was Jones’ 82. It was a chanceless
display of determined hitting and safe cricket at a time
when the S.A. batting was commencing to collapse. The
popular Jonah has been fooling these three years ; he is a
batsman of the first water when he chooses to keep his
head.
Clem. Hill is the best batsman in Australia this
season—so far. He made his 73 and 109 without giving
a chance in either innings. Clem, is in wonderful form
and should be the batsman of the prospective Australian
Eleven. His batting this year is sound all round the
the wicket. And Clem, is only 22 next March ! Darling
has a high opinion of Noble’s bowling and admitted that
the curve ball which bowled him in the first innings
completely beat him.
Of the N.S.W. batting, Trumper’s innings of 69
was as pretty a display as the writer has seen this season,
and his chance of squeezing into the team for England
has considerably improved. Donnan’s 170 (not out) was
invaluable, but there was an utter absence of attractive-
ness. With all Donnan's big scores, he has few admirers,
and yet he is the hardest man in Australia to dispose of
just now.
It was whispered that if McKenzie, the S.A.
wicket-keeper, showed good form, he would have a big
chance for England, as Johns is not considered capable of
standing the hard work of the trip. But the S.A. man
absolutely failed, missing almost every opportunity that
came to him. And now he has been left out of the S.A.
team travelling east in favor of A. H. Jarvis.
The N.S. Wales players ascribe their narrow
defeat to Giffen’s splendid bowling. On the whole, the
best team lost. S.A. fielding waS again disgraceful :
catches were dropped by men like Hill, Reedman and
McKenzie in the same manner as in the match against
Victoria. But S.A. won the toss ; solid batting and bowl-
ing by one or two men, and a fair share of luck, did the
rest.
* * * *
The mterprovincial match N.S. Wales v. Vic-
toria started in Melbourne on Saturday last, on what
Charley Bannerman considered one of the worst wickets
he had ever seen. Victoria started batting, and ran up
189, of which VVorrall made 109. The N.S. Wales fielding
was execrable, VVorrall being missed by M’Kibbin, Coning-
ham, Pye and Mackenzie. N.S. Wales then went in, and
made 35 for the loss of eight wickets, Kelly (13) being the
only man to make double figures. On Monday, N.S.
Wales resumed, and ran up the score to 99—Mackenzie
23, Noble (not out) 34. The Victorians then commenced
their second innings, and very monotonous was the play
until Graham got going, as may be judged from the fact
that it took McLeod an hour and a-half to make his 18
runs. At the time of going to press, Victoria had finished
its second innings for 219, and N.S.W. wanted 310 to win.
* * * *
Jack Worrall, the Victorian skipper, who
|ast year scored 305 out of 181, repeated his performance
in the first innings of this year’s Victoria-N.S. W. match
by amassing 109 on top of his 104 last week against S.A.
These two performances on sticky wickets should make
the nuggety Jack an absolute certainty for the Tenth
Australian Eleven. Worrall can also bowl at a pinch,
occasionally getting in an unanswerable one which he
terms a “Jenny Hayser.’’
* * * •
The cricket-team for ’Ome is now the burning
topic, and some most ridiculous claims are put for-
ward. When ’tis all over, the following 13 are perhaps
as likely as any : N.S.W., Gregory, Iredale, Kelly, Howell,
Donnan ; S.A., Darling, Hill, Jones, Giffen ; Vic.,
Trumble, M’Leod, Worrall, Johns. If 14 are taken Noble
will likely be other man ; but, good man though he be
out here, he does not look like wearing out a tough Hing-
lish season.
* • * •
“ Podge ” : Correspondents of Sydney Tele-
graph are sending in their selections for “The
Best Australian Eleven.” Not one so far has
less than seven N.S. Wales players, the majority
tipping nine. As S.A. has defeated the mother
province, and Victoria, when this journal was going to
press, seemed likely to also defeat it, the tipsters will
probably have it brought home to them that N.S.W. can-
not boss all Australia any more in sport than in drafting
a Federation Bill.
* • • •
“Face”: Apparently no amount of proof can
knock it into the thick head of the average crieketer that
the only way to do anything on a wet wicket is by going
for the bowling and taking all risks. Worrall has done
this time after time and has almost always succeeded in
banging up a good score, and has at last banged himself
into a trip ’Ome. Still most of the other men continue to
potter about, and get out, and stay at home. No batsman
should be taken to England until he has learned the
right way to bat on a wet wicket.
* * * •
Randwick had a very small following on Satur-
day, and the few who braved the storm had also a bad
time of it financially. For the Hurdle Race the ex-
galloway The Nipper was made favorite, but was unable
to run better than second to Auditor, who started at 10
to 1. The scratchings were very heavy in the Villiers
Stakes, and when things settled down Carberra was made
favorite at sto 1. The Carbine mare failed to run into a
place, and Satan, at 14 to 1, won by half-a-length from
Howlong.
Arquebus was made favorite for the High-
weight Handicap, but could do no better than third;
Astronomer making up for past disappointments by win-
ning easily from Linda. Henry won the Trial Stakes
from Shaughraun ; and then the public thought it had a
real good thing in Beaulieu for the December Stakes, and
backed him down to 2 to 1 ; but it was not to be, as Low-
land Chief and Cornquist finished in front of him. But
the A. J.C. remained for backers to make a recovery, and
they maiie a favorite of the Rosehill winner, Auda. The
mare finished absolutely last, and Shaughraun, at 10 to 1,
won from Standard. The frame of mind in which punters
started for home may be gauged from the starting-price
of winners; 3t01,7t01, 5 to 1, two at 10 to 1, and 14 to 1.
Sara Fielder has a slippery youngster in the
December Stakes winner, Lowland Chief, a big chestnut
colt by Antwus-Legardo. On form, Beaulieu was in his
ritfht position as first favorite for the race, but he shaped
badly on the wet course and Lowland Chief won with a
lot in hand, Fielder has been unlucky of late. The big
Carbine colt, “ Sensation,” for which he save 600 guineas
as a yearling, has been a rank failure and has never won
a race, whilst his well-bred two-year-olds appear to be
just striking form after an unsuccessful trip to Melb.
Two of Sam’s old charges, Vanitas and Parthenopteus, are
now champions in India, whilst Amiable, reckoned by
Sam the best mare he has ever owned, should soon be
heard of from 'Ome.
* * * *
Vivian was a strong course tip for the Villiers,
it being whispered that he had been sold for England and
was running his last race for Earnshaw. When Stand-off
and Tubal Cain were scratched a lot of money went on
him, and with Billy Delaney up he ran a good race, but
wasn’t quite good enough on the day.
* * • •
Backers had a better time on the second day of
the A.J.C. meeting, three favorites getting home, al-
though the public were woefully at fault in the Summer
Cup, the places being filled by Strathray, Merloolas and
Prince Carbine, not one of whom was mentioned in the
betting. The day began badly for backers when Helms-
man at 14 to 1 carried off the Christmas Handicap; but
things looked better when two favorites came in—Fulmi-
nate, who won the Nursery Handicap; and Spieler, the
Steeplechase. Victoria, unthought of, won the Maiden
Handicap, and then Whapawatea, the public fancy, sent
the crowd home in good temper by an easy win of the
Welter Handicap.
• • * *
Tatt.’s Club meeting begins at Rand wick,
N.S.W., to-day (Sat.) when, given Hue weather, it should
even surpass the A.J.C. meeting just held. The Hurdles
look well for Playboy or Lord Gresford, whilst Lady
Hampden Stakes may fall to Marvie or Colleen. The
time-honored Carrington is sure to bring out a big field
of fleet ’uns, as there is sweep-money afloat. Djin-Djin,
Telegraph, Monrefield and Burleigh seem a likely quar-
tette, and of these Telegraph will perhaps turn out the
absolute winner. On Monday Tatt.’s Cup is the principal
event, and this looks well for Clarion or his stable com-
panion, Philip. Admonition should win a race during
the meeting, as she is very well.
• * * •
The Chow jockey is coming ahead rapidly. The
other week, this paper recorded the successes of a Mon-
golian horseman at Omeo, Gippsland ; and now Ah Sam,
of Cobungra (Vic.) gets two wins and four places out of
six mounts in one day. The Chow is a good sport, too,
but puts no trust in bookies—he goes in heavily for totes
and sweeps.
• • * *
“E.F.” : Your correspondent, “Victor,” doesn’t
understand why I call him “artless.” Let me explain.
Previous to the Melb. Cup. he wrote “ A wary backer
of any horse for a big event generally wishes to be satisfied
on the following points—are owner, trainer, and jock
right ?" I remarked that an owner’s rightness or wrong-
ness is of little importance as long as the other two parties
go straight, and then the artless one rose to “explain”
that the owner has the power to scratch a horse, which
brings us back to the original paragraph. “ Victor ”
tipped Carbinier for Melb. Cup, as being the good horse
of a right owner, and he was artless because it didn’t
occur to him that every sanguine owner of an outsider
(Carbinier would have been a 30-to-l chance at the post
if started, but he didn’t start) is honest in so far that he
couldn’t possibly make more than £lOO or so by “ milk-
ing” his horse, whereas he could getsome thousands from
the V.R.C. for winning the race. When “ Victor ” spoke of
the necessity for wariness in backing a horse for Melb.
Cup he was talking solemn nonsense. He may be well
up in turf history. He properly corrected me re the
Christian name (John, not Dick) of the Porter who ordered
the late Fred Gretton’s horses out of his stable. All the
same, “ Victor ” can have no practical knowledge of the
racing business.
* * * *
It isn’t every man who can boast of having a
Bill introduced into Parliament specially to “deal with ”
himself; consequently Wren, of Collingwood tote, since
the last night of Vic. session wears his tongue in his
cheek and sports a superior smile. On the second read-
ing, recently, Attorney-General Isaacs’ “ Bill for the
better Suppression of tote-man Wren” was thrown out
by one vote. Several nasty remarks were passed about
the incapacity of the detectives, and many generous
offers of help were made if the Government were in
earnest in desiring to suppress betting—to begin with
Tatt’s and the Victorian Club. But the excessive power
given by the proposed measure to the police to enter and
search adjacent houses was more than the Assembly could
stomach, and the Vic. police authorities will have to sup-
press Wren’s with the means at their present disposal or
let it rip. In spite of their axes and crowbars, they
haven’t made any very earnest attempt, so far.
• * * *
When Dr. Slate and co. talked of backing Fritz
against any trotter or pacer in the world they took on a
big contract. The pacer, Star Pointer, recently paced an
exhibition mile in Jsec. under 2min.
* * * »
A metropolitan sly-totalisator shop, run by a
humorist at a profit of perhaps £2OOO a year, purports to
be a club for the study of Federation. It has 2500
members at ss. a year, and the authorities on the Federal
problem filed by the club consist of three sporting papers.
The only other literature in the place consists of lists of
horses in the big current and other races, scratching-
lists, &c. There is no sign of any speeches bv Barton or
Reid or Kingston; if they do exist, the secretary evi-
dently files them carefully away to keep them from get-
ting dusty. A strange feature of the club is the appalling
interest members take in the Federal problem on race-
days ; on Melbourne Cup day, for instance, over 2000
members from time to time crowded into the club-room,
a small, dingy, cheerless place with a broken down table,
one chair, one stool, and dirty walls. One of the numer-
ous parsons in that holy city was recently shown over the
club by the cute proprietor. The cleric,’who said he was
an enthusiast on Federal questions, intimated his inten-
tion of becoming a member. He said he was greatly in-
fluenced in his decision by a placard which is prominent
on the wall—“ betting strictly prohibited.”
» * * *
The Auckland magistrate has decided* like
various other persons of deficient intellect, that the il-
legal bookmaker can’t be got at because of the same old
hitch in the law. Maoriland’s statute, like many others,
prohibits the person with the bag from using any
place for the purpose of his illegal calling. A bookie was
found so using Ellerslie racecourse, but the law decided
that it wasn’t sure Ellerslie racecourse was a place “ with-
in the meaning of the Act." In the magistrate's opinion
defendant “ had not occupied a‘place’ for betting, be-
cause the area outside the grand stand at Ellerslie is not
enclosed within any reasonable meaning of the word, and
also the actual spot occupied by bookie was itself in no
way circumscribed or deiined. The defendant possessed
no desk, box, stool or umbrella to determine his position
or to indicate his profession. He certainly invited custom
and carried a bag, but these he declined to construe to
mean the employment of a ‘place.'” Tins Bulletin
would like to ask this magistrate and a lot more like him
if Maoriland is a “place.” Every sane human being
regards it as such, though it isn't enclosed and there was
no desk or umbrella in the whole two islands until quite
recently. And defendant was using Maoriland as a place
wherein to bawl his discordant odds, and was desecrating
the green archipelago with his uncomely bag. If Maori-
laud isn’t a place, then what is it ?
• * * *
Strong man Sampson is having a bad time in
these provinces. Following upon the Sydney unpleasant-
ness over the alleged coin breaking, “ Professor ” Miller
has written to the Melbourne press, saying that Sampson
should have his weights tested by a committee, as used
to be done with Miller’s own weights when he was per-
forming in the strong-man business. Sampson’s answer
is a good deal mixed. He asks “ Does a boxer give away
the secret of his knock-out blow ?” Of course, he doesn’t,
only the public didn't know there was any secretin the
weight-lifting business. Sampson also says that he hasn’t
time to attend to all the tests proposed to him, and t hat
his weights have been weighed so often that he is sick of
having them weighed. But he offers to let Miller call in
ai, 3’ morning and test his weights—which isn’t exactly
the same thing. The one idea is to see the weights tested
on the spot, and have their enormous avoirdupois guaran-
teed, and then see Sampson elevate these same weights.
The other is to have Miller state that he tesied certain
weights in the morning, and they were all right, and
that he supposes these are the same ones.
• * * *
“ Magnus ”: Sampson’s strength-feats are partly
genuine and partly bogus. Take the weight-lifting—
with no assurance of the weights. Take the chain-test,
and note that he always supplies his own chains. Any-
one who has anything to do with iron or steel knows
that it can be tempered so as to stand a slow strain when
it won’t stand a quick jerk— note Sampson’s stipulation
that the horses shall pull steadily, while he snaps sud-
denly. It s a matter of the way tne atoms of the metal
cohere. Some steels fracture like glass in a freezing
temperature. The platform chain - test is similarly
worthless. Who knows where the chains come from,
and how they’re made ? A chain - breaker may
have specially-forged chains, with one link flawed
in a definite way. Get the strain on the flaw in the
manner known to the manufacturer and the strong-man,
and it snaps easily, though a horse mightn’t break it at a
straight pull. Every audience ought to bring its own
chains, and test them beforehand link by link. Of
course, Sampson’s strong ; but he isn’t necessarily as
strong as he would like people to believe. Ask Sandovv.
* * * *
Writer was at the winning post at the finish of
100yds. handicap at a recent Sydney sports meeting, and
it was won, in the opinion of all hands by (say) Smith,
with (say) Jones, the scratch man and little'tin-god of the
amateur authorities, a close third. The judges came
together and Jones picked up his coat, bustled up near
them saying, “ Nothing but first place will suit me,” and
walked away off the track. Then the judges had a heated
discussion, and finally awarded the race to Jones, and
placed Smith, the absolute winner, third. And this hap-
pened among the lily-white amateurs who race only for
“ pots.”
* * * •
Dear B. Another coincidence. On the occasion
when Peter Kemp was defeated for the sculling cham-
pionship by Searle, the Little Nell steam launch foun-
deied through contact with the Undine,one man drowned.
Now the Little Nell founders and drowns the ex-cham-
pion’s father. Seems as if the “Nell” was a kind of
family banshee and always foundered when there was
disaster in the Kemp family.--N.J.
• • * «
On Saturday last, Miss Irene Pritchard put up
a world’s record when she sailed the 8-footer Zephyr to
victory in Port Jackson in a gale of wind. The Zephyr,
built by Miss Pritchard’s father, is Bft. long, Bft. beam’
and 7ft. across the tuck; and her racing sail is 19ft. on
the boom.
* * * *
The swimming carnival at Bathurst on Boxing
Day hatched a surprise in the defeat of Freddy Lane by
W. Bishop in the 100yds. championship. W. Bishop,
<e t I ter i known on the classic shores of Balmain (Sydney) as
Mud . Bishop, has always been a very fast swimmer
but, being on the big side, has the reputation of being a
hard man to train. &
* • * *
The Bulletin has pleasure in recommending
“ The Yachtsman’s Guide to Sydney and Neighborhood,”
by Chas. Maclaurin and \V. L. Hunt, as quite the best
handbook on the subject issued. The authors not
only know their subject, but they have put their know-
ledge into uncommonly readable shape, YV. R. Maclardv
pubhshes at 2s. 6d. J
* • * .
The fight for the featherweight chain pi' nship
of N.S.YV., at the Golden Gate Athletic Club (S-. ,ey) on
Christmas Eve, resulted in a further endorsement of “The
Kaffirs superiority over Tom Hope, and of Tub Bulle-
tin s tip of two months hack, that Hope had a lot to learn
before he coiild have a chance with the “ Rocks ” cham-
pion, Tweedie. The contest lasted nine rounds, but was
actually over in the eighth, when “ The Kaffir” landed on
the vulnerable “point” with a heavily-charged right
swing, and laid his man out in great style. Clinches
which gave the referee a deal of trouble, and savage
exchanges that caused the 600 onlookers to get up
on their hind legs and yell themselves hoarse, were in
evidence from beginning to end; Hope doing the greater
part of the leading, but the black getting in the most
effective work. “The Kaffir” weighed Sst. 41bs. and his
opponent Bst. 01bs.
* * * •
Lucifer and Dunn, not being satisfied with their
match (or, rather, Lucifer not being satisfied with his
share of the match) at Sydney Lyceum, wrestle in three
styles at Sydney Opera House on Friday (December 30)
for £5O. Also, Dillon and Billy McKell will bang each
other for four rounds.
* * • *
“Yellow Jimmy,” otherwise James Phoenix,
an old-time pugilist of note, shuffled off at West Mait-
land on Tuesday last week, full of years if not of honors.
He was a conspicuous figure in the fifties and sixties, and
fought many bare knuckle battles in those stirring times.
One of Jimmy’s best campaigns was that with the Parra-
matta butcher, “Stonewall ” Jackson, at Rooty Hill, in
|5B The half-caste gave away a big lump in weight and
inches in height, but won after a long struggle—mainly
through his slippery tactics. Dick Hunt, one of Jimmy’s
old antagonists, is still alive. Phoenix, the crack Mait-
land cross-country jockey, is a son of “ Yellow Jimmy.”
* * * *
How is this for the “long arm of coincidence ” ?
A. A. Middleton fell in the 25-mile race at the late Austral
meeting and dislocated his collar-bone from the scapula,
a most uncommon form of dislocation of that particular
bone. A. 0. Middleton some time back came to grief in
the 25-mile road championship and disrated his collar-
bone in exactly the same fashion. Two two 25-
mile races, two collar-bones dislocated, and both in the
same unusual fashion.


WE WISH YOU
A MERRY CHRISTMAS
.... AND ....
A HAPPY NEW YEAR.
Can you think of any gift which
will bring its recipients greater joy
or which is calculated to add more
to their health and pleasure than an
easy-running, high-bred
MASSEY-HARRIS
BICYCLE ?
Our new 1899 Models are
now on View at all our Depots
and Agencies—not old stock, but
’99 Models. Please bear in
mind that this is the first time
that the Bicycle business has been
so far advanced as to make
this possible. New IViodels
have never before been ready
in time for Christmas.
ESTABLISHED 1 847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.
TORONTO, CANADA.
Austkalabian Heao Quarter*; William Street, Melbourne.
BbakCHSS : Dunedin—Sydney— Brisbane
Adelaide— Hobart—North am.
Ebjots and Agencies almost everywhere.
BELLS, LAMPS,
COMPONENT SETS,
PUMPS,
TOE CLIPS,
CYCLOMETERS,
SPOKES,
SCREWS,
NUTS (Threaded or
Blank).
STAMPINGS,
HANDLEBARS
in Wood or Steel.
FILES, STOCKS,
DIES & TAPS.
For
TRADE
BUYERS
Only.
. A Large and Carefully-Selected Assortment . .
also,
Perfect,’ ‘ Garden City’ & Wolff American
BICYCLES.
prank grimley
Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY,
Here To-d La-y!
Yesterday!
akd To-morrow !
ttte are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
' ’ We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. ISS4. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
£SF Agent for “Naumann” and “Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
BICYCLES
The Handsome and
Easy-Running
‘garden City
. . FOR . .
LADIES.
Wheel is the Best Value
ever offered in
Ladies’ Bicycles.
Fitted with New “DISTANCE INDICATOR.
Frank Grimley
J Wholesale Bicycle Importer,
\ 263-265 Clarence-street,
SYDNEY.
Tenders.
RENDERS FOR MEDICAL OFFICER.
GLADSTONE UNITED FRIENDLY SOCIETIES,
QUEENSLAND.
Tenders are hereby called for above Societies. Salary,
120 members at 255. per member per annum. Applicants
to state age, also forward testimonials to the undersigned
by 31st JANUARY NEXT.
B. JOYNER, Chairman,
United Friendly Societies, Gladstone.
Government Notices.
Public Service Board,
50 Young-street, Sydney,
17th December, 1898.
A COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION of CANDIDATES for
JUNIOR CLERKSHIPS in the PUBLIC SERVICE
of the COLONY will be held in Sydney, and at various
Country centres, which will he fixed as far as possible to
suit the convenience of candidates, on the 20th MARCH
next and four following days. The estimated number of
appointments to be made is 50. Candidates must be not
less than 16 nor more than 21 years of age on the first day
of examination, of good character, and in sound health.
Persons already employed in the General Division of the
Public Service will be admitted to the examination, pro-
vided their age does not exceed thirty years. The sub-
jects in which Candidates will be examined are Hand-
writing, English (Dictation, Composition, Precis writing,
Parsing, Analysis, and derivation of words), Arithmetic
(full course), Geometry (Euclid, first Book), Geography
(outlines of physical and political geography, and the
geography of the Australasian Colonies in moderate
detail), English History from the Middle of t.he Eighteenth
Century to the present time, especially with reference to
the Colonies and Dependencies. Candidates will also be
allowed to take any two, but not more than two, of the
following subjects Mathematics, English, a prescribed
Author, viz.: Shakespeare’s “Richard III.,” Latin, French,
German, Elementary Chemistry, and Elementary Geology.
Applications to attend the examination must be made
on a form for the purpose, which can be obtained at
the office of the Board, and must reach the under-
signed not later than the Ist March. Candidates
will be required to pay an examination-fee of 10s.,
which must be lodged with a Clerk of Petty Sessions or
the Treasury, and the receipt therefor forwarded to the
Secretary to the Board with the form of application. A
list of registered candidates with centres of examination
will be published in the Government Gazette, after the
time for the receipt of applications has expired, and can-
didates will also be advised direct of the place at which
they will be examined. Candidates may be examined at
any centre (outside the Sydney radius) where persons
approved by the Board of Examiners are willing to super-
intend the examination, and a form containing the signa-
tures of such persons should be forwarded to the Secretary
of the Board of Examiners not later than Ist March, 1599.
Forms for the purpose may be obtained from the Secre-
tary of the Board of Examiners, 7, Richmond-terrace,
Domain, Sydney. The requisite stationery will be sup-
plied by ttie Public Service Board. The Regulations and
copies of the papers set at the last examination can be
obtained at the Government Printing Office and the prin-
cipal booksellers.
By order of the Board.
9a 50 J. W. HOLLIMAN, Secretary.
/m
■sir
ALBA
s»
Au-
”&KL £kv/\TOR
! Cf*»TT Street
I 1
£*P
$
FOREIGN STAMPS.
SETS of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s : 12
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
| land, Is 6d; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Roumania,
i 6d ; 12 Cuba, 9d; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
i Rica, 6d ; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ; 50 Spain,
| 2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is ;
i 100, 2s 6d ; 150,5 s ; 1000, 47s 6d; postage, 2d.
1 Remit P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price
1 Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKI.AND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
TO LADIES
Ladies’ Naturally CURLY FRINGES, from
4/6 to 30/-each. English lIAIRTAILS, from 5 0 to
£3 3s. each. WIGS, SCALPETS, &c., made to order ;
COMBINGS made up. Whatever amount you desire
to spend on a piece of Hair or Fringe, you can depend
upon us sending you the very best value. Send
pattern of your hair for color.
Hairdressers and Wigmakerg
should send to us for anything that they require in
the trade. We are practical ourselves, and therefore,
when they send for an article, we know well what to
forward them. Every kind of human hair, all lengths
and shades. All requisites for saloon and hair-work-
ing. Sole Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing
Chair, as used in our own saloon ; send for illustra-
tions. Assistants engaged for the country.
CEAIG- & AITKEN, 680 Sydney? St '
New South Wales' Barbers’ Supply House.
GRAND CHAMPION WRESTLING MATCH.
LGcifer v. Harry
M'HREE styles. Carch-as-catch-ean, Grasoo-Roman, and
American Side Hold. For ±'so and the whole of the
gate-money.
OPERA HOUSE,
NEXT FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 30., at 8.30 i'.M.
Also, 4-round contest, DILLON and BILLY McKELL.
“ Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J. F. McDermott,
General Agent for Australasia,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Term 8 on
Application.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the other is
“ Klim’ Kins-strcet Coßee Palace,” situated 50
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Genuine )
KEENER }
UNS (and Rifles) J
For Pigeon and
Game Shooting.
These can now be obtained from all the principal
dealers throughout Australasia, and all bear W. W.
GREENER’S NAME and MARKS, proofs positive of quality
and workmanship. All prices from 10 to 80 Guineas.
Shooting unequaled in any country. Write to W. W
GREENER, Box 326 G.P.0., Sydney ; or to the Vi<
Rep., 16 Curral-road, Elsternwjck, Melbourne.
UIBELh’S Fluid Disinfectant clears out Rugs,
Fleas, White Ants, Moths, Silverfish, and Fevers.
£2
ii
\
ts3nrxx.r l
>*llll
Ml PS
o>
m
LIST
‘Swift’ No. 1 Lady’s - - £2B
Club ‘Swift’ lady’s - - £25
Road Racer No. 1 Special - £2B
Path Racer No. 1 Special - £2B
Austral ‘Swift’ Roadster - £22
Austral‘Swift’Road Racer £2O
SOLE AGENTS
TOR
CYCLES
Fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
The Justral Cycle Agency Qtd.,
391 George Street, Sydney .
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Bendigo,
‘Warrnambool, Hamilton, Hobart, Launceston,
Christchurch, etc.


Are You
Poisoning
Yourself ?
You might make a single meal of rich pies
and cakes, and not mind it. But you could
not live on these all the time without ruining
your digestion.
Yet, week after week and month after
month, you allow your brain and nerves to be
fed with impure blood.
The general debility, thin blood, pale
cheeks, nervousness, loss of appetite and
depression of spirits, are loud warnings from
nature. Your nervous system is weakening.
Before the ruin comes take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
It removes the poisons from the blood, and
thus removes the cause of all your trouble.
It aids the digestion, strengthens the nerves
and supplies the body with rich, red blood.
For constipation take Ayer’s Pills. They
promptly and surely cure. Take them with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
SPRING MOTOR GRAMOPHONE—Latest Type, £7 10s ;
or with 11 Records' and 100 Needles, £9 ; Records, 3s
each ; Needles, Is 6d for 100.
Edison electric parlor.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
™ E . TalkiQS MacbiOS D*pot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4.
Kinetoscopes, Cinematographes, Films, X-ray Apparatus,
Edison-Lalande Batteries, etc.
ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes. Records, Blanks,
and all Accessories in Stock. Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
D.S .MAI R
S p
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2/6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
2/6 ; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. M AIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydney.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, Irom 3/0 eaoh.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20ln. lone, 6/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
v worlted up, VO per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
w. H.'wiszell,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price List.
Prompt attcntion'given to Country Order*
Dear Bulletin. — Never realised the all-
pervading influence of “ vested interests ” till, at
the Federal election, I asked a man in our street
if he was for Federation, and he replied, “No
fear ! ’twouldn’t suit me ! There’s an old girl—a
squatter's widow, with plenty of coin—comes down
from Riverina every three months to have a few
weeks in Sydney, and she pays me 30s. a week to
cart her round the pleasure-resorts, an’ all that
sorter thing. Well, if this blanky Federation
comes off, her wool ’ll go to Melbourne, an’ she ’ll
follow it, an’ some Victorian galoot ’ll collar that
30s. a-week ! ” — Hermes.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholme developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Dear Bulletin. —You say (Nov. 19) re
“ O.L’s ” suggestion that Albany would do for
the Federal capital. “Not near enough to Aus-
tralia,” I assume that you have no other objection
to raise to Albany as the Federal capital. Recently
you urged that capital must have a cool climate.
Well, Albany has the coolest summer climate in
Australia. Ordinary summer weather keeps in
the seventies, while it is a hot day if 80 is passed.
The record is 99, recorded for two hours in the
great heat-wave week. Albany never has hot
winds. Site for great city admirable—miles of
harbor frontage, hills, valleys, rivers. Grass
green all the year round. Immense areas of
garden lands in the district —three crops potatoes
every year. Rainfall average about 34in. Death-
rate low. Town clean and smart-looking. The
place now regarded as one of the choicest health-
resorts on continent. It would be hard to find
better site for Federal capital; and I consider
that your objection, “Too far from Australia,”
is somewhat weak. Whatever place is fixed upon
will be far away. Albury is far away, and so is
Ballarat, and so is every other place that has been
mentioned. In fact, you cannot have a Federal
capital without it being far away. All that can
be done is to select the best site, provided that it
is easy of access. Well, Albany is easy of access
to all the world. It is the front-door of Australia,
and Sydney is the side-door ; and you always ex-
pect swell company to use the front-door. In
fact, if there is such a thing as destiny, Albany
must have been planned carefully as the site of the
future Federal capital, for there seems to be no-
thing lacking. When the Federal capital question
comes on for settlement, Albany ought to be in
the running if merit goes for anything.—F.
A Novelty for a Christinas Present.
The Calendar Match.
Tells the correct time of the day, the day of the
week, the day of the month, the month of the year,
and the phases of the moon. Hall-marked, sterling
silver case, extra jewelled movements. Keyless.
Price, 455. Securely packed. Sent registered
post free to any colony.
Money Returned if not Satisfied.
To purchasers of this Watch we will present, Free of
Charge, a solid Silver H.M. Gent’s Single or Double Chain.
Address—THE MANAGER,
THE GLOBE WATCH CO-, LTD-,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLORODYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
BRUSH’S Celebrated Harness and Saddlery.
‘ra
m
Brush’s Pair - Horse
■Buggy Harness,
Made with Sensible Eyes, American
Collars, Wooden Hames, Plated
Sides, Collar Straps, Stout Traces,
Simple Pads, complete No. 1,
£6 10s.; No. 2, £7 10s. ; No. 3,
£8 10s.
Same Harness, with cross-strap
breeching—No. 1, £7 10s. ; No. 2,
£8 10s.
Single-Horse Buggy or
Sulky Harness.
BRUSH’S No. I.—A good ser-
viceable Harness, in Black Leather,
with solid Nickel Buckles, Collar
and Hames, complete, £4.
BRUSH’S No. 2.—A superior
Harness, better finished, Collar
and Hames complete, made in any
color, £4 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 3.—A better Har-
ness still, in solid Nickel or Brass
Mounts, well made and nicely
finished, Collar and Hames com-
plete, made in any color, £5 10s.
BRUSH’S No. 4.—The “ Dread-
nought,” an extra strong useful set
of Harness, good value, £6 10s.
BRUSH’S American Breast Collar
Harness, from 455.
BRUSH’S American Collar and
Hame Harness, from 70s.
SADDLEHV. —BRUSH’S Stock Saddles, knee-pads only, 42 -, 47/-, 52/6. BRUSH’S Stock Saddles, knee and
thigh pads, 52/6, 55/-, 60/-. Gent.’s All-over Hogskin Saddles, £3 55., t'3 155., £4, £4 10s. Gent.’s English Pattern
Hunting Saddles, £3 55., £3 10s., £3 15s. Exercise Saddles, strong and light, 55/-, 65/-, 75/-, 85/-. Race Saddles, 60/-,
63/-, 67/9, 70/-, 80/-. Side Saddles, £3 7s. 6d., £3 155., £4, £4 55., £4 10s.
NOTE.—ALL SADDLES are supplied with FITTINGS in keeping with quality.
FOR THE HEAT OF SUMMER.—Sun-shades for Horses, in great variety, 1/-, 1/3,1/6, 2/-. Face Nets, 9d, 1/-,
1/3, 1/6. Fly Nets, 4/6, 7/6, 10/6,15/-. Water Bags, 1/3, 1/6, 2/-, 3/-, 3/9, 4/6, 7/6. All kinds kept in stock.
We send, Free of Charge, to any port or railway station in New South Wales, all orders of the value of 55/- up.
Cash with order, or allow 5 per cent, discount to the adjoining colonies. Remittances can be sent by cheque or
P. 0.0., and for amounts under £1 postage stamps ; 6d. to be added to country cheques for exchange.
PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION.
John Brush, Son & Go.,
Manufacturers and Importers,
403-405 Georgfe-street, Sydney.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
1- THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTI,FS
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS
Sold In Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2/> each.
Proprietors: GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS, ENG,
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TUfOCK & CO., KUNf and I.IVERPOOI, STREETS, SYDNEY.
6,
BOOK OF NATURE
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORE FOB. HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED-
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new '
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, hy Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is ; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. THE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc. , 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIB. B.OBEBT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
TtV ROYAL WARRANT OF A.FFOX3XTTMBKTT TO “THE QXJEEKT.”
A&k for
Wbi&ky aod
‘Scbwcppc
SCHWEPPES
SODA WATER, &<;.
Ask for
Braody a»jd
‘Scbwcppc’
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DAPTO (Lalte
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
SYIDINTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRomroßßs
OF
FINE SILVER.
<1
as
MAKERS OF
“ s. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd,, DAPTO, N.S.W.


DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
OX PER!IVEA.]NrE]\rTLY
BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION, ai)d CONSTIPATION.
THEY STAND ALONE AS A WOMAN’S BEST FRIEND!
A Miracle Wrought.
MRS. LANG’S TERRIBLE CONDITION—
THREE LEADING SPECIALISTS FOR
FEMALE AILMENTS BAFFLED -HOS-
PITALS FAIL—The SURGEON’S KNIFE
ADDS TO HER AGONY. DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS CURE HER
PERMANENTLY AND COMPLETELY.
Miracles have been chronicled of the past, and
it does not appear as if the word fits into our
present-day vocabulary; but no other word can
Eronerly express the marvellous recovery of Mrs.
,ang, 16 Little Albion-street, Surry Hills, Syd-
ney : “I had quite made up my mind that I
would die,” said Mrs. Lang to a reporter who had
been called to investigate her astonishing cure.
“ I had undergone operation after operation, each
of which would only give me slight relief from my
dreadful sufferings. In fact, the agony which I
endured seemed more than any human being could
live under, and yet, somehow, I held unto life
when death would have been a blessing.
“ Had you seen me at that time you would
have taken me for a Chinese, my skin was so
yellow. Only I had not the almond eyes,
many Chinese would have looked Europeans
beside me. The complaint I suffered from
lasted eight years, and they were the most
wretched years a mortal ever lived through,
if I can give the name of living to such an exist-
ence. I had been on the operating-table in the
hospital more than once, and under the treatment
of three of the best specialists for female ailments
in the city, and there were silver tubes inserted
in my body to carry off the matter wliich the
ailment created. I was growing weaker and more
hopeless every day, and was thoroughly resigned
to my end, only it seemed too slow in coming.
“But I wr.s not yet to die. It seemed by
the merest chance that my life was saved. I
had been taken home from the hospital by my
husband in a cab, and was in such torture that
I lay on the floor of the cab with my head on
the seat. From then he was forced to carry me
up-stairs and down-stairs, as I could not walk.
While lying on the sofa one afternoon a little
book was thrown in through the open door. My
husband picked it up and read of the astonishing
cures Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills had made.
He carefully read it through, and was so much
impressed by what he read that he urged I should
try them as a last hope. At first I scorned the
idea that any medicine could accomplish what
leading doctors and the hospitals had utterly
failed to do, but at last I acted on his advice and
tried Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.”
At this stage Mrs. Lang produced her photo.,
taken when her friends thought she was dying.
It was the picture of a woman with a drawn face
and the expression of intense suffering. She then
said : “ The difference you see between that
photo, and the perfect specimen of health and
strength which you now see before you is solely
due to the use of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
The pills went quietly and painlessly to work and
cleared my system of the impurities, and I began
to mend rapidly. My appetite is now splendid,
and I gained 28 pounds in three months after
starting the use of the pills. I suppose I had
been attended by at least half-a-dozen doctors
during my illness, besides trying all the patent
medicines that I thought would help me ; in fact,
I spent nearly half a fortune in trying to be cured.
A few bottles of the pills have caused a complete
cure in my case, when you might say thatdeath was
staring me. You are at liberty to make the facts
known, and 1 will gladly endorse my statements
if anyone doubting will call on me. I consider it
my duty to make the facts known. lam in per-
fect health, and can walk any distance, thanks to
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, as they alone have
saved my life.”
Tormented by Disease.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
FEED HIS VITAL SPARK.
Mr. Vine is a well-known greengrocer, residing
in Denison-street, Kingston, Sydney. He has a
few words to sav about his suffering and cure :
“ For some considerable time,” he said, “ I have
had a bad set-to with acute indigestion, which at
last took me to a doctor. The pains would catch
me sharply in the pit of the stomach, and with
such severity that when the doctor told me what
my complaint was I could scarcely believe him,
thinking that indigestion could never use a man
so badly. His advice and medicine, however, did
me no good, and I was advised by friends to try
different remedies. I followed this one s advice
and that; but my complaint was still as bad as
ever, when I resolved to give Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills a trial, as I had heard them praised so
much by many I kne w who had used them. I rom
the first dose they acted very well upon me, giving
me more relief than anything I had taken, and I
can recommend them to all who suffer as I have
done.”
Suffered Since Girlhood.
MEDICAL MEN FAILED,
BUT DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
FAILED NOT.
Mrs. A. Everingham, living on the Nana-road,
Grafton, N.S. VV., tells her story in a few words :
“Since girlhood I have been a victim to severe in-
digestion and pains in the back, chest, and sides,
which at times were almost unendurable and
caused ine to think I could not live an hour. I
tried many remedies and consulted several medical
men, but they did not cure me. I am now 49
years of age, and suffered for many years. A few
weeks ago I started to use Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. The first bottle caused me to feel in
good health. I continued their use for a short
time, and can now say they are the best remedy I
have taken. I recommend them to all my friends,
and they appear to do good to all.”
The Prey of Despair.
HIS DARK NIGHT MADE SUNNY BY
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Mr. Byles is not a man of words, but he has
much to tell, which he does in a few words. He is
a fisherman, residing in Wyong, N.S. W. This is
what he tells us “ I have been unable to sleep at
night, stiff ring from sleeplessness and indigestion.
What remedies I used did me no good. I dreaded
the approach of night as a time of indescribable
misery. Then 1 heard of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and I took one dose. They acted like
a charm, for that night I slept soundly, and the
next day was quite refreshed and fit for work.
They are a real good pill, and I believe in them.”
When Science Failed.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
PROVED A HAPPY SUCCESS.
Mrs. Frank Grant, Girilambone, near Nyngan,
N.S.W., writes: —“I have been suffering for
some time with my head and stomach, and tried
many doctors, but without any good result. I
have found that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
have done me a deal of good, and I recommend
them to all my friends, who all praise them.”
How is Your Breath?
Foul breath is always an indication of poor
health—bad digestion. It is the starting-point of
many very serious maladies. Upon the healthy
action of the digestive organs the blood depends
for its richness and purity. If digestion stops,
poisonous matter accumulates and is forced into
the blood—there is no place else for it to go.
The bad breath is a danger-signal. Look out
for it! If you have it, or any other symptom of
indigestion, take a bottle or two of Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills. They will straighten out the
trouble, make your blood pure and healthy, and
full of nutriment for the tissues. It is a strong
statement, but a true one.
" +
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
HAVE CURED
THOUSANDS, AND WILL CURE YOU.
One of the roots from which these Pills are
made is a sudorific, which opens the pores of the
skin, and assists nature in throwing out the finer
parts of the corruption within. The second is a
plant which is an expectorant that opens and un-
clogs the passage to the lungs, and thus, in a
soothing manner, performs its duty by throwing
off the phlegm and other humors from the lungs
by copious spitting. The third is a diuretic,
which gives ease and double strength to the kid-
neys ; thus encouraged, they draw large amounts
of impurity from the blood, which is then thrown
out bountifully by the urinary or water passage,
and which could not have been discharged in any
other way. The fourth is a Cathartic, and accom-
panies the other properties of the Pills while en-
gaged in purifying the blood ; the coarser particles
of impurities, which cannot pass by other outlets,
are thus taken up and conveyed off in great quan-
tities by the bowels.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, a perfect blood
purifier, curing boils, blotches, pimples, sallow
complexion, jaundice, eczema, and ail skin
diseases, and a positive cure for sick headache,
biliousness, indigestion, dyspepsia, constipation,
shortness of breath, flatulency, liver complaint,
kidney and female troubles. Sold by all chemists
and storekeepers, price Is. per bottle, or six
bottles six shillings. If not obtainable from your
chemist or storekeeper, same will be forwarded
upon receipt of price. Sole Proprietors—THE
W. H. COMSTOCK CO., LIMITED. Austra-
lasian Branch—sB Pitt-street., Sydney, N.S.W.
If You Have Suffered for 20 Years,
VITADATIO will Cure You.
VITADATIO WILL CURE YOU, and don’t forget it (without operation),
have failed ; be it Bright’s Disease, Cancer, Hydatids, Consumption, Piles, Gall
Sciatica, Indigestion, &c.
even when the eminent doctors of London, Melbourne, or any other part of the world
Stones, Liver or Kidney Complaint, Gravel, Stricture, Eczema, Rheumatism, Gout,
cap kg CQrgd.
181 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, September 23, 1898.
To W. WEBBER, Esq., Proprietor of Vitadatio,
Launceston, Tasmania. ... „ . , , • „ •.
Dear Sir,—Believing that this testimonial will be the means of inspiring some poor sufferer with hope, and know ng it
to be my duty to let other! know of the benefit 1 have received from your medicine, I gladly do so. On the 30th day of
November 1894, I was suddenly seized with a violent hemorrhage from the lungs ; 1 at once sought medical aid, and was
obliged to remain perfectly quiet. Two days after I had another bad attack of hemorrhage, and this time a piece of my lung
came away with the blood Once more, a fortnight later, I had another attack, and the doctor held out no hope of my re-
covery. However, with skilful attention, I slowly recovered, and went back to business. I often atter that time expector-
ated blood, but not in very large quantities ; I would feel well for a month or two, and then I would have another bad turn.
However to make a long story short, I started studying under tutors with a view of entering the ministry, and whilst doing
so had another bad turn ; I went to the doctor, who said I must reduce my hours of study. A friend of mine asked me to
consult another doctor, who, after examining me, said, “ Mr. Wylie I am very sorry for you ; you are m consumption
He also ordered me away to Echuca. I went away to Eehoca, and the doctor who examined me, said that he agreed with
the other medical men, and that I was suffering from consumption. I came home from Echuca, and a week after l was .e. zed
with another violent hemorrhage. My father, who knew Mr. Palmer in New Zealand, and knewthat. VitadAt.o had cured hin
wrote to me whilst in Echuca, telling me about your medicine. I was very sceptical, and only laughed at the ideaof
medicine doing me any good. However, I consented to visit Mr. Palmer, and did so ; directly he saw me he said, I can
cure you.” ifaughed at him, and told him about my health, and how long I had suffered. He said, Never mind, I can
cure vou,” and he persuaded me to take a bottle of Vitadatio home with-me. I had taken six bottles when I discontinued it.
I received great benefit from the contents of the six bottles, but as soon as I discontinued taking it I drifted back into a bad
state of health again. The hemorrhages came on, and I was exceedingly weak and ill. Mr. I alme.r once more urged me . o
try Vitadatio, and to give it a fair trial. I consented, and started to take it again. Ihe result is all I could wish for , I can
truly say I never felt better ; I have increased in weight fourteen pounds June stone), and my friends are unanimous in
praise of Vitadatio. A reverend friend of mine, speaking about me, said ' Thanks to God and Vitadatio he is a perfect
miracle.” Another friend said to me just a day or two ag<>, You never looked better in your life. I thank God that Mr.
Palmer ever persuaded me to take the medicine, and I do most strongly urge upon others to try your marvellous remedy,
Vitadatio. To show you how ill I have been, I may mention just here that I have received over =£Bo from my lodge, and on
the 13th day of September (this year) my doctor declared me off the funds of my lodge, and said I was fit to do light woik
again. I need hardly say that you are at perfect liberty to make what use you like of this testimonial.
Believe me to be, faithfully yours,
ARTHUR J. WYLIE.
: ?!
*1
■
I m
: ' ''
' ’ -
George Street Baptist Church, Eitzroy, October 3, 1898.
TV. , Ayr a T WwUp for the oast three years, and it affords me much pleasure in testifying to his high Christian character. I regard him as one upon whose word I could
place the w/w.E natural ardour of temperament has developed into a fixed and permanent habit. His restoration to health is little short of miraculous, knowing as Ido how, for a long
time, his life seemed to hang upon the slenderest of threads. . EDWARD ISAAC, Minister of the above Church.
For Testimonials of others that have been cured, write or send to the agent, S. A. PALMER, 45 and 47 Bourke-street. Melbourne. A Thorough Cure is
Guaranteed. The sum of £5OO (five hundred pounds) will be paid to anyone that can refute any testimonial in circulation about VIiAEAIiO.
The Price of this Valuable Medicine and Tonic is : Large Size, 5s 6d; Small Size, 3s 6d. Ask your Chemist or Grocer for it.
S. A. PALMER, Head Offices, 45-7 Bourke Street, Melbourne.


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., j. B. Moutrie.
Matinees every Saturday and Wednesday at 2.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
Will be presented the Gorgeous, Humorous and Spec-
tacular Pantomime, entitled
Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Plan, Nicholson’s. 'fW PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of Miss Katherine Russell
(Mrs. Alfred Uampier).
A.LPEED YD A.MPIEB.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING !
. . . Grand Revival of ...
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
A GREATER SUCCESS THAN EVER.
PRlCES—Private Boxes, £T Is ;I)ress Circle, 3s ; Stalls,
2s ; Family Circle, Is ; Gallery, Sixpence.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. O. M. McADOO.
McADOO’S
oßifiinnuußiieg sms
To-Night and Every Evening!
3RD— COMPLETE CHANGE of PROGRAMME— 3RD
Everything New ! Everything New!
GREATEST MUSICAL TREAT EVER PRESENTED.
THE TALK OF SYDNEY.
Unique Jubilee Choruses, Fresh Songs, Novel Plantation
Melodies.
BRIGHT ! BRISK 1 BRILLIANT !
Humorous Items, Balancing, and Jugglery Feats.
GO AND HEAR «
Madame Mattie Allan McAdoo.
THE ONLY LADY TENOR.
Prices— 3s. 2s, and Is. Box Plan at Theatre.
Advance Agent, CLIFFORD FERLEY.
R. H. COLLINS, Business Manager.
IVOLI T H E A T It E, S Y 1) N E Y
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
TVTt» FRED. POPLAR
Misa PEGGY PRYDE.
MONS. AJAX, THE FLEXIBLE MARVEL.
Sisters Phillips ...and Bros- Lorenzi-
Miss CORA CASELLI, POPE and SAYLES,
The BOVIS BROTHERS, FLORHIE RANGER, DELROY
and LYNNE, FANING and DEVOE, and our Grand
Double Co. Matinees every Saturday.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Mr. H. WHEATLEY. CONLEY & CAREW.
JIMMY SHIELDS. FANNING & DEVOE.
FLORRIE WEST (THE DAZZLER).
0- A- Sampson- Lieut- Frank Travis-
SISTERS CLARENCE. Mr. WILL WHITBURN.
|gr“ PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
XHIIUTION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Director, Philip Newbury.
NEW YEAR’S EVE and 2nd JANUARY.
NEWBURY SPADA ‘POPS.’
NEW YEAR MUSICAL CARNIVAL.
Enormous Holiday attractions.
HOST OF ATTRACTIONS.
ADMISSION-ONE SHILLING.
Box Plan at Glen’s. Manager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mcsgrove.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING!
Will be Repeated
ghe §eisha: <A <Story of a gea gonse.
Book by Owen Hall.
Lyrics by Henry Greenbank. Music by Sydney Jones.
pa I "PRICES AS USUAL. BOX PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Bland Holt.
TREMENDOUS ACCLAIM EVERY EVENING
at that Remarkable Compendium of
Sensation, Life, Fun, Frolic, and Human Interest
KTew Babylon.
Full and Augmented Strength of BLAND HOLT’S
Grand Dramatic Organisation.
Prices—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager ... Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative ... ... Mr. Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING!
and First Production in Australia of
MADAME SANS SENE.
(by special arrangement with Sir Henry Irving and
Mons. Sardou).
A comedy in a Prologue and 3 Acts, by Vietorien Sardou
and Emile Moreau, adapted by J. Comyns Carr.
PRICES AS USUAL. ... Box Plan at Glen's.
Alexandra th eat re, Melbourne.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. M. L. Raphael.
EVERY EVENING!
Spontaneous Success of the Latest Drury Lane
PANTOMIME,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
Complete Company, Beautiful Scenery, Gorgeous
Dresses, Marvellous Effects, Full Operatic Orchestra
and Chorus of over 200.
POPULAR PRICES : 3s, 2s, Is, and SIXPENCE
BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
The great
HE GREAT
HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
H OLID AY ATTRACT lON.
. .Fitzgerald’s. .
HQgCCorpbipgd SI)OWS,
—INCLUDING—
CARL HAGENBECK’S ZOOLOGISTER
CIRCUS,
Direct from Hamburg.
Melbourne, in Flinders Street,
Near Spring-street (New Location).
Watch the Lion-Elephant Tricycle Act.
Crystalised Almond Tablet.
AN UNEQUALLED SPECIFIC FOR
Sunburn, Roughness of the Skin, Chaps, Freckles,
&c., &c.
Applied Night and Morning will make the skin soft,
clear and white. By Post, Is. Made only by
NEWMAN,
Chemist to the Governor,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
s
N
ECOND-HAND
AND
EW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
JUI Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER
(QvCUWhiL
HUS HO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year.
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CLEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations .
“BEETHAM'S" is the only genuine.
Bottles 1/- & 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, ORIMWADE & CO., Melbourne
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
West Australian
International Mining
and Industrial
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
Schedules, Plans, and Particulars are to be obtained from FEED. THOMAS 86 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Exhibition.
BOOKS you WANT!
Telephone 2216.
WILL
ANDRADE.
PUBLISHER
IMPORTER
CHEAP
BOOKS
Wife’s Guide and Friend;
illustrated Is, post free Is 2d.
This work was twice prose-
cuted because it taught
family limitation, but the
publishers eventually won
the riu'ht to sell it.
Fruits of Philosophy,
Besant - Bradlaufjh, prose-
cuted work, Is; post free,
Is 2d. Don Juan. Is, post free.
Law of Population. Annie
Besant’s famous book, Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Book of Nature and Mar-
riage Guide, 3s 6d; post, 4s.
Cards, Women, and Wine.
Post, Is 3d. Apples of Sin, Is.
Plain Home Talk about
the Human System, by Dr.
Foote. Latest edition, 200 en-
gravings and colored plates,
7s 6d. Maria Monk. Post, 1 9.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby.
Post free, 2s.
Tokology, illustrated—a book for every woman, 10s 6d ;
post free, lls. How to Excel in Business. Post free, Is 6d.
Crisp Tales prom tiie French, by Daudet, fully illus-
trated, Is; post Is 3d. Australian Crime and Criminals,
300 pages, 5s post. Robbery Under Arms, new complete
edition, Is; post Is 3d. Conjuring, Ventriloquism,
Magic, Card Tricks, etc., Is; post Is 3d. Australian
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, for miners,
clerks, wage earners, etc., Is; post Is 2d.
Aristotle (complete), colored plates, 3s 6d ; post, 4s.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster; or, Howto Edu-
cate One’s Self; post free, is Cd.
How to Behave, tlie Latest Boole on Etiquette; post
free. Is 3d. How to Dance. Is, post free.
Phallic, or Sex Worship. Post free, i 3 2d.
Gustave and Ills Loves, by Paul de Kock; post free,
Is 3d. How to Mesmerize. Post free, Is 6d.
Sexual Physiology eor Boys, Is Cd, post free. Tiie
Same eor Girls, Is Cd, post free.
Dr. Beanby’s Book for Men. 2s 6d, post free.
The Kelly Gang (illustrated), post free, Is 6d.
Speeches and Toasis, ready made. Is Cd, post free.
Wife’s Handbook, by Dr. Allbutt. 1898 edition. Is;
post free, Is 2d.
Best Way to Get On: Guide to Money-making. Is Cd,
post free. The Art of Ventriloquism. Post free, Is.
What to Do and How to Do It; or the Enquirer's
Oracle; post free, Is Cd. Australian Handbook of Mid-
wifery, illustrated ; 2s Cd, post 3s. Pretty Girl of the
Fauborg, from the French, Is 3d post.
Our List of SPECIAL BOOKS post free anywhere.
WILL
ANDRADE,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
opposite Waxworks.
FEDERAL
COLLINS STREET WEST,
HOTEL
MELBOURNE
STS
■
ALL AUSTRALIANS, whether from
the North, South, East, or West of
the Continent, find this magnificent hotel
exactly suited to their requirements when
visiting Melbourne.
Its situation is unrivalled, being close to
steamers, station, and centre of city. Trams
pass door to all parts of Melbourne and
suburbs.
It offers Full Board or Rooms
Only at option of visitors, and at prices
unsurpassed by any hotel in the world.
Card of Tariffs sent to any address imme-
diately on application.
BEDS: 2s. to 10s. per Night.
TIIIO DinißG ROOMS - CAFE
LIFTS ALWAYS RUNNING . .
. . ELECTRIC LIGHT IN EVERY ROOM
the MUSIC BOOK
.OF THE YEAR
■ Vrs&.'«s*s7 Tgg *-
‘! ..
V:
1
&MUII SnMKjlu «
o &ut«s>? O'Mfc* **
, ot<m** •.*• -
a tft# PmA«v>
Oamt> T<w *.**« ««
>« ‘’Aw»*#«r* - - **
it. ■
Price Im
> Publish 0 y | COLUNS STREET
' * / tyiEUBOUftNE.
Swu *
In the whole range of Christmas musical Plications,
ALLAN'S MELBOURNE MUSICAL MAGAZINE for 1899
stands easily first. The marked appreciation with which
it has been received, and the fact that it has within a few
days reached its second edition, is conclusive proof that
it is without a rival in variety or value. tor ONE
SHILLING you get the following popular songs, seven of
which are valuable copyrights :
.. THE SIMPLE LITTLE MAIDEN OF TO-DAY
(Sung by Ada Reeve)
!. THE MINER’S DREAM OF HOME
1. Dorothy Dean
[. Now We Shan’t Be Long
(Sung by George Beauchamp)
i. The “ Special Scotch ” Man
(Sung by Johnny Coleman)
5. Barney O’Hea
L Cockels and Mussels
5. Clever Mr. Green
(Dan Leno’s Great Hit'.
). The Pardon Caine Too Late.
). “ Answer ”
L. Goodbye, Sweetheart, Goodbye
PRICE, Is., or POSTED, Is. 2d.
Allan & Co- Proprietary Ltd-i
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Gent’s Kid-leg Calf Goloslied
„ ~ Patent „
„ Glace-leg and Golosh, patent caps
~ All Russia Tan Calf
.. All Ooze Tan Calf
10/6
10/6
10/6
10/6
10/6
By Bail, Post, or Steamer throughout Australia.
CARRIAGE EXTRA.
Robert Hurst’s
Half-Guinea
BOOTS
are Famous
n
. . SEND FOB . .
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF OUR
LARGE VARIETY
. . of . .
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s,
and
CHILDREN’S BOOTS.
Ilead Store and Factory:
Queen’s Parade, North Fitzroy,
MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL SUBURBS.
ALSO,
BOUBKE ST., MELBOUBNE,
Geelong and Ballarat.
NEW YE AirS GIFT.
The British (Hatch Co.
379 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
p UARANTEES to present a Watch FREE of CHARGE
VT t 0 an y person who correctly answers the following
Puzzle "
B*Y O*R W**C**S.
Send with written answer Stamped ADDRESSED
Envelope for reply. Our only condition is that you
purchase one of our Solid Silver Chains, Price 27/6. to
wear with your WATCH.
Address — THE MANAGER,
British Watch Company,
879 George Street, Sydney.
Thousands of Testimonials.
ELECTRINE.
Ladies and Gentlemen whose hair is turning’grey
should send for a Bottle of ELECTRINE HAIR-
WASH. Simple to use, clean, and you can Ret any
shade or color you desire. Price, 6,6, Post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680-682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Christmas and New Year’s Presents.
TE1HSS
A. H. MOORE & 00.
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYDNEY
Secretaries of Tennis Clubs and Tennis,
Players in General, Please Note Our
Reduced Price List.
The SPAS 111NG Racquet 15/- ea.
The CHAMPION Racquet 15/- „
The PERFCT Racquet 20/- „
A. H. Moore’s SPECIAL Racquet 25/- „
A. H. Moore’s THE UNI Racquet 30/- „
Repairs, 6d. String.
RACQUETS RE-STRUNG,
From 6s.
The UNI Tennis Ball,
12s. per Dozen.
This Is the Best Ball obtainable,
and lasts longer than any other.
The CHAMPIONSHIP Tennis
Ball, per doz 9/6
Regulation Grey Uncovered ... 5/6
Red Enamelled, per doz 7/6
TROPICAL HELMUT, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
G. H. Sm'tli S Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(CAIRNS),
KTortlx Queensland.
James Watters Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
U of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J. w.
Publications, etc.
MRS. MACCLURCAN’S
Cookery Book.
REVISED AND ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s. 6d.
To he obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
pallet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATION S, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-;
sions
of a
Post Free, 1/6.
Barmaid.
To he had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
BOOKS
Books
Roolcs
Published, Second
Price. Hand.
0 £2 15
0 3 10
0 10
0 017
0 15
Chambers’ Encyclopaedia, last edition,
10 v015.,1887 & 10
Picturesque Atlas of Australasia, 3 vols 16 16
Popular Educator. 6 vols 4 0
The Home Physician 2 5
Large Family Bibles, colored plates ... 4 0
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 new cloth-bound Gilt Novels
bv the best authors for 255, very suitable for a Christmas
present NEW UP-TO-DATE PUBLICATIONS . . .
The Soiled Dove; Miss Skittles, the Girl with Six Hns-
bands ; Sappho, Gay Life in Paris ; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s
Art of Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very racy, each post
free Is 6d • The'Ballet Girl’s Gay Life behind the Scenes,
King Solomon’s Mines, by Rider Haggard,Treasure Island,
by Louis Stevenson, The Deemster, by Hall Caine, each
post free Is ; Robbery Under Arms, by Rolf Boldrewood,
Is 6d post free. Kindly write for my Second-hand School
Book Lists. All books sent post free.
E. W. SKINNER,
Telephone. 3048.
New and Second-hand Book
Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st.,
Sydney.
Married Ladies.
Send Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
if 312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Cheap Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
just issued, 108 pages, illustrated. Is. ; post
free Is. 2d.
Drunkenness Cured ...
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS IN ONE WEEK. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. No
home made UNHAPPY through DRINK should be with-
out it, Write for particulars, or call at the office, and
see ORIGINAL letters of thanks from WELL-KNOWN
CITIZENS. Address— _
R. CORNWALL, Manager Mating Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
“ H.”: What innumerable odd antique
little houses there are in the back parts of Western
Melb. One would think it a thousand years old.
Recent telegrams from Maoriland report
heavy landslips on the Rimutaka railway-line
between Wellington and the Wairarapa valley.
This line is a splendid object-lesson in log-rolling.
Although a fairly level route could have been
found, political influence dragged the line labori-
ously over a 5000 ft. range in order to cut through
the property of some supporters of the then Govt.
A special locomotive which grips a third or central
rail drags the train over this stupendous job. The
line has always been a bad one to work, and a
good many years ago a train was blown completely
off the track at Siberia, and several lives were
lost. Now there are thoughts of building a new
line by a practicable route, and writing off the
Rimutaka incline as a bad debt.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR'
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
To judge by a few recent Maoriland sen-
tences the receipt of the franchise doesn’t appear
to have much improved woman’s position in that
“advanced” community. A woman —who rightly
or wrongly believed herself to have been cruelly in
jured by another woman fired at and very slightly
wounded the latter and received seven years gaol.
At the same sessions a man, charged with shooting
at his wnfe with intent, received only one year.
Also, in another case in which a big, burly brute
had kicked and pounded his wife all but to death,
the sentence was six months for “ common
assault.” Considering that the evidence in this
case was so revolting that it had to be heard with
closed doors it is hard to conceive what “ justice ”
of this brand would define as an uncommon
assault. Apparently the present woman with a
vote can be kicked just as cheaply as the previous
woman without one, and if she gors on the shoot
she gets seven times as much gaol as a man does.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Handsome NieVel Puzzle Matchbox.
Exact Size and Design as Illustrated.
C to a A
y
a
# i*
With Name En graved on Neverse Side ,
NOVEL, USEFUL, and AMUSING-. Post Paid, Is. Id.;
Extra Good A 1 Quality, Is. 7d.
OUR MONSTER GIFT PARCEL.
100 ARTICLES for ss. And A GIFT FREE.
To introduce our Illustrated List, to obtain new Cus-
tomers and make ourselves talked about, we will
SEND, Carriage Paid any Colony, our Monster GIFT
Parcel, containing all the below-mentioned articles
(100) for Postal Note 55., or Three for 14s. One
pair Handsome Motto Pictures, 24 x 10, look and
wear like oil paintings; 1 Beautiful Pure Silk Hand-
kerchief, with Worked Flowers in Colored Silk ; 25 Asstd.
Xmas and New Year Cards, sold retail 3d. and 4d. each ;
1 Bottle of Good French Scent; 24 sheets Ruled Note-
paper ; 25 Square Envelopes; 1 Penholder; 1 Pencil,
Point Protector, and Indiarubber ; 6 Ball-pointed Pens ;
12 Self-threading Needles, asstd. sizes, a wonderful inven-
tion—a blind person can thread them ; 1 Oval Pocket
Mirror, in Polished Case; 1 Japanese Cabinet Photo.
Stand ; and our Illustrated Price List.
Also an EXTRA GIFT of half-a-dozen A 1 quality Cam-
bric Handkerchiefs sent with each parcel. In return for
the WONDERFUL VALUE we give you, we certainly
expect you to show your friends the whole lot, and give
our name and address.
6/6 A WATCH and CHAIN for 6/6
To every purchaser
of one of our 2/6
“ Burmese” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ Fob or
Gents’ Curb) we
will present on
payment of 4/-
extra an Open-
Face Keyless
Watch (as illus-
trated) which we
guarantee.
There are no
Conditions or
Guessinsr about this Watch. We send the Watch and
Chain registered (any colony) on receipt of Postal Note
for 6s. 6d. and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our price-list, and will send as a FREE GIFT a beauti-
ful Pendant Charm Pencil to hansr on the watch-chain.
Mention Bulletin.
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRI IVI AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
POSITIVELY CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
All Aches and Pains,
Wounds, Bruises, etc.
For Stable Use, it is the BEST EMBROCATION
in the world. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to S. COX & CO., Patentees and Sole
Manufacturers, 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, or Leak-
moutii & Co., Fremantle, and W. R. Cave & Co., Ade-
laide.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d extra.
Agents wanted for Queensland and N.S. Wales.
HARMLESS
TO ALL
DOMESTIC
TESTROY^v
ALL
NOXICU&
INSECTS
HARMLESS
TO ALL
DOMESTIC
'DESTROYS'
ALL
NOXICUS
INSECTS
HARMLESS
TO ALL
DOMESTIC
4estroys x
Att
Noxicus
INSECTS
THE UNWELCOME GUEST-
WHERE HE COMES, HOW HE COMES.
WHY HE COMES.
ate
Death
comes a n
unw e 1 -
come guest
to all ; yet
many
people un-
conscious-
ly invite
him.
They are
the people
who neg -
lect them -
selves;
who, be -
coming ill,
go on day
to day till
disease
o vertakes
them, and
death that
is prema -
ture be -
comes in -
evitable.
Perhaps you are one of those people, and are not
aware of it. You have something the matter
with you, but, not having any experience, treat it
lightly, while it gets worse and worse, untimately
destroying you.
The wise man will at once put himself in the
witness-box, and ask himself the following ques-
tions, as will the wise woman —•
Do I sleep badly ; do I wake up in the morning,
even when I appear to have slept all night, fagged
and jaded, with lack-lustre eyes and an inclination
only to go to bed again. Do I eat badly, or, when
I do eat “well,” does my food agree with and
nourish me ? Do Igo about my work dejectedly—
do I suffer from headaches, pains in either the
limbs or body, and indulge in depressing retros-
pections ? Do I, in short, suffer from a loss of
mental and physical elasticity—that exultant
appreciation of life which all healthy people must
have ?
If to even one of these questions the answer be
“Yes,” then that man realises that he wants a
tonic —something to give him an appetite, to
steady his nerves, and to make him strong and
active in the daytime, and afford him calm and
refreshing sleep at night.
Such a tonic is Minerva Tonic, the world’s
greatest and only permanent restorative, the
praise of whieh is general and unstinted.
Professor Macadam, Consulting Chemist to the
British Government, writes :—“ Minerva is a
judicious combination of iron, phosphorus, and
alkaloid compounds, which will be found highly
serviceable as a tonic remedy for strengthening
the. system.”
Very Rev. Dr. O’Haran, P.S., to his Eminence
the Cardinal Archbishop of Sydney, writes :
“Minerva is most palatable and energising.
Everyone who has had experience of it pronounces
it admirable.”
Mr. G. D. Clark, ex-M.L.A., Grand Lodge of
Good Templars, writes :—“lt is most helpful in
clearing the brain, stimulating thought, and mak-
ing work a pleasure. ”
Mr. Wm. Stevenson, Manager of the Peesby-
teeian, Sydney, writes “Itis a strengthening
and invigorating medicine. It is especially suit-
able for the Australian climate. ”
Also'Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P. ; Mr. Stutch-
bury, Chief-clerk of H.M. Customs, Newcastle ;
Mr.’ Luckham, of the Bulletin office ; Mr. Selby,
Feldheim, Gotthelf and co., and thousands of
others join in recommending it to the Australian
people.
“I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, Ids. C<l.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 Gaorge- st„ Sydney
023
DEAF
SHE
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope to
Mr W. KELLOGG Melbourne Chambers Pitt-st. Sydney.
ourSPECIAL BELTforLADIES
REALLY A MARVEL
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Natures own
gift to man -Electricity.
Our E ectric Helts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
•Belts give a steady, sooth-
ii g current that can be felt
bv (lie wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say’, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), " ivnig illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address :
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ourSPECIAL SUSPENSORY BELTfor •
GENTLEM EN ls SIMPLYa WONDER
Drunkenness
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
mm,
The CELEBRATED and only SAFE,
SURE, and SPEEDY ANTIDOTE
TO DRINK.
The System once Impregnated by this Remedy the use of
Alcohol must Cease. Thousands prove it.
The acknowledged Cure for Drunkenness or the Liquor
Habit, Inebriacy, and Alcoholism (in any form). Can be
given secretly or otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or
coffee, or in food, its presence canhot be noticed. War-
ranted perfectly harmless and easy to administer. It
operates soquietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his com-
plete reform is effected. Write to us this day for book of
particulars and colonial testimonials. Sent post free,
sealed. Two stamps. ]VE HAVE NO A.GENTS.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address —
THE EUCRASY CO,
62 HUNTER-ST., SYDNEY.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
DBROBERTS’
SfOrf D/SEASEf
and Woua/ds
or every
DESCR/PT/orS'
D-ROBERTS
A L TERf? |VE
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES[
AND ALL D/SORDERS OF THE
STOMACH & LIVER .
or ALL CHEMISTS /fji & 2/?EACH
BEACH & BARNICOTT L°. BRI DPQ R,T.
Wlocue?
<KTy POST
VfercriES- Clocks-Jew/ellery- BirtHday l
Weddii\lg z CrißisTEiJiiJc Presents
H NE\T/MAfJ- 1755177-ELIZARFTri ST‘
OPPOSITE G:P.O
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE
OH, MY BACK!
“IT PAINS IF I BEND OVER.”
“IT PAINS IN THE MORNING-.”
“IT PAINS AT NIGHT.”
“I AM TIRED ALL THE TIME.”
A WEAK BACK is a very aggravating complaint. It
m akes life miserable, and thousands would be cured
if they know how. Plasters give only temporary relief, if
any at all. Drugs are often worse than useless.
DR. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT
is the proper remedy for all such distressing complaints.
It warms the back and kidneys with a gentle glow, gives
the muscles an elastic feeling, and cures permanently.
You will never need anotiier plaster if you will try it.
S3T Our “ Book No. 2” gives price-list and full particu-
lars. Call or send 2d. in stamps. It will be sent in plain,
sealed envelope by return post. Rupture.— lf Ruptured,
«« Nn 1 ” Arklrpss : M ACrNF/TTO
Missing Friends.
ROLDSWORTH & CO., 101 Swanston-street,
Melbourne, Australia, trace missing persons
and make confidential inquiries of all descrip-
tions.
Unparalleled Success.
HOLDSWORTH
HOLDSWORTH
HOLDSWORTH
HOLDSWORTH
The “ Sheklock Holmes ”
of real life.
RE PATRICK CASS, DECEASED.
WOULD JOSEPH PATRICK CASS pit-use
communicate with G. Archer, Solicitor,
Benalla, Victoria, re his interest in estate.


I BKUER kIRTCh net
3/6
These Watches are Solid Silver Oases,
and our usual Price List for them is 505.,
but to introduce our enormous Catalogue
we will send you this WATCH FREE if
you will take advantage of our marvellous
offer. If you want one, write to us with
out delay. With your letter send 3s. 6d. P. Note (and
Stamped addressed envelope), for which we will send you
Six of our full-sized wonderful Indian Silver Teaspoons,
which wear like solid real silver throughout. After you
receive the Watch we shall expect you to show it to your
friends and call their attention to this advertisement.
The Watch is sent by registered post on your complying
with our advertisement and the marvellous offer which
we will send. Address—
SPINKS & CO., Silversmiths.
114 a PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Publishers’ Notices.
The Editor . . G/ .
The Royal Magazine
Henrietta Street, London, W.C., England,
Invites AMATEUR or PROFESSIONAL
PHOTOGRAPHS.
... Good Prices Paid ...
Also TALES of TRAVEL and ADVENTURE.
Anything of Interest Accepted will be
Promptly and Well Paid for.
“ I Only Live for "Tliee.”
Words by Edward Oxenford ; Music by E. J. Emmerton.
Sung by over 20 Eminent Vocalists ; in three keys, E flat,
F and G. Published at 2/-. Intermetzo, “ Federation,”
composed by Henri Laski (composer of “My Polly
Waltz ”), the favorite composition of this favorite com-
poser, 2 Also Chimes of Normandy, Songs of Other
Years, Rose of the Morn Waltz, and many others. Of all
music dealers. Wholesale of the Publishers. W.
PAXTON &. CO., London and Swanston Street,
Melbourne. Catalogues of over 1000 Songs, Dances, etc.,
at 6d. and 3d. each, post free on application.
TTENRY FARMER'S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2-. 6d. each. Of all Music-sellers, or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London,
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
11 nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. ‘lt considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits iu prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, ana incidentally
happiness with one you love. Anglo-A mkbioan Publishing
Co., Commercial Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W. Mention this
paper when writing
Medical.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should he without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a had attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. ' At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
Srietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
mall sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
ONC NONCST MAN.
TaEAR SIR, —Please inform your readers that, if
- 1 -'' written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 106, SYDNEY.
CAUTION TO WOMEN!
Before Purchasing Elsewhere,
Try a Box of DR. BRADLEY’S Guaranteed CAPSULES.
Price, os. per Box ; by Mail, 6d. extra.
NO BAD AFTER-EFFECTS.
DO YOUR BUSINESS WITH A RESPONSIBLE
HOUSE.
J)r. Clarkson’s
He-Invigorator,
Ye still offer £lOO Reward for any
ease we cannot cure.
This Remedy stops all Ailments in
24 hours ; restores Vigor, cures DE-
BILITY, KIDNEY, BLADDER, and
all other Wasting Effects. Sent sealed
to any part of the Colonies, 7/6
bottle, 3 bottles £l. Guaranteed
to Cure.
Clarke’s Blood Mixture, 2/8; Eno’s Fruit Salts, 2/1;
Fellows’ Syrup, 4/-; Mother Seigel’s Syrup, 1/11; Pain
Killer (Perry Davis’), 1/-; St. Jacobs Oil, 1/11 ; Warner’s
Safe Cure, 3/6.
The Owl Cat-Rate Ring Co.,
Sole Agents,
Consulting and Dispensing Chemists, 227 ELIZABETH-
ST (opposite Hyde Park), SYDNEY. For Patent Medi-
cines and Toilet Requisites. Cut-Rate List on application.
y-v jjjnELL’S Fluid Disinfectant is invaluable to
Cf Ladies. Restores their Health, Vigor, Comfort and
Beautv. Prevents the evolution of the Baldhead, and is
luperior to Permanganate of Potash. Sold everywhere.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatiofy
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU OET
Row’s €(i)brocatioi><
‘ DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
ft AS A O .SUPERIOR .
BISHOPS CITRATE
of MAGNESIA
WAY MoT UJ>B IT?
*53
&
$
e/?
6S
t
Jr
52
■
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
T/T'HY are the Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
’ ’ LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge—2o years’ experience—of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by quacks, and are nothing but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says : —“ Everywhere Igo I hear
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair."
Another gentleman says : —“ By a mere chance I have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
. well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
was quite bald on top of head, and, to my knowledge, tried most things mentioned without any result. A few months
ago he informed me he was intending to give your Restorer a trial. Of course I laughed, and for which you must for-
give me. I did not see my friend again until a few days ago, and, if you can, judge my surprise on finding my old com-
rade, not with a bald head, but with a full, thick head of hair.”—P. J. CONNORS, Esq., Tooma, N.S.W. 20/9,97.
PRICE, per Bottle, 35., 45., 55., 10s. 6d, 12s. 6d. Ninepence (small) and Is. extra for postage. Sold by all Chemists.
E. HOLLAND
lIAIR SPECIALIST ,
193 Collins-st., Melb., VICTORIA.
Dr. TARRANT
F.8.C.5.E., L.E.C.P.E., L.U.0.5.1., L.M.P.C.P.E.,
H
HR
4&\ f
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
And is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Diver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising, whether hereditary or
. , acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principa Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whoee nervous
system is deranged.
3XT o Man. or Woman.
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is your intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANTS exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced qheir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, arid ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore Sunken
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water, Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects Dreams
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger &e. ' Dr’
TARRANT makes r * ’ *
Absolutely 3XTo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Trouble’s Coughs
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona fides, and consequently ensuring immediate attention Should Dr
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be aeemnmn
dated at Dr. TARRANT'S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefuil/-tra[ned nurses
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT. ’
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration and imnaii,
his diagnosis in plain understandable language. * *
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth.*street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ; or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing- in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
288 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
m
Our Suit to Order at 42/- is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3/-.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84'-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35/-. Biding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25/-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32, 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
ELLIS’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR.
Self-Measurement System..
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
and Treatise
on the
Human Foot
Post Free.
BEWARE of
JEALOUS
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS.
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints aA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE to any part of Australia or N.Z.
As ELLIS'S Boots are made on specialty-constructed lasts,
giving the foot an ample tread, you can wear them
straight away with ease and comfort.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Note the Address :
W. J. ELLIS,
Sydney.
535 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
Our New Address.
A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
T*E T*M* F* R E* E*Y*o*Y
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with [the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Sir.—Accept my grateful thanks for the beautiful gift
watch and chain which you sent me. I was really
delighted with it when I opened the box. I find it to be
a most reliable timekeeper.—Yours truly, EMMA L.
ROONEY, Stockton. 29th March, 1898.
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
Watches and Jewellery!
GRAND XMAS PRESENTS.
Gents’ Solid Silver Keyless Hunters, 19s 6d ; Lady’s
Solid Silver Hunters, 17s 6d; Silver Alberts, Lady’s or
Gent’s, 5s 6d ; lovely Solid Gold Brooches, set real stones,
8s 6d, 10s 6d; Lady’s Gold Watches, 35s.—written guar-
antee given with all Watches sold from our establishment
for three years. Engagement Rings, set real stones, 10s
6d. 15s, 20s ; Waterburv Alarm Clocks, 2s 9'' ■ Gun-metal
Watches, 7s 6d —guaranteed one year; Gold le :e Links,
10s 6d, Hall-marked. Orders by Post sent si me day
'FRENCH’S.
632 George Street,
Sydney.
'BPIOQ
‘moo
•sdmßjQ
Croup,
Coughs,
Tooth-
ache,
Cats,
Burns,
Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
'Pam-KiUev
(FERRY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOXHAM & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
Tales of the convict system, by
Prioe Waning. la. Bd.


Arnott’s Living Pictures.
——
. J : IS 1
m
mm
m
■
i
TESTIMONIAL .
Mr. ARNOTT.
Sir,
We are enclosing the photo, of our
baby boy, “ Leslie T. G. Carrick,” taken
when he was just six months old. He
has been fed since birth on your biscuits,
and he is a fine, strong, healthy child.
Yours, etc.,
THOMAS CARRICK,
326 Glenmore Road, Rushcutters Bay,
Paddington, Sydney.
LESLIE T. G. CARRICK, aged 6 months—Fed since birth on
ABNOirS milk
The Children’s Food of Health.
Arrowroot Biscuits!
Always ash for Arnott’s when purchasing .
The Cycloon, Paddy Cahill, and
the G.R.
Far in the north of Australia lies a little-
known land, a vast half-finished sort of region,
wherein Nature has been apparently practising
how to make better places. This is the Northern
Territory of South Australia. Britain, it is
said, thinks of establishing an Imperial naval
station at Port Darwin. But let Britain beware !
The Northern Territory has “broke” everybody
that ever touched it in any shape or form, and it
will break Britain if she meddles with it. The
decline and fall of the British Empire will date
from the day that Britannia starts to monkey with
the Northern Territory.
* • • *
This vast possession, which extends half-
way down the Continent of Australia, is not,
strictly speaking, a part of the S.A. province. It
is a Crown possession, handed over to the Adelaide
folk to manage and work for their own loss, and
for years they have poured their capital like water
into this huge sink. And still, after swallowing
two and a-half millions of Government money,
and Heaven only knows how much private capital,
the place is steadily going seventy thousand a year
to the bad. Year after year the South Austra-
lians have swallowed the same old wheeze about
the immense undeveloped resources of “ our mag-
nificent Northern Territory,” and have hung on
pluckily, in the hope of one day getting some of
their money back—and possibly, also, in the fear
of the N.T.’s resumption as a Crown colony,
an event which would at once be followed by an
influx of cheap Asiatics from Britain’s Eastern
possessions. And, in fact, the Territory itself is
now clamoring for the introduction of the cheap
and nasty Chow, notwithstanding that it is
breeding its own Chinky fast enough, in all con-
science. The Territory people want more Chows,
and would gladly cut loose from South Australia
to get them. As for the trifle of two and a-half
millions that they owe, they would attend to that
small matter after the wet season. In the Terri-
tory everything good is always going to happen
after the wet season.
* * * •
The capital of the Northern Territory is
Palmerston, on Port Darwin, a harbor little,
if at all, inferior to Port Jackson. Pal-
merston is unique among Australian towns,
inasmuch as it is filled with the boilings over
of the great cauldron of Oriental humanity.
Here come the vagrant and shifting population of
all the Eastern races. Here are gathered together
Canton coolies, Japanese pearl-divers, Malays,
Manilamen, Portuguese from adjacent Timor,
Cingalese, Zanzibar niggers looking for billets as
stokers, frail (but not fair) damsels from Kobe;
all sorts and conditions of men. Kipling tells
what befell the man who “tried to hustle the
East, ” but the man who tried to hustle Palmerston
would get a knife in him quick-and-lively. The
Chow and the Jap and the Malay consider them-
selves quite as good as any alleged white man. In
Japtown (the Easterners’ quarters), Chinese
children by the dozen play about all day long in
the dusty streets; gaily-dressed, cheerful little
barbarians, revelling in the heat. The gold,
fields are all worked by Chinese labor, and hun-
dreds of Chinese fossick about the old alluvial
claims; fifty pearling - luggers go out every
tide, carrying seven hands each, practically all
colored men—3so yellow, brown, and brindled
vagrants moving backwards and forwards with the
tide. And more boats building, and more brindle-
colored Japanese arriving every month. To supply
the needs of all these, there are stores of every
kind in Japtown, and the storekeepers all deal
with the East for their supplies. There is an
Eastern flavor over everything; when the Palmer-
stonians want to gamble at the annual races they
do it by Calcutta sweeps, an Eastern form of
betting little known or practised elsewhere in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
Palmerston is supported by the pearlers,
the gold-mines, and the Government officials. The
Overland telegraph ends at Palmerston and em-
ploys a large staff, known as the O.T. men ; and
the Singapore cable which there leaves Australia,
also employs a large staff of British and Austra-
lasian Telegraph (“B.A.T. ”) officials. These,
with a publican or two, the Government Resident
(always referred to as “the G.R.”), a couple of
lawyers, a doctor, a few storekeepers, customs
and railway officials and Paddy Cahill, the buffalo-
shooter, pretty well make up the white population
of a place upon which the Government has never-
theless squandered money madly. The huge jetty
cost £70,000, and ere it was well finished the teredo
had eaten the piles away and a gigantic crane, that
had just been erected, fell into the water with a
mighty splash. It is there still, but they will get
it out —“after the wet season.” Also, the little
tin-pot railway to Pine Creek cost a million and
doesn’t pay working expenses ; and yet S.A. Par-
liament talks of spending nine millions in pro-
longing this useless railway down the centre of the
continent.
* * • •
There’s a curse on all N.T. undertakings.
Private enterprise, as represented by Fisher and
Lyons, Dr. Brown, and many other “big ” men of
the past, has poured into it hundreds of thousands
of pounds in cattle-stocking, and so on. What is
there to show for it all? When not dead, the
cattle are unsaleable, because there are no markets.
Not a station in the Territory to-day would fetch
at auction half the money it cost; not a mine in
the Territory pays steady interest on its capital.
Sugar planting and quinine planting have failed ;
the blacks now hunt for wild-goose eggs on the
lagoons at Sergison’s abandoned sugar-plantation,
and the wild buffaloes wallow in the swamps
below Beatrice Hills where the quinine was.
Once, though, a ray of hope broke the gloom when
ruby-like gems were discovered in the Mac Donnell
ranges. These stones look exactly like rubies,
which at their best are far more valuable than
diamonds, and as they lay about in any quantity
it was thought for awhile that the Territory was
Saved. A few three-bushel bags were hastily filled
with “rubies” and sent to England. Alas, the
curse of the Territory was on those stones—the
English experts on examination pronounced them
no more than worthless natural simulacra of
the ruby. The gold - mines were rich down
to water-level ; but there the ore became
refractory, and now all the mining is sur-
face. A few market-riggers bought a lot of
mines from the Chinese for about £17,000, and
then sub-divided these properties, and watered the
capital till it now stands at about =£90,000 nominal
value. But sub-divide and water as they like,
they are still the same £17,000 worth of Chinese
gold-mine, and apparently not likely to pay inter-
est on even that modest capital. Out in the ranges
are all sorts of prospectus claims —some of them
good shows ; but no one does any work in the Ter-
ritory. They put everything off till “ after the
wet season. ” It is the land of Later On. If a
Northern Territory man knew that his mine was
full of gold, he would not dig it out. He would
sit down and wait for a Chinaman to come along
and take it on tribute. If no Chinaman came, he
would “send it Home to float.” Said one miner,
“ I’d sooner be in W. A. on one feed a day than be
on good gold here. They don’t ’elp a man to do
nothin’ here. If the G. R. would only let us have
a Guv’ment battery we might get some stone out
and have a crushin’. ” And there he sat waiting
for a Government battery. Waiting—always
waiting, that is the typical Northern Territory
attitude. The old brisk days have gone; the
pushing men have departed ; and those who have
stayed have got the white-ant in their systems.
There is always a wet season just past or coming.
If it is past, they wait “till the ground dries”;
and by the time it is dry they think the next wet
season might come early, and they—wait!
* • * •
The Government sent up a buoy to mark
a dangerous reef. The buoy was taken out with
great ceremony, and anchored over the reef, and
immediately sank. They didn’t get it up again.
It is at the bottom of the sea now, and the reef is
unmarked. Another buoy got adrift from a dan-
gerous reef; this buoy was cruising about Vernon
Straits for some time, but no one fetched it back.
When some lepers were discovered at Palmerston
once, a leper station was formed at a little island
in the harbor, and the lepers were landed there
with great precaution, but as soon as the tide went
down (it falls 24ft.) the lepers calmly waded ashore
and returned to town. Nobody bothered any
more about them,
* • • •
There is only one great land-mark in Palmerston
history—the cyclone which some years ago blew
the town down. A lot of it isn’t rebuilt yet. This
atmospheric disturbance, locally known as “the
cycloon,” is one of the three topics of conversation
in Palmerston; the second is the Government
Resident (the G.R.). He is an English barrister,
and, in his own person, Supreme Court, head of
the Mining Jurisdiction, Protector of Blacks, and
Police Magistrate. No wonder they talk about
him. Good man for the position, too, as he
doesn’t care a damn for anybody, and, starting
from that safe basis, discharges his varied duties
with a light heart. The third subject of discus-
sion is Paddy Cahill, the buffalo-shooter; he is
popularly reported to pursue the infuriated buffalo
at full gallop, standing on his saddle, and dressed
in a towel and a diamond ring, and yelling like
a wild Indian. The trinity of the N.T. : The
cycloon, the G.R., and Paddy Cahill! The in-
habitants sit about the shady verandahs and drink,
and talk about one or all of these three. They
start drinking square-gin immediately after break-
fast, and keep it up at intervals till midnight.
They don’t do anything else to speak of, yet they
have a curious delusion that they are a very ener-
getic and reckless set of people. But it’s all talk
and drink. Palmerston is the city of booze, blow,
and blasphemy. There is an Act compelling
a publican to refuse drink to an habitual inebriate.
This is locally known as the “Dog Act,’’and to be
brought under the Dog Act is a glorious distinc-
tion, a sort of V.C. of Northern Territory life.
» • • *
To sum up, the Northern Territory is a vast,
wild land, full of huge possibilities, but, up to
now, a colossal failure. She has leagues and
leagues of magnificent country—with no water.
Miles and miles of splendidly-watered country—
where the grass is sour, rank, and worthless.
Mines with rich ore—that it doesn’t pay to treat.
Quantities of precious stones —that have no value.
The pastoral industry and the mines are not pay-
ing, and the pearling, which does, is getting too
much into Jap hands. The hordes of aliens that
have accumulated are a menace to the rest of Aus-
tralia. Nevertheless, the white folk, there are
hospitable to a fault. The strangers within their
gates never have a dull moment—nor a sober
moment —if the inhabitants can help it. And,
after all the hard things I have written of it, I
would give “my weary soul ” to be back at
Palmerston in that curious lukewarm atmosphere
and watch the white-sailed pearling boats beating
out; to see the giant form of Barney Flynn, the
buffalo-shooter, stalking emu-like through the
dwarfish crowd of Japs, and Manila men ; to be
back once more with the B.A.T. and the O.T. and
Paddy Cahill and the G.R., while the Cycloon
hummed and buzzed on the horizon ; or to be in
the buffalo-camp with Rees and Martin, shooting
the big, blue bulls at full gallop, or riding home in
the cool moonlight with the packhorses laden with
hides. —
If you’ve heard the East a-callin’ you don’t never heed
naught else.
And the man who once goes to the Territory
always has a hankering to get back there. Some
day it will be civilised and spoilt; but up to the
present it has triumphantly overthrown all who
have attempted to improve it. It is still “the
Territory.” Long may it wave !
THE BANJO.
“ N. ” : The sickening crocodilery of the
American Congressional chaplain over Spain re-
minds me of that stupid picture of the lady duel-
lists, with rapiers, stripped to the waist. When
one has struck the other, she blubbers over her.
Just at present there are in Sydney many
brilliant legal lights who are on the look-out for
offices. The offices need not be sumptuously fur-
nished, or even centrally situated. If they con-
tain a couple of chairs and a table the eminent
lawyers will be satisfied; they are prepared to
provide their own mattresses and blankets. This
sudden demand for accommodation is the result
of an unexpectedly boorish attitude adopted by
certain owners of official premises in the city who
wanted their miserable, sordid rent. Meantime,
if a client with only a little ready money wishes to
take action for the restitution of conjugal rights,
or to seek advice in connection with the registra-
tion of a dog, he must do so in the archway, or in
the threepenny parlor of the Beetle and Gluepot.
One ancient legal veteran for a fortnight past has
been going about cursing the tyranny of Capital.
The documents connected with the vast and in-
tricate cases he has in hand he carries in his hat.
It seems that his office-rent was so far in arrear as
to be practically out of sight. The landlord
ordered him to quit scores of times, but the
veteran smiled imperturbably and took no notice.
The landlord did not wish to hurt the feelings of
his tenant by resorting to forcible ejection. He
thought the matter over awhile and then hit
upon a plan. The office occupied by the veteran
is a detached apartment at the top of a steep
flight of wooden stairs. The landlord sawed away
eight steps. The veteran has since been trying to
borrow a rope-ladder with grappling-hook attach-
ments.


A noted fact that people who do like to feel
comfortable generally buy their Summer outfits at
Hordern Brothers’ Establishment in Pitt-st., Sydney.
For instance, their Tennis Jackets and Trousers (made of
Flannels, Serges, Kharki, Assam Silks, Grass Cloths and
Crash), in all prices to suit everybody’s pockets, are made
large and roomy for the tropical weather. Tennis Shirts
to match, in all the most effective colorings ; with and
without collar. No description would convey an ade-
quate idea of our marvellous stock. We send these goods
free per parcels post anywhere ; send along any order,
large or small, and we will surprise you with the value
we forward, or write for price-list. Hordern Brothers,
Pitt-st., Sydney. (Cash Buyers and Sellers.)*
C^IE3C-A_!]R; ra A ! .G? , I I IEJBL
-A.3NTX3
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
Impure thoughts or a dissolute life are mirrored in the face. A man’s face, therefore, is what his character makes it, and Nature
las wise y posted the warning where all the world may see it As she has provided a warning for character, so has she provided a
warning for all diseases. A man is not stricken with Disease of the Kidneys
in a day. He is repeatedly warned ;it may be by pains in the back, by
■ scanty or too much urine, by sediment, by dizziness, rheumatism, slight
t dropsy, irregular heart’s action, loss of memory, hot dry skin, disordered
eyesight, loss of strength, &c. These symptoms are the signals the kidneys
give that something is wrong. They are fair warnings, and the man’s life
can be saved if he heeds them, but if he does not they will kill like light-
ning later on.
Is it not wise to heed the warnings ?
\s a man’s character is reflected in his face, so is the character of a
medicine reflected in its results, and in its claims. If those results are always
given in the word of people in our own town whom we can go and see, and
whose statements we can verify, is not that the most straightforward kind
of evidence ? Is it not entitled to our confidence ? If the medicine is for
kidney diseases, and it be always recommended for that specific purpose, is
not that honest as well ?
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are establishing a solid foundation and
character here in Sydney, first, because they are always endorsed by Sydney
people, and second, because they are for kidney diseases and claim nothing
more. In other words, they are winning because they are honest. It’s a
homely name, but an honest medicine.
Head what a Sydney man says
me
sore at
my kidneys were very irregular, and I felt my system was being poisoned. I procured some of Doan’s Backache Kidney
can now stoop over with impunity, and thank the day T ever hearcTof 'this baokaehe disappeared, the secretions became regular, and I began to (eellike my old self *1
Newman’s Pharmacy, King-street, and after a fe
. , THE symptoms of kidney DISEASE.
Pam m the back or sides,
lids, Swelling of
Eyesight and Hearii
Disease, Diabetes, e
Please bear in mind one thing : DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are NOT PURGATIVE pills. They have no action on the bowels Their action
kidneys, and for them purpose are absolutely unrivalled. ieir action
Doans Backache Kidney Pills may be had of chemists and storekeepers generally throughout the colonies for 2s. 9d. per box, or six boxes for 15s 3d m -n u
mailed on receipt of price b y of our branches, ns follows :-Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt St., Sydney (main office) ; 292 Flinders St, Melbourne 54 KW will-
St, Adelaide , 341 Aim ray St,-Perth, W.A, ; Eagle St, Brisbane, care Elliott Brothers ; St. John St, Launceston, care Fairthome and Son. ’ ® lam
is on the
tp
%
tr
%
mI
V
%
//
The Never-Never Novelist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They keep on writing novels (it’s the kind of stuff
that pays)
Of the Never-Never country wild and free ;
Drawing highly-colored sketches of the wild bush-
riders’ ways
From the very tame bush-riders that they see.
There you’ll see the “stalwart plainsman ” (here
he’s simply called a “ bloke ”)
Careering o’er the prairie on his steed ;
Here a Darling River drover on a broken-winded
moke,
Or a lonely swagman cadging for a feed.
There the noble, naked savage, with his boome-
rang and spear,
Has deadly wars with tomahawk and knife ;
Here an educated nigger, reared on politics and
beer,
Who never swung a nullah in his life.
There—majestic, rolling prairies, and forests dark
and dense,
All fragrant with the scent of wattle-gum ;
Here-a pessimistic “cookie” sitting sadly on a
fence,
Smoking hard, and praying hard for Kingdom
come.
There the yawning mountain chasms, and the
lofty, snow-clad peak,
Where lightnings play and tropic storms appall;
Here—a range of dreary sandhills and a God-
forsaken creek,
With a dam to catch the rains that never fall.
The man who writes the novels (in his easy,
cushioned chair)
Will smile to see his books upon your shelf ;
For though he paints a paradise he’ll take all
sorts of care
That he doesn’t go and live out there himself.
So they keep on writing novels (it’s the kind of
stuff that pays)
Of the Never-Never country, wild and free.
And we read their stirring stories of the wild
bushriders’ ways,
But it s mi/h y lame bush-riders that we see.
RACKA ROCK.
Some time ago an Australian lydy,
who fancied that she was a top-notcher in
sassiety, was assisted out of an over-turned
baggy, in which she had been driving,
by “ such a gentlemanly man.” To show
her gratitude, she invited him to a small
“evening,” presided over by herself. She was
rather disgusted, on presenting the aforesaid
assister to the lion of the evening, Capt. , of
H.M.S. , to be informed by him that they
were already acquainted. “ You see,” said the
R.N., “ Mister Smith is my cabin-steward ! ”
On Our Selection—About
Dancing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our selection was a great place for dancing. We
could all dance from Dan down—and there wasn’t
a figure or a movement we didn’t know. We
learned young. Mother was a firm believer in
early tuition. She used to say it was nice for
young people to know how to dance, and be able
to take their part when they went out anywhere,
and not be awkward and stupid-looking when they
went into society. It was awful, she thought, to
see young fellows and big lumps of girls like the
Bradys stalk into a ballroom and sit the whole
night long in a corner, without attempting to get
up. She didn’t know how mothers could bring
children up so ignorantly, and didn t wonder at
some of them not being able to find husbands for
their daughters.
But we had a lot to feel thankful for. Besides a
sympathetic mother, every other facility was
afforded us to become accomplished. Abundance
of freedom ; enthusiastic sisters; and no matter
how things were going—whether the corn wouldn’t
come up, or the wheat had failed, or the pump-
kins given out, or the water-hole run dry—we
always had a concertina in the house. It never
failed to attract company. Paddy Maloney and
the well-sinkers, after belting and blasting all day
long, used to drop in at night, and throw the table
outside, and take the girls up, and prance about
the floor with them till all hours.
* • * »
Nearly every week mother gave a ball. It might
have been every night only for Dad. He said the
jumping about destroyed the ground-floor—wore
it away and made the room like a well. And
whenever it rained hard and the water rushed in
he had to bale it out. Dad always looked on the
dark side of things. He had no ear for music,
either. His want of appreciation for melody
often made the home miserable when it might
have been the merriest on earth. Sometimes it
happened that he had to throw down the plough-
.reins for half-an-hour or so to run round the
wheat-paddock after a horse or an old cow ; then
if he found Dave or Sal, or any of us, sitting in-
side playing the concertina when he came to get a
drink, he would nearly go mad.
“ Can’t y’ find anything better t’ do than ever-
lastingly playing at that damn thing ? ” he would
shout. And if we didn’t put the instrument
down immediately he would tear it from our
hands and pitch it outside. If we did lay it
down quietly he would snatch it up and heave it
out just as hard. The next evening he would
devote all his time to patching the fragments to-
gether with sealing-wax.
Still, despite Dad’s antagonism, we all turned
out good players. It cost us nothing either. We
learnt from each other. Kate was the first that
learnt. She taught Sal. Sal taught Dave, and so
on. Paddy Maloney was Kate’s tutor. He passed
our place every evening going to his selection,
where he used to sleep at night (fulfilling con-
ditions), and always stopped at the fence to yarn
with Kate about dancing. Paddy was a fine
dancer himself, very light on his feet and easy to
waltz with—so the girls made out. When the
dancing subject was exhausted Paddy would drag
some hair out of his horse’s mane, and say, “ How’s
the concertina?” “It’s in there,’’ Kate would
answer. Then turning round she would callout,
* J- oe, bring the coneer’.”
In an instant Joe woidd strut along with it.
And Paddy, for the fiftieth time, would examine
it and laugh at the kangaroo-skin straps that
Dave had tacked to it, and the scraps of brown
paper that were plastered over the ribs of it to
keep the wind in ; and, cocking his left leg over
the pommel of his saddle, would sound a full blast
on it as a preliminary. Then he would strike up
“The Rocky Road to Dublin,” or “The Wind
Among the Barley,’’or some other beautiful air,
and grind away untiringly until it got dark—until
mother came and asked him if he wouldn’t come
in and have supper. Of course, he always would.
After supper he would play some more. Then
there would be a dance.
* * * •
A ball was to be held at Anderson’s one Friday
night, and only Sal and Dave were asked from our
place. Dave was very pleased to be invited ;it
was the first time he had been asked anywhere,
and he began to practise vigorously. The evening
before it took place Dad sent him to put the
draught horses in the top paddock. He went
off merrily with them. The sun was just going
down when he let them go, and save the noise of
the birds as they departed to rest the paddock was
quiet and still. Dave was filled with emotion and
enthusiastic thoughts about the ball. He threw
the winkers down and looked around. For a
moment or two he stood erect, then he bowed
gracefully to the saplings on his right, then
to the stumps and trees on his left, and
humming a tune, ambled across a small patch
of ground that was bare and black, and
pranced back again. He opened his arms
and, clasping some beautiful imaginary form
in them, swung round and round like a wind-
mill. Then he paused for breath, embraced his
partner again, and “galloped” up and down.
And young Johnson, who had been watching him
in wonder from behind a fence, bolted for our
place.
“ Mrs. Ross ! Mrs. Ross ! ” he shouted from the
verandah. Mother went out.
“ Wot’s —wot’s up with Dave ? ”
Mother turned pale.
“ There’s something / ”
“My God ! ” mother exclaimed— “ whatever
has happened ? ”
Young Johnson hesitated. He was in doubt.
“Oh ! what is it ? ” mother moaned.
“Well” (he drew close to her) “he’s—he’s
mad.”
“ Oh-h!”
“He is. I seen ’im just now up in your pad-
dick, an' he’s clean off he’s pannikin.”
Just then Dave came down the track, whistling.
Young Johnson saw him and fled.
For some time mother regarded Dave with
grave suspicion, then she questioned him closely.
“ Yairs,” he said, grinning hard, “ I was goin’
through th’ fust set.”
Q.
STEELE RUDD.
There is a lot of pathos about the tale of
those women of Granada who whacked the statue
of Columbus because he discovered America and
thereby started their country’s misfortunes.
Columbus was the beginning of all Spain’s disas-
ters. He began the greatest gold and land boom
the world ever saw, and Spain, as the principal
boomer, burst so badly that she has never got
straight again since.
Cheerful tale from the frozen road to
Klondyke:—
“Half a mile to Hades, either way!” Such is the
message to be found on a tree where two trails fork, a ten
days’ tramp from Hazelton, on the Ashcroft, trail. J. A.
Grey, of New York City, and J. Atwood, of Boston, two
passengers by the Horsa to-day, tell a story which con-
firms former reports of the horrors of the Ashcroft trail,
but it is more comprehensive. They left Ashcroft on
April 28. At QuesnelLe they were tnjd it was 3(1 days to
Hazellnn. They took 30 days’ provisions, and as a con-
sequence nearly starved to death, for instead of 250 miles
it was 375. The trail was very had, but, not, a circum-
stance to the awful experience from Hazelton to Glenora.
“ We were told again it was 30 days’ travel, but, found
it 45. Instead of 350 miles it was 440. Advertisements
said it was 370 miles from Ashcroft to Glenora ;
instead it was 1400. Our sufferings between II zc 1-
ton and Glenora were almost beyond endurai ee. It uas
the valley of the shadow of death. For ten days we
lived on a few ounces of porridge daily, and for live, when
the pangs of hunger drove ns to desperation, we shot a
horse and lived on horse-flesh, and no meat ever tasted
nicer. In one place within five miles I counted 100 dead
horses, and Indians told of men who had laid down and
died, starved to death rather than eat the half-famished
beasts of burden which had helped them patiently to wal-
low wearily through mud and mire until death was
longed for as a release from their trials. In one case we
passed through a forest of soggy moss, with not a vestige
of underbrush. We had no feed, and tied the horses to
trees, where they choked down great wads of moss and
dirt and small tree branches. The 30 miles of moss was
the scene of a thousand horrors. Coming out of the
soggy forest, we struck poison plains, so named on
account of devil-weed covering the ground. The stench
is awful, for horses lie heaped in hundreds, who
have died from eating the poisonous vegetable
here growing in rank profusion. Further on,
we arrived at quicksands, with dense forests on
each side that we could not penetrate. Then there were
quagmires with horses in rows, dead with the packs still
on their backs. It is the solemn truth that our party of
20 led our horses over the hacks of the poor buried brutes.
Beyond this we came to a tree on which was blazed :
“ Eat here and turn back ; just beyond is the Slough Of
Despond.” For two awful, weary miles we trudged
wearily on, our horses actually at times up to the backs
in mud, with their noses stuck in the awful omnipresent
ooze. One after the other, we dragged them out, and put
a bullet through their heads. To make matters worse, it
rained for ten days and nights. Along the road were
strewn hardware, blankets, rifles, cartridges—every con-
ceivable part of a Klondyker’s outfit thrown aside by
heart-broken, half-distracted wayfarers. We came to
another blazed tree, and on it was a sad story, and
beneath a mound of earth, whether the grave of the
writer or not we do not know. The story read
“Here is another fool who left home to seek fortune
over this God-forbidden trail, after borrowing all the
money he could squeeze out of his friends and poor rela-
tions. God help you, poor fellow-pilgrims.”


Completely Broken Down
Unable to Sleep, No Appetite, Loss of Flesh,
Physicians Could Give no Relief. Was Cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
m
//T
7,-W
i f\j
w
y//.
\N
/*
“ Sometime ago I was taken very ill, losing my appetite, could not sleep,
and was unable to do my work. I was attended by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak. Sometimes when I was out I would become so
ill that I would have to go into a neighbor’s house until I was fit to walk again.
I cannot describe my sufferings, only to say that this state of things lasted
for months.
“At last I remembered your advertisements in the papers, so determined to
try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took
another, and still another, and the three bottles completely put me to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat and sleep and work
like a Trojan.”
This is 'the strong and clear testimonial of Mrs. Jane Messiter (whose
portrait is here given), of Foy St., Balmain, New South Wales.
It is because of the multitude of such cures that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
"The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
“Ayer’s” is unlike other sarsaparillas. It contains different medicines,
Cures more quickly, acts more directly on the blood.
One bottle of “ Ayer’s ” does the work of three bottles of the ordinary kind.
AYER'S Sarpianlla
It Enriches the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills aid the Action of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Oh, the Multitude Who Say It!
Speaking of another world than this, a certain
Book, from which so many draw comfort in times
of trouble, says : “4The inhabitant never saith, i
am sick.” But in this world the air is full of the
weary, wailing cry, “I am sick,” “I suffer so,”
“ Can nothing be done to rid me of pain ? ”
Here is another case of it another out of a
number beyond all counting or imagining. Yet
this one got well. Do you want to hear about it ?
or do you know of any pain-racked mortal who
might like to hear about it ? Then read, either
for yourself or for someone else. We give the facts
exactly as they were given to us.
“ In the early part of 1889 I began to suffer from
illness. I had at first a bad taste in my mouth,
and belched up a sour, gaseous fluid. My appetite
was poor, and, after eating, I had a burning pain
at my chest, and palpitation of the heart. I had
also a gnawing, grinding sensation at the pit of the
stomach, with a feeling of sinking, as though I
were being bodily lowered into a pit. My food
never seemed to settle, but repeated, and I had to
spit it out; this going on until my stomach was
empty.
“ I lost a deal of sleep at night. I got very weak
and thin, losing over a stone in weight; I was so
feeble that I could hardly drag myself along. As
time went on 1 grew irritable and nervous, and
took no interest or pleasure in anything.
“ Sometimes better and at other times worse, I
continued in this way until August of last year
(1893), when I had to give up my employment as
collier at the Waterloo Main Colliery, where I
had been at work for seven years. At this time I
had got so bad that I sat in my chair from morn-
ing till night, too weak and prostrated to go about.
When I did venture out I dare not go alone for
fear I should fall down in the street.
“ At times a strange feeling came over me, as if
my heart had stopped beating; and on one of
these occasions I felt as if I were dying, and said
to my wife, ‘Lass, it’s all up with me.’
“ During my long illness I consulted several
doctors, and they all said my heart was sound,
and that the trouble was all from my stomach and
liver. They gave me medicines and recommended
a change of air. I therefore went to Blackpool,
Scarborough, and Whitby, but was no better either
from the change or from the doctor’s physic.
“ One day a book was left at my house telling
about Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup, and I
thought it might possibly help me. So I got a
bottle from Mr. Webster, chemist, Green Road,
and when I had finished that bottle I found relief,
for my food no longer repeated and the pain at
my heart was easier. I kept on with the medicine
and soon my appetite returned, and I could eat
without feeling any pain or distress. Gradually I
improved, getting stronger and stronger every
day. I can now eat anything, and do my work
with pleasure. I feel quite a new man, and con-
sider that Mother Seigel’s Syrup has saved my
life. Yours truly, (Signed) George Hopton, 25
Bayswater Terrace, Roundhay Road, Leeds,
February Bth, 1894.”
No words of ours can add an ounce to the
weight of this plain and manly letter, From it,
as from a hilltop, we can see the sad picture o '
those four years of misery. The discouraged and
suffering husband, the patient, burden-bearing,
helpful wife. Heaven be praised that it all ended
as it did—in renewed health —instead of as it
might have ended. The disease was that insatiate
fiend and monster —indigestion and dyspepsia;
cunning as a fox, destructive as a man-eating
tiger. In this case, as in so many others, Mother
Seigel’s Syrup demonstrated that power which has
made it celebrated all over the world—in palace
and in hut, wherever the inhabitant saith, I am
sick. If you are one of these, try it now. If you
are healthy and hearty, thank God for that, and
pass the news of George Hopton’s illness and re-
covery on to any who need to hear it.
:
A STRIKING BRUNETTE.
GAS COOKERS.
The “Eureka” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
If is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer,
IfW" Five per Gent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO'S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
TRY • TRY • TRY
Try Try i'/yy wm
and TRY a GAIN.
IE A
WEAK STOMACH,
IMPAIR! I) DIGKSTION,
DISORDERED LIVER.
BEECHAM’S PILLS have for many years been the popular family medicine
throughout the British Colonies, and they now stand
WITHOUT A RIVAL
Prepared Only by Thomas Beechain, St. Helens, England.
SOLD EVERYWHERE IN BOXES, 1/1$ and 2/9 EACH.
RONISCH
ROJVISCH
RONISCH
ROM SC I I
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS:
KTICHOLSOM &
GEOROE STREET ,, SYDNEY.
• >
7 Cures While Sleeping.
: misiTnoss
XESTIMOKTIA-L.
Adamstown, September 11th. 1896
BONNINGTON & CO., Manufacturers of Irish Moss, &c.,
179 Harris Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—Being a sufferer for years from fibroid phthisis and bronchitis I de-
sire to add my testimony in favor of your Irish Moss. As a soother of irritating
cough, with much expectoration, I have found it to be the most effectual of anything
I have tried. It loosens the mucus, which, therefore, conies more readily away and
the cough is thereby considerably pacified. '
I remain, Yours respectfully,
THOMAS STOKES.
Bonnington’s Irish Moss
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, SORENESS OF THE
CHEST, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, and all other Lung ComnW,
tending to CONSUMPTION. . ng ° OB W nts
Large and Small Bottles. Always Ask for BONNINGrTON’S.
Bonnington’s Pills
LENc¥ VE^Td? M B^4 IN FA\r?T I ¥ O iFT?? ES \TF ELATU-
■LijjjNGE. IHE BEST i AMILY PILL. NO GRIPING PAINS.


I
sn
URG£ v
OFF ARMiMt» MAKERS
Establishes
1847.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LIMITED
Head Offi.ee and Factoriee - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq’rt’rs, 163-169 William-st. Melb.
New Seuth Wales Address 3
3E Broadway, George St. West, Sydney
.Depots ana Agencies almost everywhere.
Illustrated Catalogue I'i-ee. an appiication.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUEACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
“OLEAC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
H,R.H. the Prince of Wale*
g
c
1
<b
ECZEMA
\
Jars (coneentd.), 4/6, post 4/10
Depots;
“OLEAC”
Self Applied,
Sydhkt—M. H. Hobwitz, 84 Pitt St.
Adelaide- Habbis & Kemp, 6 Bundle St.
Mkwo'. bne—Fbed. J E. Phillips, 317 Cnllins St,
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE la. per Post, Is. 3d.
WortbiQgtoi) P6ri}pii)g Eogipc Corppaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SimpSOll (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
REGULAR PATTERN.
WORTH! N
''-v
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, JV.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARES & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES.
W_ C- IFIIiZD-RXIOGKE] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOJtK STItHH v, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Count ry Orders by post irotn all the colonies promptly
attended to. ■
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER,
ROBERTS’
e and
Market-Sts.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff—B - per Day
I*!
HOUSEHOLD
USE.
MAKES ICE IN TEN (10
MINUTES !
EVERY WIFE HER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
rater produced at a cost of 2/-.
«•*■*» 50s.
A Nl>T BROS.
mp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt-st., Sydney;
and 422 ELIZABETH STREET MELBOURNE.
zx&'J'tii
X
What is Health?
Xfheumntiam, Sciatica,
- - iAinihago, <6e.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F.
FA UK lilt, 145 Victoria Paradk,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free,
Six penny stamps.
mr A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
Tl OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT?.
.1 I. There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not jeen
recognised by thousands of sulferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
LTD.
Pioneers of
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of* Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery System of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
The Company Sells only
SUPPLYING all the P
OF SYDNEY
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc,
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING- STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE— for AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FIS
BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
' - v
Manufacturers and Importers of
Mining* Machinery, Engines and Boilers,
. • . Sole Agents for ...
The New Ingersoll’ Drill.
Universally pronounced to be the Lightest and Most Efficient
Drill in the market. In a recent trial at Charters Towers it easily
Defeated All Competitors
Ingersoll-Sergeant
Rock Drills
AND
Air Compressors
hold the highest average
records throughout the
world. They have met
and defeated in fair com-
petition every machine
brought against them,
and have never failed to
sustain their reputation
for doing the most work
at the least expense.
Batho’s
Bakin 9 Powder.
INSOLVENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas & Co ,
Melbourne, Gunmakeis,' corner Little Collins and Elizabeth
Streets. The Trustees offer to the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE
OB’ THE STOCK =l4 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, best twist bar-
rels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with carl ridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price M — —, |W
£8 reduced £2 17s Od each, complete ; 15 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels,
choke bore, steel locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 1 10 Ills, reduced £3 17s 6d each,
complete" 17 DB. Breech loading Guns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the late-t improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price Lit, reduced 1:5 each, complete ; 18 D.B. Breech-loading Guns, special quality,
solid bar action, highlv finished, with all the latest improvements, unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and
cleaners complete. Usual price £2l, reduced £7 10s each complete. Cartridges can he supplied for the Breech-
loading Guns at 6s 6d per 100 in anv size shot. All Orders Delivered Free, carnage paid to any address in any of the
Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun. All Cheques-, l'o-t Office Orders, or Bank drafts must be
u.„ to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY, 137 ELIZABETH SUREST
MELBOURNE, Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A. SETS, PARTS and,
CYCLE ACCESSORIES, Tan-rent Spokes fall Nickle, Perry’s ; 3/6 gross), Nipple’s, 2 9 gross. Steel
Balls (1/6 gross), Rim Washers (9d gross), Dunlop Valves (10 - doz.), Brakes (complete, 6/6), Outside
« v io ir\ a h Ri'onVp’s Saddles 6/6. Bleuniel Cork
PNEUMATIC-TYItE BICYCLES, up to
per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia.
<*7 t a £0 £lO, £l2, guaranteed 12 months.
TRADESUPPLIED—GUARANTEED 25 PER CENT. CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER HOUSE
B.S.A. IN AUSTRALIA.
H. P. Gregory & Co.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74 Street, Sydney;
vSPEiiPliki
. iiUTTLE.
KORTING’S INJECTOR.
Unrivalled.
Melbourne, 435 Bourke Street.
HAVE FOR SALE
Korting’s Boiler Feed Injectors
Mason’s Steam and Water lleducing
Valves
“ Pickering” Steam Engine Governors
‘ Midget” Steam Traps
“ Ludlow” Steam and Water “ Gate”
Valves
Bachards and other Steam Indicators
Bevolution Counters, Jen kin’s Valves
Every description of Engine and Boiler Fittings, Mountings and Supplies
