

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
11 The Standard
of Highest Parity
at present
attainable,”
LANCET,.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining anti Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
__ EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE-
BRISCOE. DRYSDALE
& CO.,
56 and 91 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
Wholesale Ironmongers, Iron and Metal Merchants,
IN STOCK AND TO LAND-
-1,000 Tons “ Orto *» and “Pyramid” Galvanized Iron.
10,000 CasKs Knlglit Bevan’s Cement.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
%
&
o
o
<RAck'A'rocK>
«•
o
o
o
o
a
V
R. A. HERVEY, Agent, 171 Clarence Street, Sydnbt
GIBSON, BATTLE 4. Co.,
85 Pitt-st., SYDNEY.
Portable, Traction, and Fixed Engines
of all descriptions ; Boilers, Pump*.
Rchton’s Patent Eccentric Thrasher,
guaranteed slmplest and best ; manufactured by RuStoK,
Proctor & Co., Ltd., of Lincoln, England. BROADBENT’S
Patent Suspended Direct Steam-driven HYDRO-EX-
TRACTORS for treating Sugar, Wool, Meat-refuse, &c.;
manufactured by Thomas Broadbent & Sons. Ltd., of
Huddersfield, England. “ EDISON-HOPKINSON” and
“ MANCHESTER ’’ Dynamos for Electric Lighting and
transmission of power plants; manufactured by Mather
4 Platt, Ltd., of Salford. ACCUMULATORS, manu-
factured by the Chloride Elbcrical Storage Syndicate,
Ltd. Station Telephones, Dr. Lessing’s Patent Dry Cells.
Estimates and Illustrated Lists on application.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENC3 STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Urislvtne, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; H chart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australian
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND.
should note that the
Im oarial XXotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience, Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
for Colonial-made Wire Netting*.
~ M ''' ‘ you ■'
And
It.
S,
PROOF
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application..
Special attention and Quotations given lor Large Orders.
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Ofiices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works— Chiswick, Parramatta River.
‘‘COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
pvOE
m
\ NnPROOF^
TURKISH & EGYPTIAN
CIGARETTES.
Smoked by Royalty and Nobility.
What is Health?
Jfheumatiam, Sciatica,
- Lumbago, Ac,,
Completely cured by Mr. C. F,
FA ItK lilt, Ho Victoria Paradm,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
Befsre vijifinj fhe o>y wrtfelo the Manager for
of Tariff, (orrypondence promplly attended To.
THE - - "
<arosVeosrNote!,
Grosvenor Square,
SYD3VTET.
For TEEMS, please address the Manager.
THK WORLD-BIN OWNID
Ediswan -
ED I SWAN
mkii
ECONOMY IN . .
. . , CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON & SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch ie Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE. SYDNEY.
m~ Poverty Pointers
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal f
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland*
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
HQBART.
Hadley’s Orient [jotel.
HE LAST OF SIX: TALES OF
THE AUSTRAL TROPICS. _
PRICE 1a P« Post, 1a ML
T
SIMON
ROLLER SYSTEM.
In Use in the Largest and Commercially
most Successful Mills in
Australia and New Zealand.
HENRY SIMON L™,
MANCHESTER, and
Meadowbank, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
Vol. 19.—N0. 944]
[Saturday, March 19, 1898,
Beg’istered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnanef.


G
EORGE ROBERTSON and CO.
BOOKSELLERS and STATIONERS.
Seam’s John Gilbert Yeoman, 6s ; post 6s 6d. Setoun’s
George Malcolm, 2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post 3s and 4s.
Gissing’s Human Odds, 2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post 3s and 4s.
Dawson’s God s Foundling, 2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post 3s and
4s. Sladen’s On the Cars, 7s 6d ; post Bs. Stirling and
Emerson’s Letters, 4s 6d ; post ss. Clarke’s 10th Cen-
tury Questions, 7s ; post 7s 9d. Prince of Wales, An
Account of His Career, 10s 6d ; post lls3d. Joseph Arch,
12s ; post 13s. Turgueneff’s His French Circle, 7s 6d ; post
Bs. Farrar’s Allegories, 6s ; post 6s 6d. Story’s Builders
of the Empire, 2 vols., 14s ; post 15s. Allen’s Christian
Institutions, 12s; post 12s 6d. George Robertson and
Co.’s Colonial Library, THE SWORD OF A SIN, by Alex-
ander Mon term ry, 2s 6d and 3s 6d ; post 3s and 4s.
DEAD MEN’S TALES, by Charles Junor, picture boards,
2s ; post 2s 4d.
Just received : THE DEVELOPMENT OF AUS-
TRALIAN LITERATURE, by Sutherland and Turner,
6s ; post free 5s 6d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 George Street, SYDNEY.
4 G. STEPHENS,
* JATERARY AGENT.
Advice , Criticism, Revision, Copyimj, Disposal.
All ivork involved between Author and Rub-
? lisher .
Postal Address: GEORGE ST. NORTH P. 0., SYDNEY.
Interviews by appointment. Fees on application.
4 GOLDEN SHANTY, and other Sketches in
A Prose and Verse by Bulletin writers; Is. 3d.
posted.
A GOOD PRESCRIPTION
for the “WORRIED.
f)
Nothing like smoking, and above everything, cigarettees —and, amongst
cigarettes, “ CAMEOS ” will give you the most intense satisfaction.
They soothe the brain, and allay the constant worry and irritation
caused by business troubles.
.are made from the finest selected American Tobacco.
THE RED PAGE.
* I notice you never buy theological books,’ said
A bookseller the other day. That is true: I have
no use for religious dogmas. Historically, scien-
tifically, they interest me, as showing the evolu-
tion of that curious thing, the human brain :
otherwise they seem a mere beating of the air.
Religion itself, as an aid—not to salvation but—
to aspiration, is another matter. The solemn
hush of a cathedral,
I don’t say ‘church,’ tor 4 churota' has suoh stiff,
narrow, barren, whitewashed, Nonconformist associations
—it’s almost as"bad as 4 chapel.’
broken by slow music; the
stateliness of the dim, decorated spaces; the
other-worldliness, as it were—not the worship, but
the atmosphere of worship ; the occasional earnest
souls 4 wistfully rounding vacuous arms to the
shape of embrape ’ of they know not what —
stretching yearning hands in love from this in-
sufficing ‘ bank and shoal of time ’ to that ‘ other
bank’ which reason denies and hereditary-instinct
O how pitifully craves for ;
Generally speaking, I agree that the religious yearning,
in a commonplace mind, is apt to bring evil by daunting
effort, by making the yearners neglect Ingersoll’s skim-
milk on earth (a fact) while they dream of butter beyond
the clouds (a fantasy). But I think that sometimes even
the commonplace mind draws from its craving for Heaven
a force in aid of the better life on Earth—that the reli-
gious ecstasy is not all wasted, but that some, a great
deal, of it is converted (literally according to Joule’s law,*
for whether thought-energy is or is not physical, in the
ordinary sense of * physical,’ there is no doubt that it
springs front, depends on, is created by, the physical
brain ; and its ‘ waves ’ re-act to produce changes in the
brain-substance) into earth-useful deed and endeavour.
It is to be argued, of course, that in so far as they are
capable of such response to the religious stimulus, ‘com-
monplace ’ minds are not commonplace. That is so.
Given any sensation or idea, the use that wili be
made of it depends on the nature which it stirs—
good soil yields a good crop, bad or unsuitable soil a bad
crop or none. Thu 9 my attitude to the perennial con-
troversy whether historically and on the whole religion
has proved'a bane or a blessing is . that controversy has
no locus loquendi—had the religious instinct been wiped
out altogether (which oouldn’t he did without wiping
out all the preliminaries of the universe) the blood of
wars and martyrdoms, for example, would possibly have
been shed just the same—had the passion which led
Calvin to burn Servetus been wanting, the very want of
it might have led somebody else to do something even
more dreadful to somebody else. That is, supposing
there was a-hale, a gap, in humanity in the place where
superstition and dogma are now and have been ensconced
—or supposing humanity had been ‘kinder’ born without
superstition and dogma, and never knew the use or
meaning of them—it is impossible to say whether
humanity would have been happier or otherwise. Thus
dispute is fruitless, for the only issue is a cul-de-sac.
And it must be fruitless—it is labelled fruitless a
priori, before it is born, even—because you can-
not conceive humanity with one of its essential
attributes knocked out or lopped off. Relying on
natural law* you can reason with some confidence from'
the known to the unknown ; but to attempt to reason
from humanity as any man sees it to an imaginary
humanity is to attempt to reason from unknown to un-
known—for what man knows humanity? What man
even knows himself?
these things are
worth knowing and clinging to. You should go
to church for stimulation. Bernard Shaw agree-
ably puts it in his essay on the subject. ‘Lot a
man go and renew himself for half-an-hour occa-
sionally in San Zeno at Verona, and he need eat
no corpses, nor drink any drugs or drams to
sustain him.’ But going to church need not
imply vegetarianism or any other do-without
habit —a plus does not demand a minus.
* * • •
The two books whioh, absorbed by an impres-
sionable brain of fifteen, laid the foundation for
this set of opinions, were Edward Maitland’s
4 The Pilgrim and the Shrine ’ and M. J, Savage’s
‘Beliefs about Man.’ There is not much that is
absolutely original in either, but they present
data and inferences in very lucid and sugges-
tive fashion; and even to-day are well worth
reading. * The Pilgrim and the Shrine’ makes a
special appeal to Australians, for much of it is
occupied by an Australian love-story, and the
author, Edward Maitland, seems to have b < n a
N S.W. Govt, official, and took some share in the
foundation of Sydney University. He represents
his imaginary hero (an approximate likeness of
himself?) as aiding to establish theS.U. ‘on a basis
broad as Truth itself, and capable of enduring to
all tune.’ ‘And the sectarians consoled themselves
with the prospect of being permitted to have their
own exclusive colleges, which, being affiliated to the
University, might perchance in time come to
overshadow and stifle it with their noxious
growth.’ Maitland represents hishero, too, as accu-
mulating ammunition ‘ for battering our colonial
school system’ (in the denominational fifties).
Some of liis.bullets, are adngirably moulded —
The-most perfect legislation is'that whioh combines the
greatest personal liberty with the greatest personal
security.
It is an act of injustice to apply funds derived from the
whole community to the promotion of the opinions of any
portion of it.
The admission of any distinctive tenet is a sentence of
exclusion against all who do not hold that tenet.
The first duty of a State is equal justice to all its mem-
bers, without reference to their opinions, religious or
political.
Maitland’s death was only the other day re-
corded. For the last few years his name has
been closely connected with that of Anna Kings-
ford, the curious religious-spiritualist whose life he
wrote. In view of his earlier work, one would
be glad if any reminiscences of his Australian
career oan be supplied.
* • * *
* The Pilgrim and the Shrine ’ is a personal
narrative of impressions and ideas ; always inte-
resting, often fascinating. There are some charm-
ing travel - pictures—South America, South Sea
Islands, Australia ; the running notes - and - com-
mentary deals chiefly with religious dogmas. At
half-way the idyll of Mary Travers, of Yarra-
dale and Bondi, is interwoven, and this remains
the leading skein at the close. An anecdote —
My host [in San Leon, Nicaragua] had a notice of
indulgence posted on his door, promising the remittance
of a third part of his sins to the purchaser. I asked why,
if he believed in the promise, he did not get three and so
have all his sins remitted. He answered with a shrug
that every good Christian is expected to buy one—it
costs little and does no harm. A sharp Yankee fellow-
traveller, hearing this conversation, observed that there
would still remain a residuum of sin no matter how many
indulgences were bought, for that each remits only a
third of the remainder. I had to tell the host, therefore,
that to get rid of all his sins it was necessary to buy the
three indulgences all exactly at the same moment. But,
alasl this emergency also has been seen and provided
against. The sinner can buy indulgences as often as he
pleases, but only one at a time 1 His liabilities may by
repeated purchases become ‘ small by degrees and beauti-
fully fine,’ but there is no place here below for one
altogether sinless.
• • • •
An argument—
A. 'God’s creation goes wrong. He has to struggle
long with difficulties, and strive by schemes and contri-
vances to save the countless host of his children from the
deadly malice of one whom he hath himself made, and
made too in full fore-knowledge (on the Maker's part) of
all the mischief he would do, and what it would cost to
subdue him. And after all He succeeds in rescuing but a
small fraction from the Evil One’s hands. For you hold
the gate of hell to be wide, so that many walk into it un-
awares, and that of heaven to be narrow and easily missed.
Thus far I am unable to recognise either the wisdom, the
power, the benefioence, or the justice of your God.’
B. —‘You forget that, having made man free, He could
not control his use of his freedom.’
A. — 4 I remember that, having made his children weak
and ignorant of what was best for them, you hold that
He placed them in a garden of forbidden delights, and re-
quired of them an obedience which, by your deification
of Christ, you admit could not be rendered by mere man,
however perfect, and when they yielded to the first
temptation to transgress a little, He condemned them
and their unborn offspring to unspeakable tortures for
evermore. That is, having made them finite and imper-
fect, He damned them for not being infinite and perfect,
and would only be propitiated towards them by the
blood and agony of the only innocent one, the only one
who had never offended Him in his life. No human
being requires a sacrifice or compensation before he can
pardon a repentant child. Is man more tender than God,
and is the thing made an unfaithful index to the charac-
ter of the Maker ?
‘Again, when man punishes he has in view the reforma-
tion of the offender as well as self-defence, whereas the
punishment inflicted by your God, having for its end, not
the benefit, but the increasing reprobation of the sufferer,
can proceed only from the bitterest feelings of revenge,
worthy the most malignant fiend the imagination can
conceive.’
B. What, does not the glory of a pure God demand
the infinite punishment of sin ?’
A. ‘Do as you please with the sin. lam speaking of
the sinner. According to your doctrine he perpetuates,
not destroys it. If He be so infinitely pure as to detest
that which you call sin, how came He to admit its defile-
ment into His work? If so infinitely just, how comes Be
to make the work of His own hands responsible for the
flaws of its construction? If so infinitely merciful and
loving, why so averse to pardon His errjng children ? If
so infinitely powerful, why allow an evil demon to de-
vastate the fair domains of ‘us creation ? Why, your
doctrine deposes God from His high place, and makes the
devil triumphant to all eternity. Calvinism, in spite of
your calling it “Evangelical Christianity,” is devil-
worship. Calvinism is Atheism. It is thus precisely be-
cause I accept your definition of God, that I cannot accept
your account of His dealings.’
B. ‘But the revelation He has given us in His word ? ’
A. ‘ A man’s meaning is ever better known by his
deeds than his words. Were an angel from heaven to
come and tell me such things of a being whom I loved and
respected, I should reject it as a slander and a lie. But
what you Call a revelation is an impossibility, for it
necessitates a prior Knowledge of the diviae in order to
know that anything is divinely predicated. All that a
man oan know is that he has a strong, an over-powering
impression, it-may be : but of-the source of that impres-
sion he can know nothing. And of its nature he can only
judge by comparing it with his ordinary experience.
An infallible revelation requires an infallible interpreter,
and botli are useless without an infallible understanding
to comprehend the interpretation.’
A fragment of the idyll—
From Herbert’s letter to Arnold.—Dear Old Friend,—
My happiness does not choke me now. I have grown
with the occasion, and instead of being overwhelmed in
the flood of my joy I oan touch the ground and keep my
head above water.
I have a son ; and the mother is safe. I thought I
knew what happiness was before.
Then it was the intensity of hope and longing. Now it
is the intensity of satisfaction.
How well says Emerson, Love must create. Lovers do
not know it, but they unconsciously love, not each other,
or their own present pleasure, but the future that shall
grow out of their affection ; the future in which each
appears ever more blended with the other, and they oan
no more imagine themselves separately.
It makes one so orthodox having this first child. Our
little trio fills infinity for us. It is an epitome of the
Trinity. Never more let them say ‘ Three are bad com-
pany.’ I find myself blandly regarding the dogmatists.
The nativity of Jesus is no fiction, no miracle, but true
of all mankind who love. Even the latest dogma of
Rome is a fact in nature. Who dare say that purity is
incompatible with maternity ? Woe to the blasphemer
of nature for whom these things are not sol- Poor,
sensitive, great-hearted David was indeed in low spirits,
even to hypochondria, when he fancied himself‘conceived
in sin.’ To attach a stain to any natural act is to stigma-
tise the Author of Nature. There is sin in the cold-
blooded bartering of youth and beauty ; in unions where
there is no mutual pervading heartfelt necessity for each
other’s companionship. But in the universal poem, * The
Divine Drama’ of Nature, there is no more beautiful,
canto than that in which a pure, noble-hearted girl yields
herself to the man she lqves.
I used always to look up to you as my senior, but now
I feel that lam yours. Our places are reversed. Hus-
band and father, am I not doubly promoted over your
head?
You should see the devotion of the mother to the child
—her child, for she almost grudges me any property in it,
while regarding me with a kind of puzzled gratitude. I
verily believe she looks upon the babe as the paragon of
mankind, destined to be the patriot reformer of his race.
Already he is the real master of the house. Everything
must give way to ‘ baby.’ lam made of as little account
as Joseph himself, as if I were only the reputed father.
And dearly do I enjoy the poetry of all this.
Nay, it seems to be in some sense true ; for the father’s
share in the matter really seems to be nothing compared
with the mother’s. Who dare limit the drama of the
* Holy Family ’ to one single representation ? . . .
Is not a book full of such passages worth pre-
serving from oblivion? ‘The Westminster Re-
view ’ justly ealled it ‘one of the wisest and most
charming of books.’
• * * o
Two other of Maitland’s works had some vogue
in their day—and the dust covers them. The
author says himself: ‘ln “The Pilgrim and the
Shrine’’was represented a youth escaping from
the trammels of traditional belief, and laying
himself wholly open to the influences of the living
Universe, so as to allow his entire system of re-
ligious faith to evolve itself freely from the contact
of external nature with his own soul. In “ Higher
Law” a similar method is applied to Morals.’ But
4 Higher Law ’ lacks the freshness and charm of
the eailier book, 1 hough it is still worthy and in-
teresting (it contains that shining epigram : The
edifice of the orthodox religion is founded on a
Misconception). ‘ By-and By ’is another attempt
at the imagination of a social utopia, and is as
tedious as most of its kind. Maitland’s youthful
fervour had left him when he wrote it, and his
theories want the breath of life. • Its chief interest
comes as an illustration of the author’s personal
history—it shows his brain on the downward path
to the region of emotional myths and figments
where so many tired old brains find rest which
Reason denies them. But in his Australian days
Edward Maitland must have baen singularly able
and lovable.
Writes Arab H. Purcell—
Your lengthy notice of Dr. Roth’s book would have
been highly valued had Dr. Roth treated of his subject
correctly—which unfortunately he did not. His vocabu-
lary is wrong a jumbling together of many dialects
from the east, north, south, west, and even South Sea
Islands, caused by the congregating together at Boulia of
remnants —and mighty small remnants —of the various
local .tribes that don't happen to be extinct—for the
author has written (as living entities) about some which
are extinct l Machoomba, Dr. Roth's word for ‘kanga-
roo, is a Diamantina river word from the Miorli tribe ;
Matuniba is the correct Bitta Bitta (not Pitta Pitta as
Dr. R. has it). Dingo should be Punamya, not Malalea;
and emu Goolburri, not Walcaje. The latter word is
from the Moorooboola tribe, down the Georgiana River,
a hundred miles away. Dr. Roth makes other similar
blunders.
R. B. Cunninghame-Graham, in ■ The Saturday
Review ’ —
The world is to the weak. The weak are the majority.
The weak of brain, of body, the knock-kneed and flat-
footed, muddle-minded, loose-jointed, ill-put-together,
baboon-faced, the white-eye-lashed, slow of wit. the prac-
tical, the unimaginative, forgetful, selfish, dense, the
stupid, fatuous, the “candle-moulded,” give us our laws,
impose theirstandard on us, their ethics, their philosophy,
canon of att, literary style, their jingling music,
vapid plays, their dock-tailed horses, coats with buttons
in the middle: of the back, their hideous fashions,
aniline colors, their Leaders, Leightons, Logsdails, their
false morality,, their supplemented monogamic marriage,
social injustice done to women, legal injustioe that men
endure, making them fearful of the law, even with*
good oase, when the opponent is a woman ; in sum, the
immense ineptitude of modern life with all its inequali-
ties, its meannesses, its petty miseries, contagious
diseases, its drink, its gambling, Grundy, Stock Ex-
change, and terror of itself, we owe to those, our pug
nosed brothers in the Lord, under whose rule we live.
‘ Ponte ’ writes re bush songs :
4 Ben Hali ’ is certainly not Australian. I’ve heard it
sung by new-chum cookies. ‘ Ry’s ’ picture some weeks
back sums up bush singing— 4 I don’t want any music 'cos
I know any gorsquantity of toons.’ The most used 4 toon ’
is ‘ The Wild Colonial Boy ’ —the ‘ terror to Orstraylians.’
There are numerous variations of the words, and the tune
readily adapts itself to the peculiarities of the singer.
Another popular ballad is descriptive of shearing life
You can get better poetry but worse realism than—
‘ Then when the shearin’s over they get their bits of
papers;
They to the nearest shanty go and cut such pretty
capers;
They call for one and then for two in a style that’s very
funny,
Till the landlord says, " Oh, this won’t do—you got
no money.”
With my bow-wow-wow,’ &c.
Another well-known song reminiscent of the ‘carrying
days is sung to ‘The Wild Colonial Boy ’ tune. It starts,
1 Come all ye jolly bull-punchers and listen to my rhyme.’
No bush-song is genuine unless prefaced by 4 Come all
ye.’
Writes T.D. —
Victor Daley is naturally puzzled over the injustice of
that sentence in his quoted game-rhyme,
* Off to prison you must go,
My fair Lady.’
English youngsters, however, sing
* Off to prison he must go,’
which makes all the difference. I don’t think words or
sense count so greatly with children as the facility with
which the rhymes wed themselves to their primitive
tunes. Else, however would we get such a corruption as
that contained in the last two of these lines—
‘Green gravel, green gravel, .
The grass is so green.
The fairest young damsel
That ever was seen.
* Oh, Mary 1 Oh, Mary !
Your true love is dead ;
He’s sent you a letter
To turn round your head.’
The young man again ; but all the pathos of his untimely
end is lost through the youngsters of generations paying
more regard to sound than to sense. Music is an instinct,
but poetry is an art.
Some little items :
H.A.W.: ‘ln BoldrewoodV'Myßun Home”(p.3lB),the
captain of a Holyhead packet compliments Rolf on his
seamanship. Rjlf: “ I suppose you never stop for weather
on this line?” “Not if it blew the yards out of the bolt-
ropes,” &o. Fancy a ship-captain calking about blowing
yards (or anything else but canvas) out of the bolt-
ropes (ropes to which canvas is sewn to make a sail).
Rolf's South Sea experience with “ A Modern Bucca-
neer ” should surely have taught him better.’ . . ,
Time Melb. Publio Library changed the brass-plate 6n fts
shelves of Australian poetry. The corner is labelled
‘Colonial Poetry.’ There is ‘British poetry,’ ‘Greek
poetry,’ and so on ; why not ‘Australian poetry?’ . . -
Does anybody know what became of those fine, decora-
tive draw ings of Australian fauna and flora which Lucien
Henry took to Europe with him? . . . Max: ‘What
exactly u-as Douglas Sladen at Sydney Uni. ? what salary
did he get? and how many pupils did he teach? The
notice which he supplied to Mennell’s “Die. of Aus.
Biog.” alleges that “in ISB2 he was appointed to the
chair of history in the university of Sydney.” Wasn't
Wood first prof, of hist.? And the oiher day S. wrote
grandiloquently of the time “ when 1 was professor of
history.” By the way, S., the other day, became editor
of “ Queen,” the woman’s paper which hailed him as the
greatest Australian poet. Some fitness.’
• I forestall the backblncks enquirer, far from referpnce-
books:—Joule's law declares "that heat is a form of
energy, and he proved by experiment that all known
forms of energy can be transformed into an equivalent
amount of heat. Joule was a great man.


its. Fieem * uiiuic
The World-famed Specialists,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
THAT THESE . . .
. . . NOTED SPECIALISTS
&
SSI6H®
™ E f M ? DIC PROFESSION is no longer a question of doubt. That
A SEEKS OF PROFESSIONAL TRIUMPHS.
Our valuable treatises
NERVOUS AND PRIVATE
DISEASES,” Post Free on ap
plication.
Our New Medical Work,
‘ RESCUED at LAST,” over
300 pages letterpress, 16 pages
colored plates, 60 engravings, full
cloth bound, is now ready. The
Largest Medical Work of ‘its kind
ever published in Australia. Price
10s. - .
In the Laboratory.
To ensure prompt attention,
forward £1 by mail, and full
description of your complaint,
and we will at once send neces-
sary remedies for treatment of
your ailment.
Nine Diplomas and Certifi-
cates of Qualification and Regi-
stration throughout Australia
open to inspection at the Con-
sulting Rooms.
youne iked, iqiddceuged s old men.
Enertrv Anihi'finn' > .* m P' es > Bashfulness, Aversion to Society, Stupidness, Despondency, Loss of
afflict study * Business - or Marria * e - if are thus
and Sedimem -* -ro ub !ed with Weak, Aching-jßacks and Kidneys, Frequent Painful Urination
this difficulty T<riinrTnf- , nf 1 M, o *n er unm, st a j* a Wl e sijrns of NertousDebility a'nd Premature Decay. Many die of
CASES OF THTS PH AR4n h TT^ ai^DV W A^ h J s the second sfcate of Seminal Weakness. THE MOST OBSTINATE
Ut iHIS CHARACTER TREATED WITH UNFAILING; SUCCESS.
PRIVATE COMPLAINTS:
Inflammations, Hydrocele, Varicocele and Kindred. Troubles QUICKLY CURED
without Pain or Detention from Business.
stitNTIHCvSPCES T
All Trams stop at the Door.
CORRESPONDENCE
MEDICINES BY
DEPARTMENTS AND
PARCEL POST.
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thankstothatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence, which is universal, without the Type-
™ter, [or. B P eed > legibility, and secrecy are
obtained by its use. City people who may not have
the available time, and those who, through false
modesty, refrain from personal'consultation, should
take advantage of treatment‘by PARCELS POST
SYSTEM, as all medicines are securely packed and
forwarded, screened from observation.
*7,
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney. [Correspondence,' P.O. Box 1359.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
TRuS ". a VS°N
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to- Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing- how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,’ P.o. Bos 462, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Do you desire to be the
Equal of your Fellow-man ?
A ma,” likes to feel so strong, so full of pent-up vitality
trm he could cope with anything* that comes before him.
He likes to know that when he is put to the test in a
matter of manly power he is equal to the demand. It is
ihe commendable desire of every man to be the equal of
ms r H
This strength is simply one element; it is not alone
muscular power, nerve power nor mental strength. It
combines all in one. It is vital force—the foundation of
, hu ' nan power, it is the element of all organic, nerve,
muscular and mental energy. Men who are lacking in
his element can recover it. They can be strong, as many
other men have been and are. They can renew their
'ltal energies with my treatment.
There are so many grateful men who speak
; i ourgeon Langston’s success, that it is not necessary
any more to give names of people cured, but hundreds
or them, and some very valuable Information on
the subject, can be found in the little book, “ Mens Sana
w Corpore Sano." Get it. Free on application, or by
hiail (sealed), six stamps. J
Are you Robbed of Manhood
by Youthful Folly?
Read what former sufferers have to say, and remember
Jhat I positively guarantee to cure all forms of Debility,
shrunken Parts, Nervousness, Confusion of Ideas, Lan-
guor, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder Com-
plaints, Varicocele, Blood and Skin Diseases, and the
many evils resulting from secret habits in youth or
excesses in maturer years. ,
, CONSULTATION is free to all, but where £1 is
enclosed a careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and
appropriate medicines sent. Before confiding your case
elsewhere, consult the old and successful Specialist.'
SURGEON LANGSTON. A friendly letter or call may
~4 ve future suffering. New edition of my latest work,
Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” nearly 100 pages, sent free
Jhmen. N.B.—The only Qualified Surgeon practising as
‘‘ Specialist who has held Government Appointments.
Surgeon Langston, M. R. 0. S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. |
Wios this Paper.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,'
OILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
URITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with- each
kcket. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
tamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Elgin-st., MELBOURNE.
RUPTURE.
If raptured, you naturally hope to obtain re- j
lief from pain; security from Strangulated '
Hernia, and a permanent cure if possible. /
/Please investigate “Dr. Pierce’s Magnetic/
/Elastic Truss,” and you will be surprised at
/ what you will learn. This Truss positively
. does the work, and is worth £lOOO to any
ruptured man or woman. If you want the
BEST, call or send, 2d, in stamps for free
Pamphlet No. 1. It contains full information.
ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco, U.S.A
SOUL & CO., 158 and 268 Pitt-st.,-SYDNEY.
NAGNETIC
. ; or W. H, :
-JOHN-DURANT!
Sn
IB
[firfee4feFterßQßiKj
. ;C3SOION3 ■' '
snoiioaaia nnJ
John Durant’s Sure Cure Capsules
Will cure in a Jew days DISEASES IN EITHER SEX.
Full directions enclosed. Price, 4 6 per box. Sold by
all Chemists, or by post, packed free from observation,
4/8. Box 854 G.P.0.. Sydney. JOHN DURANT’S
Cascara Sagrada Capsules, sure laxative ; Cod Liver Oil
Capsules, etc. JOHN DURANT, Bristol, England.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon-
i dency, etc., are to be found in the
“Liglit and Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
(sealed) on receipt of Six Pennv Stamps.
Address-S. WARD & ‘ CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
Publications, etc.
Married Ladies.
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
A. SAUNDERS & CO.,
555 Punt Road, S. Yarra, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 1/2,
post free.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Limited.
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.
A Golden Shanty (tales and verses by Bulletin
writers), paper Is., posted Is. 3d. ; cloth 25.,
posted 2s. 4d.
The Last of Six and Other Stories, by
Ernest Favenc, paper, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System, by ‘ Price
Warung’, paper, Is. ; posted, Is. 3d.
Works by Francis Adams (transferred from
the original Publishers) —
Complete Poetical Works, paper, 55.; posted,
ss. 4d. A limited number of copies remain.
Songs of the Army of the Night, boards,
2s. 6d. ; posted, 2s. Bd. A few copies re-
main.
Australian Essays, paper, 2s. 6d.; posted,
2s. 9d. A few copies remain.
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities, and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a life-long
study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success, during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in his profession. The various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human frame.
Young* Men !
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling of full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine after standing, fear of something dreadful
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps he will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your case requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. G'BBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
.i.i.iT
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIB EONS
A PERMANENT Cure,
is absolutely assured. |
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that: their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia. sfcj.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 - ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE’,
KURALIA.
MRS
SOUTHEY'S
MCDTlflfl
Gout Cjf
6 r * a l Rheumatic and
Wat
’* '*">«dy | 0
ScjT; *- Ufn oapo.
,s -cSbfe"? s "»
!i Cd>s ■ lnsMl
fcsfiaa
DirfcfiO"^'
lM * l *' k a&!
Price
Z 0 0” Cash Trading CO
te?.., COLUNCWOOt
The Greatest
PAIN
Neutralizer
Known.
CURES
Rheumatism,
Gout,
Sciatica,
Cuts,
Sprains,
Bruises.
Price 2/-
Post Free.
Tb€ Poo Casb Tradios Co.,
206—214 Johnston Street, '
COLLINGWOOD, MELBOURNE, VIC.
't'
<£>
ym
r.
KP
OLD
RNS
SUNBU
fimg
Pi
«/?
CHA
DS
N
&iC
£^V£
Y
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing' cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, asTTbffects a Complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
• “Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir,—l had a bad attafc
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking .two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and 1 was able toget up ; ami
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill. Victoria.”
“ After suffering from Asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments-,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. _ After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cured me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we “certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct-healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 69
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Smajl sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
DRi J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne. *
Every bottle of this well-known t,
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, '
DIAERHffiA, &c*, bears on *
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
/ THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1896, says:
“ If I war® asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it. and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
CHLORODYNE


9
m
9 9 9
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
“ TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart
SILVER CITY C. March 23.
25,000 Subscribers at 5 S
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me 1 shares in the above.
. • • ; : lil ' •
Name i 1
Address
:
HAWKESBURY H. April 2.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
DONCASTER H. April 9.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot shares in the above.
Name ■
. Address
SYDNEY C. April 11.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Vlease allot me shares in the above.
Name, ;
Address
ADELAIDE C. May 11.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me sharps in the above.
Name
Address
BIRTHDAY C
May 24.
50,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name '
Address ——
s s
ELLESMERE S. June 4.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please .allot me _shares in, the above.
* ■ Name_ • ~ ' ; 1
Address
BRIGHTON BIRTHDAY C. May 24.
10,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
read our Printed Circulars.


GOOD
BOOKS
. . FROM
• •
Anthony - Hofdepn’s
- BOTH!
No. 1. GENERAL
CATALOGUE
560 Pages. Profusely illustrated.
No. 2. Portfolio of Autumn
and Winter Fashions
- . Over 250 Sketches
POST FREE ANYWHERE . , ,
ANTHGNY
HORDERN’S,
Universal Providers,
HAYKARKET ONLY. SYDNEY.
The
Authoress pf
“BOOTLE’S
BABY,
99
says
“Most
decidedly
usr KOKO,’
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
failing
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myseif. It is a
nice clean preparation too -
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
P
‘KOKO
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrift, Prevents
Haur Facing, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i a/6 and 4 6 siy.es, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, S‘ores, &c.
© THE KOKO MARIGOPAS GO,, LTD,
X 16, Bevis Marks, London, England
Smmmmmiim
SAW MILLING - -
& Wood Working MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS
and Accessories. Latest improvements
for Fast Cutting in Large Logs.
Railway Contractors’ Supplies.
Wind 3VEi.ll S 3,
Steel or Iron, with Towers.
Drilling Ontfita
for Artesian Wells. Drilling
Tools and Tubing.
IMPERIAL LUBRICATING OILS.
WAGGONS & BUGGIES
For Station Use.
SCHOOL FURNITURE,
ASSEMBLY k THEATRE CHAIRS.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence St.,
Sydney.
Old . . .
Postage Stamps
BOUGHT and SOLD.
Approval Sheets sent upon deposit
or good reference.
Universal stamp hinges. The only
rouletted hinges in the world.
BD. PER 1000.
A. GEO. RING, 33 Imperial Arcade, Sydney.
DEATH.
Frew.— At 1 Bute Mansions, Hillhead, Glasgow, Sootland,
on the 14th September, 1897, John Frew, Yarn Agent,
in hie 87th year.
SULKIES, as shown, 3 springs, wheels 4ft. 4in.
high, or lower, silver dash, complete, with
lamps, £8 17s. 6d. ,
SULKIES, from 955.; Single-seated Buggies,
£lB 16s. ; Buck-board Buggies, £lO 10s. ;
Double seated Buggies, £2O.
DOUBLE BUGGY HARNESS, 995. SINGLE BUGGY HARNESS, 30s. to 90s.
: per set. Best Quality VVAGGA STYLE SADDLES, 70s. ; Ladies’ Saddles,
' 70s. PARK SADDLES, 58s. LADIES’ BRIDLES, 10s. 6d. BOYS'
SADDLES (best), with Hog Seats, 395. 6d.
H. HILLIEJEt 9 135 & 137 Sussex-st., Sydney,
Manufacturer and Importer of Vehicles and Saddlery,
Sarven Wheels, Spring's, etc. Send for a Catalogue.
Saddles or Ladies and Gentlemen. The name, “H. Hillier,” is to be seen on nearly all good saddles used in th®
colony. The price is low : the quality exceptionally good. If you have not tried one do so. If you order from this
advertisement, I will pay freight to any port or railway station in the colony. SEND FOR A CATALOGUE*
DEI 37 WARDS'
*
WORLD RENOWNED
pair producer * IJeAtorer
IS THE BEST DRESSING. Specially prepared and perfumed for Toilet Use
“HARLEHE” Produces Luxuriant Hair.
m
Prevents it Falling Off and
Turning ,Grey.
Unequalled for promoting
the Growth of Beard
and Moustache.
The World-Renowned
Remedy for Baldness.
For Curing Weak and
Thin Eyelashes, Preserv-
ing, Strengthening and
rendering the Hair beauti-
fully soft. For removing
Scurf, Dandruff, etc., also
for
Restoring (Ivey Hair
to its original color.
It is without a Rival.
Physicians and. Analysts
pronounce it to be devoid
wm
of any Metallic
other injurious Ingredients.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6size) 4'6 per Bottle-from Chemists, Hairdressers and Perfumers ail over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE" CO., 95 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
HIncRoBERTSon s cfiEuiine m
Quality and Flavor: SUPERB, EXQUISITE.
ITS USE
Sustains Athletes, Cures Indigestion,
Cleanses the Teeth, Corrects Odors of the Breath .
Recommended by DENTISTS and PHYSICIANS.
That SIGNATURE on EVERY PACKET.
Send Is. stamps for Pull Set
Samples.
Sold all Confectioners, Chemists & Stores.
Works :
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
LOOK AT OUR PRIC £S !
We beg- to notify customers that by buying: from us
direct they will save dealers' profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, ±6 15s.
8 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
-> silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Backboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed ih real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Hail
and Lamps.
£8.18.6.
Note Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co. f Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney.
Send for Our Illustrated. Catalogue.
DR. MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
AND FACE LOTION.
Db. Mackenzie’s Soap is prepared with special beautifying ingredients and will produce the most
lovely Complexion, free from blotch, blemish, coarseness, redness, freckles, or pimples. Deliciously and
expensively perfumed. ONE SHILLING PER TABLET. Doctor s certificate with each cake, certifying
to its harmlessness, purity, and beautifying qualities. Beware of injurious imitations MADAME
ADELINA PATTI writes : “I find Dr. Mackenzie’s Arsenical Toilet Soap most excellent.” This Soap
cures shiny and greasy skins.
Db. Mackenzie’s Face Lotion is not greasy,does not contain Glycerine,and is absolutely harmless.
By tightening the skin it quickly removes all wrinkles, lines, crowsfeet, or puffiness under the eyes, it
keeps the skin soft and velvety, and in summer will entirely prevent and quickly remove freckles;
whilst for excessive perspiration, wrinkles or enlarged pores, it is matchless. Price 3/6 per bottle; large
bottles, 5/-. This Lotion prevents the growth of superfluous hairs on the face Delicious in hot climates.
S. HARVEY, LTD U j, Denman Stieet, London Bridge, England, or at aU Chemists and Stores.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
When the pie was opened
The birds began to sing
The praises of
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
POWDER.
Supplies a Daily Luxury—Dainties in endless variety.
The choicest Dishes and the Richest Custard.
POWDER
NO EGGS REQUIRED I
■ ' ■>
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powders, Bird’s Baking and Bird’s Blanc-Mange Powders, from David
Cohen & Co., and Other leading Wholesale Houses.
Bards of the Backblocks .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE OLD HAND.
If you mention any billet, he is just ]the man to
fill it,
Though a blackleg and a grumbler, a waster
and a shirk.
As a working-man he poses, though a trial soon
discloses
He’ll malinger, sham, and —well, in fact, do any-
thing but work.
At snake-juice and chain-lightning you will see
his visage bright’n.ing—
At painkiller or balsam, or eke at Wor’ster
sauce.
Is tobacco in the liquor, he will gulp it all the
quicker;
He has drunk sulphuric acid—enough to kill a
horse !
He will close each altercation with a garnished
allegation—
He has been a “ crimson bruiser ” —he has never
been knocked out.
Then perhaps you drop the question, and put forth
a mild suggestion
(The very thing he’s looking for) that you
desire to “ shout.”
But just you prepare for riot! He will suddenly
grow quiet,
Though he’s boasted of his prowess, of his “true
and trusty right.”
He will “ hope the thing is ended ” —he is not the
least offended —
It is only stupid blowers who are always talking
fight.
And his yarns when “on the tonic ” of his esca-
pades Byronic
With dusky hunted damsels would your decency
appal—
So loathly and disgusting are his tales (if worth
the trusting)
You will wonder why the heavens on such brutes
refuse to fall.
Yet his yarns are circumstantial—date, name and
place substantial—
Imagination lacking, but in detail most minute ;
You will wonder (though a bagman) if the early
western swagman
Was thus wholly lost to decency—a satyr and a
brute ?
JUMBUCK.
"SCHOOL’S IN!”
(Saturday Night.)
When all the week’s been busy at the stack and
the barn,
And you’ve hardly had a moment for a smoke or
a yarn;
And your eyes are weak with staring where the
sun is. always glaring,
And you’ve got a kind of feeling that you don’t
care a darn. |
Then it’s come along with me to the “room
behind the bar,”
Where the beer and the pipes and the jolly
fellows are,
For a game of “ fifteen-two ”
Just among a chosen few—
And “ School’s in ! ”
When prices take to dropping, and the crop’s
“ cleaning light,”
And the tanks are nearly empty, and the feed’s
turning white,
And the poison-weed’s a-growing, and the
“ norther ” is a-blowing,
And your credit is a-sinking till it sinks out of
sight—
Then it’s come and meet the boys in the little
private room,
Where the beer goes a-begging and the pipes are
all a-fume;
For we’ve got a special tap,
And a little game of “ Nap, ”
And “ School’s in ! ”
When dawn begins to glimmer thro’ the cracks in
the door,
And there’s something seems the matter with
your feet, or the floor,
And the lamps are looking foggy, and you’re just
a little groggy,
And the beer is nearly finished and there isn’t any
more,
Then it’s come and saddle-up, for the sparrow’s
on the wing,
And the magpie’s commencing to warble and
to sing,
And the “ double-header ”’s out,
And it’s no one’s turn to shout,
And “School’s out! ”
NIL.
“LET US LIQUOR!”
As you trudge the weary track
In the torrid land Out Back
There’s a 'greeting sets your pulse a-beating
quicker,
When —the shanty drawing near—
Friendly fist you feel, and hear
Friendly voice with—“ Blow me! You Jim?
Let us liquor ! ”
When the rafters brown have rung
With the festive songs you’ve sung,'
And the tuneful beer begins to brawl and bicker,
Like a messenger of Peace,
Bidding strife and tumult cease.
Comes the soothing call : “ Again, boys—let us
liquor! ”
When you feel you've had your day,
And your beard is growing gray,
When your vital flame begins to feebly flicker,
There’s a new grip in your hand,
And you feel your chest expand
When an anoient comrade hails you—“ Let us
liquor! ”
Water ? Drink it I! Well, I’m blest!
Why, the water in the West
(Though the proverb contradicts) than blood is
thicker;
And, despite teetotal theme,
There’s damnation in the stream,
And salvation in the scheme of “ Let us liquor ! ”
When your week o’ work is o’er,
And devotion’s to the fore,
There’s a pub. for church —and cheery Bung for
▼icar ;
And the text on each occasion
Is that touching exhortation,
“Dearly b’lovfcd mates and brethren—Let us
liquor! ”
Q-
P. LU[?].


7i<iStraliai) JV|(it<ial
* ® Hip Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
Established 1849.
Provident .Society.
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Hon Sir J . P. ABBOTT, KdYM.GM.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman
T° T E^VAT^KFR T Fsn E q ' ’ THO S' LITTLEJOHN, Esq. ;A. W. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.
J. l. >\ AEKEK. Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
AExceeds Two Millions Sterling.
* h . ra w •• Thirteen and Three-quarter Millions Sterling.
CASH BONUS for the One Year 1896 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £428,797, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £830,090. '
Head Office : 87 Fitt-street. Sydney.
. : ROBT. B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Mm
m
HOTEL
AUSTRALIA
RATES:
12/6 per Day upwards,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
TE EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
aVJBER OIQ
0 F S
R
gen able.
Ltd.,
AGENTS,
24 and 26
O’Connell-St.,
SYDNEY.
Every Variety of
TEA ?
AND EACH OF UNRIVALLED EXCELLENCE, DELIVERED FREE BY
fltcherley and Damson, Limited,
257 George Street, Sydney.
&r SPECIAL VALUE fdR CASH, isa
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE.
taJPlum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Tse?hcious to everything. Delicious to Jam Tarts. Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly follovved. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence in the article, and canrecom-
mettd it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation of a good Custard. Giveit a trial
• Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS SYDNEY
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each
- • ■ AUSTRALIAN . . .
DR.
PHILIP
MUSKETT,
in his Lecture on “Alcohol,” says “I have often expressed the opinion that
AUSTRALIAN BRANDY should be sold in bottles of a smaller 'size. A
poor family-should be able to purchase a Shilling or a Two-Shilling Bottle
of GUARANTEED PURE AUSTRALIAN BRANDY, for it may fre-
‘ quently be the means of saving a baby stricken with debility, exhaustion,
or prostration.”
In Flasks and Half-Flasks, of all Wine and Spirit Merchants.
PAINLESS DENTISTRY.
TEETH FROM £1 Is. A SET.
The London Dental Institute,
98 King-street, Sydney (only).
DR. S. LEVER,
Graduate in Dental Surgery
and Prosthetics.
MR. S. D. ASHER,
Surgical and Mechanical
Dentist.
T’HE above Establishment has been improved and fitted
with every convenience for the practice of MODERN
Surgical and Mechanical DENTISTRY, as practised in
America and elsewhere.
’Teeth Made on Gold, Platinum, Dental Alloy,
Aluminium, iVulcanite, Celluloid, and Porcelain; also
Without Plates, by means of Pridr/eu’orlc.
Gold and Other Stoppings. Gold and Porcelain Crowns.
Diseased Teeth and Gums Treated.
ABSOLUTELY PAINLESS EXTRACTIONS.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extraction of roots, and
without pain. REFORM FEES. CONSULTATION FREE.
Please Note—We are Qualified Dentists. Only Address—
OS King-st., S vdlney,
NEARLY OPPOSITE KING - STREET ARCADE,
Telephone 2615.
FEDERAL - -
PALACE
* * - HOTEL.
M E LBOU R NE.
EVERY MODERN CONVENIENCE.
... 500 Rooms. ...
Two Dining Rooms ; and Caf6 open Day and Night.
A GREAT TRIUMPH .
IN
, . . ELECTRICITY!
A Most Marvellous Invention.
The only means in existence for producing
perfect-fitting garments. Call at 112 King-street,
and see the wonderful new invention used with
such great success by -
E. J. & XD. CXJRRA.IV,
TAILORS,
112 King-st., Sydney, and at Bathurst.
Ladies’ Riding Habits a Speciality.
Iklj SPEC,AL ijr
BpS
m%.
’ Piiblic Companies.
Mercantile-Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO t’OtiCT'-HOLtiElia
The CASH BONUS* viz./ £B2lO, divided
With policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of Policies, The BONUS
makes <£106,067* divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in 15 years;
| iFire Insurance at Lowest Rates*
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
; out Mutual Liability?
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
■ Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robf,rts,
0.M.G./M.L.C.; Hon. Arthur Bruce Smith.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Funds exceed £2,000,000. _
Policies issued, 73,972—assuring £23,075,620.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,732,553.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed,-
Head Office i
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager,
Accident
land
Guarantee
Co: Ltd i Of LO*'' 1 ;t.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, e(c.
'W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., -SYDNEY.
Facts Respecting Hixson’s Tobaccos.
DURING 1897, DIXSON’S Factory consumed nearly
150 TONS (half-a-ton a day) more Imported Leaf
than all the other Tobacco Factories put together.
Yaokw Poodle.
The Sales of this one Brand alone were 90 TONS over and above
the previous year. Mild Dark and Aromatic Bright. The
most popular High-grade Tobacco.
CbaiDpioi).
The Choicest Bright Cut arid Plug.
CooqCi^ror.
New and Old. The Workingman’s Choice.
Sir Roger.
Choicest Dark Twist.
Dark Plug and Twist.
(Imported). The Club Favorite Monopole, Rothschilds.
I 4 Havana and American Cigars retailed at
4 m a packet for Gd.
Importers of Pipes, &c„ and all Tobacconists’ Ware.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission "by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 944.
SATURDAY, MARCH 19, 1898.
Pbice, 6d.
TACKS IN THE PATH OF THE BICYCLE BUILT FOR TWO.
Sixty -two new suits for divorce filed since the beginning of the sittings in N.S.W. Divorce Court.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• R 2,
Half-yearly °
Quarterly... ... ... ••• " °
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal .Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Du ector.
Literary Communications to be addressed 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Slack and White.
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Loiidon,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<fc Co.. Cornhill. ,
South Africa. — R . A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal F. H.
Solomon and Co., 33 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — VP. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia ,
Westralia and Iffaoriland,
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
j ostage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside' N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 38. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
Gs. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Giving to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
2S?J&z -tlleZzm,.
SATURDAY, MARCH 19, 1898.
Deadlocks.
The Federal Convention, when it drafted its
scheme for the prevention of deadlocks
between the two Houses of the Common-
wealth Parliament, apparently did so in a
curious frame of mind. To the common
order of intelligence a deadlock is an un-
desirable thing. When there are two Houses
of the Legislature, and they are elected on
different suffrages, or represent different in-
terests, occasions must arise on which they
disagree absolutely. And when one House
demands one thing, and the other demands
quite a different thing, the natural result is
that, until a settlement is arrived at, neither
House gets anything, nor does the country.
The only results are exasperation and the
stoppage of public business. Under these
circumstances the most natural idea seems
to be to get rid of the situation with all
possible speed, and if a remedy can be
devised it should be made as rapid and easy
of application as possible. Its object should
be to bring the political deadlock to an
end in thirty minutes if possible, and if it
can be done in twenty-five minutes so much
the better. But the Convention apparently
regarded the trouble as a sacred feature of
the Constitution —something to be carefully
nursed, and preserved in spirits, and trodden
on very gently and apologetically. The
general attitude of members was that of men
who stepped lightly for fear of waking the
animal. And this attitude seems utterly
illogical. $
It is an obvious fact that the Common-
wealth Parliament will be more than usually
liable to deadlocks. The two Houses of the
provincial Legislatures at least represent, in
some sort of fashion, the same province. The
two Houses of the Federal Legislature
will, until population becomes more evenly
distributed, to a great extent represent
different provinces. The Lower House
will be elected according to population,
therefore New South Wales and Victoria
will command a large majority of the votes,
and, if it ever becomes a question of the
large provinces against the small ones, that
House will represent New South Wales and
Victoria. In the Upper House each State
will have equal representation, therefore
Tasmania, South Australia, and Westralia
can run the show there if it is ever
worth their while to combine for any pur-
pose. Neither of these combinations is
likely to be of frequent occurrence —still
they will arise, and when they do the
situation becomes so complex that some
remedy must be provided. If the trouble
arises through a real divergence of interests
between the large and the small States, there
is nothing to be gained by a dissolution ; the
Lower House will get its orders from the
two large provinces to stand firm, and the
three small States will give similar instruc-
tions to the Senate, and things will be as
they were. The case is one which the
Referendum doesn’t fit in any sense. If the
popular vote is taken according to the
majority of people, then New South Wales
and Victoria will always have power to
settle the matter. That will be the same as
leaving the decision to the Lower House
every time, and the matter may as well be
settled that way. If the majority of States
is to decide, then Tasmania, South Australia,
and Westralia will always have power to
decide the question. That will be the same
as leaving the decision to the Senate every
time, and the matter may as well be settled
that way. If, as proposed by Premier
Turner, a majority of the people and of the
States is required, that will simply leave the
deadlock where it was. The only way any
serious deadlock can arise is through the
majority of the people being on one side and
the majority of States on the other.
* * * •
The short, cheap, and reasonably efficient
way out of the difficulty which The Bulletin
has always recommended is to let the two
Houses sit together and decide the disputed
question by their joint vote. This would
give the States’ majority of one House and
the popular majority of the other an equal
show. It would make neither House sub-
servient to the other, and it would save the
months of delay and the enormous expense
involved in taking a popular vote which,
when it was taken, couldn’t give satisfaction
to anybody. It would supply a reasonably
definite settlement of the worst deadlock in
somewhere between 30 minutes and a week,
and there would be about it all the elements
of an interesting gamble. The Convention,
after wrestling with the problem for many
days, at last came round to this view. But,
at the same time, it parted with its sacred
deadlock reluctantly and with anguish in its
soul. It didn’t like to drop the fine old con-
stitutional difficulty overboard in a rude or
overbearing fashion, so it let the thing down
easily as follows :
If the House of Representatives passes any proposed
law, and the Senate rejects the same or fails to pass it, or
passes it with amendments to which the House of Repre-
sentatives will not agree, the Governor-General may dis-
solve the Senate and the House of Representatives simul-
taneously, but such dissolution shall not take place within
six months before the date of the expiry of the House of
Representatives by effluxion of time, and if after such
dissolution the proposed law fails to pass with or without
amendments the Governor-General ma3 r convene a joint
sitting of the members of the Senate and of the House of
Representatives, and the members present at such joint
sitting may deliberate and shall vote together upon the
proposed law, and if it is affirmed by a majority of three-
fifths of the members present and voting thereon, it
shall be taken to have been duly passed by the Senate
and the House of Representatives, and shall be pre-
sented to the Governor-General for the Queen’s assent.
* * * *
The yearnful desire of the Convention to
keep its deadlock on hand as long as possible
stands out conspicuously in these provisions.
In the first place, the measure is to pass the
House of Representatives and be rejected
by the Senate in two successive sessions,
which means a delay of a year, at all
events. Then there is to be another dreary
interval of three months or more before the
dissolution, and the election will occupy at
least another three months, and after that
the Legislature must meet and go through
the Bill again. And if all this trouble—
spreading over, probably, 2-| years of worry,
curse, and exasperation—produces no good
result, the remedy at last gets in motion.
But it only gets into motion in a feeble and
ineffective fashion after all, for even then, in
a joint House with, say, 90 members present,
53 members may vote to no purpose that the
Bill be passed, while 37 votes on the other
side can prevent it passing and leave things
as they were in the beginning.
* * * *
Another curious feature is that this proviso
only applies when the Lower House desires
to pass a measure and the Senate blocks the
way. If the Senate desires to pass a measure
and the other House obstructs, there is no
road out of that deadlock whatsoever. And
the Senate, if it can’t get its measure passed,
and it has no court of appeal to go to, is
quite as likely to become exasperated, and to
try to find satisfaction by blocking all legis-
lation, as the other House would be. One
great reason why there should be some court
of appeal in the shape of a joint House is
that it provides a species of safety-valve
The joint House is, after a fashion, a court
of conciliation ; it gives the defeated party
at least a fair hearing, and a chance to win
its case ; but, if there is a court to which
one party can appeal while the other can’t,
the situation is wholly one-sided.
* * * *
The scheme is evidently based on the idea
that the House of Representatives should be
the predominant partner, and as it will mus-
ter 60 votes at a joint sitting against the 30
of the Senate, its predominance is sufficiently-
secured. Then the demand for a three-
fourths majority is evidently inserted to keep
the predominant' House from being too pre-
dominant. The scheme is also based on the
idea that the House of Representatives is
likely to be the more liberal Chamber, which
it possibly will be—sometimes. As the more
liberal Chamber, it is the only one which can
demand the joint sitting. Then it is provided
that, at the joint sitting, it will require 54
voces to do anything, while 36 will be suffi-
cient to prevent anything being done, which
is giving stagnation a ridiculously long start
over progress. The presumably liberal House
is the only one that can ask for a joint sitting,
but, lest it should get swelled head, this pro-
viso will prevent it doing too much when it
gets what it has been asking for. As for the
Senate, it is only to have a hearing in the
joint House when it wants to prevent some-
thing being done ; if it wants to do some-
thing—possibly something good—and the
other House, being dominated at the
time by a Tory majority, blocks the way,
the deadlock simply remains. The pro-
ceedings then become a dog-fight with
only one dog allowed to be present.
If the proposal is defeated at the joint sit-
ting, it presumably doesn’t get another
chance for years more, or thereabouts.
Altogether, the situation is a remarkable
case of doing a good thing as badly as
possible. It is so adjusted that ' the
idea of not doing anything will always get
an enormous start over the idea of doing
something, and there is nothing especially
beautiful about the idea of not doing any-
thing which seems to call for this concession
Tattersall and His Critics.
i lie lucky drawer of Loch Leifrh in ‘ Tattersall’s ’
sweep had to lay the owner £l5OO to nothing out of the
£4500 net.”
Adelaide, 9th Feb., 98.
Editor Rulletin.— Sir,—The above is a clipping out of
the S.A. Reoister of the Bth Feb., which, I think,
deserves censure by your paper. We have time after
time heard of fortunate drawers of horses in the big
sweeps conducted by “Tattersall” Adams being required
by owners, under threat of scratching their horses, to lay
them several hundreds to nothing ; and in the case of
Loch Leigh it seems nothing less than £l5OO is the
amount demanded by the owner out of a possible t'4500
priz-. Where do the investors in these sweeps come in ?
Their chances of striking a winner are, say, 100,000 to 1.
Yet, if a speculitor be lucky enough to hit it, he has to
give the owner of the horse £l5OO for nothing. We have
been told by Adams’s people time after time that drawers
of horses are not divulged. But this is all “rot.” No
sooner does a man get a wire that he has drawn a horse
than, next thing, word comes from the owner —“ What
are you going to lay me?” The sooner the various
Governments introduce a State lottery, and do away with
all these absurd modes of gambling, the better.
A Subscriber to Tattersall’s Sweep.
• * * »
The above is a letter out of many
in similar strain which The Bulletin re-
ceives concerning a much-discussed griev-
ance against “ Tattersall.” Before going
into the subject it is necessary to state the
conditions under which “Tattersall” is allowed
by the Tasmanian Govt, to conduct his sweeps in
Hobart. The Tas. Govt, could not license a
sweep-promoter without clashing with English
law, but it. reached the desideratum by granting
him a “permit.” And the understanding between
“ Tattersall ” and the Tas. Govt, provides that the
Govt, shall audit his books once a month or
oftener, and that every sweep shall be drawn
under the supervision of a Govt, official. The
sweeps are drawn publicly, too ; there is no re-
striction to subscribers aud champagne, as in the
old days in Sydney ; nor are the police now ad-
mitted sub-rosa. The Tas. Govt, holds “Tatter-
sail’s” deposit of .£lO,OOO to be forfeited should he
be discovered knowingly violating the terms of
his “ permit.” It is hardly necessary to say that
the Tas. Govt., while granting “Tattersall” his
“ permit,” was bound to safeguard the public as
much as possible.
* • * *
Three well-known facts : (1) Horse-owners get
to know the names and addresses of horse-
drawers in the sweeps ; (2) “ Tattersall” employs
an agent—a bookmaker—to hedge with a horse-
drawer’s sweep-money, should the horse-drawer
desire it; (3) “ Tattersall’s ” agent lays horse-
owners so much to nothing to win ; (3a) horse-
owners always desire horse-drawers to authorise
“Tattersall-” to lay the horse-owner this so-mucli
to nothing. These facts constitute another:
“ Tattersall ” is a go-between betwixt horse-drawer
and horse-owner ! And the public is crying out
because horse-owners are constantly wiring drawers
“ How much will you lay me ? ” The wonder is
that a public educated in mining gambles and
so on has not “ kicked ” more. It would have
done so, were it logical ; but the gambling
spirit is always illogical. Ask anybody who
knows the alphabet of horsey ways and betting-
business. If these statements do not appear
very relevant to the above enumerated facts,
the following is obvious at all issues : That
the arrangements, methods and circumstances
of “ Tattersall’s ” business are such that they
afford him every facility for acting in collu-
sion with the horse-owner, did he desire it. Every
facility for safe, secret manipulation ! In the sense
that a grateful horse-owner would never betray a
man who gives him information which secures him
from <£lsoo to 0 up to as much as ,£lO,OOO to 0 on
a Melb. Cup. Horse-owners “ blab ” ! No, they
would be all ready to shut their mouths and to
halve the spoil. Why not? Horse-owners run
their horses for cash, do they not? And aren’t
the horse-owners and the horse-sweep promoter in
the same boat for business? They all subsist on
the public. The horse-race prize-money and the
horse sweep-money come from the public purse.
* * • •
Everybody knows that a horse-owner will pay
for name and address of the drawer of his horse
in a sweep. And the explanation which “ Tatter-
sall ” could give to a victimised horse-drawer
would be : “ Oh ! you have been telling your luck,
or else some telegraph official has ; it has reached
the ' ars of somebody on the make, and this some-
body has wired horse-owner that he knows who
has drawn the owner's horse, and sking owner
what the information is worth. The owner has
wired back to informer, and the pair have come to
terms.” Any clerk of ours who dared to give in-
formation outside would be at once dismissed.
* * • »
Why does not “ Tattersall ” give up the power
to act unfairly? He could do so by drawing
his sweeps the moment after the race was run;
the sweeps are drawn publicly now and under
Government supervision, and any member of the
public can participate in the act/jf drawing. Look
at “ Taitersall’s ” present practice. He draws a
sweep either when full, or if not full, then pro
rata two or three days before the race. Then at
once he wires to each horse-drawer his horse’s
name. Thus to No. 25 ticket-holder: “ Ticket
No. 25 has drawn Martini-Henry in 100,000
sweep,” and the telegram is addressed, for in-
stance, to “John Smith, Milparinka Station,
Queensland.” Therefore, when a horse-owner
gets to know who has his horse in any sweep, the
information must come directly or indirectly—
(l) From “ Tattersall’s ” own office; (2) From
Hobart telegraph-otfice; (3) From the Queensland
or other telegraph-otfice; (4) From the horse-
drawer himself.
* * * *
Clearly, ‘ Tattersall ” has the power, opportu-
nities and means to sacrifice horse-draw'er to horse-
owner should he so desire. And why, in fairness ,
to his own good reputation, does he continue
to possess these ? Does a man, sitting down to
gamble, carry with him a marked pack of cards
in order to ensure honesty all round ? If a man is
found in the cellar of a house, with barrels of gun-
powder and a lighted fuse, is he given the
benefit of the doubt concerning his intentions ? If
a man is found in a bank, with a burglar’s kit in
his possession, is he to be set free of suspicion be-
cause, so far as is known, he has done nothing
improper, and because he assures everybody:
“ Gentlemen, lam an honest man ” ? Isn’t “ Tat-
tersall’s ” position that of a man who, while pre-
sumably honest, constantly has the means of dis-
honesty—which, with a little trouble, he could
absolutely discard, much to his own ultimate
benefit—in his power? A sweep is a gamble, and
the first principle of gambling is to trust nobody.
“Oh! but,” says someone, “‘Tattersall’ would
never do anything to risk his reputation ; that is
his fortune ; besides, he would be naturally satis-
fied with his big commission of 10 per cent.” In-
deed ! is it not clear that “ Tattersall ” is not
only risking his reputation, but irretrievably in-
juring it by allowing his methods of business to
be the cause of this horse-owner and horse-drawer
scandal ? And, concerning his 10 per cent, being
a guarantee of good faith, wouldn’t 90 per cent,
be a still safer guarantee ? The 10 per cent, is no
guarantee of honesty ; it is merely a guarantee of
what “Tattersall” considers the most the public
will stand. And if a sweep-promoter were avari-
cious, couldn’t hetakeadvantage of “ Tattersall’s”
present business methods so as to get a considera-
tion from the horse-owner in addition to his 10 per
cent, commission ? And “ Tattersall ” is avari-
cious to the considerable degree that his 10 per
cent, is a thumping fat commission on a great cash
business.
* * * *
“ Bosh ! ” interjects somebody. “ ‘ Tattersall ’
runs his sweeps for the public ; not for the horse-
owners.” Well, now ; an ordinary, unsophisti-
cated man would have thought he ran them for
neither—that he ran them for “Tattersall,’’and him
only ; for his 10 per cent, commission. It would
be impossible to conceive a more invidious posi-
tion than that in which “Tattersall” is placed
by his method of conducting his sweeps. Every-
body knows that when an average man draws a
horse in a sweep, the fact immediately bursts
him. He proclaims it in his home, in his office,
in the street, in the restaurant, in the bar, on the
house-top. In this big fact, and in the fact that at
least two telegraph offices possessthe sameinforma-
tion, would lie “ Tattersall’s ” anchor of safety,
should he desire to treat, without discovery, with
the horse-owner. For how could the divulging of
information be driven home solely to “ Tatter-
sall?” Who is to discover who first communi-
cated with horse-owner? Could not “Tattersall”
look at the subject in this way: “If a horse-
drawer. by laying owner <£sooo to 0 on a Melb.
Cup, netts thereby .£20,000, is he likely to com-
plain on getting such a fortune for £1 ? And, at
the same time, in laying this <£sooo to 0 he loses
nothing if the horse loses ; and, consequently, hav-
ing nothing to complain of, is he likely to com-
plain ? He’s had a big run for .£1 ! Therefore,
couldn’t I safely deal with the horse-owner?”
This is all hypothesis, of course. It is
for the public to say whether it is reason-
able or not. But, whether or no, this is
certain, that “ Tattersall’s ” known acts, irre-
spective of any hypothesis, are responsible for the
complaints that are now constant. What objec-
tions can there be to drawing each sweep after the
running of its race ? This plan would totally re-
move the grievance.
* * * *
This objection, however, has been urged : Sup-
posing there were five sweeps on one particular
race ; and supposing they had all to be drawn on
one day ; then “ Tattersall ” tvould lose business
in this way : As the sweeps are drawn now,
cash winners in No. 1 will often invest all
—or part of—their win in No. 2, and so on,
to No. 5. \yhereas, if the five sweeps were
all drawn on one day these cash wins could
not be invested in the way set forth. Cer-
tainly not ! But they could be invested in a
sweep on some other event; and, therefore,
“ Tattersall ” would not lose. Take “Tattersall’s’
present advts. as basis. Eight sweeps are adver-
tised—The Silver City Cup, 25,000 at 55., on
March 23; the Hawkesbury Handicap, of 25,000
at 55., on April 2; the Doncaster Handicap, of
25,000 at 55., on April 9 ; the Sydney Cup, of
25,000 at 55., on April 11; the Adelaide Cup, of
100,000 at 55., on May 11; the Birthday Cup, of
50,000 at 55., on May 24 ; the Brighton Birthday
Cup, of 10,000 at 55., on May 24; the Ellesmere
Stakes, of 25,000 at 55., on June 4. Eight
sweeps in two month ! —an average of one a
week ! But the excuse is that the Doncaster Han-
dicap of 25,000 at 55., might fill up so quickly
that a second Doncaster Handicap of 25,000 at ss.
has to be started, and when No. 1 is drawn,
some of the cash winners invest part of their
wins in No. 2. Yes, but supposing No. 1 and
No. 2 Doneasters were both drawn on the day of
the race, April 9, couldn’t the cash winners in No.
1 Doncaster invest their w r ins in Sydney Cup of
April 11 Only two days to wait! Eight sweeps
in two months ! How is “ Tattersall ” to lose
business by cash winners wishing to re-invest their
wins ?
* * • *
To sum up. Let the public for once be con-
sidered. Let “Tattersall” abolish a system by
which he is made the cause of grave and utterly
unnecessary imputations on his own honesty. Let
him fulfil the promises conveyed in his circulars
that is, let horse-drawers get their prizes less 10
per cent., not less 10 per cent, and less sonie person
or persons’ “ big fat cut. ” Let the hedging agent
be abolished- Let the sweeps be drawn after the
race is run. In a word, as we must gamble, let
us gamble under the fairest possible conditions.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Rotten Ships and Drowned Sailors.
Extract from an article on “ Rotten Ships and
Drowned Sailors ” in Sydney Telegraph :
In the port of Sydney, regulations for the safety of
ships and sea-going passengers of a similar nature to those
of the English Board of Trade exist. This means that
unless a vessel carries passengers it is subject to prac-
tically no supervision whatever. Under the Navigation
Act the Marine Board is invested with certain powers
which do not extend to the compulsory examination of
vessels not carrying passengers. The arrangements made
by the board for the supervision of passenger vessels are
satisfactory, and, if they are faithfully carried out, should
assure passengers an immunity from risk in the direc-
tion of unseaworthiness. But the power to examine
ships which carry no human beings but their
crews only exists in cases where the crews make
a complaint that a vessel is not safe. Then the
Marine Board steps in and makes an investigation.
If the complaint of the crew is borne out, the vessel
must be made seaworthy before it is allowed to proceed
to sea_. In the case of a crew shipped on a vessel in Syd-
ney, it is, of course, impossible for them to he aware
whether the craft is seaworthy or not, and in the absence
of any regulations dealing with this side of the shipping,
they have, perforce, to go without any guarantee. And
the provision giving the Marine Board power to act on a
complaint from the crew is, in an instance of that nature,
absolutely inoperative. Generally speaking, there is no
supervision of vessels which don’t carry passengers, and
it is an open secret that while a great proportion of them
are undoubtedly thoroughly sound ships, a number are
utterly unseaworthy.
No wonder the coal-ship which never returned
is one of the institutions of N.S. W. Newcastle
coal-ships have a reputation for ill-luck ; there
is a big graveyard of them somewhere between
here and the American coast. Also, there is an
awful suddenness about them ; in no trade on
earth that The Bulletin knows of do the
whole crew and every rag and splinter of the
vessel go down together so unanimously.
Either the average lost coal-ship carries no
boats that will float, or it doubles up so sud-
denly that there is no time to get the boats
out, or that ocean graveyard lies very far
away from any place, and the crew generally
pegs out and the boats themselves fall to pieces
before land is reached. The present law is a
very beautiful arrangement. No matter how
unspeakable the coffin-ship may be it won’t in-
terfere unless the crew complains. And the
crew which complains thereby puts the captain
in a particularly good humor, and as it has to
go to sea with him afterwards, and be almost
entirely at his mercy for months, it is often
much wiser to take the risk of the aged hulk
living through one more voyage.
The Need of a Crown Defender.
There is a certain amount of consolation in the
fact that the Victorian authorities have “ called
for a report ” re the conduct of the police in
suppressing certain evidence in order to obtain
the conviction of George Easton (it appears
to be frankly acknowledged by the Crown
Prosecutor that that was why the evi-
dence was suppressed). The circumstances
of the case might justify a call for some-
thing a great deal stronger than a report;
still, the fact that the Crown has moved in the
matter at all is something. There are a
number of curious features about Easton’s
case. Some time about June last a man
committed acts of indecency in the presence
of five girls, who supplied a description
of him to the police. Five months later,
Easton was arrested. In several important
respects he didn’t agree with the description-
still the latter might have been incorrect.
Three of the five girls held that Easton was
the offender; the other two said that he was
not. There is no such thing as a Crown
Defender in Victoria, though there are
stacks of Crown Prosecutor, and so things went
the usual way. The police produced the three
girls who were prepared to swear that Easton
was the offender, and they didn’t produce the
two who were prepared to swear that he wasn’t.
Easton, being locked up, couldn’t hunt for the
latter himself; he had no money with which
to hire private detectives and other expensive
functionaries to do it for him ; possibly he
didn’t know of the girls’ existence. They
didn’t come forward voluntarily—and the
accused got 12 months. He appealed, and
then the suppressed evidence somehow came to
light. Another thing which came to light was
the fact that the Crown law authorities, like
the police, apparently see no special harm in
getting convictions by suppressing evidence
favorable to the accused, as witness this col-
loquy
3Judge Gatjnt : “Why was this girl not called in the
lower court ? ”
Mr. Walsh, Q.O. (who appeared in support of the con-
viction) : “ Because she was unable to identify the
accused.”
That was all. There was no attempt at
apology. Walsh, Q.C., didn’t rise up and say,
with noble indignation, that he would have no
further hand in supporting a conviction which
was gained by the suppression of evidence in
the accused’s favor. He didn’t even seem
ashamed of the ghastly iniquity ; so far as the
daily paper report goes it would appear that
he explained, as a simple matter of course, that
the Crown had got Easton into prison by care-
fully dropping out of sight the evidence which
might have proved his innocence, or at least
raised a strong doubt as to his guilt, and that
he (Walsh, Q.C.) was there officially to get
Easton kept in prison if possible. And yet
there are people who assert that the present
system is quite satisfactory, and that a State
Defender would be superfluous.
Some Tardy Justice Wanted,
4t E.F.” thus addresses The Bulletin :
Now that the programme of the Federal Convention
is nearly finished and hung up to dry, it is singular
—or perhaps it isn’t—that there is no provision in
it for the protection and preservation of such abori-
gines as are still in their natural state in unoccupied
areas. Those few of the delegates whose ideas are
not limited merely to flippant interruptions and com-
mercial-traveller jokes, might have thought of this—
BARTON'or Dkakin, for example. The protection of the
bush natives under a mutual scheme is possible, should
Federation be achieved, but whilst the continent is divi-
ded into independent provinces it is impossible. N.S.W.
and Victoria have no longer any blacks living in their
primeval state ; and those who wander, loafing about the
country, have been too much degraded by contact with
our glorious civilisation to be redeemable. Each State
pursues its own course in its treatment of the > atives.
After N.S.W., Queensland and her native policy has
borne the odium of the world, until Weshulia' has,
in these last years of the century, completely eclipsed the
Northern province. Not so much by individual cruelty—
for brutalised men can be found everywhere—as by the
open and shameless way in which the Government of that
self-sufficient place winks at and condones crimes against
the blacks. Those “in the know ” smile at the idea of
the surviving Anderson serving the full term of his
sentence, and tell you that he will be out within three
years. In any district where the votes are essential to
the five-family Government, any man can wallop his own
nigger ad lib., as long as he does not actually kill him.
Westralia, with regard to the native question, is at pre-
sent a festering canker of shame on the face of the Aus-
tralian continent.
It is impossible to give even a rough estimate, but,
crudely speaking, there are some 100,000 aborigines
still uncontaminated by intercourse with the whites, and
living by hunting and fishing, as did their forefathers.
These are the blacks who might be saved. Not by send-
ing missionaries amongst them—although missionaries
show no desire to go ;it isn’t picturesque enough—but by
creating a system of reserves, under Federal control, from
which all white men —without any exception but the pro-
perly-appointed Federal officials -should be strictly
excluded. The object should be to let the natives live out
their lives as decent savages, working by their own lights
for their living. The civilisation (God save the mark !)
that touches only to destroy should be kept aloof from
them, as also the missionary and the slave-monger.
There are thousands of square miles throughout the con-
tinent, so far utterly useless for miner and pastoralist,
that could be turned into reserves ; and there are many
men—trained bushmen, who know the habits of the
blacks and understand them—whose services could be
made use of. On the country designated there is per-
manent water and sufficient game, and, without going
into detail, supplies could, if needed, be augmented by
small grants of cattle. The scheme is, of course, on the
face of it, a difficult one to carry into practice, but it is
feasible enough if the proper policy be pursued. It
has worked in other countries, and there is no reason
why it should not work here. We have country
enough and to spare, for as long a time in the
future as the blacks are likely to last, and it could not be
made better use of than in forming a hunting-ground for
the preservation of the last of the aborigines, as a people.
That they would die off in the end there is no doubt, but
they would die as free men, not as degraded loafers,
cursed by all the vices so liberally bestowed by civilized
man. A characteristic example of Australia’s treatment
of the native population, indeed, is found in the fact that
a convention, met to federate their country, should in-
troduce into the constitution no meed of justice to them.
For it is certain that no independent province will allow
any other province to interfere with its nigger-flogging,
while those provinces which have no more niggers to kill
off won’t trouble about the matter. The protection an
care of the natives is plainly a Federal duty and will not
be achieved by religion or so-called civilization ; but by
such isolation as will allow the blacks to follow to the end
their natural way of living.
4
That Tired Political Feeling.
The Seddon Ministry put forth its utmost
efforts to win the Wellington (M.L.) seat,
recently vacated by Robert Stout, and its
nominee was beaten by 1000 votes. John
Duthie, the man with the iron jaw, walked
over Kirk, though the latter had the Minis-
terial as well as the trades-union influence
behind him. Duthie was a kind of Liberal in
the very long ago ; now he is probably the
bitterest Tory in Maoriland. The result cer-
tainly leaves the numbers just as they were,
and in some respects the Govt, gains by having
Duthib for an opponent instead of Stout.
Stout was also a Tory ; he called himself,
and probably thought himself, an advanced
Democrat, but he voted against almost every-
thing which bore the semblance of democratic
legislation ; and the catchword of his little knot
of followers and cold-tea fanatics was that the
Seddon Government must be utterly rotten
and base when a Democrat like Stout was
always against it. The alleged Liberalism of
the overrated Stout did a vast amount
of damage to the cause of progress, and
Duthie, as a fierce, raging Tory, will be a
change for the better. But the fact remains
that the Government made a tremendous effort
to capture Wellington, and failed very badly.
It was a serious defeat, and helps to confirm
the idea that the Seddon Ministry is slowly
dying of “that tired feeling.” The country
has had eight years of it, and is growing weary
of the big surplus and the steady growth of
national industries, and the increase of popula-
tion and employment, and the all-round im-
provement that is manifest. Everythingbecomes
monotonous in course of time, and the desire
to kick is obviously growing. If a statesman
survives everything else he goes down at last
over the sentiment which is so ably voiced by
the hairy orator on the barrel on the wharf:
“If we let the cove stay in any longer he’ll
think we can’t get on without him.” A
general feeling that the cove has been
allowed to stay in till he thinks the country
can’t get on without him is fatal.
Magistrate Addison’s Justice.
Two weeks ago The Bulletin drew attention
to the following weird sample of N.S.W.
“justice ” :
On Feb. 24 a man and wife named Williams, against
whose character nothing- could be alleged, took lodgings
with one Mart M ‘Don ell, in Palmer-street. They in-
spected a room offered them, approved it, paid a deposit,
went away and returned with their luggage and their
little child. During their absence M'Donell says she
missed 17s. 6Jd. in money, which she alleges she had
placed in a purse under a bed in the room ; and on their
return she gave them in charge for stealing it. Beyond
that of prosecutrix there was no evidence that the money
was ever under the bed ; even prosecutrix couldn’t swear
defendants had stolen it—all she did allege was that the
money had been there before defendants came and was
not there after —“she kept other lodgers, but they were
all out, and she was positive nobody else could have
taken it.” Also, there was apparently no identification of
the money. There was, to say the least, a strong
doubt in the matter; the charge was certainly
not satisfactorily proven ; nothing corroborated prosecu-
trix’s statement; the appearance and evidence of the
defendants left the reporters in court with a strong im-
pression of their innocence ; yet Mr. Addison fined Wil-
liams —a workless, almost penniless man—£2 for himself
and £1 for his wife, which was an asinine distinction in
any case. As the ordinary punishment for such larceny
is gaol, not fine, it is evident that the magistrate was
doubtful, and split the difference against the accused.
But as the Williamses had no money to pay the fine,
Mr. Addison alternatively awarded (as reported in Sydney
Evening News) two weeks’ imprisonment to the man, and
three to the woman—which was reversing his own peculiar
distinction ! The case strikes The Bulletin as a most
shocking illustration of the Botany Bay tendency to make
an accused person prove his innocence, instead of forcing
the prosecution to establish his guilt.
After the above statement appeared The Bulle-
tin was informed in a semi-official fashion that
the woman bad a record, in so far as she had
been convicted for drunkenness. It wasn’t
much of an excuse, inasmuch as drunkenness
and theft are two entirely different things, and,
moreover, the man apparently had no police
record at all ; yet the mere fact that
one of the two accused had been pre-
viously convicted of something or anything
might possibly be held to make the injustice
rather less glaring than it otherwise would
appear. By way of further light, on the sub-
ject, however, The Bulletin is now informed
that the said record was only hunted up
some time after the sentence —apparently it
was dug out after the unpleasant comments
began, as a species of tardy justification. It
wasn’t before the court at the trial, and conse-
quently it didn’t influence the decision ; there-
fore the glaring injustice of Magistrate
Addison’s finding remains just as glar-
ing as it originally was. The situation
may be put in these five propositions :
(1) There was no evidence save the assertion
of one person that any money was stolen or
that the allegedly stolen money ever existed.
Such accusations may be made with no basis ;
if Brown swears that Smith stole a sovereign
from him, one of the possibilities of the case is
that he will get his alleged sov. back out of the
money found on Smith when the latter is
convicted and sent up. (2) The accused
were not seen taking the money, nor was
any identifiable coin found on them, and
there was nothing known against them to
lead Magistrate Addison to believe that
they were people who would steal money.
(3) Therefore two people (the two accused) said
they didn’t take the money, while one person
(the accuser) said she didn’t see them take it.
(4) As a further point in their favor, they came
back to the house where the alleged theft had
been committed. (5) As an after-justification
of a sentence, which was apparently based on
no evidence, the police seem to have received
instructions to find a record for the ac-
cused, if possible. The result is that nothing
seems to be known against one of them.
The other had been several times convicted
of drunkenness. And the fact that one person
was guilty of drunkenness, certainly doesn’t
prove that two persons were guilty of theft.
Therefore, the necessity for a logical explana-
tion of Magistrate Addison’s method of ad-
ministering justice remains just as urgent as
ever.
♦
A Convention Summary.
George Reid, a man of enormous dispropor-
tions.
George Turner is called a well-meaning man
by his enemies. It is the regret of those who wish
him well that he deserves no worse name.
Premier Forrest, the protege of Chance posing
as the man of Destiny.
Alfred Deakin, an orator whom it is always a
pleasure to see.
Lyne, a hot, calculating man, never so rational
as when he’s mad.
Adye Douglas, the statesman who has great
hopes for the past.
Peacock, the promising young politician who
died laughing.
Brunker. —lf fi t for Heaven, then not for earth—
Mere mortals cannot see his worth.
Barton (the Imperialist), so far-seeing that he
generally overlooks Australia.
Tribune Trenwith, the passive voice.
Zeal, represents the “ha \e-beans.”
Nine subordinate Westralian delegates—the stin
tongues that denote a wise head.
E. Dyson.
In all the gas that escaped at the Argus
change-of-editors’ shivoo, everybody somehow
forgot to remember the fact —the most glorious
fact in Argus history—that George Higin-
botham was once editor of the big journal.
George Higinbotham of the lofty brow, the
noblest - looking as he was the noblest-
minded man who ever drove a pen in
that or any other Australian newspaper
office, or represented an Australian con-
stituency in Parliament, or raised his voice
in an Australian hall of justice. George
Higinbotham, the one politician in all Austra-
lian history who was equally distinguished by
his magnificent intellect and the absolute purity
of his public and private life. Higinbotham,
who, even as Chief Justice, remained the same
unswerving, whole-souled Democrat to the end.
But, then, Higinbotham was the man who advo-
cated one-man-one-vote, the abolition of capital
punishment, a land-tax, and many other things
abhorred by the modern Argus.
♦
The Australian Brewers’ Journal, on N.S.
Wales free newspaper postage :
The extent to which many Sydney firms now produce
alleged newspapers, with the sole object of cheaply
advertising their own wares, is a national scandal, and a
gross injustice to bona-fide journals conducted to directly
pay as such. Free newspaper postage in N.S. Wales has
become the curse of the bona-fide newspaper proprietors,
for whose benefit it was partially intended. At least a
dozen firms have, for some time past, been making use of
this dodge. The advts. with which they formerly favored
the genuine journals are now confined’ to their own cir-
culars. Worse still, to pay their printers they send out
canvassers to tout for advts. from other firms', and these
they can afford to publish at far less than can the news-
papers which live on their own merits, instead of being
convenient offshoots of commercial concerns. Here is
a most glaring instance of this kind. A N.S. Wales
firm, acting as agents for people at the other end of the
globe, is presumably entrusted with much money for
advertising. These agents appear to have devoted
it to founding an obscure periodical, with which they
deny any connection, though people smile at the denial.
A dummy proprietor is seemingly engaged at a salary,
the ostensible object of this dodge being to secure, under
false pretences, the advts. of rival traders and agents,
who, of course, are not aware that, in supporting the
publication in question, they are helping to prop up a
firm in the same line as themselves. The A.B. J. cannot
help repeating its former assertion that commercial
morality has reached a low ebb in Sydney, and further
adds that the N.S.W. law with respect to newspaper post-
age sadly needs alteration.
Dear Bulletin.— l note on a recent “ Red
Page ” some remarks about Dr. Schenck’s
alleged discovery for the control of the sex of
unborn infants, and a reference is made en
passant to “ The Evolution of Sex,” by Geddes
and Thomson ; but, if my memory serves me,
the conclusions arrived at by these biologists
are exactly the reverse of those now proclaimed
by the Viennese professor. In experimenting
with bees and frogs it was the female, and not
the male, which demanded superior feeding for
its development. In the case of tadpoles a poor
dietary is said to be productive almost exclu-
sively of a spawn of males, while with a rich
dietary the sex is practically reversed. There
may be little in this, but it is well-known that
in the lower forms of life the male exists exclu-
sively for the purpose of fecundation, and that
when this function is accomplished he imme-
diately perishes. This is true also of the male
blossoms of much of the earth’s flora. Apart
from all this, Schenck’s discovery, if bona-fde,
ia bound to have a remarkable influence
on the future of the world. Herein, again,
we note the wonderful provision and prevision
of Nature : There is never the bane without the
antidote. We have the New Woman, now we
have the boy-creator. Surely, it should not take
more than a generation or two to swamp man’s
hereditary enemy out of existence. The trades
and professions are all being invaded by women.
We can now restore the balance. Man’s wages
need not be longer subjected to ruinous reduc-
tion by the competition of his neighbour’s
daughters—for his neighbour’s daughters will,
be all boys. Then the social evil will also dis-
appear. Released from fear of his living wage
dwindling down to the bare subsistence point
from female competition, man will once more
become a marrying animal, and there need be
no more girls brought into the world than stand
an actuarially-calculated chance of becoming
wives. Evidently Schenk spells Millennium.—
An Old Man.
4.
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley the other day
added the weight of his authority to the argu-
ment which declares that, if Australian mis-
sionaries (and especially Australian female
missionaries) are really desirous of doing good,
they will stay at home and help the heathen of>
their own country. His Honor hinted at the
awful need for missionary ministrations in the
N.S.W. backblocks—a need which few city
people realise. There are N.S.W. communities
where incest is common, where the marital
relations between blood kindred are a
commonplace, and where the ignorance of
the most ordinary moral and sexual obligations
is almost incredible. The Bulletin does not
care to specify ; but the facts are known to every
intelligent traveller away from the towns and
the main roads, and occasionally—in one case
out of a hundred, maybe—they come to the
cognisance of the law courts. It is in the
Australian bush—as well as in the Aus-
tralian city-slums that Australian mission-
aries are needed ; and the female missionary
is particularly needed, because it is the scarcity
of females in the backblocks which causes most
of the trouble —she can be a first-class mis-
sionary without being anything else than a
first-class woman. Of course, there is little
hope of change. It is not religion, not the idea
of 3elf-sacrifice, however she may delude herself,
which impels the female missionary to the dis-
tant fields of China. It is the familiar feminine
need of excitement, of sensation, the desire of
becoming the centre of an admiring crowd
on a farewell platform or a foreign-bound
steamer, which sends our girls to the Chinese
holocaust. And as most of them, however
honest and earnest, are just women—mere
vessels of emotion—they will continue to follow
their own impulses as long as foolish male
friends and relatives find the funds to expat-
riate them—the more’s the pity.
The conviction that Major-poet Neild will
retire from N.S.W. Parliament one of these
days to sit on an official velvet cushion is natural
in a community in which an unmanageable and
aggressive politician so often gets a well-paid
billet. Abbott might have been Premier, but
he was addicted to sneering at both sides, so
both sides agreed to let him be Speaker while
he likes. Though most of his mana is now
spent, if he likes the Agent-Generalship both
sides will let him have that too. Dibbs, an-
other man of restless energy and liable to break
out to the confusion of friends and enemies,
similarly receives a good billet with the assent
of both sides. Indeed, so general is the political
custom of billeting above-mediocrity intract-
ables that B. It. Wise is already spoken of as
having claims on a Supreme Court Judgeship.
The determination of Judge G. B. Simp-
son to keep down, as much as possible, law-
costs in N.S.W. Divorce Court, does not meet
with the approval of barrister Ralston. This
gentleman accordingly took the opportunity,
during a divorce appeal, to inform the Full
Court that, through the Judge’s action, a very
undesirable class of attorneys are appearing for
wives in the Divorce Court. A few days after-
wards Judge Simpson, from the bench of the
Divorce Court, flatly contradicted this state-
ment of Mr. Ralston. After all, it depends on
what is meant by “undesirable.” From one
point of view, attorneys who do not send a
barrister many briefs are no doubt an undesir-
able class. Again, many attorneys—especially
those engaged by women suitors—take their
own cases into Court—they brief no counsel at
all ; in the barristerial mind these, too, may
surely be classed as “undesirable practitioners. ”
It depends on the point of view ; so, after all.
barrister Ralston may have been quite right in
saying that an undesirable class of attorneys
practise in the Divorce Court. The public,
however, will be glad to learn that law-costs
are to be kept down, and that a Supreme Court
Judge has the courage to try and keep them
down ; at the same time, it will be gratified to
learn from the same Judge that the attorneys
who practise before him are reputable mem-
bers of their profession. There is nothing
in Mr; Ralston’s reply that large firms
will not take up wives’ cases, for that
does not leave the wives without legal assist-
ance. That is no more a thing to complain of
than that the services of the most eminent
surgeons in Sydney are not available for every-
body at fees of a few guineas—fees which other
men will gladly accept.
The choice of a site for a Federal city should
now lie between N.S.W. and South Australia.
Westralia is practically out of the running by
reason of its remoteness; and Tasmania is
wholly out of it because no sane Legislature
would plant its capital on an island where a
war and a blockade w'ould cut the Government
off from the country it is supposed to govern.
This leaves N.S.W., Victoria and S.A. in the
competition. The Convention has accepted
Premier Turner’s suggestion that the capital
shall be a piece of territory severed entirely
from the province to which it formerly belonged,
and under Federal control only. Victoria can
hardly spare any territory ; there is so little of
that province now that the excision of a Federal
territory of any size would be a ser'ons matter;
so probably it won’t v\ant the capital very
badly under these new conditions and won’t,
mind withdrawing its claim.


Brains
and
Hands
constantly busy
in keeping the
CALLAGHAN . . .
BOOT ....
up to its acknow-
ledged standard of
excellence !
This accounts . . .
for those who once try a pair becoming
regular customers.
Prices are low for quality.
Test a pair for yourself.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s. “Claudian.”
Lyceum .‘ “ A Terror of Paris.”
Opera House “Tracked Down.”
Tivoli “ Jack the Giant-Killer.”
Royal Standard “ The Green Lanes of Ireland.’’
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess i “The Gay Parisienne.” _
Bijou “ A Marriage of Convenience.**
Royal “The Irish Detective.”
Alexandra Dan. Barry’s Dramatic Co.
The new shriek of wrath at Sydney
Lyceum, which goes by the name of the “ Terror
of Paris,” is an affair with a reasonable amount
of glitter and decoration about it, but it hardly
lives up to its name. The Terror’s business-card
bears the name of Johnstone Weir, anarchist,
explosions promptly attended to, and families
carefully dynamited at their own residence. But
this old-established family assassin doesn’t bear
out his reputation. He doesn’t explode once all
through the piece. A great attempt is made to
blow up the residence of the Prefect, but the hour
for the explosion conies and goes, and it is simply
mentioned in the next act that the bomb was made
in Germany and didn’t go off. A new bomb is
constructed—a beautiful, glossy, globular thing
which Old Dad, the most ancient anarchist of
tht-m all, raves over—and Johnstone Weir does
think of blowing up Diver and his soldiers with
it. He thinks better of it, however, and goes
away with the bomb in his hand. The Terror
changes his mind about shoving the traitorous
brother head-first into the furnace so that his
whiskers will blaze up, and decides to blind him
instead ; but before he has got through IS closely
printed foolscap pages of oration about the awful-
ness of the brother, and settled down to business,
the soldiers arrive. It takes the Terror and about
twelve other anarchists to kill Diver in the last
act —it is the only deed of violence they really
manage to commit, and Diver kills the Terror’s
best girl in the scrimmage. The curtain falls as
the girl dies in the moonlight, with her Terror
weeping beside her, and Paris, not blown up or
combusted, sleeping as usual beneath the stars.
The present scribe will make a louder Terror any
day with a white sheet and a dinner-bell and a
pint of beer.
» * • *
The Terror is a very uneven goblin, any-
way. In one act he strikes an attitude and briefly
orders Diver and eight soldiers to “ release that
rnan,”and they drop their prisoner on the spot.
In the next, Diver is chasing the Terror over the
housetops, and he hasn’t sufficient attitude about
him to order his own release even. He conspires
publicly in cafes, and darkly commands Ins fol-
lowers to meet at the glassworks at midnight, but
they do nothing special when they do meet, except
that Old Dad makes an oration about the new
bomb. The Terror states at the beginning that
death is too small a thing for his enemy ; he will
be made to live in torment with the worm, eight
feet long, which dieth not, gnawing at
his vitals. “Worm .... Mr. Brown”
would have looked well in the bill, any-
how. But there is no worm after all, and
the enemy dies an easy death by gunshot. The
“Terror” is interesting in its own wildly irrele-
vant way, and has some rather better comedy
effects than usual, but its only apparent purpose is
to get W alner Gregory married to Miss William-
son, and that gentleman is lamentably stiff and
uninteresting. Also, the impressive wave of
Johnstone Weir’s hand is a very weary gesture.
The other people, however, are mostly good—Har-
court, Diver, Sterling Whyte, Frank Crossley,
Charles Field, and Misses Lilian Wheeler and
Watts-Phillips are good enough to drag even a
very limp and ineffectual Terror through his diffi-
culties. Crossley, Charles Field and Sterling
Whyte have no real connection with the story, but
they area lightsome trio, and the latter, as a bald
comedy dipsomaniac, is especially valuable as an
essay on Der-rink.
** * *
Wilson Barrett’s season at Her Majesty’s
has been a very good financial boom so
far. The “ Manxman ” has undoubtedly taken a
big hold, the lovely Maud Jeffries and her father,
old publican Cregeen, being the principal visible
causes. Publican Cregeen, the way Ambrose
Manning plays him, is sufficient to account for the
boom off his own bat. His pious Manx gin-seller
is a great conception ; and he is also quite new,
and quite unlike any other stage gin-seller of this
paper’s acquaintance. The Bulletin s love for
the meanest old snuffle-buster in modern dramatic
history has increased rather than diminished with
further consideration. The character is full of
possibilities—all of them sour and mean, and low
and sordid—and Ambrose Manning makes the
very best of it, and scores every point. If Philip
Christian were only more impressive, it would
help the play a great deal. Anyone can
understand why Kate abandoned her Pete;
a man who, even in the days of his afflu-
ence, goes around in those awful clothes,
is calculated to make any nicely-dressed woman
quit her home. But when she flies to a sketchy
and dismal lover, whose long-tailed coat is almost
equally saddening, the situation loses its point.
Anyhow, the “ Manxman ” will disappear from
the Sydney stage at the end of this week, so the
matter is perhaps hardly worth discussing. Ore-
geen, with his enraged whiskers and his wicked
old soul looking out after the main chance through
his huge spectacles, is the one character in it that
this paper parts from with deep regret, and with
a hope that it may meet him sourly chopping
wood in the back yard of a better world, where
the choir pays up honestly for its liquor. “ Clau-
dian,” with its deserving earthquake, follows on
Saturday.
* * *
“Tracked Down,” which was staged at
Sydney Opera House on Saturday, is a wild Aus-
tralian wail of letters which is rendered painfully
indefinite by the want of any adequate explanation
as to the contents of the pocket-book. It is a
drama with pallid gum-trees and glaring red
grass in it, and in a general way it hinges on the
fact that the squatter is deeply mortgaged, and
the only way out is to sell his plump and pleasing
daughter to the villain. In melodrama the bad
man’s desire to give an enormous sum for a nice,
fat, white girl, is very marked. The present bad
man is comparatively young, therefore when the
tottering, white-haired tramp comes inand explains
{that he was the villain’s otfice-boy many years
ago, and has got the pocket-book which contains
the whole record of his crimes, things seem a trifle
mixed. Apparently the villain had opened that
office at the early age of 12, and engaged an aged
person of 50 or more as boy. And, like most
miscreants, h.e had evidently written a full
account of his crimes in the pocket-book, and left
it loose in the fowl-house and the boy had got hold
of it. How the boy got it doesn t appear. The
squatter, who is a dreary character at the best, is
afterwards murdered with it in his possession, and
the assassin gets it off his dead body, and then a
grisly hand conies out from behind the curtain
and seizes it. Thereafter, the villain and the
squatter’s daughter and the incriminating pocket-
book make a procession of three over the face of
the earth, and the lady spends most of her time
in a chloroformed state on straw in cellars, and
the bony claw of fate reaches out incessantly from
behind something to get the pocket-book aforemen-
tioned. Misses Alice Senior and Therese Lindahl,
who both deserve better luck, save the drama from
utter contempt, and C. R. Stanford, as a cop of
Irish extraction, assists in the good work
with considerable ability. The name of
the man who plays the part of the incrim-
inating document in the pocket - book has
escaped the writer’s memory. The reason
why the bad character is allowed to escape from
custody and come back with a burst collar to
murder the squatter’s daughter, and the cause of
the red grass, and the villain’s object in carrying
the daughter in a fainting condition through all
the finest scenery in Australasia, and the cause of
everything and the general purpose of anything,
are a problem which is too large for discussion.
* * * *■
“Jack the Giant-Killer,” in a new and
revised form, returns to Sydney on March 22
(Tuesday), at which date he commences a season
at the Tivoli. “Jack" was a very respectable
pantomime, and was received with much approval
on his Xmas outburst at the Royal, but whether
the time is ripe for a revival of him is a matter
concerning which the present writer sits on the
rail of uncertainty, with a devout hope that he
won’t tear his clotlms in getting down.
** * *
The 72nd week of the silver coin co. at
Sydney Royal Standard finds that combination
still going strong. The present shocker is
described as “ The Brand of Crime,” which is a
good, useful title, and one that would fit any melo-
drama about as well as another.
** * *
A second series of Albani concerts starts
at Sydney Town Hall, on March 30, continues
itself on April 2, and concludes on April 4.
** ¥ *
Harmston’s great circus, which opens at
Belmore Park on April 2, calculates to stun Sydney
for seven or eight weeks. Sydney can stand a
lot of circus ; it loves horse and things pertaining
to horse, and it takes all manner of smellful
animals to its capacious bosom. Harmston’s show
is understood to be great in respect of horse, and
in every other respect as well, and it comes to
Sydney with a good name, having just practically
devastated Banaualand of its last copper.
#* * *
The impudent Sydney City Council pro-
posal to compensate for a reduced rental of the
Town Hall by levying a special after-charge upon
all specially successful entertainments therein,
means simply that the Council wants to cut in
with success without taking any of the risks of
failure. How enormous those risks mostly are
Manager J. C. Williamson indicates by the fact
that before, for instance, he will see a larthing
of profit on the Wilson-Barrett season, he will
have to rake in the trifling amount of <£22,000 ;
and he further points out that, considering the
high-production-standard which he has steadily
maintained in the teeth of heavy losses, only the
most narrow-minded parochialism could think of
penalising' the energy and ability to which amuse-
ment-seeking Australia owes so much. Unto all
which The Bulletin saith the very biggest kind
of Amen !
** * *
Saturday’s bill at Melbourne Bijou gave a
bright, new turn to the Cartwright co.’s season.
“ A Marriage of Convenience,” adapted by Syd-
ney Grundy from Dumas’ “Un Mariage sous
Louis XV.,” may take credit for being about the
most enjoyable comedy of manners that the Bijou
has known within the last live years. It may be
too wittily satirical and out-of : the-coinmon to strike
the unintelligent majority, but it will make the
judicious laugh. Some rather long waits between
the four acts were the only dull features of this
otherwise festive show on Saturday night. “ A
Marriage of Convenience ” is a Parisian incident
happening at a well-dressed period when the
Nicest husbands and wives were expected
to follow a fashion of easy infidelity,
and anything approaching mutual affection be-
tween those whom the Pope had joined to-
gether was bad form. The argument of the
Dumas - Grundy production is extravagantly
naughty, but the upshot of it all is quite clean
and respectable. Also, the characters arrive at
the moral denouement in such a graceful spirit
that they appear rather admirable “ products of a
sham civilisation ” —as Ouida would term them—
when the cloud of impending adultery rolls by.
The play is as a spicy bridal anecdote told in a
drawing-room, and depending for success upon the
wit of the narrator. Its good points are too
numerous and subtle for summarising in a Bulle-
tin par.
« • • •
Charles Thursby, who gave only a slight
indication of acting ability in his two previous
attempts, turns out to be a lady-killing comedian
on the present occasion. He sports fine clothes
with a fine air, and forms an unexpected com-
bination of Ryley, Kyrle Bellew and Cecil Ward.
Of the three old Australian idols suggested by '
Thursby’s appearance as a dandy bridegroom,
only one—Bellow—could have put a higher polish
on the part. Arthur Styne, as a serio-comic
chevalier, prepared to love his friend’s wife on the
latest Louis XV. principles, reveals a humor
which was also unexpected ; and Charles Cart-
wright plays a scandalised military uncle »ith all
his heartas usual. Cartwright’s morality and aspect
are so far behind the fashion that the chevalier can
only think of him as an irate family portrait. An
Australian debutante, Miss Edith Morley (she is
Mr. Cartwright’s daughter off the stage) intro-
duces her fair young self in the difficult position
of a bride, fresh from a convent, who starts mar-
ried life under a promise of eternal devotion to
her husband’s friend. Very few actresses could
act the part naturally. Miss Morley walks
through it in several gorgeous costumes, and,
being a tall, slim, unassuming damsel, who
might have come fresh from a high-toned
convent for all that the audience can suppose
to the contrary, she is a very satisfactory orna-
ment to the proceedings. If she were not
satisfactory the performance in general would
not be a success. “Dream Faces” followed
“ A Marriage of Convenience” on Saturday in-
stead of preceding it. “ Dream Faces ” is a
gloomsome trifle of the prettily-sentimental order,
and, under present conditions, it would seem a
sad mistake at either end of the programme.. The
day for such stagey “dramatic fancies” is not
now.
# * *
“The French Maid,” who has been get-
ting along riotously at the Princess’s, will continue
to wonder what they take her for until Friday.
Miss Ada Reeve’s wrenched ankle was not long
out of the bill. The real leading lady came to the
front again last week, looking none the vvorse for
her long absence from Melbourne, and then youth-
ful Carrie Moore fell hack into the rear, where her
growing reputation awaits further opportunities to
assert itself. On Saturday “ The Gay Parisi-
enne,” with a somewhat-revised cast, resumes
operations, the principal change being Lauri in
the place of Coleman, who is about to take a lugu-
brious leave of the co.
*m * #
At the Royal they were still playing
“ Shadows of a Great City ” when these remarks
left Melbourne, but the spectacular tale of woe in
a pawnshop was to retire on Tuesday. It will not
be badly missed. The one redeeming circum-
stance in “Shadows” is the acrobatic convict
who throws a small child in the deep blue sea.
“ Would you drown the little innocent 1 ” asks his
horrified companion. “ Well,” says the sprightly
criminal, “unless the little innocent can swim."
The duty of every melodrama villain is to take
his crimes cheerfully. Ou Wednesday Grattan
Riggs will appear as “Shin Fane,” which is to
run for a week. On Thursday and Friday of next
week the broguey veteran bids some more fare-
well to Melbourne in “The Irish Detective,” and
when he has whacked the table with his shtick for
the last time, the management will stage “ When
London Sleeps.”
** * *
The pantomime at the Opera House is
disappearing on Friday, after which sad occasion
the Rickards establishment will, presumably, take
up its former line of business, and the voice of the
gallery boy will chip into choruses as in the nights
of old. At the Alexandra a sudden increase of
patronage has resulted from “ The Kelly Gang,” a
drama abounding in gory perversions of criminal
truth, and full of low comedy reflections on police
valour.
** * *
The fourth Albani concert at Melh. Town
Hall achieved the great managerial purpose of
turning money away, and the Firm’s wisdom in
importing a great vocal Reputation and running
it for all it is worth seems now to be clearly proved.
Albani, with many royal orders glittering on her
breast, is a personage to see and hear—an object of
public interest—a financial success. The famous
artist will give another concert on the 26th, and
return to Melb. for a short oratorio season in the
Exhibition Building at Faster.
** * *
Nothing better has been seen on the
Melb. stage for a long time than Cartwright’s per-
formance in the third act of “Moths.” Savage
Zouroff’s momentary tenderness to his self-sacri-
ficing wife, when he understands how she was
tricked into the marriage by her heartless mother,
is a splendid piece of work. The artist loses him-
self in the character—voice, face, every move-
ment of the hands tells of his sudden awakening
to the truth of the situation. It is a great
dramatic scene. Cartwright’s power seems to
communicate force to the acting of Miss Beatrice
Lamb at this point, and from then until the fall
of the curtain the thinking portion of the audi-
ence is impressed.
At Paris Grand Opera, on a high recent occasion, when
seats had been sold at a premium by speculators, the chief
tenor could not sing, and the money had to be returned.
Those who paid high premiums only got the admission
money. The speculators were not touched.
At Poverty Point.
The truly adorable Miss Maud Jeffries tells a Sydney
Jeames that it would ill-become Mr. Wilson Barrett’s
leadin'; lady to seek notoriety from “ newspaper inter-
views and such like,” although “in the case of a great
star like Mr. Barrett interviewing is all riprht.” Humph !
Modesty of this sort is acceptable, whether it be quite
natural or somewhat artificial. Perhaps some light is
thrown upon the strange reticence of the fascinating Miss
J. by the remark—“ Were Ito leave Mr. Barrett, a dozen
ladies would be able at once to jump into my shoes.”
Possibly the lovely Maud thinks that the shoes of atnueh-
interviewed leading lady in Mr. Barrett’s eo. would soon
become vacant?- Irving has chosen to enthrone Ellen
Terry beside him, but then Ellen brought her own family
celebrity into the business. Miss Jeffries came first into
prominence under Wilson Barrett’s management, and she
couldn’t fairly expect a splendidly-advertised “ star” to
approve of her shining in print at his expense.
Haresfoot : “Mr. Barrett, interviewed, has been justi-
fying his young Hamlet of 20 as against the regular one
of 30, and, to my idea, succeeds fully, save the grave-
Jigger’s statement, which makes Hamlet 30, and his
mother’s saying that he is fat and scant of breath. But
this is possible at 20. Barrett says it was interpolated to
suit Burbage. He also contends that the gravedigger’s
sentence is a put-in, though I cannot say why. The grand
thing, however, is the go the youthful H uulet gives the
play. The Americans do it in three acts. Perhaps we
ought. At all events, it should be squeezed into two
hours and a half, at the outside, instead of three.”
“The only bequest the Terriss will gave Jessie Mill-
ward,” writes a Bulletin correspondent, “ was certain
cottages at Wingfield worth some hundreds of pounds.
After all, the whole estate was under £20,000, and, ‘close’
as Terriss was, he does not appear to have amassed any-
thing like what he was accredited with. The platonic
devotion of the lady he so appreciated in life has never
been liberally recognised by this stage-hero—all strut and
niggardliness.”
“ Pinero’s crinolinated comedietta, ‘ Trelawney of the
Wells,’ at the Court,” writes Thk Bulletin’s London cor-
respondent, “is bubbling up like the old-fashiomd hoop-
skirt in a sea breeze. Hu Maurier and Keene’s pictures
of the 60 period in real life are ever attractive, and Hilda
Spong of to-day is out-Hilda-d by the sweet-faced maid of
the days when you spooned your best girl over a three-
rail fence. ‘The Earl’ (Boucieault) is most popular, and
retorted to P.ittie Browne when that parcel of piquante
devilment asked 1 What shall we call you?’ ‘Oh ! call me
Early,’ to receive in return, ‘ Yes, we’ll wake and call you
early.’ ”
T.D.: “ Here is Albani parading the vocal defects to
which even boastful Nellie Melba can scarcely help look-
ing forward as the inevitable result rk.a quarter century’s
continuous singing. Albani’s fault, nowadays, is in the
groundwork of all vocal art—she breathes like an amateur.
Her chest-muscles have hardened with constant exercise,
and lost flexibility, so that, except in cantabile work, her
singing is effortful. One hears the wheels go round.
Amy Sherwin’s auditors noted how the raspberry night-
ingale, a comparatively lacile singer, threw back her
head to obtain greater laryngeal freedom, and they now
note how Albani has taken to this i ocal artifice even more
markedly.” {But isn’t it Ihe sin of tight corsets that finds
all lady-vocalists out ?—Ed. B.j
Dear Bullkiin.— Your correspondent, “ Viator,” didn’t
drop upon a London notice of Gus Glover’s fl6but as
Colonel Briton in “The Wonder.” lie confuses Augustus
with Bob Glover, a man not unlike his namesake in
appearance. Augustus G. got his first show in London at
the Roy a t.v Theatre, afterwards he played several parts
at the Adelphi, where he figured imposingly as the
wicked Colonel to Emmett's Fritz. Later than that lie
put in three seasons at Drury Lane, but, meanwhile, he
iiad lagoed to Wilson Barren’s Othello in the provinces.
’Gus Glover was a strong lago, and an even stronger
Othello, as many Australians can testify from his per-
formances with Bandmanu out here. His proudest recol-
lection is of an English engagement to alternate the two
leading characters in Shakespeare’s tragedy with the
veteran Creswick. Glover started as lago, and was so
warmly received that Creswick declined to “swap ’’ parts
on the second night.—F.
Paradis: “The co. supporting Mr. Barrett and Miss
Jeffries got fairly gauged in Melbourne. The prize is
given to Mr. Manning. Whatever he did was real good,
from Cregeen, in ‘The Manxman,’ to Elijah Coombe
(although he over-acted in this part) and the Grave-
digger. Next comes Miss McCarthy. As the Queen, in
‘ Hamlet,’ she showed very considerable ability. Carter
Edwards is a useful stage-carpenter; Irwin, a pleasant,
fleshy, and lumbering young fellow. Hodges, excellent as
the caddish cousin, in ‘The Manxman,’ can be put into
Jaikes, Polonius, or low comedy, and vindicates a
place on the stage, without scorching it, or burning the
planks as the French saying is.”
The pupils and friends of Miss Eloise Juno gave a
sociable little show at St. George's Hall, Melbourne,
the other night. Two or three promising ama-
teurs cropped up during the perpetration of a programme
that was too light to be painful. Miss Florence Wilson,
daughter of the Bijou Theatre proprietor, took honors in
the opening item ; Miss Maggie M'Cann shone amidst the
mediocrity, and a Miss Trissie Born proved to be a
charming young vision whose intelligence should soon
get the better of her “colonial twang.” Several other
fair amateurs did justice to their Junoesque training in
Scotch accent.
Maud Jeffries acts best as Kate Cregeen, looks best as
Mona in “ Ben-my-chree,” and feels best as “ Virginia,”
her favorite character.
Marie Elster, at latest, was mixing operatic with con-
cert engagements, and is likely to be heard of in London
this season. Buxom Marie played prima-donna parts
with the J. W. Turner opera co., at Manchester, not long
ago.
Maud Jeffries, in Melbourne, followed the same domes-
tic policy as Ada Ferrar had adopted off the stage, de-
clining all sorts of invitations to star at garden parties,
&e. “If you want to see us book a seat.’’
In the widely-distributed photo, of Wilson Barrett as
the Manxman holding the baby, the baby is the twelve-
months’ old daughter of Geo. Pack and wife (Florence
Esdaile).
“Compton,” to The Bulletin Have heard Albani,
and gone into the bush to think about it. Conclusion :
That it is a treat to hear her, but that it is an intellectual
treat, and not a sensuous one. One is lost in admiration
at the prodigious skill with which the slender remaining
powers of her voice are manipulated. It is like Napoleon
conducting the retreat from Moscow after the loss of the
Grand ArmCe, or Montague Tigg financing the Anglo-
Bengalee on a grand piano and a door-plate, always on
the very edge and limit of their resources, and yet always
just equal to every crisis. Good generalship is always a
magnificent thing. It is magnificent in Albani Magnifi-
cent, but not song. There was no suggestion in her
exhibition of that intoxicating abandon in sensuousness,
of that easy ‘ swinging’ of the voice in the careless con-
sciousness of inexhaustible reserves of power, which is
the thrilling element in vocal work of real magnetic
quality. Give us force, and plenty of it, if you want to
lift us off our feet. Rather a hundred tons in excess than
a couple of ounces short. It is the Darling of theconcert-
platform that touches the emotional chord in us, and not
the Ranji—the hard hitter rather than the exhibitor of
cool dexterity. Flexibility, range, execution, ease, even
physical: perfection (or something sufficiently near it) in
tone, may all be allowed. So, too, may judgment—taste
—consummate discrimination in the attacking of difficul-
ties and the handling of resources. And with it all the
electrifying soul of vocal music is not there. We listen,
we admire—unstintedly. But we remain cold.”
The most successful sacred composition yet written in
the seven provinces is probably Sydney Iloben’s “ Ave
Maria,” of which the Ascherbergs lately issued a new
edition. De Vere Sapio, Belle Cole, and a host of other
professional and amateur warblers sing it ; and it is
to be heard not, only in all the principal R.C. churches
about Sydney, but all over Australia, and in the big
European cathedrals; and it frequently figures on
concert programmes. Hoben, who graduated at Leipsic,
succeeded the late Mrs. Carl Fischer as musical critic
of Sydney Mail, but has nothing to do with the Herald
criticisms, as has been implied by some people. Hoben
is a Sydney native, who has a decided gift of melody,
evidenced in such diverse songs as his “Ave Maria,"
“ Cromaboo,” “Melons,” etc.
Though spuriously-devotional ballads of the mono-
tonous “Holy City” stamp still arrive with every batch
of new music, there seems to be a dead slump in the call
for that class of composition outside the variety ’alls and
suburban small and-earlies. Sydney choir-masters, who
used to put “Star of Bethlehem ’’ and “ Holy City ” on
the bill for alternate Sabbaths, are now quick t-o suppress
anyone who threatens to sing Ihe glories of Jerusalem
the Golden. “Stephen Adams,” boss of the twopenny
“royalty-ring," probably wrote those dreadful items
with his tongue in his cheek—but how did he bamboozle
the Sankeyites! ”


SIR JOHN
POWER’S
Whiskey.
R. BELL & CO., Ltd.,
LONDON,
Original Patentees of Wax Vestas.
A vs. | PHILIPS & PIKE,
Km’S, f Equitable Building's, Sydney ;
and Wellington, N.Z.
BLEACH'NQ POWDER, 36 %.
CAUSTIC, CARBONATE SODA, BORAX,
LITHARGE, CHLORATE POTASH, BONE ASH,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%.
All Minin# Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hy- Markwald,
178 William Street,
Mklbournk ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; U Currie-st., Add■; Queen-st., Brisk
“Tbe R€AL MACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whiskv.
IN CLARET BOTTLES. J
Harrison & Attwood, Soles Proprietors
JJ
Simpson’s Sulkies
No Horse-and-Oart Motion
The Best of Stuff well put together.
You have never seen one broken down.
SIDNEY SIMPSON,
Newtown, Sydney.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Federal Convention first decided to make
the taking-over of the provincial debts by the Common-
wealth compulsory; then it went back on that decision,
a , n . ( i made it purely optional. The reason assigned for
this change of front was that the Federal credit must
necessarily be better than that of any separate State ; if
the taking-over is compulsory, then the public creditor
gets the benefit of the Federal guarantee gratis, while if
it is made optional the Commonwealth can offer to convert
the State debts into a uniform Federal 3 or 2f or 24 per
cent, stock, and if the holders won’t accept the offer and
convert into lower-priced stock, then they must do with-
out the extra security. This is logical enough, yet it is
yist possible that it would be cheaper and better for the
Commonwealth to take over the debts at once, and make
the creditor a present of any profit he can get out of the
Federal guarantee, and be content to convert the debts
into a low-priced Federal stock as they fall due. Very often
the other process costs more than it is worth. Owing
td the want of foresight manifested by certain beastly
financial forefathers, almost all the Australian loans are
repayable on a fixed date, therefore, if a conversion is
do |le before that date, the bondholder must be paid to let
go. Often he has to be paid an awful lot. The general
course is that he takes less interest on condition that the
principal is increased and the loan made fixed and per-
manent for a longer period.
The trouble is that no one can tell what the in-
terest rate will be a number of years ahead. The only
big conversion yet done in these provinces—that of Maori-
land—was originally based on the idea that interest
would never get below 4 per cent, for 60 years or so. It
added over VI,600,(100 to the principal of its debt—in
other words, it gave the public creditor that amount of
bonus—on condition that he took 4 per cent, stock instead
of the old 5 and 6 per cent securities. It also fixed
£22,000,000 of debt till 1929. There was an im-
mediate saving of interest, certainly, but the trans-
action is a big loss ; if the old 5 and 6 per cent, had been
paid till the loans ran out, a lot of them would be falling
due now, and could be converted into 3 per cent, stock.
As it is, Maoriland loses £1,600,000 principal, and pays 1
per cent, more than it should do for 30 years. When the
darned foolishness of this arrangement at last dawned on
the AI.L. legislators, they decided to do the rest of their
loan conversions at 31 per cent. They lost another
£438,000 in converting five millions of old high-priced
loans into 31 per cent, stock which isn’t repayable till
1940. They were very proud of this deal also at the
moment; now it appears that they paid a lot of money
for the privilege of fixing five millions of debt for 40 years
at l per cent, above the present market rate. In all these
cases it would have been cheaper to pay the old, exor-
bitant rate to the bitter end; the immediate saving- in
interest was bought a great deal too expensively. And it
is quite possible that it would be cheaper for the Federal
Government simply to take over the provincial debts as
mey stand, and convert them into a cheap, uniform
Federal stock when they fall in. The man who holds
N.S. Wales 4 per cent, stock due 1912 would probably
want a decent bonus and an extension to 1930 or so to
induce him to accept 3 per cents, in exchange. And by
the year 1912 interest might be down to 2 per cent.,
which would make the transaction a heavy loss. Again,’
the rate might then be up to 44 per cent., in which case
there would be a large profit. The conversion business
is a gamble, and all that is known for certain is that
hitherto these provinces have found it a rather profitless
gamble.
* * * *
The City Mutual Life Assurance Society
(Sydney) shows a very distinct improvement for 1897.
The income is larger than it has ever yet been ; the ex-
penses are much lower, and the amount added to the
funds is the largest in any single year so far. The last
five years’ record under these heads is as follows :
Income Expenses. added
to funds.
1893 .. £32,576 £8,939 £10,021
1894 .. 34,018 9,907 13,140
1895 .. 36,849 10,697 14,260
1896 .. 39,290 9,776 13,319
1897 .. 41,229 9,305 19,200
The expenses are still heavy, being 22A per cent, of total
income. Still, th's is a great reduction as compared with
the 25 per cent, paid in.’96, 29 per cent, in ’95, and 291
per cent, in ’94, and if the improvement continues this
society will shortly lose its bad reputation for expen-
sive management.
The City Mutual looks like a steadily-improving
concern in a number of other respects. In addition to
the constant advance of the premium income, the income
from investments (£S3S4) is £953 more than it was last
year. The amount of interest overdue is only £231, which
very small as compared with an annual income of over
£BOOO, anti says a great deal for the security of the invest-
ments. (Curiously enough, the balance-sheet makes no
mention of accrued interest.) The item “ Properties
acquired by foreclosure, £4335,” is also moderate. Within
the last year £lll3 has been written off for depreciation,
and within the last three years £5853 has been applied to
l’ u n :,osc '- This is a large provision for depreciation on
£165,000 worth of assets, and it looks like a vigorous and
consistent effort to keep the assets down to bedrock
values. Also it is announced that no further additions
will be made to that rather dubious asset, “Deferred
Instalments of Annual Premiums,” and that the £7518
standing against it will be gradually written off. Deferred
instalments certainly are an asset of a kind, and some
good offices, such as the National Mutual of Australia, the
Bun of Canada, the Patriotic of England (which isn’t par-
ticularly good) and a few others include them. Still,
there is a certain amount of doubt about them, and the
decision to write off this item will make the City Mutual
all the stronger.
The City Mutual now is certainly very unlike
the shabby little concern of a few years ago. The ac-
counts are clearer, mainly because thev specify the
amount of foreclosed property and the interest arrears—
both valuable items in estimating the solvency of an
insurance concern. The premium income and income
from investments have increased largely. Expenses have
been reduced, provision made for depreciation, the dubious
deferred instalment ” item is disappearing, and the last
vestige of the old management vanished in ’94, when
£lBOl was paid as the cost of the disastrous law-suit with
the late J.P. Garvan, once managing director. The City
Mutual, this year, begins to look like a very respectable
institution with a future before it
* * * m
The Union Bank of Australia, as the result of
increased expenses (the increase appears to be mostly
income-tax), shows a diminished profit of £37,436 for the
half-year ended 3lst Aug., 1897 ; and, as the 5 per cent,
dividend absorbs £37,500, the balance at credit of profit
and loss is reduced by £64. The Union Bank’s profits
lor the last five years have been as follows :
February,'93 ..£69,609 | August,’9s ..£36,063
August, ’93 .. 60,295 February, ’96 .. 37,996
February,'94 .. 44,132 August,’96 .. 68,837
August,’94 .. 44,676 February,’97 .. 37,578
February, ’95 37,172 August,’97 .. 37,436
Ine big 1 bank has obviously faded a good deal in recent
years, and this is the third occasion since ’93 when it
hasnt earned quite 5 per cent. Considering that it has
over £4,000,000 in cash, it seems remarkable that it doesn't
turn at least a portion of this mass of gold into State
securities, and thereby supplement its income—the invest-
ment of a million at 3 per cent, would add £15,000 per
half-year to the profits, which would be a material increase.
Curiously enough, however, the Union holds £360,000 less
of Govt. securities than it did six months ago, the reduc-
tion being wholly in British consols. It would be inter-
esting to know what profit there was on the sale, and
how much or how little of the half-year’s profits were
derived from this source instead of from the ordinary
banking business.
* * * *
Sydney Permanent Freehold Land and Building
Co. (Sydney) last year showed a profit of £lB7, equal to
about 3s. 7d. per Cent, per annum on the nominal capi-
tal of £102,755. The co. has set aside £58,000 for
depreciation—it hasn’t taken the amount off capital in
the usual way, but put it on the depressing side
of the profit and loss account, and the year’s
transactions reduce this vast debit to £57,813.
If this amount is taken off capital then the
profit equals about Bs. per cent, per annum, which seems
to suggest that another £40,000 requires to be written off
to bring values down to their real level. The Sydney
P.F.L. and B. Co. looks as if it had very little prospect
ahead of it. It owes £120,000 to depositors and mort-
gagees, and its principal visible assets are £166,000 (paper
values) of more or less unsaleable properties. And if it
hopes to come right at the rate of £lB7 a year it has a
long tramp in view.
* * * *
The decision of N. S. W, Supreme Court that,
under the existing Mines Act all coal must be weighed as
it comes from the mine, is calculated to make the coal
industry sit up violently. The miners are paid by weight,
but, as a rule, the management weighs one skip in ten or
twenty—the smallest one for choice—and averages the
rest. None of the mines have sufficient appliances
to weigh more than a small part of the coal, and
if the law is enforced there is talk of shutting down
till the necessary weighing machinerv is obtained.
Probably, however, the trouble will be settled by the law
turning its blind eye—the same eye that it turns on the
Sunday banana and the tote. That glazed and sightless
optic gets its owner out of a multitude of difficulties.
♦ * * *
Among other strange disclosures at the Sydney
Town Hall inquiry, it transpired that the No. 2 hank
account had been open for 20 years before the auditors
knew of its existence. Truly the average auditor is a
comic animal.
* • * *
Nearly every big office and institution has its
private usurer—some thrifty usu’ally of low
grade, who makes an “honest” penny lending out his
savings at rates of interest which would turn a Hebrew
money-lender green with horror. At one Melb. skyscraper,
the liftboy confided to the writer that his screw for the
week was all mortgaged to the caretaker. “ He’s very
■ reasonable though,” added the relenting youngster, “he
only charges a bob for the lend of a bob for a week.”
* * * »
Prologue—Melb. Age advt. : “Lady will lend
money on furniture, other security, &c., &c. Confidential,
P. 0., Kew.” Simply a guileless lady, unversed in the in-
tricate chicanery of interest-tables.' Applicant for small
loan receives reply : “ Shall be glad to meet your require-
ments, and refer you to my agents, and Co., &c.—
Yours, Confidential.” Act I.—Sov. borrowed on “ joint
and several.” Act ll.—Claim by Mrs. So-and-so Blank
, trading as Blank and Co., for £3 17s. 6d. ; in-
terest, 240 per cent. Act lll.—Defendant pleaded inability
to pay—the wife and che-ild yarn. The Judge: “I
sometimes find in this court that plaintiffs are more bard-
up than defendants; order for full amount claimed.”
Israel (omne) : “ Wise and upright Judge ! Worthy art
thou to wear the mantle of Solomon.” Curtain.
* * * *
Melbourne money-lenders now take bills of sale
down to as low as 205., and do not hesitate to publish the
rate of interest—6o to 90 per cent., as the case may be.
They laugh at the proposed Usury Bill of the Turner
Government. They will evade that bv selling, say, a
chromo, worth 6d., for £2O, taking a bill of sale over it
for that amount. No money-lending there—only a leetle
commercial transaction. A partial remedy would be a
State or municipal Mont de Pi6t6—which is bound to
come.
• * * *
Some alleged quotations from prices as they are
at Klondyke, said to be advertised in the local paper that
sells at 30s. a copy : —“Californian ham, at Gorpin Sam’s,
only lOd. an oz.; Cariboo steak, at the Greyhound Restau-
rant, with onions, 12s. ; mule cutlets, 4s. 2d.; dog, tender
loin, 10s. 3d. ; shave, 6s. ; close shave, 7s. 6d. ; hair cut,
135.; hair cut, London style, 165.”
* ♦ * *
A Yankee syndicate has erected and is now
running an aerial tramway over the 3500 ft. high Chilkoot
Pass. It is eight miles long and begins eight miles from
the wharf at Dyea. The engine-house is placed at Sheep
Camp at the top of the incline. The track is a five-
eighths steel-wire rope on iron trestles, the longest span
being 1600 ft. It reduces the journey from Tacoma to
Dawson City to 15 days.
*‘* * *
All that is the matter with the Girilambone
copper-mine, N.S W., is a total indebtedness of £19,000.
The working account shows a surplus, and it is explained
that this includes all mining development. But it is not
explained clearly how this huge debt arose. What some
people want to know is—what proportion, if any, of the
company is represented merely by the option to purchase
the property? It looks as though this co. has been
cleverly worked for the good of a certain section of the
shareholders ; if the cleverness had been used for the mine
only, things would be all right. Strange, too, that the
effort to put the co. in a better financial position was not
made when the shares were at a premium, and when the
money could have been raised on much better terms than
those now offered.
* * * *
North Nymagee—an alleged N.S.W. copper-
mine—has had another spurt, having sold up to 35., with
buyers unsupplied. Not much consolation for those who
got in at three and four times that price. An alleged lode
has been struck, and it is said to contain “good jigging
ore.” Some day even the N.N. may strike it rich, but it
will take the public a long time to believe it if it does.
Once bit, &c.
* * * »
Announced—officially—that the Feb. gold out-
put from the Gibraltar Mines, Adelong, N.S.W., was
20130 z. (a first div. of £25,000 has been declared by the
co.); also, a progressive report of the Gallymont Mines
—controlled by the same organisation—has been pub-
lished. So the writer will cease growling on that score.
Dear Bulletin,—The writer of the par. re the
Illawarra Smelting Works (Dec. 25, 1597) asks why the
works were not located in Sydney ? In the first place,
Sydney people would have risen as one man to protest
against huge smelting works being erected on the shores
of “our beautiful harbor.” Take, as an instance, the
fierce opposition to the locating of the coal-mine works of
the Sydney Harbor Collieries Co. The owners of the
Illawarra Smelting Works knew their business when they
erected their plant in its present situation, and, so far
from it being “ a gigantic mistake,” as the writer of the
par. so fatuousty asserts, the selection was a wise one.
Smelting works established in San Francisco, at a huge
outlay, had to be removed 10 miles further away from the
city on account of the fumes. Does any reasonable man
think that Sydney people could have put up with
big smelting works on the shores of Port Jack-
son ? The co. has a 2s. 9d. rate from Dar-
ling Harbor to the works, where it has cheap
coal, and the latter is the essential factor in success
in general smelting works. It has established works
in N.S. W. to divert the trade from S. Australia, and are
now treating and will treat Broken Hill and W.A. gold
ores in competition with S.A. and Europe. The Illawarra
Harbour works would have now been completed by the
same people, but for the action of the Government in
bringing on the Port Kembla bill. Their £lO,OOO
deposit has been paid to the Government and the harbour
will be made, despite the fact that the co’sdifficulties have
been vastly increased by the avowed intention of Govt, to
construct an opposition harbour.—L. B. London, Feb 4
* * * *
The auditing of municipal accounts in N.S.W.
is no more lax than the auditing of hospital accounts.
Though the Govt, contributes much more than half the
funds, it is not represented on the boards of management,
which mostly elect themselves at annual meetings that
nobody else attends, when they also appoint two of them-
selves to be auditors. Now and then curious things with
regard to the supply of stores, &c., are said ; and only the
other day one of the largest hospitals outside the capital
discovered that an official was over £lOO short on the
year’s accounts—precisely how much it couldn’t say—and,
since then, charges have been made that somebody or
other has been paid by the hospital for things that other
people presented to it. Moreover, there is to be no prose-
cution.
* * * »
A party of N.Q. miners recently sent away
two parcels of silver ore—one to commission agents in
England, and the other to Aldershot (Q.) The lot sent to
England was much the more valuable- -yet. net returns
per ton from the latter (Aldershot) far exceeded gross
returns from the former. On enquiry it was found that
the commission agents in England were also either agents
or owners of the smelting works benefited, and that they
sold the ore to themselves.
* • * •
In the year 97 there were 31 accidents on the
Towers, of which eight were fatal, 15 serious, and the rest
not serious. The year ’96 gave 55 accidents, of which 11
were fatal and 17 serious cases. Consequently the Towers
plumes itself on a diminishing annual holocaust. But an
average of about two men per month either killed or
seriously injured is a very fair sacrifice to the gods of
Greed and Negligence.
* * « •
Some Q. mining items. 5 North Phoenix, Gym-
pie, 255 tons for 980 oz. Gyrnpie has had its little boom
and is flat again. W.A. Minnie Palmer, Q.-owned, trial
crushing, 30 tons, lOoz. The shareholders looked for at
least lOOoz. Reported that a well-behaved C. Towers
mine is getting the “tripes” pulled out of it to cater for
the horse-leech shareholders. The seven years lean kine
will assuredly follow. Papuans fell from 14s. to 75., caused
by “ pinching ”of main reef and subsequent scare. Chief
Towers crushings for Feb. Brilliant and St. George,
2355 tons for 3800 oz. ; Brilliant, 2390 tons, 3000 oz ; Bull-
owned Day Dawn Block and YV., 2480 tons for 29120 z. ;
Victoria, 320 tons, 461 oz.—very constant; also, Brilliant
Extended, 600 tons, 3350 z., a little better. Kelly’s Block
looking better and firming in price. Brilliant and St.
George, 1130 tons for 17040 z. ; Victory, 126 tons, 6040 z. •
Craven’s Caledonia, 200 tons, 2600 z.; Q. Menzies, 100 tons’
3070 z.
* * * *
Chillagoe, Queensland, is the rage in Melb.
Sydney is asking where Chillagoe is, and what about it ?
Away inland from Cairns, worked for the last few years
for copper, principally by veteran John Moffatt, who has
recently had a blast furnace at work, and has worked
altogether some 30,000 tons of ore. J.M. is one of the
pluckiest and straightest of Australian mining men. In
New England districts, N.S.W., he is known as the father
of local tin-mining. He also opened up the tin-mines of
Herberton, and with their failure directed his attention to
the copper deposits of Chillagoe. Over a year ago some
Broken Hill and Mt. Lyell men sent experts to examine
the property, and on their reports it was purchased.
Moffatt retains a third, and received £20,000 for the
balance; £30,000 was placed to working account. The
area has been enlarged to some 3000 acres ; the Govt, has
granted a 50 years lease free from any labor conditions,
and the co. undertakes to build a railway from Mareeba’
the present terminus from Cairns, to Chillagoe, some 90
miles away. Schlapp has not examined, but will do so
shortly. Dr. Peters, on whose report the same
crowd handled Mt. Lyell, has been communicated
with, and will probably accept the modest fee
of £5OOO for his examination—to be made as soon
as he finishes the work on which he is now engaged
in Mexico. YVhispered in Melbourne last week that
Stewart, manager of Broken Hill, and formerly of Rio
Tinto, the great copper-mine of Spain, has been offered
the biggest salary ever paid in Australia to take control of
Chillagoe, and will give his answer as soon as he has
inspected the mine. Hence, it is hardly to be wondered
that Chillagoe is already the talk of Melb. Shares issued
at £2OO each have sold up to £l5OO. Nothing has occurred
in the way of development to warrant this rapid increase'
in value, which is largely accounted for by the number of
persons whose anxiety to get into Chillagoe is prompted
by remembrances of “ missing Mt. Lyells when they were
only £l.” Time and work have, however, proved the
founders of the copper-era of Queensland to be a good
crowd to follow; but whether they are good enough to
follow at present share prices—well, time and work only
can show.
* * * *
Some of the assaying plants sent from London
to Kalg-oorlie are amazingly complete—one even included
many large bottles of distilled water for parting assays.
And this in a camp where no other sort of water can be
got most of the time.
• » • *
Great Boulder, W.A., fortnight: 1413 tons,
32200 z. ; output to date, 5880 tons, 179,0160 z. Magnifi-
cent !
* • * *
“The latest progressive development at Mt.
Magnet, YV.A.,” says a Bulletin correspondent, “ is the
occupation of the Stock Exchange by three Chows who
have turned the building into a laundry.”
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin. —Re your recent par. about
Sheepstation, Gippsland (Vic.): as a disinterested person,
let me say that some of the best shows in Gippsland are
to be found at Sheepstation, as stated by the minin«--
reporter of a local paper who has been much abused by cer-
tain syndicators for being over-truthful, and has been sacked
by the newspaper trust. Richmond’s and the Dorothy are
two properties that will hold their own with anything in
the market. There isn’t anything on the field 'to equal
either. Both Carry big reefs—£4 Is. 6d. gold, plenty of it,
and not at present the slightest indication that they are
going to bottom this side of Sheol.—Scribe.
* • * *
D.W.D. : The Lyell Boomlet is trembling
in the balance prior to drifting into Burst. The general
public has been misled into buying into properties
on account of their proximity to the big mine, and no
voice was vociferous enough to prove to them that, where
isolated and independent deposits, and not lodes, are
being worked, proximity doesn’t amount to anything.
Somehow, the bigger the deposit the greater the concen-
trative ability of the one big mine to rob the formations
surrounding it of their metallic contents. The remarks
of chairman Orotty, of North Lyell co., at the meeting
held in London, shortly after the alleged flotation, are to
hand. Crotty seems to have stated at that meeting that
there were 1,000,000 tons in sight at the moment.
Writer has seen the alleged deposit which was esti-
mated to show 1,000,000 tons, and could see
—well, let him put it mildly—several million tons
of country. The new And, which gave the stock a tem-
porary buck at a critical moment, was accidentally cut in
making a road, and now the holder of every cat on the
Lyell field is repeating the discovery of roast pork—burn-
ing his hut down and cutting tracks to nowhere in the
hope of striking what the Lyell pup crowd call a lode,
and which, in the majority of cases, is a floater, as broad
as it is long, leached from a big body. Now the N. Lyell
crowd say they kneiv of the existence of this accidentally-
struck deposit, and prove their knowledge by bending a
tunnel many degrees out of its original course to strike the
deposit at something like a depth. The fact that they
haven’t struck that deposit with their spiral tunnel is not
mentioned. Crotty’s real trouble seems to be his wounded
feelings. He wanted to be on the board of the big Lyell
mine, and the lordly Lyell directorate said they would re-
sign in a body if that person took a chair with them.
Meanwhile, Crotty talks of several million tons of North
Lyell ore at .£l5 per ton, and is happy.
• * • *
If the published account of the new Nickum
light isn’t an unusually elaborate Yankee squib, there’s
trouble ahead for those interested in every other illumin- -
ant. A miniature sun (produced by the glowing of mixed
chemicals in a semi-vacuum) that can be carried about in .
the pocket, and can only be extinguished by breaking its
containing glass-globe, would be safe enough to catch on
at almost any price ; but when it is further asserted that
the light can be obtained at a first and only cost of about
lOd. for a 16-candle-power-“ sun ” that will burn for over
40 days and nights—well—um !
* * * » >
A little list of Australian mining co. dividends
prepared by Mr. W. Knox, president of Vic. Chamber of
Mines, and fired off at the Federal delegates at a dinner
at w’hich he entertained them Mt.- Morgan, £4,625,000 ; -
Broken Hill Proprietary, £7,136,000; Madame Berry,
£855,450 ; Garden Gully United, £865,000 ; Mt. Bischoff,
£1,465,000 ; Tasman Gold Mines, £667,000 ; Burra Copper
Mines, £847,000 ; Long Tunnel, £1,197,000 ; Wallaroo and ,
Moonta, £1,702,254; Band and Albion, over * 565,740;
North Cross, Stawell, 1300,000 approximately ; Mt. Lyell,
£144,220; Great Boulder, £288,750 ; Lake View, £156,250.
* * * *
C.M.G. : “When the truth is told about a nest
of wild-cats out back, calling itself a mining district, it is
not the miner on the job who gets up and snorts. He re-
cognises the imperishable fact, and is gratified ; it is the
local storekeeper w’ho runs w'ild with the offending journal,
and howds in the hills. The storekeeper is almost invari-
ably a rabid boomster w’hose one idea is to drag people
out to his God-forsaken district to buy his tinned victuals,
and to keep those already there from slipping off in the
darkness with his unreceipted bills. The storekeeper it is
w’ho inspires the ‘ ow T n correspondent ’of the metropolitan
dailies with frantic enthusiasm about every little local
pot-hole, and his is the moving spirit that causes ‘ 4dwt. a
ton to read ‘ 4oz. a ton,’ and induces many similar
‘printer’s errors.’ Knowing these things, I am never
moved to tears when I find the back track from a tea-«-nd-
sugar ‘ rush ’ littered with Treacle’s unpaid bills.”
* * • *
The most miserable “bike’’dealer of this con-
tinent is a mechanic who once ow’ned a nearly-new bike
and £3O sterling. He had a friend who could talk
any book-canvassser dumb. They entered into partner-
ship—the mechanic finding the bike and the £3O, his
chum putting in as capital his tongue and doing the can-
vassing. The orator persuaded his partner to increase the
stock by another bike costing * 25. The stock w'as sold
out the second day of the partnership, and the man of
tongue w'ent to collect the cash, but never returned, and
his present address may be Klondyke. Sympathy works
a lot, however, and the defrauded mechanic W’as accorded
credit to the extent of tw*o new bikes by a confiding hard-
ware man. He opened his shop next evening, Saturday,
displaying the machines in the shop window. No sale
that night, so he locked up and went to bed, to sleep away
his sorrows—and w’oke next morning to find that his
place had been burgled and his two machines stolen.
* * * *
The latest pious embezzler seems to have got
away with about £3OOO, and the “ explanations ” of the
officials of his society are as lame as usual. Some time
ago the now’-missing local preacher was accidentally
bowled out, but his many pious promises of reform led to
forgiveness, and he then won! on the same game again.
Faked balance-sheets, it is now’discovered, have been pub-
lished for years. A Govt, auditor is certainly required for
all societies, but the society with an aggressive local
preacher as sec. seems to require two cold-blooded atheists
for the job.
* * • »
Worth noting by insurance co.’s is the recent
experience of a Sydney man who happened to be awake
when a rat ignited with its teeth a match which set light
to a coverlet, and might, in other circumstances, have
caused the destruction of the house. People are possibly
too ready to cry “Rats!” to the rat-and-match explana-
tion of mysterious conflagrations—especially considering
the rodent s curious fondness for phosphrous in anv
shape. J
• * * •
Mine-nationalisers, and especially coal-mine
nationalises, had a chance to point a moral with the
almost-violent dissensions which occurred in the Federal
Convention on the question of permitting States to grant
bonuses or other aids to coal-mining. For the most
serious difficulty which the infant industry in Victoria
has to face is the unfairness of the competition which an
old-established firm or company elsewhere with plenty
of accumulated resources can afford to temporarily carry
on in order to knock out the potential rival. What the
nationalises would, of course, argue is that the State
would not be guilty of this unfair competition—this wage-
gnndmg and selling under cost price, &c. But that is not
certain, though ; for, notwithstanding that the railways
are in the hands of the State, cut-throat competition is
not unknown even there. At the same time, reasonable
regulation of trade ought to be and, in fact, is, more feasible
where the competition or possible competition is confined
to two or three States than where half a hundred
private hustlers, amongst whom half-a-dozen are bound
to be cantankerous, are in the race.
* * * rn
More than one big importer of grass-seeds down
South, who, two months ago, looked dolefully upon the
prospect of quitting stocks at a profit, bids fair to make a
pile ; and scores of settlers, who did not know which wav
to turn for money to clear their selections (within the
terms of the Act), are thanking God for the bush-fires.
In fact, the fires in Melbourne and country are bv no
means an unmixed evil “ A godsend for which I have
sat a-praying on my fence for the last four years,” is what
a Cockney selector told the writer last week.
• * * •
“Hotel property,” writes a Maoriland cor-
respondent to The Bulletin, “has gone up in M L 100
per cent. A leading publican states that the rise is’due
to the ex-policemen coming into the market with pensions
and retiring allowances. They offer bigger prices and
higher rent, and the owners prefer them as tenants for
they are never cnwjht selling on Sunday or after-hours—a
valuable quality m a tenant, for when he is caught three
times the hotel is doomed, and loses its license for ever
They say over here that the new process of evolution is’
Policeman, publican, politician 1 ”


r
d
ORIENT
CLOTH INC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
SYDNEY
A
SNAP-
SHOT
The
Vidor
Camera
21/-
The
Duplex
Camera
i
plate,
25/-
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
See our Advertisement on Page 33.
Society
N.S.W. Registrar-General Long states
definitely that all Registrars have specific instruc-
tions not to perform any marriage without signed
declaration under the Act that the parties have con-
scientious objection to the services of a minister of
religion. N.S.W. Registrars’ marriages, according
to Mr. Long, didn’t last year number more than
100 out of a total 8810—“ or, at the outside, 200.”
As who should say, “ 1 in 88 ; or perhaps 1 in 44
or something ! ” A little thing like that doesn’t
matter.
* * * *
The state of things at Norfolk Island, ac-
cording to a letter received in Sydney from a
native, is “simply awful.” A petty ex-official
accuses an important official of attempted rape;
Chief Magistrate has dismissed constable for false
imprisonment; Registrar accuses an ex-official of
forcing a Govt. House servant to commit forgery ;
various libel-actions threatened ; the Registrar at
loggerheads with the Council about payment of
fees; schoolmaster complaining about arrears of
pay ; many persons refusing to do public work ;
contractors appealing to the Executive against
Chief Magistrate’s actions ; whole community is
in a state of confusion worse confounded. The
Eden from which the Drink Fiend is carefully ex-
cluded seems to be able to get up a pretty fair
hell “ on its own.”
• • • *
Dr. Kinmonfc is the latest Adelaide Hos-
pital doctor to resign. His action was extremely
disappointing, as no official had resigned for nearly
a fortnight, and it was confidently anticipated
that a new local record would be put up. This
latest resignation arises, like previous ones, from
petty personal differences.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin.— N.S.W. Judge Rogers,
who seems to be chattering on the Bench a good
deal, the other day made the familiar “ pointed
remarks ” to some women who wanted to stay in
his court during an illegal-operation case. What
could Judge Rogers say if one of his women-audi-
THE REGULAR SEQUENCE .
COMEDIAN: “I say. Moses, this coat you sold me last night as plum-colored,
is really green."
MOSES : “ Vell, vashn’t plums green before they vas ripe?”
tors rose and remarked Your Honor, we women
either have a right to be here, or we haven’t. If
we haven’t, and you are so clear that it is not good
for us to be here, why don’t you order us to be
turned out? If we have the right to be here, and
behave decently, what right have you to address
insulting remarks to us .' Y on ought to be ashamed
of yourself, and the very next time you offend in
the same way, I will summon you for insulting
language. Yours, More Law and Less Jaw.
* * *
A woman was lately charged with bigamy
at a Melb. suburban court, the accuser being her
second husband. It was admitted that there had
been a first husband, and his death wasn’t proved.
But, at the same time, nobody could prove that
he was alive, or had been alive when the second
marriage took place ; no one knew where he was,
or where he had been for a long, long time, and
the case fell to pieces for the sufficient reason
that there was no case at all. Then the small,
dull Solomon on the bench said he would give the
woman the benefit of the doubt, and discharged her.
The benefit of what doubt ?
“ Lunchtime ” to The Bulletin :
The free Federal feeds in connection with the Conven-
tion session at Melb. have at least served one useful ob-
ject, and that is to show the depths of degradation to
which many individuals will descend to escape the pay-
ment of a shilling at a restaurant. By some extraordinary
means, the dinners at Melb. Parliament. House are thrown
open free of charge, not only to Convention delegates ane
pressmen actively engaged, but to the members of thd
ocal Legislatures and their friends. The result is a re
volting spectacle. M’sP. in dozens hang about the build-
ing, each with a group of from five to ten more or less
grimy satellites, the worst offenders of all being a handful of
Labor-members who turn up at every meal with the regu-
larity of the solar system. Each of the people’s tribunes
brings half-a-dozen deadbeats and vagrants with him,
and obviously the object of one or two is to see that the
whole of their constituency swills fizz at Australia’s
expense before the Convention rises. The question that
naturally arises is why such a wide invitation has been
extended, and by whom ; and, secondly, why champagne
and truffles and such delicacies should be provided at all,
even if the crowd that stuffs its victuals down its throat
with its fingers were excluded ? The Convention dinners
at Melbourne cost over £l5O a day, and fully £lOO of that
sum is spent on voters who make strange noises and
make the rest of the co. feel qualmish.
* * * *
Compressed courtship, from Sydney D.T.:
TV/TATRIMONIAL.-—Yg. Gentleman, with £lOOO, de-
-“J- sires ac. res. yg. lady, prepossessing app., bus
qualifications, R.C. Com. str. conf. Genuine. Oswald,
G.P.O.
Imagine the post-matrimonial reflection in that hot
youth one sought his ac. res. yg. ideal per medium
of a romantic bob advt.
Dear Bulletin.
—A very unfair cus-
tom to accused per-
sons is the placing
before the adjudi-
cating magistrate of
the record of any
previous conviction
along with the
charge-sheet of the
case in hand. The
natural result is
that, if a ease is at
all doubtful, the re-
cord will turn the
scale against ac-
cused. This hap-
pens on every police-
court day in this
little N.S.W. town.
—Up North.
* * *
Strange things
happen in Australia
to gentlemen from
’Ome. On a recent
Saturday night a
crowd stood round
a big, strapping
fellow in Swanston-
strect, Melb. He
was making vain at-
tempts to stand on
his head against the
pub. wall for a pro-
mised pint of beer.
He failed to get
upright. Then he
proudly told the
laughing crowd that
he was an Hinglish-
man, sirs, thank the
Lord, not a dam Colonial, and that if he was
poor he was proud,
* » * *
In Adelaide not long ago a riotous swell
embezzler shook society off its moral base by sub-
poenaing one of his employers to prove that they
| laf } visited bagnios together, and helped each
other to pursue the giddy Tottie round the house
with wine and wassail, and that he had shouted for
one of thebossesoutofthestolenloot, with the boss’s
full knowledge and hiccup. Also, he summoned
some eminent and respectable citizens with a view
to proving that they had pursued the lady of easy
virtue together, and that they and he and the
boss and the girl with her hair down her back had
habitually blown the froth off the flowing bowl in
company. He didn't manage to prove nearly
all that lie wanted to, yet be bad shaken things
up rather considerably before the law led him
away to do 18 months.
* * * *
The temperance party carries things with
a high hand in Adelaide. A publican in that
sanctimonious city was recently fined for merely
having his side-door open on a Sunday. This,
according to the Act of ’96, is prima facie evidence
of Sunday trading. The back-door must also be
kept shut. Hotelkeepers who have families or
lodgers must be placed in a fix. The only legal
way for the latter to obtain entrance to the build-
ing in which they live seems to be either by scaling
the backyard-fence, or by getting through one of
the windows. Why not simply insist that the bar
shall have only one door, and let the police lock
the place up on Saturday night, and deposit the
key with the Archbishop (who should be above
suspicion) to be kept in holy water till Monday
morning 1
« * » *
Paris Nesbit’s eccentricities keep S.A.
papers going. His latest playful idea was to walk
out of Parkside asylum (wherein he had been
lodged for the third time) and make a bee-
line across country. The tall and athletic
Q.C., an accomplished runner in his day, made the
pace hot from the start and jumped all opposing
fences; three perspiring warders vainly tried to
keep him in sight. Nesbit finally lodged in a
wood-shed and was immediately surrounded by
the whole available detective and police force (the
militia and fire-brigade were summoned but
arrived too late). When a torpedo and three
Maxims had arrived the force plucked up courage
and, in a loud, aggregate voice, demanded Nesbit’s
immediate surrender. The Q.C. then explained
that he was only out for exercise, and drove back
to the asylum again and the force breathed freely
once more. Nesbit’s escapades have come as a
relief to Adelaide journalists after the weary
hospital rows.
• • * *
In a recent Melbourne bigamy-case the
principal witness stated that she was now earning
her livelihood as “a boarding-house-keeper and
an artists’ model.” From stew to studios.
* * r • •
The dawning of a kindlier age. The
old George-street offices of the Sydney Govt,
medical officer were labelled with a notice in
which the word “paupers” was painfully frequent.
The notice at the new Board of Health offices
states that “ the sick poor who are entitled to
medical treatment at the public expense are to
apply here,” etc. And yet S.M. Herald fatly
gasps that the hold of Socialism on the minds of
men lessens as the century wanes.
Sydney Mayor Harris promises a strong
illumination of municipal hole-and-cornerisw, and
a consequent liberal pruning of expenses. Some
of the names upon the “ widows’ cart ” list, he
instanced, had been there for 40 years ! It is the
old story of the p 'rasitic growth of vested interests
upon unwholesome corporation carcases. The
“widows’ cart” fixture is an arrangement by
which the horse and vehicle of a defunct corpora-
tion carter are continued in municipal employ-
ment —on behalf of the widow, though as .she has
in turn to employ a cheap driver, the case is often
simply one of sweating the latter.
* • * *
Writes “ Justice ” re the Suffield case :
I am a stranger living near the scene of Somebody’s
(not Suffield’s) offence and find all around me firmly con-
vinced of the prisoner’s innocence. What beats me is
that the people in the district do not make a big effort
for Suffield’s release. It seems that wayes-men have no
courage to speak up—are afraid of losing even their naif-
loaf. Yet, though I’m only a woman, if I had a brother
or a friend in prison rotting away for another s offence
* * * *
Q. convict Archer, charged with killing
prison-warder Dodd, pertinently asked for some
legal defence at the police-court trial, whereupon
the P.M. smugly said that it was then only a pre-
liminary investigation, and no doubt, later on, he
would be suitably provided with a legal
Had there been a Public Defender a lot of alleged
evidence now on record against the man would
have been effectually objected to. Archer is so
far gone in consumption that, if lie does not die
previously, he will probably be carried into court
in May.
RONDEL OF SMALL VERMIN.
[FOR TUB BULLETIN.]
How ’scape the bugs that creep and sting,
Or tiny flies that prick and go ?
While I’m asleep some skipping thing
Draws blood, and I may never know.
The village babblers catch and fling
My name in secret to and fro ;
How ’scape the bugs that creep and sting,
Or tiny flies that prick and go ?
Credulity has tales to bring ;
Low malice deals a coward blow :
“ They say ” —“ I’ve heard’’— the chorus sing;
“He says she says they told her so! ”
How ’scape the bugs that creep and sting,
Or tiny flies that prick and go ?
N.S.W.
J. LB GAY BRERERTON.
A HAPPY
FOR THE BULLETIN
THOUGHT.
Maud Mashford needed brains and sense,
I’d always understood ;
You could not call her smile “intense,”
Although her teeth were good,
“ A dolly thing !” her cousins said ;
When I remarked her pretty head,
They answered, “ Made of wood.”
No bumps upon her placid brow,
No strength of jaw, or chin,
No outward signs I must allow —
Of character within,
Had little Maud ; her hazel eyes
Proclaimed a spinster most unwise
In Latin, Greek, or sin.
Brown tresses, such as poets laud,
In sweet disorder twined
About the neck of dolly Maud,
Or flirted with the wind.
Methought, although the girl’s a dunce,
’Twere rather nice to spoon her once,
To prove her lack of mind.
A picnic gives an easy chance
To one who fain would learn
The meaning of a hasty glance,
Sigh, blush, or eyelid-turn.
So feeling, oh, an awful fraud,
I wandered off alone with Maud
To gather coral fern.
I quoted lines from famous books,
And talked my level best;
She gave me only artless looks,
Scarce feigning interest,
Whilst deftly mingling spray with sprit}
To build a coral-fern bouquet,
Its centre like a nest.
Yet, stealthily the foolish charm
Of Maud’s uncultured smile,
The dimples on her muslined arm,
And want oi picnic guile
Were prompting me, the more and more,
To e’en excuse her lack of lore
And academic style.
Could she but raise some bright remark
To witch the perfumed air,
The language of the morning lark
With Maud’s would not compare !
Ah ! then, metliought, upon the spot
I’d ask the lady, wise or not,
To be my future care.
A streamlet, ’neath the frondage green,
Ran gaily down the glade,
Quoth I, “ We have no earthly scene,
But Heaven here displayed.”
She gazed awhile on Nature’s grace,
And whispered, “This, then is the place
Where marriages are made.”
They call my love “ a dolly thing,”
Those cousins tough and tart,
Who’ll never win a golden ring
By saying something smart.
I’ll not attempt to cram her head,
Enough tor me, now we are wed,
To fill her tender heart.
Melb.
EDMUND FISHER.


R
''TIAVE You
1 ForgoJTEN
&
1
s«
Caledonian Liqueur Whisky
CELEBRATED
TS3YEJ LOTIOSi
STANDS ALONE
for ALL AFF ECTIONS of the EYES; contagion from
Flies, Sun Glare, Dust, or other causes.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers—per
post, 2s. and 3s. Sole Manufacturer, H. A. ROSE,
Chemist, 531 George-st., Sydney. ]£ir Open all Night
—also Sunday and Holidays. Beware of imitations.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A Hstvalia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
Tartaric, Acetic Acids, Cream Tartar, Carb
Ammonia, Almonds, Sorrento Walnuts, Sdeds
(Canary, Hepip and. Millett),
CA TA ;tiZARO LIQVOMCE.
HY. MARKWALD,
Wholesale Only
from
11 Pi tUt ,
SYDNEY.
178 William-st..,
MELBOURNE.
14 Ctirrie-st.,
ADELAIDE.
Also at Wellington (N.Z.), and Queen at., Brisbane.
Ecclesiastical snuffle-grovel in Holy Ade-
laide. At a big public Anglican mission howl:
At the conclusion the National Anthem will be sung,
and the audience are requested to remain standing in
their places till His Excellency has withdrawn.
And they did!
* * * •
Melb. letter-carriers have naturally taken
up their abode in the suburbs which it is their
business to serve.' Under the new regulations,
the postman has to sign on and off duty at the
head-office. Therefore, a man delivering at, say,
Brighton, has to train it to town —three-quarters
of an hour’s journey—to let the department know
that it is lunch-time. If he desires to dine in the
bosom of his family, he has to do another three-
quarters of train-travelling, and return to town
again after his meal to sign on and get his bag.
This performance has to be repeated in the even-
ing. Another fantastic movement of the depart-
ment of high-kickers !
* • • •
The kanaka is by no means the unassimi-
lative barbarian some folks fancy. The “boys”
on the Johnstone recently formed a Field La-
borers’ Trades Union, and fixed a minimum wage
for members (also non-members) of ,£36 per
annum. Kanaka unions are not bothered by
blacklegs. A good club or a broad cane-knife in
a brawny black arm makes short work of a ‘ scab ’
Polynesian if he wanders out late in the cane-
brake.
Apropos the effect of discontinuing the
use of opium. A Chinaman arrested last week in
Brisbane for selling a lottery ticket begged the
arresting constable, to whom in disguise John hai
WILSON BARRETT, as Pete, in “ The
Manxman. ”
Photo., Talma, Melbourne.
° d .,ticket, to prefer the charge against
another Chinaman (who was apparently willing
to be sacrificed), inasmuch as (the former deposed),
and g ° *° one weel< ’ no K et opium,
* • * *
Real humor. Australian Star, 12/3/98 :
SPORTS EDITION.
ROOKWOOD tragedy.
A Wildly Wanton Crime.
Latest Particulars.
* * * *
, . “ Melb’s ” local discovery of a Chinese
working shoemaker. Haw Hop, or Lee Woo, or
( a Bulletin correspondent says) has
had his sign up for a good while—in a democratic
suburb, of course. Also, on the same window, are
nmnded bv at ß 10 ? I dd,tlo l 1 .Ito 1 to havin g your boots
mended by Haw Hop while you “waite,” Fing
fn f i ° r ® olne thing) will do your laundry-work ;
sell : ..v hat ‘“thing of a Chinese doctor, who
within p may be consulted
on >h«’in ir? a k y ’. a s0 > there’s a cabinet-maker
on the 10 xlO premises—l didn’t wait to see.
DRIVING MONEY OUT OF THE
COUNTRY.
(Interest on Australasian loans, £ 8,600,000 per
annum.)
Strange that the fat and respectable citizen who is
so anxious for further loans to increase our great
annual output of interest, is the man who is most
disgusted with any measure “ ca'culated to drive
money out of the country."
“The statistics of charitable institutions
are always misleading,” writes an embittered Bul-
letin correspondent. “ Thus so many meals are
given at Sydney soup-kitchen—but are they meals?
Sunday breakfast, basin of gruel; ditto, tea, no
bread ; dinner, basin of nondescript liquid more
like skilly than soup, and a junk of bread. Some
of the wealthiest men in Sydney restrict their
charity to soup-kitchen tickets. Verily they shall
have their reward.”
* * * »
When the Hobart steamer was leaving
Strahan (Tas. W\ Coast) wharf, the other morn-
ing, the passengers on deck were treated to a
unique undress rehearsal. The ship had got a
few yards from shore when a pyjama-clad figure,
waving its trousers in one hand and a portmanteau
in the other, was seen heading full-speed for the
wharf. It was a well-known interprovincial bag-
man who had been taking a farewell “bogey” in
the local creek when the final bell rang. He ran a
great race. Still waving his goods and trousers
he clambered helter-skelter across several barges
and over two or three boats and on to a steam-
launch, finally grabbing his passage as it went
floating by to sea. The congratulatory hand-
clapping which greeted him as he handed his
trousers over the ship's side would have appalled
and embarrassed anybody less modest than a drum-
mer ; he only passed a few forcible short-winded
remarks in a foreign tongue and went below.
* * * *
The grass-grown grounds of a certain
Adelaide college were so haunted by wandering
cows that the astigmatic principal ukased
pound for next intruding bovine; whereupon
some of the pupils disguised the college “milker”
with a coat of paint and turned her loose. She
was duly impounded, and when she was identified
the principal had to stump up the fees. At latest
he was thirsting for revenge.
At the race-club’s
banquet at a little town
on the Lachlan two per-
sons (a diminutive indi-
vidual whose head just
showed above the edge of
the table, and old M‘-
Gregor, a down - the -
river squatter) jumped
up to propose the same
toast, and as neither
would give way, they
both went right ahead
together, the little chap,
who had a big voice, get-
ting the better of it.
Old Mac., however, was
not to be beaten. Reach-
ing across the table he
picked up a four-pound
pineapple and, shouting
“ Sit doon, you dommed
little wur-rm ! ’’let drive,
hitting his antagonist
fair between the eyes
and knocking him under
the table, where he very
wisely stopped while
Mac. proceeded with his
speech amidst a deathly
silence.
* * «
T.D. : “In a Chow
mission - hall to - night
I noticed a nice-looking
half-caste Chinese girl
among the prayerful yellow brethren and their
plump Caucasian sisters. Wonder whether she is
the outcome of bygone zeal in the mission-field ! ”
* • * *
The engineer-in-chief to Melb. Met. Board
of Works states that the sewering of the smellful
city is being delayed by a dearth of plumbers.
Which sounds rather absurd. Why have a dearth
of plumbers, when all that the average licensed
fraud knows about plumbing could be learned in
six weeks by any intelligent mechanic outside of
the lunatic asylums ? Create plumbers if required,
and get some fresh young ideas into the industry
“But I thought that wild ducks had
feet like tame ducks,” said a young woman
recently promoted from a sewing-machine
to the control of a husband and house-
hold. “ Well, marm,” answered the
dealer (Melbourne), “ it’s this
way. As a general thing,
wild ducks has feet like
tame ducks. But
these here bloom-
in’ ducks has
been in the
bush fires,
ye see,
which accounts for it.
do assure you, maim, that
market, this mornin’, they
Why, I
down at the
.was sellin’ of
’em ready roasted.” So she bought them, and
that loving couple had their first quarrel that
evening : he wanted to know what she meant by
trying to palm off water-hen on him as wild duck.
• • » *
Chronicling a fire, thus a M.L. country
paper:—
Mr. Hight and his family had barely time to escape
with their lives—consequently nothing of any value was
saved.
Sand-paperish.
* * * •*
A Semaphore (S.A.) postman recently
applied to the corporation for suspension of bylaw
against riding bikes on footpaths—in bis case only.
Said he could lighten his work greatly, and would
take care not to bark the shins of the lieges.
Refused.
* * * *
Melb. : “J2e mixed marriages, I do re-
member the white woman said to be the first who
married a Chinese. They were familiar in Haw-
thorn. He had a nice buggy, and drove her about
amid universal gapes. The women used almost
to faint, or pretend to, at the sight, exclaiming
‘ Good God ! ’ The saying long was that only
Irishwomen would marry Chinamen, but this is
a mistake, as things go. Possibly they were all
ignorant Irish immigrants at first. The Church
has naturally a great dislike to these marriages,
for there seem to be no Catholic Chinese in Aus-
tralia, although in China the native Catholics
number vastly more than all the Protestants put
together. Our immigration is from a very limited
part of China.”
» * • *
Society item. Constable Shabler, of Bir-
chip (Vic.), prior to being transferred to Black-
wood, was presented with a liquor-stand. Why
couldn’t they have given the man something to
drink instead of something to merely hold drink?
Any average policeman can hold drink comfort-
ably enough without wanting an artificial liquor-
stand.
* * • •
“ Taraxacum,” to The Bulletin :—
Q. Missionary-parson Macpherson, a well-meaning re-
former, has been begging at Gladstone and Rockhampton
for Dnnwioh (benevolent asylum) and St. Helena (prison)
mission. St. Helena may be all right, but Dunvvich—oh !
There are usually over a thousand men there— -many in
hopeless health and dead-beat. But not a few are able-
bodied, and quite capable of doing a hard day’s work.
TAKE THAT. NOW!
MR. BOOKSIR: “My dear mother's coming and she will give you a few
lessons in cooking. Thousands die every year from indigestion .”
MRS. B.: “I shall only he too happy to take the lessons from your dear
maw. I’ve heard you say your paw died young."
Yet all are supposed to be “ past work.” Many have
well-to-do relations. Others are ex-civil servants, who
have received high salaries. When retrenched, thev
simply refused to work, used their influence to get to
Dunwich, and enjoy themselves royally. Loafers, who
ought to be at work outside, frequently run up to town
have a spree, and return to their dolce far niente. Dun-
wich is a great place.
Familiarity and contempt. At a presenta-
tion to coroners Candler and Morrison, Melbourne
morgue inquest-room was, the other day, trans-
formed into a banquet-room. The veteran
autopsian, Dr. Neild, presided with his endless
flow of anecdote, second only to that of the
deceased Dr. Youl himself. Unlimited fizz
graced the corpse-tables, and at the ends were
huge bowls of ice, about the history of which it
was not considered wise to speculate over-curiously.
Surely a veritable feast of ghouls !
* * * •
In recent Argus leader :
Leaving Great Britain in the competent hands of it*
own leaders, it is for We who are Australians.
Recently, also, another Melb. journal, which in
very same issue was loftily scornful of the errors
of the ordinary press-letter, wrote :
Between she and him there is not much difference.
* • • •
Bendigo Advertiser in memoriam advt.
with reference to the victim of the Hall murder,
of Eaglehawk (Vic.): —
Tritesdell.— ln sad but loving memory of our dear
Minnie, who was murdered and put in a tub by the
one that should have loved and cherished her, at the
early age of 21 years and 3 months.
Twelve months it is—this date we shall never forget,
How little then we thought the time
So near the sad, great blow would come.
Love after loneliness, life after tomb ;
After long agony rapture of bliss.
—lnserted by her mother and sisters.
The “ memory-dear ” business is getting from slim
sentimentalism to howling farce.
• • • •
Melbourne newspaper-readers have been
much confused of late to find accounts of a doctors’
strike side by side with announcements of a large
decrease of local mortality.
DIVORCE.
“Marriages are made in Heaven,”
Divorces, then, in Hell:
Which blest boon to mankind given
Is surely ordered well;
For since it is decreed that fools,
God-joined in nuptial revel,
Shall not by man be freed, ’tis wise
To fall back on the Devil.
P.M.
BOOM—WRECK.
The fate of fools who overmuch aspire
To gorge themselves with foul excess !
’Tis thwarted greediness with punctured tire
Stuck in a sandy wilderness!
P.M.
Wilson Barrett.
Wilson Barkett, actor, author, dramatist,
strikes an interviewer as a charming man of busi-
ness. Given the cue, he will talk on any subject,
in any mood. “ What do you mean?” he asked
at the outset—“art or cliatf? sensuousness or
funny stories ? ” His physical attractions are his
big, brainy-looking head, his strong body and legs,
his mastiff neck, his long, waving hair a la Mark
Twain. Speaking, he has the air of a man who,
having strong convictions and strong methods,
has won a following which yields a most satisfac-
tory income. Everyone knows that his success is
due at least quite as much to constitutional
strength and hard work as to talent. And,
to crown all, he possesses the happy endowment
of optimism and good nature to such a degree that
you reason he has the digestion of an alligator.
“ My father was a speculator, and as speculators
go nine times out of ten—he failed. I was stage-
struck as a child; knew the part of Hamlet at 12 ;
played first as a 14-year-old amateur in a barn ;
started work in a bank ; at 16 yielded to stage
fascination ; starteckon the boards at a guinea a
week ; have loved the boards ever since. My
enthusiasm and strength enabled me to do the
severest work—I broke down, however, in the
twenties ; but soon recovered. At 12, I vowed to
play Hamlet in a theatre controlled by myself ;
realized this ambition nearly 30 years after. Have
made two fortunes ; lost the first speculating: was
.£40,000 in debt, and sinking under the weight of
the interest calls when I wrote ‘The Sign of the
Cross.’ This lifted me out of the sea of trouble
and set me on the fair way of fortune again.” As
this religious play was so money-yielding, was it
God or the Devil that inspired the masterful Bar-
rett to write it ?
“ Hall Caine living and moving in London
could not write. I said to him ‘ lion’t move in
this London Society ; it only wants you as the
last curious sort of person to play with ; fail in
vmir next book and it kicks you out. Go back to
your Isle of Man and work.’ He went. I said
that London Society, higgling, haggling and
pecking at the man about his books would affect
his clearness of intellect. A man must be free from
vexatious influences to do his best. A newspaper-
editor who tried to be a society god would be
harassed into idiocy. Pinero, the best of our
dramatists, is destroying himself by listening to
people. He tries to write so as to catch both
Archer and Clement Scott — a great handicap,
when you remember that A.rcher receives 10 per
cent, on every Ibsen play that can be floated upon
the London market!
I dramatised Caine’s ‘ Mamxman * according
to my lights. I make Philip seduce Kate; not
Kate seduce Phillip, as is the case in the novel.
From my dramatic standpoint, it would never do
for the woman to seduce a man. I was introduced
by Hall Caine to Pete’s original—the ‘ Diamond
King ’ he is called on the island. The original of
Kate Cregeen? I am not at liberty to say. Much
of Pete’s baby was written from Caine’s own baby.
Gloria, in ‘ The Christian,’ was modelled on
Caine’s sister, who is on the stage. One very
successful Mercia is a niece of mine, who was
taken straight from a convent to play the part.
“Caine in ‘The Christian’ is hostile to the
stage ! Before he wrote the book I told him of a
manager trying to seduce a stage-struck girl ; and
of a man taking over a theatre in order to exploit
an actress. He uses these facts in ‘The Christian ’
‘Concerning Clement Scott and stage im-
morality I say that the surroundings of the stage
are more likely to conduce to morality. If an
actress is more inclined to immorality because she,
earning her own living, is independent of men
then women-doctors, artists, authors, painters’
&c., who make enough to live upon are just as
liable. The woman who is dependant upon man
is ,more liable. than the one that is independent.
It’s the mere spiteful scandal of inferiority that
says that the manager's mistress gets preference.
A manager is a business man, and has to secure the
talent which will draw houses and pay his bills.
“ Concerning the statement that an actress has
no social obligations, I would like to say that
so far as my own daughter is concerned I’d
rather see her going through a love-scene on the
stage than being hugged round a room in a volup-
tuous waltz by some society god who is the worse
for champagne. Social obligations ! Caulfield
race-course, for instance drinking whisky and
stealing liair-pins and soap ! Society must not
say anything against the stage, if only for the
reason that an actress has not to submit to all
the miserable shifts and orthodox artifice-, of
husband-hunting. To the prurient I would say
that we mummers are perhaps not better than
the best, but we are generally better than our
critics.”-
S. A. MILLS.


MELBOURNE: 269 COUINS ST.
SYDNEY : 4 HUNTER ST.
ADEUIDE, AUCKLAND, 40.
Before taking 1 your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers*
jazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
All Drapers Everywhere.
Home, Sweet Home.’
What a beautiful place home is when the father
is bilious, the mother is suffering from female
weakness, and the baby has the croup ; father
frowns and swears mother scolds and grumbles,
and baby yells ! And yet this husband and wife
may be two of the best-natured and reasonable
people on the globe when they are in good health.
It may seem ridiculous to say that nearly all
domestic disagreements are caused by the liver,
but a careful study of the problem reveals the fact
that such an assertion is quite within the bounds
of reason. When a person is in ill-health they
are impatient, unreasonable, and quarrelsome ;
what more natural then than a family “ tiff.”
Few people are cynical enough to believe that
married couples don’t wish for peaco and har-
mony, and some reason must, therefore, be
found for their all too-common differences.
Bile Beans come, therefore, in the guise of a
peacemaker: they put the liver in good order, and
invigorate the whole system, giving new life, as it
were; then everything goes as smoothly as a
freshly-risen honeymoon. A word to the wise :
Marriage need not be a failure while Bile Beans
cure indigestion, liver troubles, and various other
ailments, thereby making husbands and wives
happy companions. Bile Beans are made in one
of the largest and best laboratories in the world at
Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A. They are an un-
doubted specific for constipation, biliousness,
headache, indigestion, debility, female weakness,
and all liver troubles. For sale at all chemists;
S>rice 9|d. per small box, large box Is. lid., or six
or 6s. Get the genuine; take no worthless sub-
stitutes.*
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 15, 1898.
My Dear Myee—
The choir-boys’ mothers and sisters gathered
round the christening-urn at St. Andrew’s Cathe-
dral last week, and strained maternal eyes at
Victor John, the Governor’s first-born grandson,
among the Bishop’s toby frills. No one else knew
when the event was to come off, so the choir-boys
and their relatives had it all to themselves. The
invited guests couldn’t get near the ceremony, and
sat thankfully in a back seat, the Admiral and
Miss Pearson among them. Mrs. Ferguson
smiled nervously whenever the baby cried, and
Miss Alice Brand, who is said to have the weird
record of never haying held a baby in her
arms before, looked piteously afraid of dropping it.
On the whole, the ceremony wasn’t nearly as ex-
citing as a christening in a Primitive Methodist
chapel'. There the babies go up to the font in
batches, and a dozen nervous parents stand round
the rail with bundles of pelissed infant, and the
parson mixes up the names, and the fathers whisper
inaudibly in his ear, and the miserable mothers
pull the fathers’coat-tails all in vain, and Mary
Ann is fatally mixed with Mary Jane, and Rose
Violet is condemned to the awful impossibility of
smelling as sweet as Ivy Daphne.
The first reception by the new Mayoress at the
Town Hal], last Thursday, was a brilliantly-
decorated affair of palms, and roses, and a lot of
smart dressing, with a suggestion of autumnal
decay in the gowning of the outer crowd. Mrs.
Harris received in a gown with Paris stamped in
sable on its white brocade, and bowed graciously
to several startled-looking sailor hats and morning
overalls that hadn’t expected to find themselves so
conspicuous, and didn’t seem to like it. An air
of lavishness spread itself over the official doings,
and the mayoral coffers are evidently going to be
freely unlocked in the determination to paint the
lily of the. field a brighter pink than other alder-
manic artists. The lady who couldn’t get anything
fit to wear in the London shops appeared to have
satisfied herself in Sydney or the suburbs with a
silk of a pinkish mauve, and a black bonnet with
a blue bow. The newest thing in brides looked
like a nice lolly-stick in striped grass-lawn. Mrs.
Burdekin wore the pink of the Albani reception,
and was evidently uncrushed by the verdict passed
on her by Frederick Dolman that her day of great
things is over.
Everyone is asking who Frederick Dolman is.
Last winter a mild young drummer connected
with Cassell’s publishing firm arrived in Sydney
with a big head, and an underbite, and let the re-
port be gently wafted round that he was working
up an exhaustive series of articles on Australian
art and literature for a tip-top English magazine.
For many months the Nineteenth Century and
other intellectual monthlies have been eagerly
searched by various feminine eyes, and it has been
a bit of a cropper to the interviewed ones to find
the whole exhaustion resolve itself into a meek
article in the good little Woman at Home, a ladies’
magazine edited by Annie Swan. The photograph
which purports to show our Victoria Salon is in-
deed a revelation. Frederick must have mixed
his photographs after he watered his lemonade,
and a vast continental hall lighted with innumer-
able candled chandeliers, tesselated floors, statues,
mirrors, and furniture of the first, second, or third
empire, have swallowed up at one bite the quiet
little rooms of the Salon we know.
Side by side with this picture of pcrmp and
dollars is the statement that the club has seventy
members paying an annual subscription of £3 35.,
which brings the income up to ,£220 a year !
Casting round for a reflection on Sydney ladies,
Mr. Dolman fishes up the marrowy one that for
some time past there has been a sort of feud
between the women whose power was essentially
the power of the purse, and those whose, newer
influence arose from—eye, hand and mind. I
don’t know much about the influences that rule
the ends of women’s feuding, but always thought
the hand was a primeval one. It is old enough,
anyway, to punish little Frederick for his malice
in raking up an old story gone to sleep some time
now, but which burnt both sides of the conflict
sorely while it: was awake. There are several
women scribblers in Sydney who were approached
by him last winter with a facetious smile, and
asked inquisitively, “ Now, wasn’t it you who
wrote the ‘Sin of the Angels?’ Be so much
obliged if you’d give me the details of the fun ! ”
The theatrical amateur has already awakened
from its summer sleep, and last Thursday evening
turned up in force to shed a dingy light on Tom
Taylor’s “Fouehe.” Ivy Gorrick played leading
lady, and made her debut before a Sydney public,
with a view to further appearances. The theatre -
was crammed to the top windows, but only the
three front rows and the boxes heard anything.
The men whispered through their parts in the
shiny dancing pumps of 1898, and the
plash and breeches of a century ago, and Ivy
Gorrick herself was too heavily weighted by
her company to do much starring, A
pretty brunette, with a pouting mouth and
flashing eyes, she showed a capacity for throwing
herself about naturally quite remarkable in an
amateur.
Another Sydney lady, Miss Inez Bensusan, who
has only been seen out here on the amateur stage,
will shortly appear at the Lyceum, where she
takes Lilian Wheeler’s place as juvenile lead.
Miss Bensusan has a record of hard work and suc-
cess in South Africa with Herbert Flemming’s co.
where she played second lead to Hope Dudley!
She also went on tour with Mrs. Kendall through
Scotland.
The “ Terror of Paris ” has scared the Parisian
element right out of the dressing of the latest
Lyceum shocker, and a dust-cloak, a velveteen
wrapper, and a macintosh wander about between
Maud Williamson, her maid, and her plump pale
artist who stands out with an amount of adipose
tissue Sydney artists can’t emulate. By the way,
the story our longest-haired artist has been telling
about one of his brethren has ended in smoke.
The longest-haired one had an auction sale of his
pictures, and declared that a short-haired artist
wept to the auction rooms when nobody was look-
ing, and slipped two of his own pictures in among
the lot that Artist No. 1 had canvassed for so
energetically. The two stray ducklings went off
at fancy prices, and a bountiful hair-shedding
threatened, until the auctioneer stepped in and
explained that it was his hair that ought to be
shed. He bought the pictures from an outsider,
and put them into the sale in the primitive belief
that all Sydney artists were alike to the general
public.
The ambition of the average youthful male to
be a tram-guard when the days of sailor-suits are
over, will die a natural death this century. When
young men are temporarily taken on by the
N.S.W. tramway department, and have a
suburban tram given into their care, the artful
department turns the wiles of still more artful
women on them, first day of their charge. Two
nice-looking women enter, and when the guard,
in the bravery of his new regimentals, conies
round for tickets, they look into his eyes
and smile bewitchingly. If the smile doesn’t
smite him, and he still demands their
fares, they begin to wheedle him. In a weak
moment, he succumbs, gives back smile for
smile, and doesn't take their tickets. That after-
noon he is reported, next day suspended, and
sacked the day after.
A lady lecturer from Sydney discoursed in a
country town, a Sunday or two back, on “ The
Dark Side of Sydney Life.” As one of the Sydney
rescue workers, the lecturess had her subject at
her finger-tips, and the bucolic audience of Sleepy
Hollow were thrilled in their seats as she fright-
ened them with all the old familiar bogies, the
pushes, the opium-dens, Wexford-street, and all
the horrors which Chief Justice Darley described
at the Foreign Missionary meeting, when he was
lukewarm on the subject of Christians travelling
Cathaywards in order to upset the Confueian
apple-cart and place a copy of “Sacred Songs and
Solos” by Ira D. Sankey within the reach of
every Chow, however cashless. But these old,
familiar rocks have been thrown so often that the
public has grown accustomed to the shock, and
doesn’t feel the bump when they are hurled for
the hundredth time. Why doesn’t an orator who
wants to be sensationally original select another
set of shocking examples—all out of the same old,
sinful Sydney—lecture with lime-light views, say,
on the Gentle Art of Spitting as practised by the
Sydney loafer, who is an abomination at
every street corner, and makes a ’bus-ride such a
joy to the martyred inside-fare on a holiday, when
all the windows.are open and the cascades fall all
around from the spitters on the roof. And yet
some folk can’t understand why women want to
ride on top of the ’buses.
The long-looked-for remittance had arrived, and
the lady decided a visit to Sydney for a fit-out,
and, to keep well within her resources, she stayed
with a friend. After being some time in the city,
and buying no end of furniture and fixings, the
friend suggested making a call on some acquaint-
ances, but, when the time arrived, the guest was
discovered in bed. “I had to wash my stockings,”
she explained, “ and, as I only have the one pair,
I was waiting till they dried.” She had spent
<£lso in the city—but not on stockings !
Bananas and buns, which are cheap and filling
at the price, are said to form the staple of Wes-
tralian vice-regal ball-suppers. Imagine the in-
ternal tortures of an intrepid waltzer who should
essay to whirl ecstatically after putting himself
outside such provender. Also the latest official
entertainment list contained about 2000 names
scraped from all sections of the naicest and others.
The six families haven’t increased to that number,
or anything like it, and the invitees included a
legion that never should have been listed of absen-
tees, deaders, and other ineligibles taken at ran-
dom from the directory.
Fiction is sometimes stranger than truth. In a
tale by a leading author in a leading Sydney
morning paper, “ She had stepped out and had
taken one strapping warrior by the arm, studying
with concerned face a long, ugly gash. Tearing a
strip from her handkerchief she bound it round.”
A handkerchief as marvellous as Treasurer Reid’s
surplus.
It was rather rough on man when a woman’s-
rights lecturer lately proposed, as a way out of
the difficulty of women usurping men’s billets,
that each young man pressed too hard by the com-
petition should marry the girl. Like the usual
out-and-out women’s-righter’s demand, this claim
insists upon woman eating her cake and having it,
while meek, down-trodden man foots the baker’s
bill and is alwavs on hand to provide fresh duff.
It gives a girl a choice of two careers—for matri-
mony is, after all, a very old-established and re-
spectable female occupation ; while the only alter-
native to being ousted it offers the young man is
to have to support a probable business rival till
death or the divorce-court do them part. But,
taking them all round, there are so few satisfac-
tory jobs which the average woman can take on
that I think about the best billet now going is to
be a School of Industry orphan kept by the State
and turned out at 18 with a neat £3O Govt, cheque
’•—only each heiress generally marries, whereupon
the husband blews the dowry in a month.
Sydney Unitarian Church is presided over by
an up-to-date pastor who likes to move with the
times. Hence black-lettered calico-signs on a
board facing Liverpool-st. announce, during the
week, the topics to be wrestled with on the coming
Sawbath. Rev. “ Joseph-in-Canaan ” Walters
chooses subjects that will draw, such as “ The
Modern Marriage Market,” and other topics
bruited by the “ New” scare-women. It wouldn’t
be surprising to see the board loudly querying the
passing tram and ’bus traffic “Does Jones Throw?”
or “ That Fly.” The consequence of this parsoni-
cal enterprise is full houses and much clinking of
collection coin. Rev. Walters had a career in
Melbourne —he virtually built up the present
tabernacle, a cheerful and handsome brick struc-
ture vice a dirty little square hall now pulled down
—and vvas the most successful pastor the sect had,
the next being Miss Martha Turner, afterwards
Mrs. Webster/sister of H. Gyles Turner. But the
pillars of the church quarrelled with their shepherd
over that negligeable quantity, Unitarian theology.
During the illness in Queensland of one of Aus-
tralia’s wealthiest women, her son by a previous
marriage invited her to his country mansion, and,
while there, persuaded her to alter her will, leaving
him everything, and cutting off the second family
without the proverbial, red cent. Unfortunately
for this little scheme, news of it reached theseeond
husband’s ears, and the result was that the pliable
invalid altered her alteration, this time leaving
out the already well-gilt firstborn. Some weeks
later the end came, and the obsequies were no
sooner over than the latter magnificent person de-
manded that the- will- should- be- road. —lt wae
read, and a few minutes later a particularly
swaggah funeral-party was shocked by the eldest
son dashing out of the house, slamming the door,
and remarking that the whole thing was a rascally
swindle, and he had a good mind to call the
police in.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“ Toorak has been whispering and hinting for
the last week or two about the doings of a willowy
young wife, whose languishing eyes were supposed
to have worked havoc in the wrong male bosom.
At afternoon-teas one heard that the lady had
actually eloped, and that hubby was in hot pur-
suit. Mrs. Grundy couldn’t believe her eyes
when the alleged fugitive turned up at the Go-
vernment House hop t’other week resplendent in
a new frock, and attended by her spouse appar-
ently as devoted as ever. The first shock of
astonishment was succeeded by a feeling of intense
annoyance on Mrs. Grundy's part.
“ Poor Gov. Brassey, unless his looks belied
him, loathed and hated that Thursday concert.
No old curmudgeon ever seemed more bored, cross
and sleepy than did the Ancient Mariner after his
third Albani pill. As the night waxed old, and
people persisted in encoring everything, the vice-
regal martyr crossed his arms on his heaving
breast and literally hugged his misery, while his
legs jiggered irritably. Men always show temper
in their legs. Go up to the Presbyterian Assembly
when there’s a row on, and see if I’m not right.
Prof. Rentoul bounds from one foot to the other
like a jumping-jack, and shakes his fist alternately.
Prof. Harper sits waiting for a chance to pitch in,
nearly tugging his moustache out by the roots and
convulsing one shin until you expect it to break
off at the knee.
“ Lady Brassey, in her black frock, rather
relished Judge Madden’s jokes. Bishop Goe’s
good lady, who came with the Brasseys, set an
example of Christian contentment to everybody,
and beamed and smiled upon that dear, meri-
torious Albani, the friend of our beloved Queen,
until her (Mrs. G.’s) plump cheeks must have
ached.
“Albani herself was imposing in cream satin,
with a sort of deep apron of impressive black lace.
Two frills of lace bordered a thrilling train,
cherished by its wearer as the apple of her eye
through the storm and stress of all her antics. Of
course, she wore the tiara, and the medal, and a
diamond necklet, not to speak of a chain which
kept finding its way out of some nook near the
singer’s heart. No doubt there was a portrait of
‘ Her Most Gracious 5 slung on to the end of it,
or a lock of hair, or something.
“Talking of legs, do you notice that Madame
occasionally indulges in a triumphant little kick
when she successfully cracks a loud vocal nut. It
reminds me of Alice Leamar in ‘Sister Mary
Jane’s top note.’
“Miss May Wilson, the society belle who is to
marry Mr. E. Raleigh on the 30th March, is the
only daughter of St. Albans’ Wilson.
“Cricketer Maclaren and Miss Power are to be
joined in the bonds on St. Patrick’s Day.
“Gov. Brassey’s Sunday-school picnic to his
brother Masons is reckoned about his sickest per-
formance during a notable career. The brethren
were invited to the ’Ouse from four to six with
their female adjuncts, and regaled on claret-cup
and pastry. Not a drop nor a snuff of any stronger
liquor was available. Just think of it—no whisky
tor seasoned Masons ! One P.G.M.X.Y.Z., being
asked why he went, said, “O, to please the
missus !” Poor Masons ! They were so proud, too,
when they lassoed Uncle Tom and made him
goat-actor-in-chief of the Brotherhood.
“ English cricket-supporters seemed down in
the dumps on Saturday. Women worked off their
dejection by audibly slating their neighbors’
raiment. Under the awning, a society damsel of
strong anti-Australian sympathies openly aired
her desire for a British ball to cross the fence
thereabouts and land on the largest hat m her
vicinity. Another untamed young thing let her
angry passions carry her to the point of patting
down with her parasol (accidentally, she said) an
aggressive aigrette in the bonnet in front. The
wearer promptly accepted the challenge, and in
two minutes talked the aggressor limp and apolo-
getic.
“ The Governor’s wife was there all the fore-
noon, and came back after lunch without changing
her ungaudy navy-blue skirt, white-scrolled blouse,
and green-and-white millinery. Capt. Brand and
Aide Neville, gaunter than, ever in tweeds and
sailor hats, sat on either side of Lady 8., wistfully
watching the mediocrity of their compatriots. At
dinner-hour, the patriotic trio trudged out to in-
spect the pitch, and shake their heads sadly over
the torn, worn wicket.
“Mr. Maclaren and his bride-elect were op
view during the afternoon, their two heads scorch-
ing as one in twin straws banded with English
colors.
“At the Princess, Juliet Wray’s successor,
golden-haired Alyce Leitch, makes up in sweet-
ness of voice for what she lacks in smartness.
Her first pure-white get-up, spangled frock and
feathered hat to match, is more successful than the
Casino costume. The latter, a flowing white
Empire gown, under pink chiffon redingote, is
pretty, though a bit dressirig-gowny perhaps ; but
tight, white gloves, stitched with black, seem out
of keeping with the general limpness. Mifs might
blend better with the quaint .‘atmosphere’ of
blowing sleeves, though at a public bal rnasquS, if
a songful, love-lorn heroine were caught absolutely
bare-handed, no great harm would be done.
“ The new Lady Hawser (Mrs. Edouin Bryer)
makes up as an ancient embonpointy man-catcher,
with black side-curls and a loud taste in dress.
Many people prefer her predecessor’s version of
the Admiral’s wife, because, in her hands, the
supposed ‘Giddy, giddy gout’ was good-looking
enough to give point and pathos to hubby’s jealous
fears.
“ What is sauce for the gander is evidently not
sauce for the goose. Recently two young men and
a young woman were brought before Williamstown
Police-court charged with having unlawfully dis-
posed of tickets in a * sweep ’ on the A.N. A.
wheel-race. The miserable male prisoners were
fined .£1 each with £1 Is. costs. The young
woman was let off with a fine of ss. and no costs—
‘in consideration of her sex.’ Of course, she was
pretty. Judges don’t seem to have changed much
in their attitude towards Lovely Woman since
the days of Phryne.
“ Dr. Cockburn (S.A. Minister for Education),
speaking to a large Melb. audience of ladies in*
terested in Woman’s Suffrage, told them that, in
S.A., 'a man would formerly raise his hat only
to a woman of rank or title, but now he would do
so to a washerwoman.’ The ladies had listened
respectfully to his previous remarks, but when ha
made this statement they laughed the hard,
metallic, feminine laugh of derision. As well
they might. A male speaker may confuse a
female audience over questions of politics, but
when it comes to trying the same game with re-
gard to social observances, he merely makes of
himself in their eyes an unhappy Johnass. Of
course if the washerwoman happens to be young
and pretty, or even buxom, anything might
happen.
“ There is a lot of gush over the departure of
Pastor Macartney, youngest son of the demised
Dean, to take up the nice billet of secretary to the
Bible Society in London. He is a sincere and
amiable man, but the most depressing cold-water
douche who ever stepped into a pulpit. At Caul-
field Church he has been a dreadful infliction, and
the place will spring into life on his departure.
Mr. Macartney’s wife is wealthy, and was widow
of the best-known Tasmanian, Kermode the
merino man. After one of his British trips, Mr.
M. wrote a characteristic little book, ‘England,
Home, and Beauty,’from which it will be inferred
that we are parting with yet another man who
carries his eyes in the back of his head.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI
R.C. Bishop Cani, of Queensland, lately
deceased, was a strict disciplinarian, and dreaded
by his easy-living underlings. For years be slept
invariably on the floor of his bedroom, no matter
where domiciled, which trait at times gave rise to
strange stories.
Paris Nesbit, Q.C., an excellent and fear-
less horseman, will, from all accounts, have to be
restrained from emulating Lindsay Gordon’s
famous feat of jumping one of the fences surround-
ing the Blue Lake at Mt. Gambier. Nesbit, by
the way, is somewhat of a replica of Gordon, both
in appearance and temperament.
Chief Justice Way has just asxed S.A.
Register to start a subscription-fund for a Marcus
Clarke memorial. “ His remains lie in Melb.
cemetery, unmarked save by a plain iron rail
without inscription.” A preposterous monument
of the bourgeois type would be out of place, but
possibly there is an Australian artist who could
design something simple and suitable. The
Bulletin will be glad to acknowledge subscrip-
tions.
Trenwith, the Vie. laborist, has made
himself rather ridiculous to the experienced parlia-
mentarians of the Convention by apeing the
House-of-Commons-mannah and wearing his hat
religiously on all occasions. The tile, when it
isn’t a black bell-topper, is a grey cross between a
boxer and a slouch, which would cause even Andy
Kelly to weep tears of sorrow. Beyond endeavor-
ing to introduce the hat habit, Trenwith has been
of little apparent service to the Federation cause
this innings.
Ricardo : “As I write, Henry Gyles
Turner lies in a serious condition, as the result of
a coach accident in Maoriland. Not a better-
liked man in Melb. city than this literary manager
of the Commercial Bank of Australia. The lay-to-
your-book people quarrelled with his dabbling in
books. However, he came out of the boom crash
as well as those bankers who only bank. Turner
founded the Melbourne Review, but he will be
better remembered as the man who invented re-
construction.
About the ‘ * sickest ” recent war-scare
item was the attempt to raise Queen Victoria’s in-
disposition into an affair of international signific-
ance. Next day’s announcement that Her
Gracious was only victim to a slight bilious attack
was even more bathetic than it would have been
if cabled by itself as a piece of delectable news —
The fetishes we set on high'
We cannot free from human hobbles.
Alas ! that Emperors should die,'
And Queens should get the collywobbles.
Sydney Catholic Press is for ever girding
at the secular journals and the “ Godless schools/’
because of their alleged disregard of the lofty
moral standard which inspires its own columns.
Here is an instance of the way in which it trains
the youthful mind by example—the most forcible
kind of training. In its issue of Feb. 26 it serves
up the well-known scheme of ethical exercise pro-
pounded by Franklin, introducing it as “the
moral code of Benjamin Franklin, the greatest
all-round American.” Now “the greatest all-
round American ” was a pronounced deist of the
same pattern as his friend, Tom Paine, and
against the virtue “Humility” in his list of the
moralities he wrote the words, “Imitate Jesus
and Socrates,” as any one may learn by consulting
the greatest all-round American’s autobiography.
This sort of teaching would scarcely suit the
Catholic Press, so, in order to encourage the
youthful Australian in ways of veracity, it calmly
falsifies the record, and represents Franklin as
having set before him this lesson : “ Humility—
imitate Jesus Christ,” omitting all mention of
Socrates


Liverpool apd Lopdop
(Slobe IpsCirapee Co.
FIRE, LIFE & ANNUITIES.
TOTAL FUNDS:
Over Nine Millions Three Hundred and
Twenty-eight Thousand Hounds.
Established in the Australian Colonies, 1853.
Empowered by Act N.S.VV. Vic. 28, 1865.
FIRE INSURANCE
On EVERY DESCRIPTION of PRO-
PERTY, RENTS, and INTEREST.
LIFE INSURANCE
IN AN Y FORM. See Prospectus and
Special Tabic D.
Locai, Di r KcroßS:
Walter Cummixo \\ att, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. Henry Mort, Esq. ; lion. H. E. Kater, Esq.; and
Kmc H. Mackay, Esq.
M. W. S. Clarke, Resident Secretary.
Head Ojfice Australasia —
-62 Pitt Street, SIDNEY.
Kuppei's Elberfelcl Lager.
THE ZN JEW SHIPMENTS
m
—OF —
FOSTER’S ALE
JUST ARRIVED BY STEAMER.
IN SPLENDID CONDITION . .
. . LIKE CHAMPAGNE.
W BALCHIN, Agkn’T, SYDNEY.
AT THE CAFE.
“Hello! Have you taken a half-holiday?”
“ No ; why did you think so? ”
Because I once heard you say it was a mystery
to you how people could keep awake after
dining at mid-day.”
“Ah! that was before I got LOASEyS
‘WAHOO.’ You see, I was a dyspeptio
then. Now, I dine when I like, and eat
what 1 like; but always with my eye on
the ‘WAHOO’ bottle.”
Personal Items.
Jake Garrard’s favorite hymn—“ Lead,
kindly light ! ”
“The husband of a great novelist feels
like a he-flea on a she-cat.”
Melb. : “M. K. Davies, Barrister and
Solicitor,” has not been long on the brass plate.
Melbourne opinion of Premier Reid’s cool
cheek: “If he eats cream, it’s ice-cream before he
swallows it,”
. “ Nyuni-ayum-ur ” is the suggestive sound
with which Bishop Stone-Wigg of Rapua fills up a
blank in his nasal speech-flow.
Paris Nesbit, Q.C. : “The mere fact of
making a damned fool of a lawyer a stipendiary
magistrate does not increase liis knowledge of
law.” Amen.
Rev. W. B. Kelly, appointed last week to
be first Bishop of Perth, is the second native-born
to be made an R.C. Bishop. Dr. Dwyer, of Mait-
land, was the first.
Line on the street contents-board of John
Norton’s organ, Truth: “Our Rotten Corpora-
tion!” John should be more careful about little
things like this. Being an alderman now, he is
getting fat himself.
The manful and benevolent Francis Sceusa,
the solitary avowed Socialist in N.S.W. Civil
Service, has been left money by Italian relatives,
and goes to the land of the Carbonari to reduce
his high ideals to practice.
Editor Curnow, of S.M. Herald, has left on
a six-months’ furlough, and Henry Gullett will act
at his locum tenens. The queerest thing in the
world is that Gullet happens to be the biggest
shareholder in the rival Sydney Daily Tele-
graph.
Henry Lavrson is now the proud possessor
of a son and heir ; born about six weeks ago at Wel-
lington, M.L. He is to be called Jim, in memory
of the many unknown heroes of that name who
have been buried under the mulga trees out in the
Never Never.
A “SWEEP CONSULTATION”: A sketch
in Belmore Park, Sydney.
Singular coincidence that a majority of
the Melb. Board of Works employes names (or
their wives’maiden names) are identical with the
patronymics of the commissioners, distinguished
civic luminaries, and suburban town clerks. Of
course it is merely a coincidence.
The unctuous slobbering of certain Low
Churchites over the arrival of the Anglican
Archbishop of Sydney has disgusted the High
Churchites, whose thanksgivings would have been
deep, if not loud, had Saumarez Shilling Smith
been detained in England for the term of his
natural life.
Justice Matthew Henry Stephen will ob-
tain a long-expected knighthood at the next date
of general distribution. It was due a year ago,
but was inadvertently overlooked. Justice
Stephen will be the first N.S.W. son of a knight
to be knighted. In Victoria Judge Williams was
similarly knighted.
Ex-editor Haddon, at his banquet, referred
generously to the demised worthies of the Argus,
the foremost being that peerless leader-writer,
Jardine Smith. And yet, strange to say. Syme
had thought Jardine not good enough even for the
then paltry Herald, when evening satellite to the
Age.
One Australian Governor pours laments
into the ears of his friends about the awful expense
of representing Queen Victoria. “ Demands are
being made on ray purse every day ; my hand is
never out of my pocket !” is his dirge. It’s quite
true about his hand never being out of his pocket.
He keeps it there all right.
S. H. Whittaker, one-time leader of Melb.
Herald staff, is now agricultural reporter to
W.A. Lands Department, and spends his time in
humbugging the backblocks visitors, survivors of
frehistoric man, who come from Tooroomoora or
.yndliwadalup, bringing long complaints and
large-sized mangold-wurzels.
H. : “In the photos, of the
Federal delegates at Ballarat,
Graham Berry’s sticks out on the
front plane. He is a bigger man
there than anywhere. Geelong, for
years past, has been abominably
ungrateful to him. When he goes
there he is shoved in a corner, no
man so poor as do him reverence.
Ballarat and Bendigo are the back-
bone of Berryism, such little as re-
mains. In Ballarat the women
are especially tender on him ;
the idea locally prevails
that he has been a gay
old bird. When Mae-
Culloeh was battering
his stone-wall with
the iron hand, Berry
went to Ballarat and
held a monster ladies’
tea - meeting at the
Alfred Hall. Such a
thing never occurred,
before or since ; in
Australia. It was
the proudest moment
of Berry’s life when
he stood up before
thefuroreof the wild,
whirling handker-
chiefs. Berry, a man
of great magnetism,
has always been a
favorite of the sex.
I over-heard a lady
of high standing say
at a London function
long ago : ‘ Who is
that man ? He is get-
ting old, but did you
ever see such beauti-
ful eyes ?’ ”
Gist of what English
Church papers have been say-
ing about Archbishop Bobcab
Smith’s departure for Australia :
“For the third time he leaves our
shores for far-off Australia leaving behind
him the comforts and pleasures of civilisation
to labor among the almost heathen residents
of that great continent. Again will he assume the
weather-beaten hat, the tattered shirt,, the well-
patched breeches, the blue blanket; but ere long
to return again, we hope, to our shores for ‘ rest
and recuperation. ’ ”
Ex-editor Haddon, of Melb. Argus, will
receive, in his new capacity of representative of
the Wilson interest, =£looo a year, plus ,£250 out
of the estate. As it stands at present the Wilson
estate has more money than it knows what to do
with ; when Edward Wilson died a large number
of annuities were left to his personal friends, and
as these have, one by one, followed him, the
money has fallen into the residuary estate until
this—after paying the large claims of the legatees
and the charitable institutions—reaches at least
£lOO,OOO. When the last annuitant dies the whole
of the estate will be divided among charities.
“ Wod,” to The Bulletin :
That big reporter and D. Syme varn is surely a bit
stretched. Big as the biggest Melb* scribe may" be, he
must he a giant indeed to beat the massive D. S. There
have been few men in Melbourne equal in height, breadth
of shoulders and strength of limb to the taciturn Age
proprietor. If that reporter really did threaten S. as
stated, then allow me lo whisper in his ear. Before his
newspaper days D. S. was a contractor, and it is on
record that he would put his strongest navvies to the
blush in matters of strength. Also, Syme is frequently
credited (or blamed ?) with a broad Scotch accent. He
is a “border man,” and there is nothing in his pro-
nunciation to suggest the sobriquet of “ Dawvid.”
“Leo” to The Bulletin :
In “mixed” marriages will probably be found the
reason for the appearance of ladies with Jewish names at
the meeting re the N.S.W. Irish ’9B Centenary Com-
memoration. The husbands of these ladies bear" any of
the regulation Hebrew names, ai d are not from Erin’s
Isle—hut find the ladies' maiden names, and the mystery
will probably be explained. Many ladies married to
scions of the Chosen keep their own national sympathies
intact. One Irish-Jewess, when her husband was dying,
did all she could to induce hint to receive the ministra-
tions of a priest, and even introduced one into the house
—but to no purpose. Isaac Moses (which name does for
the occasion) simply turned to the wall and went to sleep
in Abraham’s bosom.
IN A BANANALAND DRILL-SHED.
ADJUTANT (addressing man in white pants):
“ What’s the meaning of this?”
MAN : “ They b’iled 'cm, sir!”
Re riding to church. In Vic. boom-time
a little tin god, whose umbrella was famous, drove
to prayer-shop in carriage and pair. Then John
drove back and appeared with a complete new
turn-out to drive the bqomster home. Since
which the little man has apparently seen the evil
of his ways. Anyway, he walks now.
Sector: “Melb. obituary, ex-Engi-
neerin-Chief Darbyshire. Never a man of
much calibre, but it is amazing how he hung
out to 78, after the terrible smash he got in
an accident years ago. Before this he was
very active, and indeed engineers had to be
so in the days when Tom Higinbotham
and Watson walked all the way from Mel-
bourne to Wodonga, surveying the railway-
ine.”
WHAT DID SHE MEAN?
“ You mightn’t think it, but theg published a joke of
mine last week.”
“ Oh, I don’t know! I always thought you a funny
little man.”
Miss Joan Nevill, daughter of Lord Wil-
liam N.’s elder brother, became engaged to marry
the Marquis of Camden, a few months ago. A
passing cloud of family disgrace is apt to be useful
in affaires de cceur. The gallant Marquis, perhaps,
discovered the young lady weeping over uncle’s
downfall, and promptly offered her the consola-
tion of a coronet.
The historical M'Sharry arbitration case
will barely reach the re-heated stage on its reopen-
ing after the close of the Convention, when it is
estimated it will be again adjourned for the diver-
sion of N.S.W. general elections. One Q.C.’s
address will, it is said, extend over 30 or 40 days—
which is quite likely, as plaintiff’s evidence covered
143 days and defendant’s 92.
Thus the wild and hairy M.P. Hoolan’s
Mundic Miner on itself :
The Mundic is at present an awfully measly concern in
appeal anee, and its belly has quite a greyhound look
through long fasting. But, notwithstanding the dry-
weather scabs that adorn its hide, its teeth are white and
sharp, and its mouth requires neither roofing, stumping,
gumming, nor bridging. It is ready to sink its molars
into the flesh of all who throw stones at it, whether they
come as old-time friends or new-form d foes, and it yells
out to “ Come on ! ”
Sam Winter, of Melb. Herald, Australia’s
champion objnrgator, is going to tour the Hcly
Land—probably as a penance for his long, long
years of bad language. After he has purified
himself in the Jordan, dabbled in the Dead Sea,
and meditated on the Mount of Olives, he intends
to get along to England in time for the Derby.
Then he is going to see the Grand Prix run at
Paris. Which recalls that when Joe Thompson
made a trip to England (in the same boat that
took back Lord and Lady Rosebery), he also went
to see the great French race. And that when he
returned to Melbourne, Sam Winter directed a
reporter to interview him. “And ask parti-
cularly,” said Sam, “what Mr. Thompson thinks
of the Grand Prix!” Now, Sam does not speak
French, and as he made the second word rhyme
with “sticks,” the soul of that uninstructed
reporter-boy (he came from Barnawartha and his
salary was 235.) was mightily abashed as he put
the question to the bookmaker. Joe stared ; then
be grinned. “ Well—wot a hignorant crowd
noosepaper men is to be sure. Tell your boss,
cully, that he don’t know French enough to plant
beans. It's ‘ Grong Pree ! —Pree ! see !’ ”
Mansfield (Vic.) Caledonian Society lately
appointed one M'Kenzie as president, and ap-
prised him by letter of the honor that had fallen
upon him. Whereupon the M‘Kenzie wrote as
follows :
In acknowledging your memo, of the 12t,h inst., I have
much pleasure in accepting the honor accorded to me as
President of the Caledonian Society. I hope yourself and
committee will (as before) work with good-will and
energy, and not, strive with opposition to each other ; at
the same time 1 shall do my best to act fairly on all sides,
and show no party feeling. I have no doubt the ensuing
sports gathering will be as successful as in former
years, and be a credit to the Caledonians of the district.
Thanking you for the position in which you have placed
nte.—P.S.—l authorise vou to obtain from Mrs. Comer
drinks, at mv expense, to the amount of 55., with best
wishes to the society, for yourself and committee, as I
cannot attend through it not being moonlight.
There were nine Caledonians present on the occa-
sion, and when an entry had been made in the
minute-book that the letter was “ received,’’the
society wiped its pen on its kilt and looked at
itself sorrowfully. Nine Caledonians and ten
sax pences worth of whusky—only one bottle among
them all 1
A Chicago paper prints an elaborate notice
on J. M. Smart, well-known as a Melb. boom-time
book-canvasser. Smart seems to have taken a bill
of kava-root home to the States and has worked
its value up so much that the Smithsonian Insti-
tute has put two special detectives on to watch
it whilst Smart, Esq., exhibits it privately.
That bit of kava has boomed so greatly
that it’s long odds he will sell it at a guinea an
ounce. “Sacred root only allowed to Samoan
royalty,” says he. The root has been viewed —as
a special favor —by all the big bugs in Chicago,
and is now to be awarded a special case in the
Smithsonian Institute. Smith, before he left
Australia, said that America •'-'as the place to
“ work a fake.”
Melbourne illustrated wetuiies are giving
pretty pictures of Corporal Adair, of Ballarat.
Corporal Adair (sweet name !) is a beautiful young
soldier with a spiked moustache, who. has had
fame thrust upon him by a real live duchess-—a nice
little widow, by the way. The Duchess of Albany
wrote a letter to Corporal Adair, informing him
that Daisy Bell, the kangaroo presented to Queen
Victoria by the Victorian Mounted Rifles, was
dead, and consequently Corporal Adair is covered
with glory, and is basking in the smiles of the
awfully “ naice ” and the very “naicest.” It is
also alleged that Corporal Adair was photo’d by
the Ductless while he was in England, her Grace
—artful little dear “ wishing to have a picture
to show what an Australian soldier is like.”
Naturally the corporal is tall, and slim, and unut-
terably lovely, and tailored with exquisite care,
and not a bit like the raw Australian warrior.
However, he is quite in accordance with a woman’s
ideal son of ina’s.
Scribe : Argus Editor Willoughby oegan
as a reporter on the Age, like the Brittons, and so
many others, when the coveted step was from
Elizabeth to Coll ins-street. On the Argus he be-
came correspondent in Maoriland, during the war.
Then he left to join the original Hansard staff,
with Hadley and Robinson, the present Vic.
Assembly clerk, all three being shed by the Argus,
which thereupon stripped the Age treeof its plums.
Willoughby left Hansard, handing his billet to
Gilbert, who yielded it to Willoughby’s brother-
in-law, Wheeler. He married one Miss Wil-
loughby, and Aliek Britton the other. Willoughby,
Somerton and Persse launched Melb. Daily
Telegraph, where Willoughby appeared, perhaps,
to the greatest advantage as a writer, and was not
replaced in any measure till Mr. Fitchett’s ap-
pearance, after many years. Willoughby left the
Telegraph to return to the Argus, as head of the
staff, where he remained for some years, till he
became a leader-writer, pure and simple. Even
Willoughby is by no means a satisfied man, for he
has an unjournalistic craving to personally
dabble in public affairs. He and Walter Cooper,
the dramatist, wrote the most beautiful shorthand
I have ever seen. Both Pitmanites. They were
slow and yet rapid, a paradox which stenographers
will understand. This was through their expert-
ness in phraseograms.
AGIN NATUR'.
FIRST YACHTSMAN : “ Well, it’s a wonder to me
that Brossey didn't drown that time.”
SECOND DITTO: “ Impossible! HE couldn't drown—
he's too blessed wooden !”
H. : “The highly -.cultured Mr. Check
Hong Cheong, who has lectured all over England,
is the presiding genius of the C. of E. Chinese
Mission, Little Bourke-street, Melb. But for his
prim black jumper, he would be just like Thorn-
ton’s Private Secretary, wearing the same little
black billycock. When a stranger comes to the
door, Mr. Cheong’s gold spectacles appear, with
his double row of perfect ivories on the smile
childlike and bland, and the mild question, ‘Are
you requiring anything?’ ‘Oh dear, no!’ and
Paul Pry departs awkwardly, while the loud
susurrus is heard within of young ladies heckling
their individual Chinamen—a crowd of nice,
genteel ones, not the handful of dismal, vulgar
Chows who whine Celestial versions of Wesley’s
hymns at the opposition shop down street.”


“THREE GOOD THIKTGrS ”
. . Made in England. . .
Holbrook’s Worcestershire Sauce
Holbrook’s Pure English Pick! es
Holbrook’s Pure Malt Vinegar
“68 PRIZE MEDALS.' 1
Holbrook’s Sauce HAS BEEN AWARDED MORE PnZG Med^lS
than any other Worcestershire Sauce in the world. It is
SOLD AT HALF THE PRICE OF OTHER WELL-KNOWN SAUCES!
Holbrook’s Pickles
ARE SELECTED ENGLISH VEGETABLES PRESERVED IN
PURE MALT VINEGAR.
Holbrook’s Vinegar
IS B t o E^?T,f ROM THE FINEST ENGLISH GRAIN,
IS GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY “ PURE MALT.’
AND
COMMON AND LOW-PR'ICED VINEGARS ARE MOST INJURIOUS.
Pioneer squatter Ben Richards, recently
demised at Richmond (N.S.W.), was an enormous
exporter of meat, his figure sometimes reaching
500,000 mutton carcases per annum. His immense
cattle sales were principally to the local trade.
The huge Riverstone meat-works are the old man’s
most appropriate monument.
Anarquia : If the blowing-up of the U.S.
Maine was done by a torpedo there is something
to be learned from the incident. The torpedo
represents the bowling of warfare, and it is de-
cidedly beating the batting. What is needed, for
the benefit of the world, is a good, healthy terror
on the part of navy and army men as to the new
chemical agencies which abolish bravery. Yes,
torpedo Brennan and his rivals are the grand
bowlers in the cause of humanity. Let the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, who blesses the launch of
ironclads, have a prayer at the torpedo-factory:
“ Lord, wc thank Thee for this lovely little engine,
the true evangel and messenger of peace.”
Dear Bulletin.— Re Mr. A. B. Kellie’s
observation, in his Xmas Bulletin yarn (“ What
the White Pig said to Leila ”), “ True, she had
been brutally assaulted as a child, on the labor-
schooner,” let me say that no children are carried
upon Q. labor-vessels. Only three classes of
islanders are brought—recruits, boat’s crews, and
interpreters. The recruits, men and women, being
for fieldwork, require to be well-developed physi-
cally, and not apparently under 16 years old. A
mother, with young family, would be an anomaly ;
a child solus would be a greater one. No skipper
would be verdant enough to ship children, with
the cocksurity of having to return them next trip,
at owner’s expense. The trail of the missionary
is over that “brutal assault.” Assault upon
children is not the vioe of the sailorman; it is
mostly an amenity of large cities. E. J. Brady
was right in—
You get the virgins, brothers;
We get, God wot, the others;
Your castoffs come to us!
—Harry Monok.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8. Senior, chemist, George-street, Sydney.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. 6d. everywhere.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
m
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. Wa
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Gd.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
FRANZ JOSEF . . .
FILBEWER
LASER B€€R.
Largely Imitated on
Account of its Superb
Qualities.
Aboriginalities.
A Grippsland bush-fire incident. As Swing-
ler of Red Jacket, near Woods’ Point, was riding
alone he got thrown from his horse, fracturing
several ribs in the fall. He lay insensible all night.
The horse stayed beside him all the time, and, so
he stat is, brought him to his senses in the morning
by “stroking him with its hoof.” Then he
managed to mount and ride home. Macaulay’s
verse goes—
But, like a graven image,
Black Aust-er kept his place,
And ever wistfully he looked
Into his master’s face.
The probably grass-fed moke of Mr. Swingler
surpassed in fidelity the horse of Herminius.
Plain prose is often more poetical than poetry.
* * » *
F.C.K. : When I was kicking about New
England in ’93, somewhere between Bundana and
Bendemere I dropped across a grizzled old chap
riding a blood mare, with foal at foot, and engaged
to put in a couple of weeks with him before shear-
ing. After two days’ travelling we reached his
home—a mere gunyah on a solitary mountain-
side, and 3 acres of land, with nothing on it but
three unbroken colts. Here he had dwelt alone
for 14 years, living entirely upon salt-junk and
damper, with never so much as a potato, and
smoking an average of 24 pipes per diem. His
only cooking utensil was an iron pot, and he had
no clothes but one pair of trousers and two shirts.
He_ could neither read nor write, and had no
visitors—yet he was serenely happy. What is
happiness, after all ?
* • • •
Licensed Surveyor: “ One morning, a
couple of weeks ago, I saw a brown snake sunning
himself outside the kitchen, and chopped him in
two with a spade. Stooped down to pick up the
tail end, and—picked up both ends ! The head,
with only 9in. of body attached, moved a distance
of fully 12in., and seized me by the forefinger.
You see, he was cut clean through—with only a
broken back he would have been more helpless.
The finger immediately began to discolor, so, after
tying a string tightly round it, I scarified it with
a razor, and sucked it all the way into Murwillum-
bah, where the doctor fixed me up with strychnine,
and, after a couple of hours or so, said there was
no further danger. Felt little or no ill effects ;
but the next time I kill a snake with a spade, I’ll
kill him ‘ wid a stick. ’ Pretty rough, after 17
years of ‘ hairbreadth ’scapes ’ in the swamps and
jungles of the Tweed River, to be bitten almost
on my own hearthstone. P.S.—What about
M'Cooey and his assertion that jackasses never
kill snakes ? Will Mr. M'Cooey please note this
instance.”
* * * *
At the wedding of an uncivilised monster
of a bushman at Mickabidgee, the best man, fol-
lowing a good old custom, kissed the newly-made
bride. He had no sooner done so, however, than
he got a terrific “ stoush ” on the jaw from the
enraged bridegroom, who wanted to know what
the , etc., he meant by “ muggin’ me old
woman ? ” The best man retaliated, a ring was
at once formed by the bridal party, and a gory
battle ensued, with the whole local population as
referee and bottle-holder, while the blushing
bride stood by and advised her hubby to “ chaw
’im up.” After an exceedingly “ willing ” go, the
bridegroom knocked his man and, receiving
no response to his offer “ to eat any six of the
crowd, he spat out half a dozen teeth, straight-
ened his battered nose, and departed for the wed-
ding-breakfast with his pansy-blossom.
* • * *
A.E.P. : In ’94, at Binaway on the Castle-
reagh, I saw an old whaler—must have been near-
ing 60—not an ounce of flesh on him, skin like
tanned hide, with a horse-collar swag 851 b. weight.
Reaching Binaway from Coonabarabran, 21 miles,
he had the usual (“ gingerbeer,” I suppose), and
straightway became a “corpse.” After some
hours of oblivion he concluded to proceed. Didn’t
he “wrastle” with that “bluey”! It downed
him many times, but at last he succeeded and
shambled down the track. A gaunt cattle-pup
accompanied him, and performed on the boys who
dared to interfere with the veteran. Eighty-five
pounds—and 40 miles to Coolah. Think of it,
straw-hat brigade!
* * * *
Dear B.—Out west, where there is no town-
ship and no railway—nothing but a wire-fence
straddling across the plain on the road to eternity
—most of the events which stir the scum on the
lamentable green pool of existence are something
about a horse, or else something about a dog. If
something didn’t occasionally happen about a dog
Heaven only knows how it would be possible to
bear up against the limitless monotony of the
west. On one western station where I put in six
months I was just saved from madness by a dog
having convulsions. It was Old Swag, the owner’s
third son’s fifth yellow mongrel—the said youth
had eight of them in all —and he convulsed on the
front verandah on a hot, dank day, when the
heavens and the earth were a yawning emptiness,
and man was a dejected speck perishing in a dust-
storm. The alarmed youth called for assistance,
and the family swarmed out, also the red-
headed tutor, and the book-keeper, and the lady-
help. The latter, after waving her kid-gloved hands
despairingly in the air, proceeded to administer
tepid salt and water out of a whisky bottle. This
seemed to rouse the whole herd from a deadly
apathy and they were seized with a laudable
desire to assist. The red-headed tutor grasped
Swag by the tail and swung him round and round
with startling enthusiasm. When released in
mid-air Swag struck the opposite fence and fell
in a second fit. Bert availed himself of this
favorable opportunity to rush in and saw off one
of the sufferer’s ears with a rusty butcher’s knife.
Meanwhile Charley had prepared a huge plug of
tobacco by a weary process of mastication. It
having been sufficiently chewed, he deposited it
in his hand and proceeded to thrust it down old
Swag’s throat. Ted now emerged from the
kitchen, scarlet and tearful, bearing a large frying-
pan filled with hot fat, and poured it into old
Swag. Then Jack thought of castor-oil (“ knoohe’d
heard of it somewhere, anyways it wouldn’t do
him no harm ”). Old Swag accordingly received
half a bottle. Then the family, with the excep-
tion of Ted, retired inside. Ted, left to his own
resources, fervently administered two more pans
of melted fat, and remained with Swag till sun-
down. Next day, after lengthily discussing the
matter with a friend, he came home and “ wished
to goodness he’d known about camphor before.”
Two days later Old Swag, in the rudest health,
fought another dog to a finish under the house. It
is wonderful how the most ordinary-looking bush
dog can swallow twice his own weight of hot fat,
plug tobacco and castor-oil and thrive upon it.—
Mulga.
THE LAST WORDS OF THE LATE MR. TUCKER.
iISITING CLERGYMAN: “It is not only gratifying, my dear brother, it is also astounding, the
equanimity with which you face your approaching — hum — dissolution.”
THE MORIBUND (with a deep sigh): “Ah! if YOUR mother-in-law had ever come to live with
you ”- and, with a sweet smile, he winked at his ghostly comforter and—was
with the angels.
Two Wya-
long boys, aged
10 and 12 years,
started off with
dad’s crib at 2
o’clock on a re-
cent Saturday
afternoon. The
old man was
below, digging
into his tribute
in the White
Reef. The
youngsters des-
cended ladders
(150 ft. vertical),
lit a candle at
the bottom, and
groped their way
in the wrong di-
rection until the
candle went out
and the matches
were all done.
Six hours later
a search - party
discovered them
in the workings
of the Four J’s
claim, which are
connected with
the White Reef.
They were fast
asleep when
found. In most
of the Wyalong
burrows it takes
a smart man all
his time to travel
through a
strange claim
without break-
ing his neck, and
the angel of good
luck surely
watched over
the youngsters
while th ey era wl -
ed about in the
dark amongst
the traps, passes,
shoots, and winzes.
Every three months or so a certain com-
fortably-circumstanced individual in N.Q. takes
it into his head to hump a bluey from one end of
a certain railway-line to the other. He generally
manages to get about half-way before heat, flies,
and bad tucker convince him that it is advisable
to train back to his starting-point. But, after
taking his three months to recover, he has another
“ go ” at the same old impossible tramp.
* * * *
K. : The crying swaggie is the latest. Is
always to be found swag-carrying a few miles out
of town. I met him the other day. In a voice of
sorrow he pitched his little tale of woe, while tears
ran down his dirty face. I was touched, as was
my pocket. A few days after I met him again in
a pub.—same tale, same voice and tears. When
he spotted me he cleared. ' “ That man,” said the
landlord, “is the greatest artist on the road,
makes plenty of money, and can cry when he likes.
Makes a little pile out of the women % No woman
ever refuses help to a crying man.”
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin.—Pity your jackass snake-
liars don’t think before writing such yarns. They
nearly all make their jackasses swallow the snake,
whereas a 4ft. snake coiled up will measure 7in. x
sin. Now, how is a laughing-jackass to get out-
side that ?—Flong.
*•* * *
Dingoes of the East and West of N.S.W.
(writes “ Werrimee ”) differ much in taste. The
former is an indiscriminating glutton. Anything
in the form of flesh, bar bandicoot, goes down
with him, the condition of it being no considera-
tion. I saw one draw a piece of putrid bullock-
hide away from a heap of maggots with his paw,
take one end in his mouth, shake it, and then
“scoff ”it with gusto. The Western dingo is more
epicurean, and wouldn’t insult his stomach with
such things. Prefers to kill his own meat, but, if
Eushed, will pick up anything dainty without
eing over-inquisitive. He strongly objects to
anything that has been mauled about, and, if he
is to take a bait, it must have no human aroma
about it. In sheep - country, he rounds up a
flock about sundown, singles out a fat one, and
kills it for supper. In the morning, he will trot
disdainfully past that carcase, round up the flock
again, and kill a fresh one for breakfast. A sheep
a meal would be costly enough ; but the brute
mostly rips a dozen or so before making a kill,
because he likes some lively sport first to give
him an appetite. In capturing a calf, the dingo
shows good strategy. He has half-a-dozen mates
with him. These hide in different places in the
grass while the chief actor trots round and round
the cow, nipping the calf at every opportunity ;
and, when the calf darts away a bit after a bite on
the heel, the nearest dog instantly cuts it off from
the cow, and the whole pack fall upon and kill it.
One dog will kill a sheep ; but he’ll never tackle a
calf single-handed, unless he finds it out of reach
of its mother.
* * * *
The toniest nugget ever found on Shell-
back was down in Bill Jones’ claim. Bill and his
mate, Rocky George, were stoping out one after-
noon during the wild sixties, when Rocky saw the
shaft suddenly darken. “ Come here, Bill !
Darn’d if Rainbow Sal hasn’t fallen down the
shaft! ” “It’s all right, boys, I thought youd be
dry, so I fetched the bottle,” whispered Sal, lying
in a heap at the bottom. She had fallen 00 feet
unhurt —and the bottle was unbroken ! It was in
the day of crinolines, and hers had opened out d
la parachute.
«** * *
Writes “ 5.0.8.” re a recent discussion :
The term “tpe-ragger” was first used by the English
railway navvies, known as “Pinchers” or “thick legs,”
who slaved under Heard, Peto, and Brassey, &c. The art
of stocking-weaving wasn’t perfected in those days ; and,
as hand-knitted stockings were not abundant with the
navvies, they wrapped their feet in pieces of old woollen
cloth before putting on their high-lows or watertights,
also swathed their ankles and calves, hence “ thick
legs.” Peto and Brassey introduced the English navvy to
Australia, and he brought his “toe-rags” or “Prince
Alberts” with him, and carried the phrase into the coun-
try as the railway extended. Among the navvies them-
selves it came to be applied to any waster who only got
a job when better men could not be obtained.
UNWONTED LUXURY,
1ST WANDERER : “ Wot's wrong wid him in the bunk? ”
2ND DITTO : Oh! he's billyus; struck a good station on Christinas Day, an'
got an extry pint o’ flour !”
Education as she is out West. A loving
mother’s letter to N.S.W. State-school teacher :
Deer sur,—tomas aint himself to-day since Saturday so
i aint litten im go he dun his exersise lars nite 01 lrite and
he noes his spellin only just fare, i erd it to him myself
and i must tel you if he dont get mor sums to do i will
aye to keep him at ome always and lern him myself 1
aint wanten im to be fetched up a dunse.—Yours truley,
Ann S .


Suffield is still in his living grave, and the
N.S.W. Justice Department is jumping on him
with all its feet to make him fit that grave.
Suffield is a victim not only of Windeyerism, but
of Government by Contradiction. Both N.S.W.
political gangs, the ins and the outs, are interested
in justifying the actions of their respective Minis-
ters of Justice. A pamphlet fully dealing with
this monstrous wrong has just been published.
Post-free from The Bulletin office for 7d. in
stamps.
That cultivated admirer of curves and out-
lines, the King of the Belgians, has arrived at an
age when he can properly appreciate the bearing
of art upon female beauty. The poetry of er -
stays has touched His Majesty’s royal soul, seem-
ingly. M. Paul Dutoict, who lately achieved a
Grand Prix award at the Brussels Exhibition, has
now been appointed a chevalier of the Legion in
honor of his P.D. corsets. The creator of the
P.D. is the first man in the world to get a decora-
tion for staymaking, and the Belgian monarch is
the first occupant of a throne to admit that the
world is governed by appearances. The majesty
which doth hedge a king is, when you come to
think about it, very much in the nature of P.D.
corsets. #
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
A fact worth knowing is that Ogden’s Guinea
Gold are a fine Cigarette— That’s all! Obtainable
everywhere.*
“D.C.L.”
When applied to a man is a high academic dis-
tinction. When applied to whisky, “D.C.L.’’ is
the highest distinction it can possess. D.C.L.
(Black Bottle) Scotch Whisky is perfect.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
“ SURPLUS.”
The term “ surplus ” is applied, in life insuranoe
affairs, to the balance, ascertained periodically,
between the assets and the liabilities. Out of this
balance or surplus, distributions of profits are
made to the policy-holders entitled to participate.
The natural tendency of distribution is to dimmish
the surplus for the moment; but in the case of a
prosperous company, the decrease is speedily more
than covered by accessions of profit from various
sources. It is clear, however, that the more
liberal the periodical distributions of profits, the
more gradual will be the growth of the surplus.
Conversely, if a life insurance company withho ds
from its policy-holders the full benefit of the pro-
portion of profits immediately available, and
prefers to accumulate in the interest of future
participants, it follows that the surplus will in-
crease more rapidly in proportion. Of course it
is easy to keep in hand more than the future will
require under any possible circumstances ; and
when that course is followed, injustice to present
participants is inevitable.
Now The Mutual Life of New Yoke, while
careful’ to make abundant reserves for future
bonuses, has always been equally careful to dis-
tribute to its policy-holders the full immediate
benefits which they are entitled to claim. Ihe
Company has never sacrificed the interests of
policy-holders entitled to immediate participation,
to the formation of an imposing but empirical
surplus, never likely to be required even in the
remotest future. The surplus shown by The
Mutual Life at the end of 1896 was ,£0,105,444.
It is a steadily increasing surplus, which, need-
less to say, is more than ample for all the
demands for which it has been created.
But, supposing the Company had, throughout
its history, acted on the principle which
has been adopted in, at least, one prominen
instance—of reserving a large proportion of the
surplus at every distribution, and, in addition,
reducing the surrender-values allowed for discon-
tinued policies, what does the reader suppose
would have been the amount of The Mutual s
surplus in 1896 ? Not six millions, but upwards of
U millions sterling ! This is not guesswork. Ihe
figures are based upon the official report issued by
the Insurance Department of the State of JNeiv
York, which gives annually the exact record of
every company doing business in that State.
Since its organisation, The Mutual Life has paid
in bonuses and surrender values to its policy-holders
£44 445 244, which is more than twice the amount
paid for’similar items by the next largest company.
Observe, then, what a magnificent surplus The
Mutual could have exhibited to-day, had an
illiberal policy been pursued in relation to the
assured—a surplus exceeding that of any other
office by more than 150 per cent. But, fortunately,
the Company preferred to sacrifice a mere useless
and vainglorious display to the solid interests of
the policy-holders. Who shall say that, in taking
thiscourse, the Mutual Life of New York has
not chosen the better part? and that, in so doing
it has not well earned the high reputation which
it has attained in every part of the world as the
Policy-holders’ C 0.,” “the Co. which does the most
good ? ” The intelligent reader will not allow him-
self to be misled by the parading of sums of no
use to the present generation, and in excess ot
any possible needs of the generations to come.
mb
i
Hill!
1
m
Illill
mSak
U
She was a Poster-Maiden,
With a wonderful Poster hat,
I was a——well, no matter,
"We need not go into that.
I questioned the Poster-Maiden,
As Poster-people do,
« Why do the Poster Rapes
Ho longer interest you?”
t* Because,” said the Poster-
Maiden,
I ««The dollars are just a gift —
Simply a gift for Walne—
You know he rides a ‘ Swift l
CYCLES
(Fitted witti Dunlop TyresV
———————r
Tn connection with these easy-running machines, we have just issued a daintily
Up brochure, fully illustrated, entitled “ Cycling for Ladies, ’ containing some
verv hints for beginners, and for those who are anxious to look as smart
as possible when wheeling. A really good hint given and received at the right
time often decides the all-important question of whether a lady looks awkward or
elegant when cycling. For those interested in cycling from the racing standpoint,
we S have also issued a little souvenir booklet, containing an account of the dis-
tinguished
I
u
rider 0 F Barden, whose appearance ALONE on the scratch mark of the Austral
Wheel Race made the Swift the cynosure of all eyes. This season we ft re
cAnrlinf* to all our old customers an entertaining Xmas story, entitled Xmas in
illustrated by our own special artist. Should any of these esteemed
mtrons be accidentally omitted from our list-which is a very long one-a post-
card to any of our depots will command instant attention.
The Austral Cycle Agency Ltd.,
391 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
139-141 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Rundle-sfcreefc, Adelaide. Adelaide-street, Brisbane. Hay-street, Perth. Charters Towers.
Warrnambool. Christchurch. Dunedin. Wellington.
Answers to Correspondents .
fTo notice mil be taken of communication* insufficiently
Stamped. Name and addrets must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken re contribution* volun-
tarily submitted, whether sent by post or handed in,
and in no cate will MS. be returned unite* ttamp*
(of any province) accompany.
G. Burns: The rate of wages is ruled by a mul-
titude of things. But the standard of living is mainly
ruled by the wage-rate. A man may live comfortably
because he has t'4 a week ; it is absurd to say he has £4 a
week because he lives comfortably Native : That’s why
The Bulletin advises building a perfectly new Federal
capital in the M‘Donnell Ranges Euchre: Misdeal.
Deal again 0. W. Taylor: The present holder of the
share is the only one who has a claim on the deposit
Gyp ; Nicely written, but hardly enough plot. Might try
again £46: No, thanks “One-legged Trouser”:
Gone to its long home on the ash-tip Mao: If you go
down to the Rocks any Saturday night you can hear all
the things we would like to say about your verses Jus
Civile: As far as concerns your case only a person who
was present and saw how it was conducted could answer
the question J.S. :No doubt you would be “pleased
to see it in next week." But some 20,000 other
people would only be disgusted and mad.
T.P. : Can’t say. Don’t know. Don’t care. Not our
funeral T.G.0,: No space S.A. (Tareena): Is it
original ? B.E. : Clement Scott didn’t say it was im-
possible for an actress to be virtuous, and The Bulletin
didn’t pat him on the back. Neither does it pat you
on the back, save with a large club, for sending
some more misstatements to this journal Chummy:
Too long a story. Ask the Freeman’s Journal—
they'll tell you all about it Fuzz (Ad.): But you
must boil it down Eldo : A moneyless news-
paper can’t live. The strength of Samson lay in his hair.
A newspaper’s hair consists of advertisements -B. J.
Crome: Stale-lobster yarn to hand Billy : Wholly
disgusting. 8 a.m. : Plain fact all right; poetry
wooden Aloes : Little interest; no value J.F.D.:
Bit too crude as it stands V.H.M.: May use W.P. :
Unsuitable J.T. : Not up F.U.P. : True or untrue,
you don’t say it well enough for print P-H.L. : You
would like your “name in full?’’ It has gone in ....
C.M. : An answer is supplied by one of the unemployed
speaking to the present writer: “It’s this way, boss.
I’m a tradesman, and when in work I get Bs. a day.
What’s the good of my going to the bush for my tucker
and sixpence a week ? I’ll be no better off in six months
than I am now, and ’ll lose all chance of a job that I may
pick up any day in Sydney. No, give me the Domain be-
fore the Labor Farm.” G. 0.: Not unfunny—that s all.
Frank H. : “Roses” not quite up', other too ver-
bose Shrimp : Too long for interest Banool :
Thanks. First unprintable ; may hint at it in par. Also,
that Women’s Hospital yarn a veteran chestnut......
Homer G. : Interesting, but too long-winded and repeti-
tive R. Roby : May do—braced sharp-up Mat M. :
Unsuitable Adeline : “ Singer ” nebulous and incon-
sequent. “Wanderer” too old a story for any but
strongest hands Alex. A. : Sorry neither up to mark.
Letter handed to editor of Boale’s poems Sixes :—and
uevens ! 8.J.0. : A half-ounce idea in a ton of words. .
Sur : First of all, you said the permanent staff had
grievances. Now you say the occasional hands suffer.
Detail some of their sufferings Prince: Your verse
makes us regret that the Englishmen didn’t win all five
test-matches with a million runs to spare Woollahra:
You said—
» May this Ranjl fever oease
When the final Test is played."
Your prayer was answered. The girls transferred their
aff' Ctions to another Darling P. : Merely the wail of
the half-yearlv stock-taker. The “Lane” knocks o£E work
at 5 o’clock during winter months Pol: You relate one
of your own pub. experiences and it a “ common
thing.” . Cockaigne : Mistaken ideas re Bellew, senior,
must be very few and far between. The world in general
doesn’t know that there was such a person. Sufficient for
the dav is the Bellew thereof Will P.W. : Would look
too much like a personal advt P.J.X. :No desire to
interfere in parson-and-curate row M.M'B. (Mac.):
Sorry unavailable A. 0.: Bulletin strongly advises
you to go to Bananaland and become, if possible, a
Chinese cook. The Chinese cook is the most flourishing
and best-paid industry in Bananaland. He commands
twice the wages of a white man, and is king of his kitchen
wherever he sits down... Ezrom : Thanks...A. J.S.: Du 11....
Spokeshave : You say a Bundaberg chemist has preserved
a 37in. deaf-adder. The big-deaf-adder question was
threshed out of The Bulletin years ago—with what exact
result we forget at this moment Jem Smith : Chest-
nuts 1 C.A.M. : May do as a suggestion. All depends
on the artist Degaro: In a word, the modern parson
has to scratch up his own living. If he can amuse his
congregation, they pay him ; if he can’t, they don’t pay
him J.A.T. : Cleanliness, like “ morality,” is mainly a
matter of climate. It takes a real hero to enter a bath-
room on a frosty morning, with an English east wind
blowing and the glass at or about 30° Bogy Hansen :
Thanks Walter L.E. : Will print Robin : Talis-
man excellent F.T.: You view the Universe through
a fog of hymn-book phrases H.C.S. : No force or
novelty Cyril: Too young and too self-satisfied
Wildrose : Small, stale sentiment on a large, new sheet of
paper Cumbo: The swear-word in the last stanza
seems to have relevancy W.M.F. : Bush rhyme doesn’t
say a new-enough thing hard-enough Louis M. :
Feebly put. Constant Reader: Too vague; send
names and date Vindex : Declined S.
Mother - in - Law : Jingles fairly ; wants more point
and humor A.C.A. : “Compulsory" no interest
Charley (Croydon): Sorry unusable Burrawong : The
wedding is mainly Ryan’s trousers and boots. We take
our Ryan neat G.H.C.: Not quite good enough
Joey B. : D! 0? S. O’B.: One may do Kawatiri:
Possibly part B. (G.) : Dubious Alone : Not much
in “ Burns.” Rapho : Sentiment might pass in sonnet-
form 0. J.O. (S.A.) : One will serve as a suggestion
Anvil : No ; 8-hour system is dead letter with Sydney
blacksmiths, lots of whom work 6 to 6, and later, if
required, without over-time pay ; 2 hours for meals, jour-
neyman’s wages 7s. 6d. to Bs. per diem .....Herbert J. :
Bunny isn’t such a fool Juanita: Neat; light; slight.
J.E. : Ta.ntalisingly near the mark Electra : Too
stiff in the joints E.S.C.B. : Apparently written with
milk-and-water on a needle Albert B. : Sick of
horsserell—it’s worse than doggerel A.H.T. : Hopeless.
....Ailsie : Tasteful treatment of hackneyed idea. H.0.R.:
Improbability too violent ...H.G.H.: Off Bulletin’s beat ..
Farewell : Spare us weary punnings . J.A.G. : Bit too
rough ..Torre: Not up; send address for return
T.G.R. : Dull enough R.W.C. : Received “ Story
of a Sorrow ” : Declined Goosey : Some merit; but too
W arm H. : Will print L.R.M. : Too long and
heavy—a butterfly topic wants a butterfly’s touch
Jiff : Good idea; handling not up R.M. (Picton) : Too
young Correspondent wants clue to verses containing
lines
“ The shadow of Tom Halibut before poor Polly stood."
«• From the ghost of a tobacco-box he lifted off the lid.”
“ The iceberg was the monument that rose above their
graves.” . ..... ,
j, J. O’M. : Considering Sirius : Ah, the doggerel-
star! . .No. 14 : Not force enough In die malo : Fat.
B.E. : “ Bill ” good idea—handling too stale K.S. :
Yarn too machine-made and unreal Alley Bard :
Desolate maunder P. : Caulfield can’t possibly rival
Flemington. As a matter of fact, the Y.R.C. is flourish-
ing O.L.M. : Cricket ballad wasn’t quite class enough.
Try again in a similar direction, and pay more attention
to the tail-ends of your metre R.M. (M.L.): Worthless
as its predecessors J.L. : “ Consequences " too flat to
compensate for other obvious objection Oliver : Com-
pliments on your stationery H.C.L.: Don’t want
'em Penlyric : Drivel merely—and adulterated
at that F.J.C. : Mediocrity on its hind-legs look-
ing over 90 miles of sand-ridge Barkis : Hardly
up W. McO. : Declined with vim ...R.B. : Con-
sidering... .J.G.B. : Tame M.L. : Sorry unusable.
. J.H. : Interesting ; but we can’t print it while
the man’s down Q.R.P. :No particular chop—neither
neck, nor loin, nor another, if there is another Fanny
E.: Zola is mercifully spared your poem. That would
finish him. .Grip: Will print presently; name and ad-
dress, please A.D.H. : Thanks Iloxton : Yes, it was
a chestnut Geo. N. (R’khampton): All unavailable .. ..
Mulgarrie : Dreary yarn about a snake J.W.B. (Maori*
land): “Two Tramps Meet”—and we would gladly kill
both of them ...Cot: Gas poem should be lighter.
Heavy gas poems are incongruous Velo : Tale comes
about half-way between publication and execration .
Toni: Beautiful lie W.B.N. (Quirindi): Don’t know him
or his whiskers W. J. : The insurance co. you mention
is just about as bad a fraud as can be imagined... True
Bill: It’s a very old bill, anyhow Battler : Thanks
Kohinoor : How do you know why the informat ion was
laid ? A.P. : Joke about Tyre and Sidon just a little
out of date. Couldn’t you send along something bright
and fresh about Chaos? A.A.D.B. : Please send
address.


''ftWh'KV ° I
f/je
iHI X mm u~te 5
~befcre_.
_ : It is
not certain whether Prince JRanjitsinhji
or not. He endeavored to get
Dr. Brady, of Sydney, to come to Mel- . ,
boume lo treat his throat, winch is again A/t ,
(’•tuning him trouble, but the doctor being -/ r U L 1
unable to leave Sydney, Ranjitsinhji had to /L A) t *
proceed to .that city. ~ . ... -7^
?d“A %% «£*
/ /a
cW‘ r ! f //AsRMI
\ W//' / r // ' ** XYI4)
f\ 1 ° f U,e C! " pf \ \ lj/W
1 of u " e r !Sl r' r ' UrnCtedby \ \( &
deuce “0°" the m, i’Pres S ion of evi- \ \'
aeuce by the police, as reported in ‘The \ 1
Z^t Aa^ n thiS ° as - e a appealed / l
five h ’> in the p<*« S I \
while two nth la!leged oc ™rrence, / I
IT fpreseut and ut r T" 8 "'° men - who ™ / K>
M I LnXere tl ™ S not U,e
ml'}, _ ~,1 f called to give evidence.
§ll Shu/e, 7A2ee 77 JiaAe.
fnso/ii fee fn toners amt
Jfl Me J u/ y 7Ae foA Ac e /o~
/// 1 A>/-Ashlers,
¥ / m
' /4- J® Jf WK ?mm
8a? ,SM&nar m /
ilgsiss
'tharTL«n U ■ y "e ur ed more lamely
«h?n ifwL "’ c f»»nection with court*
“ g uw thg vvgmen that proposed
yJA'A&d n a >
( yA&r s < n>?aco cr yf
0j..~~ A' >
f (j'4* rt y‘°f 7Ac 7<xurif/s o/ fl/e&ourne j
~ a net d,tfyeJ,fJvxecl 6dt/X
- . f recd dec A,Ac of ti hfa /V„„ «,. e ' 1
c *?' V ”S Mel oheniM / c/ . j
//iea- / a ? e ?zfs a .-7 cl ene. T '/es."- %l s //„„. |
lefai-n//,refect Canrtl/tal '' Afi/ f/Aenct
JcKm efts &u .s Cect az/ct xf/s Aeai-tened
ty/S-M Seif As A cojicZUc/- An.
refzsLs/?~p / 0 c'e/- /77 / c //.g sot-if,
3fyf<ru cJeclhne Ad£ e ez y ec /
Actac- /->-! A A unde/- cm-L A 7t> Aide ?"/
a Aj/ss 1/era Touyh-.-Jha/-
Settles /A.- uJsie&'s
76e />/ace 7A e
Wdmc, .
,r/ * /? /?x
*
/ £ Hr mmtw a
/< IHfff 7f'
f iff /
Hr. Howard Willoughby. __
31 years of • edit ore hin Sm ’ h “ re f ord as fJ r. H,addons
lieved, unparalleled b<? '
journalism.**(Ciip ers ) ‘ history of
SHE PARADES BOURKE-STREET IN
MALE ATTIRE.
•Hr. Iladdon,.
HI must'know, jfwi(ltu'l)? e dl t,e^ en ’ as y°«
aw* &
. genius. *• (Cheers. )’ 1 ,lnts almost to
- It , " .
teD »« eroded that ilr - Mathi*. thaT'cu |K ' lic > VlfndVam tha
& c rf?
*"•'•*"*■* * °* r * i, -w shrerarfe^j^cssj:
. on- r~ frozAS- .
\ -e.
/Ae* i /, 7 C_ X
eA s A /; * „
A
<?£ ? '' '
5
I JL Ik?
JVo mat-tied man ciftk rota? s aet ;
£ac A cat 7 Ais clea’-y
Jf- sAe ju. stu is ’em on in y‘cLct l
! us a ?-! is Aer oj-ji /ijAt-ison jMcAcd J
Who zAj-ecus ihe ill ~fA^eoty r 'J
"Constable Pollard
MZToZI f r saunter;^ »'»««»<S
, e y* cost last evening attired in n m 7 y
nethci ' Raiments, one of bis
I white shirts and a neat skull can \l,-i
Att-meyer had her hair cut short and won hi
I ollarcl with a strange Jack of < !,.,<• )ie -.
MELBOUKSIANA.


Chief Compositor : I’m afrai'd, sir,, the Wap
Cloud in Europe will have to be dispelled to
some extent.”
Editor-in-Chief : “'How so 1 ”
•C.C. : “The fact is, we are rather short oh
MOONLIGHT EXCURSION.
A foundling hospital, of whi&h Lady
Darley is president, having recently been
established at Lane Cove-road, North Sydney,
under the charge of the Sisters of Mercy, a
piece of ground was purchased at Waitara,
on which it is proposed to erect a more suit-
able building. With this object in view, a
very successful moonlight excursion was held
on Tuesday night in tlje Port Jackson Com-
pany’s steamer Brigh- J\
ton, from which the /A
promoters were tho- JL at
roughly satisfied with jt. lfc
the result. During the fj ti/jp
trip selections were / '
rendered by St. Mary’s / I
Band. The outing was V j
managed by a com- f / /
mittee of ladies, 1 / I
scare-type, and there’s a fat fire-sale advt. just
come in which must be set in the biggest type, \
'or the customer says he will not pay for it! ”
(The “ Situation in Europe ” was more re-
assuring in that issue).
A \^oX
: \>n[
mising start, anyhowd S 1 calJ ma3t ing a pro-
The newest “ function ” which the N.S.W
• Goyernor is called upon to perform is to give the
ha PPy dispatch to sharks caught in Sydney
Harbor. The shark is chained up by the .tail, and
the Gov. is sent for and “ does the rest ” —while
the shark has the sweet satisfaction of dying at
the hands of the Nicest people and in the nicest
way. The Bulletin is not aware that his Ex.
has yet been called upon to “ open ’’ any shark so
captured and killed.
“ Mr. Garrard, N.S.W. Minister for Public
Instruction, believes in the teaching of swim-
ming to boys attending the Public Schools of
the province. He states that he will attend
every swimming-carnival held within reason-
able distance from Sydney.”— Sydney D.T.
Pious Jake also “believes” in elements
banV ire warranted not t 0 explode and go
THE USUAL COURSE OF TRUE LOVE IN
N.S.W
Jones, on his wedding, journey, meets his friend
Brown en route, and gives glowing account of the trip so
far. “ And where do you go next 1 ” inquires Brown.
“To the Divorce Court! ” says J ones.
extrJditioYof A thr»t e m G T r - 1 Want ’ itis said - has refuscd to move in the
&£SS& JSfrF -
SOME SYDNEY MATTERS.


PROSPECTUS of tile
Pikedale Proprietary Copper and Silver Mining Company
KTo LlablUty.
To be Registered as a No-Liability Company under the Companies Act.
CAPITAL - - - £120,000, in 120,000 SHARES of £1 EACH.
60,000 Shares are offered for Subscription at 2s. on application and 2s. on allotment, and calls, if required, not to exceed 3d. per share per month.
M non B n° f! 'J Subscribed Money to go to the credit of the Company, less flotation expenses.
oU,UUO -bully .Paid-up Shares to be issued to the Vendors in full payment of the Property.
Hon. JOHN ARCHIBALD
A. W. WHITTARD, Esq.,
, M.L.0., Warwick.
Stanthorpe.
Provisional Directors:
| G. M.' KIRK, Esq., J.P., Brisbane. |
H. BRACKER, Esq., J.P., Brisbane. |
J3aukers :
THE BANK OE NORTH QUEENSLAND, LIMITED.
Brokers :
THE MEMBERS OE THE BRISBANE STOCK EXCHANGE,
Secretary (pro. tern.) ;
HUBERT HARRIS, S 3 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
H. L. WHITE, Esq., Belltrees Station, Scone.
H. BENJAMIN, Esq., J.P., Warwick.
is bei ” ? , f ? rraed for the purpose of acquiring all the right, title, and estate of the Vendors (The
' • >,92S per, ‘ ® ob1 ’ and Sllver Mining Company) in portions No. 802 W. and 803 W. (each containing 80 acres,
S n D ID in ICO acres), County of Bentinck, Parish of Stanthorpe, held by registered lease under the provisions of
the Real Property Acts of 1861 and 1877," from Frederick Robert White, the registered proprietor thereof and
which lease is for the term of 21 years from the 30th day of October, 1896, and gives the lessee a right of renewal for
a further period of 10 years, together with all shafts, buildings, tools, &c., thereon. The principal conditions of the
lease are . That Mr. White is to receive, by way of rent or royalty, one-quarter of the net profits of working the
properties comprised in the said lease, but which rent or royalty is to be reduced to one-sixth on the expenditure of
a sum,' within three years, of £40,000 on the properties comprised in the said lease, which reduction is to have
relation back to the commencement of the lease. The agreement for sale provides (inter alia) that the Vendors shall
obtain, if this Company should require it, an independent lease of the said portions from the registered proprietor,
containing similar covenants with such modifications as are applicable in respect to the difference in the property
comprised or to be comprised in the existing and new lease respectively.
i e ,T he f °‘ l . owir !» do °uments can be inspected at the offices of the Secretary pro. tem. : —l. Agreement dated the
Ist day of March, made between the said Vendors and Hubert Harris for and on behalf of this Company being the
agreement for sale by the said Vendors; 2. Lease above referred to; 3. Proposed Memorandum and Articles of
Association.
The Mine has been actively at work for the last 12 months, a number of shafts sunk on the line of lode exposing
very large bodies of ore of very high values. A reverberatory furnace has also been erected, and about £3OOO worth
capital, so acquire the latest kind of furnaces and machinery.
n A PP e "defl are th ® reports of Mr. Q. H. Irvine, Metallurgist, of Brisbane, the Mining Commissioner, and Mr. W.
U. Koilda, the Managing Director. Also list of all assays of ore and matte made by Mr. Robert Mar (late Govern-
ment Analyst). As, however, the mine is situated only 20 miles from the Stanthorpe Railway Station, and only one
® J ourne y it can easily be inspected by anyone desirous of doing: so.
u u?,. n . ew Company to take over the two blocks as before mentioned, with all buildings, tools, machinery, &0., and
all liabilities, which vvill probably amount to £5OO, but will certainly not exceed £lOOO.
At any future time the property can be subdivided into four blocks of 40 acres each, and formed into four
separate companies, as 40 acres with the large quantities of ore contained therein is quite large enough for any one
company to work. 6 * 1
As the present proprietors intend to take up a good nnmber of the Contributing Shares, early application is
necessary. The allotment will be made according to priority of application.
The Provisional Directors reserve the right to declare the Company floated when in their opinion a sufficient
number of shares have been applied for.
Should the Company not be floated the application money will he returned in full.
Report of 4th February, 1898, by G. H. Irvine, Esq. (late Manager Mt. Morgan G.M. Co.)
The Directors, The Pikedale Copper, G., and S. Co., Ltd., Citt.
Dear Sirs,—
Acting under your instructions, I visited and inspected your copper and silver property (freehold) situated on
Pikedale Station, 21 miles W.S.W. from Stanthorpe. '
•i he '° de > wh j Cb runs N-NfW., with a slight dip to the W., has been exposed for a distance of fully a quarter of a
mile bv shafts and eosteens. These have proved the width of the lode to vary from 2ft. to 7ft., oarrving good copper
and silver contents. ’ J 6 6
Shaft C has been sunk at the extreme south, Shaft B 60ft. N. on the oourse of the lode, and Shaft A 92ft.
N. from B.
These have been sunk to a depth of 20,15, and 38ft. respectively, with an average width of 7ft., and from whioh
good ore was obtained, averaging 8 per cent, copper and 30oz. silver per ton.
„ No. l Shaft'is 85ft. N. of A., and has been sunk to a depth of 52ft. The ore body between walls has varied from
5 to 10ft. wide.
down a level S. was put in 38ft. and stoped to surface. At the same level N. was connected with No. 2
Shaft (56ft.), and stoped to surface.
From these stopes a large quantity of good ore has been obtained, varying from 2 per cent, copper and 20oz. of
silver to 13 per cent, copper and 90oz. silver, the average being 7 per cent, copper and 350 z. silver per ton.
On t^he face of the 52ft. level, going S., there is a fine chute of ore 4ft. 6in. wide, averaging 7 per cent, copper and
30oz. silver per ton.
On the N. end of this level the formation is fully 10ft. wide, carrying a chute of fair ore Sft. wide, varying from
2 7 per cent, copper and 14oz. silver to s’B per cent, copper and 420 z silver.
u N °'^u Sha£t , 1S 66 c ft ' N ' of N°; 1 > and , is sunk to a depth of 80ft., and averages 3ft. to 9ft. in width between the
walls. The quality of the ore during the sink varied from 2 per cent, copper and 17oz. silver to 7'3 per cent, copper
and 60oz. silver per ton. "
•i °P® n 'nj< drives N. and S. there is a good chute of ore, averaging 6 per cent, copper and 450 z.
silver, although the present faces, which are in 20ft. and 18ft. respectively, do not look so well, but will probably
improve on driving. In the S., the ore body measures 3ft. 6in., averaging 3.4 per oent. copper and 12oz. silver.
No. 6 Shaft is sunk in disturbed country, about 900 ft. N. from No. 2. The reason of this disturbance is a
fault takes place in the proximity of No. 4 Shaft, and has thrown the lode about a chain to the west.
Abe shaft (No. 5) has been sunk 52ft., carrying good ore, varying from U per cent, copper and lOoz. silver
to 16 per cent, copper and 118 oz. silver.
At 27 ft. down, adrive has been put in S. 40ft., and crosscuts E. and W. 14ft. and 16ft. respectively, without
meeting the walls. These have exposed a large body of gossany ore, averaging about 4 per cent, copper and 16oz.
j-m SM w LTIN -n'l NI) Fl ( ux ® 3 ;— The character of the ore at present exposed does not lead me to expect that any
difficulty will be met with in producing a good matte. In fact, your ores are nearly self-fluxing, with the excep-
tion of a small addition of limestone, which you have already at hand in quantity.
.... , j ... quantity.
At the same time, before considering and deciding the most economic mode of treatment, I would strongly
advocate sinking to a further depth of 100 ft. from the bottom of No. 2 Shaft and putting in the necessary drives,
to prove the quantity and nature of your ore at that depth.
In reviewing the state of affairs regarding the Pikedale Copper and Silver property, the good grade ore,
and .their occurrence in considerable quantities, so far as can be judged from the present workings, I am of
opinion that it warrants the further expenditure of a considerable sum for development as suggested. When this has
been accomplished, and the nature and body of ore exposed at this depth, it will be then time enough for you to
consider the best and most economic means for the treatment of same.
Mining Commissioner’s Report.
PIKEDALE SILVER MINE.
In my last report I referred to this mine as just opened and in its infancy, but since then it has been considerably
developed, and the mineral is similar to that found at the Silver Spur. It is known as the Pikedale Copper, Gold
and Sliver Mining Company, and is a freehold on the Pikedale Station, 20 miles from Stanthorpe. Active work was
P^°P er *'y i twelve months ago, and various shafts, five in number, have been sunk, varying in
■ P 40 £e „ e , fc / 0n J the lode the two extreme shafts are a quarter of a mile apart. The ore exposed varies
m width from sft. to 10ft., and averages 320 z. of silver per ton, and copper 5.72 per cent. A reverberatory furnace
was erected to experiment on the ore, but was not found to be successful, and the Company now contemplate
increasing the capital m order to more fully develop" the mine, further experiment on the ore treatment, and obtain
the best metallurgical advice thereon before deciding on any particular method of treatment. Meanwhile, the work
or? i i pending the completion of the newly-proposed financial arrangements. I may mention that something like
850 tons of ore has been put through the furnace, and 100 tons of matte obtained of an estimated value of £4 2s. 6d. on
the ton of ore. This is considered very satisfactory, especially when the mechanical troubles are taken into considera-
tion, with respeot to the constant stopping of the smelting for repairs owing to defective bricks, and then again the
estimated loss in calcining before smelting is calculated at 20 per cent. This loss will be obviated should the ore be
found amenable to the Pyritic Smelting process, such as is used at the Mount Lyell Mine in Tasmania, and so far as
the'experiments have gone they tend to prove that the above process will be adopted.
Manager s Report of July 19th, 1897.
Summary of work done from the commencement (January last) to date.
Oosteening work was carried on for the first two or three weeks, which exposed the lode in various places along
the surface one, varying from two feet to seven feet wide for a quarter of a mile in length. Although we have a length
u* U »i otle m u reef, operations have been necessarily confined to one fourth of this length, because of the
short time we have been working, besides it being advisable to concentrate the labor in order to get some stoping
• op u er l ’ doubt, judging from the strong character of the lode, but what the ore will live through-
\ 0 j • , „ The most southern shaft (known as B shaft) is in about the centre of the property (comprising
160 acres), and is fully a quarter of a mile distant from the most northern shaft (No. 5), which is now down over 40ft.
There are intervening shafts down on the lode from 50 to 70ft. deep, and although the lode on the surface was only
three feet thick in places, yet the deeper we sink the wider the ore becomes.
® shaft is 16ft. deep ; lode 7ft. wide, of good value. No. 1 Bhaft which is two chains, Nof B shaft is down over
50ft., and carries 10ft. of clean ore in the bottom, and still widening; the first stope we took out over the 50ft.
averaged fully 10ft. wide.
No. 2 shaft 90ft., north of No. 1, is down 70ft., and has averaged from 3ft. in width to 9ft., the present width in
the bottom being Sft. between walls. These two shafts are still being sunk by two shifts of men and horse whip.
No. 6 shaft, at the north end of workings, we are sinking in the lode without any walls ; the ore body must be of
immense width here, as at the 27ft. depth (sulphide level) a drive w'as put in South about 40ft., and crosscuts E. and
W. put in for 14ft. ana loft, each, without meeting any walls. I am convinced there are vast deposits of ore at this
end of the mine, therefore stored prospecting at the shallow level and resnnied sinking the s.haft, which is now
down 40 feet; am still sinking. You will notice that at the 27ft. level we have gone through ore 30ft. wi
without meeting either wall, the material assaying in bulk 16ozs. silver per ton, a little gold, and 4.0 per
rw>» f.n tVi o oho ft t tin nro to onlnhiilaa n •« 1.... ...1 • 1 , n,, ~ . r .
ide (all oxide)
cent, of cop-
per. In the shaft the ore is sulphides, and is improving in value as sunk upon. The assays varying from the 27ft.
level to the 40ft., from 27 to 31oz. silver and 5.0 per cent, to 7.0 per cent, copper ; nothing iike a wall has been seen in
this shaft since the 20ft. depth was passed, one wall going E. and the other VV.
All the ore raised and exposed at the Southern portion of our workings (includes B, A, and Nos. 1 and 2 shafts)
are sulphides (even to the surface), and will average in width nine feet (with every appearance of still further widen-
ing as depth is attained), the value in bulk being over 30oz. silver per ton, a little gold, and 6 per cent, to 7 per cent,
copper.
i umace, uui, 1 would like to araw your attention to tne tact
“that the plant is not near large enough to deal with the immense quantities of ore contained in the mine,” and I
would earnestly advise you to take the necessary steps to increase the capital of the Company, so that the mine
development may be pushed ahead and sufficient and suitable furnaces erected as such a mine as this assuredly
warrants.
At present we are smelting about 70 tons per week, including fluxes, but arrangements should be made to deal
tvith at least ten times this quantity.
Please find assayer’s list of mine and furnace work assays, from which you will gain some idea of the great value
of the mine. I may mention that the mine samples are always taken in bulk.
Fluxbs. —We have plenty of calcite In the mine for this purpose, and the small quantity of iron, that is required
we oart from a big: ironstone lode seven miles distant.
W. G. RODDA.
Assay of Mattes from the Pikedale Copper, Gold, and Silver Mining' Company.
General Matte, June 8, 1897—Silver, 138 oz. 6dwt. 20gr.; Copper, 42.0 per cent.
Matte Seconds, June B—Silver,8 —Silver, 640 z. lldwt. lgr.; Copper, 14.6 per cent.
General Matte, June 9—Silver, 1420 z. 14dwt. 6gr.; Copper, 26.6 per cent.
General Matte, June 10 —Gold, 6dwt. 12gr.; Silver, 119 oz. 4dwt. 12gr. ; Copper, 29 per cent.
General Matte, June 12—Silver, 201 oz. 17dwt. 14gr. ; Copper, 29.4 per cent.
General Matte, June 13—Gold, 3oz. 18dwt. 9gr. ; Silver, 2890 z. 15dwt. llgr. ; Copper, 42.8 per cent.
General Matte, June 16 —Gold, loz. 6dwt. 2gr. ; Silver, 184 oz. 4dwt. 20gr.; Copper, 29.4 per cent.
General Matte, June 17 —Silver, 1590 z. 18dwt. lgr. ; Copper, 26.8 per cent.
General Matte, June 19 —Silver, 2060 z. 9dwt. lgr. ; Copper, 41.8 per bent.
Eirst Shipment Matte, June 19 —Gold, 7dwt. 4gr.; Silver, 1430 z. 7dwt. 12gr. ; Copper, 32.6 per cent.
General Matte, June 21—Gold, loz. 6dwt. 2gr. ; Silver, 1770 z. 7dwt. lOgr.; Copper, 89.6 per cent.
General Matte, June 23—Silver, 182 oz. 18dwt. 16gr.; Copper, 38.64 per cent.
General Matte, June 30 —Silver, 300 oz. lOdwt. 16gr.; Copper, 41.37 per cent.
General Matte, July I—Silver, 2120 z. 19dwt. 7gr; Copper, 41.9 per cent.
General Matte, July 3—Silver, 2090 z. ldwt. Bgr. ; Copper, 41.8 per cent.
General Matte, July 6 —Silver, 198 oz. 12dwt. 6gr. ; Copper, 47.06 per oent.
General Matte, July 7—Silver, 2220 z. 2dwt. 16gr. ; Copper, 49 per cent.
General Matte, July B—Silver,8 —Silver, 2150 z 12dwt. ; Copper, 47.25 per cent.
General Matte, July 9—Silver, 218 oz. 4dwt. 6gr.; Copper, 42.8 per cent.
Second Shipment Matte —Gold, Bdwt. 7gr. ; Silver, 2220 z. 16dwt. 17gr. ; Copper, 42.2 percent.
General Matte, July 12 —Silver, 2220 z. 3d\vt. 16gr. ; Copper, 31.25 per cent.
General Matte, July 13 —Silver, 2Q4oz. Sdwt. Bgr. ; Copper, 34.45 per cent.
General Matte, July 13(AfternoonTapping)—Silver, 1790 z. 12dwt. Bgr. ; Copper, 29.85 percent.
Assay of Ores.
Bulk Sample, half Gossan, half Sulphide—Silver, 490 z. 3dwt. 6gr.; Copper, 8.4 per cent.
fines (Sulphide) from general heaps below Dressing Floor —Silver, 220 z. 17dwt. Bgr.; Copper, 6 per cent.
econds, right hand side of Dressing Floor—Silver, 60oz. 6dwt. 22gr.; Copper, 6.8 per cent.
Special Sample—Silver, 2oz. 12dwt. 16gr.; Copper, 16.2 per cent.
From Foot Wall—Gold, 6dwt. 12gr. ; Silver, 38oz. 17dwt. lOgr.; Copper, 19.4 per cent.
From Hanging Wall—Gold, Bdwt. 6gr.; Silver, 340 z. 18dwt. 6gr. i Copper, 7 per cent.
Fines from B. Shaft—Silver, lOoz. 2dwt. lOgrs.; Copper, 12.3 per cent.
From Second Heap below B shaft—Silver, 88oz. 7dwt. 16grs.; Copper, 8 per cent.
From Third Heap below B Shaft—Silver, 16oz. 6dwt. 16grs.
Oxide Ore, top side B Shaft (bulk)—Silver, 81oz. 7dwt. 4grs.; Copper, 6.6 per cent.
Bulk Sample, B Shaft—Silver, 20oz. 6dwt. lgr. ; Copper, 7.2 per cent.
No. 1 Sample, Limestone Shaft—Silver loz. 19dwt. 4grs. ; Copper 0.16 per cent.
No. 2 Sample—Silver, Bozs. 19dwt. 16grs.; Copper, 4.84 per cent.
Grey Ore from Trenoh opposite Creek—Silver, 7oz. lOdwt. 6grs.
Sulphide Ore, No. 5 Shaft—Silver, Sloz. 7dwt. 4grs. ; Copper, 4.5 per cent.
Limestone Ore, No. 2 Shaft (prospecting)—Silver, lloz. 15dwt. 4gr.; Copper, 1.9 per oent.
Sulphide Ore, No. 6 Shaft—Silver, 360 z. lldwt. 7gr.; Copper, 12.75 per oent.
No. 2 Sample, South Trenoh—Silver, Soz. Bdwt. 14gr.
Oxide Ore—Silver, 16oz. 19dwt. 17gr. ; Copper, 17.65 per oent.
Oxide Ore, from Furnace Shed—Silver, 330 z. 19dwt. lOgr. ; Copper, 13.25 per cent.
Roasted Ore from Furnace Shed—Silver, 390 z. 4dwt. ; Copper, 7.9 per cent.
Samples from Cross Course—Silver, 14oz. 7dwt. lOgr. ; Copper, 18.4 per cent.
Sample of 2 Tons of Ore—Silver, lloz. 16dwt. 4gr.; Copper, 13.7 per cent.
Samples of Black Ore in Tip-Silver, 13oz. ldwt. Bgr. ; Copper, 19.05 per cent.
Samples last Fines, end of General Heap—Silver, 90oz. 3dwt. 4gr; Copper, 7.0 per cent.
Samples Seconds, below General Heap—Silver, 270 z. Bdwt. 18gr.; Copper, 11.55 per cent.
Roasted Ore (large Kiln), Below A Shaft—Silver, 41oz. x6dwt. 6gr. ; Copper, 13.6 per cent.
Bulk Sample B Shaft—Silver, 41oz. 16dwt. 6qr. ; Copper, 18.65 per cent.
Samples from Bine Sulphide—Silver, 18oz. Sdwt. 20gr.
Heap S end of Mine—Copper, 7.75 per cent.
Roughs from No. 5 Shaft—Silver, 520 z. Sdwt. Bgr. ; Copper, 4.6 per cent.
Prospecting Sample Pyrites, No. 5 Shaft—Silver, 13oz. ldwt. Bgr. ; Copper, 12.75 per cent.
Ore from Hanging Wall, No. 1 Shaft—Silver, 360 z. lldwt. 7gr. ; Copper, 12.75 per cent.
Fines from Hanging Wall, No. 1 Shaft —Silver, 41oz. 6dwt. 16gr. ; Copper, 6.55 per oent.
Black Oxide Mud, No. 5 Shaft—Silver, 41oz. 6dwt. 16gr.; Copper, 7.2 per cent.
Black Fines, No. 5 Shaft—Silver, 19oz. 12dwt. ; Copper, 5.5 per cent.
Roasted Fines, various heaps—Silver, 350 z. sdwt. 14gr.; Copper, 7.4 per cent.
Bulk Sample, No. 2 Shaft—Silver, 28oz. 14dwt. 22gr. ; Copper, 6.4 per cent.
Prosp. Sample Lime Ore, B Shaft—Silver, 390 z. 4dwt. Ogr. ; Copper, 7.65 per cent.
First Sample Fines, No. 6 Shaft—Silver, 220 z. 4dwt. 6gr. ; Copper, 5.62 per cent.
Second Sample Fines, No. 6 Shaft—Silver, 20oz. 18dwt. 2gr. : Copper, 0.4 per cent.
Fines, No. 1 Shaft—Silver, 350 z. sdwt. 14gr. ; Copper, 4.12 per cent.
Ore, No. 4 Shaft, North—Silver, 28oz. 14dwt. 22gr.; Copper, 2.0 per cent.
Ore in Furnace Floor—Copper, 4.3 per oent.
Bulk Samples, No. 2 Shaft—Silver, 40oz. lOdwt. 2gr. ; Copper, 3.3 per cent.
Bulk Sample Fines, No. 1 Shaft-Silver, 31oz. 7dwt. 4gr.; Copper, 3.68 per cent.
Samples, North Stope, No. 1 Shaft—Silver, 460 z. 14dwt. 16gr. ; Coppet, 8.32 per cent.
Sample from Face, South Stope, No. 1 Shaft—Silver, 450 z. 14dwt. 16gr.; Copper, 5.92 per cent.
Sample from South Stope—Silver, 390 z. 4dwt. Ogr. ; Copper, 8.96 per cent.
Sample from South Level, No. 1 Shaft—Silver, 330 z. 19dwt. lOgr.; Copper, 1.6 per cent.
Sample Oxide Ore from Furnace Shed—Silver, 450 z. 14dwt. 16gr.; Copper, 5.6 per oent.
Roasted Ore, Furnace Shed—Silver, 520 z. sdwt. Bgr.; Copper, 6.08 per cent.
Bulk Sample, B. Shaft—Silver, 220 z. 4dwt. 6gr.; Copper, 9.52 per cent.
Oxide Ore, Furnace Shed —Silver, 17oz. 12dwt. 18gr ; Copper, 6.64 per cent.
Roasted Ore, Furnace Shed—Silver, 330 z. 19dwt. lOgr.; Copper, 4.56 per oent.
Samples Roughs (bulk) from New Kiln—Silver, 20oz. 18dwt. 2gr.; Copper, 6.08 per cent.
Oxide Ore from Furnace Shed—Silver, 40oz. 16dwt. 16gr.; Copper, 4.4 per cent.
Brisbane, Ist March, 1898. (Signed) ROBERT MAR, Assayer.
N.B. Even before the issue of Prospectus, heavy applications for Shares have been received, and the float is fully
assured. It is advisable to apply at once by letter or wire, as Shares are to be allotted according to priority of
application.
FORI OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Provisional Directors of
The Pikedale Proprietary Copper & Silver* Mining Co.,
NO LIABILITY.
Gentlemen ,
I hereby apply for
Shares in the abovenamed Company in terms of Prospectus, and I hand you herewith the
sum of pounds shillings, being
application money for Shares.
Name in full_
Address
Occupation (if any)
Usual Signature
Dated at
this
day of _
IS9
Witness to Signature


; miMjTjWO
Dr. Helms, M.A.F.C.S., Consulting and Analytical Chemist. 8 Bridge-street, Sydney, Feb. 1, 1898.
Messrs. FISHER & CO.
Gentlemen, —I have examined your preparation Mighty ** Alok,” and find that it contains, beside Kola Nut, only pure vegetable
drugs having well-known tonic properties. Yours faithfully, A. HELMS.
Mr. J. L. Jacobsen, Champion Chess Player of Australasia, forwards unsolicited the following testimonial, which speaks for itself:
School of Arts, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —As a cure for brain weariness and lassitude I have proved Mighty “ Alok ” a marvellous tonic, A dose before com-
mencing enables me to endure the arduous strain of match-play with little fatigue. I consider it a boon to brain workers, and heartily
recommend it to all chess players. J* -k* JACOBSEN.
WHAT A CHAMPION CHESS PLAYER SAYS ABOUT MIGHTY “ ALOK.”
Messrs. FISHER and CO. Hazellworth, January 7th, 1898.
Dear Sirs, —I have pleasure in testifying that when upset by the cares of business or by the ten-
sion of a refractory chess battle, I have found your excellent preparation “ ALOK ” soothing to the
nerves and invigorating to the body. It is truly a mighty tonic.
Yours faithfully, WM. CRANE, Jun.
AN ENGLISH ATHLETE’S TESTIMONY.
Messrs. FISHER and CO. Thickthorn, Moore Park, January 7th, 1898.
Gentlemen, —It is only common gratitude on my part to let you know the great benefit I have
derived from your KOLA NUT preparations. As an old and successful athlete in the old country, I
have naturally tried many strength-conferring beverages, but consider your latestproduction, “Mighty
Alok ” to be peerless. Faithfully yours, CHARLES S. DAVIS.
Messrs. FISHER and CO.
Tahiti, Society Islands.
Dear Sirs,—l have been suffering from a severe attack of Influenza, which left me in a very low
state, accompanied with pains in the head and back. Having tried many other medicines without
obtaining relief, resolved to take your Mighty “ ALOK,” and after a few doses all the pains left me,
and in a very short time felt quite myself again. I cannot speak too highly of ALOK as a
strengthening Tonic after Influenza. TAURAATUO SALMON.
Lackey-street, Summer Hill.
Messrs. FISHER and CO. . . , T . , ~ ATrvK - » „ -
Dear Sirsl have tried several Tonics, but find none equal your Mignty ALOK, which is a
wonderful appetiser, and think it without an equal. t 1 T BURKE
For Reviving the Liver & Brain,
and Restoring Vigor.
The most successful “ Pick-me-up ” known. It makes the
weak active and strong. Sad men and women are made '
cheerful and happy. FISHER * CO’S TONIC, with Soda
Water, before meals is the most beneficial Refresher and <
Appetiser in the World. Cyclists, Singers, and Public
Speakers “ swear by it.” During sultry and oppressive '
weather it is a great boon to the ladies. Thousands of
ladies drink it when shopping in town. '
The Talk of the Town. <
The Drink of the Season. •
Unintoxicating.
It Cures Indigestion, Dyspepsia,.
All Stomach. Troubles, and
MAKES YOU EAT!
A SPLENDID PREPARATION FOR STRENGTHENING
THE NERVES AND HEART.
ACTION ON THE HEART.—Professor Heekel states
that Kola, by the Caffeine and Theobromine which it con-
tains, is a tonic of the heart, whose pulsation it accele-
rates, while it increases its power and regulates its con-
tractions. Professor Heekel further points out that the
principle called Kolaine contained in Kola prevents rapid
waste of the tissues during fatiguing exertions, while the
Caffeine stimulates the muscles.
PNEUMONIA.—Worry kills businessmen. Heavy losses
and hard times make them depressed in spirits. The brain
and body become weak ; unknown to them they are de-
bilitated. It is then that the least chill strikes them, and
pneumonia carries them off. To fortify the system and
make the spirits buoyant, nothing can equal Fisher and
Co’s famous Kola Nut Tonic. It is the most remarkable
invigorator and sustainer known.
DIARRHCEA.—Dr. Durian and Dr. Cunio have both re-
ported cures in rebellious diarrhoea under the use of Kola.
A recent issue of the Planters’ Monthly contains a
description of this remarkable Nut and its uses:—“Kola
has the property of staying hunger, whilst supporting the
struggle for existence. If a supply of nuts had been in-
cluded in Mr. Stanley’s outfit, his men would not have
suffered so terribly for want of animal food. As might be
expected, the value of Kola increases as it makes its way
into the interior of Africa, and some of the tribes furthest
removed from the sea pay for the dry powder an equal
weight of gold-dust. In a despatch from Mr. George
Alexander Stevens, Her Majesty’s consul at Bahia, he calls
attention to the great powers of endurance in lifting
heavy loads and transporting them to long distance in the
tropical climate, attributed to the free use of Kola Bean.
An old African, after biting a piece of the magic bean,
lifted 179 English pounds weight on to his head and
carried the same for a distance of four miles.”
“ Still another merit is named, however, which will in-
terest the temperance party. The negroes who chew
Kola Nut have no desire to drink rum, and hence save
money and retain strength.”
Dr. LEON ERNEST MONNET, Paris, reportsl
gave a strong infusion of Kola Nut to a railroad track-
layer, who was suffering from ‘blue devils’ (hypochon-
dria) extremely, and within two hours he felt like going
to his hard duties, and laughed and talked.”
This TONIC acts with the most remarkable
rapidity in restoring a weakened Stomach, Im-
paired Digestion, Torpid Liver, Debility, and in
Reviving the Brain from the effects of Overwork
and Fatigue. It Stimulates and strengthens the
entire Muscular System, acting like magic, and
rouses into Vigor and Health the whole Physical
Energy of the Human Economy. To enable one
to enjoy a meal, a dose taken an hour or so before
immensely sharpens the appetite. With Soda
Water, before breakfast, it is the most beneficial
drink in the world. It has a most marvellous
effect in Checking the Craving for Alcohol, in
many cases haying restored Inebriates to their
Normal Conditions of Life.
4
LEAVES
a doocf
press\°®
m
%
y\.
i
f
u
y,
VU)
s<o
•<r
30
5&Si?
X *
c~
<r
.jNt
%
3*2
=7 a
> 1
-utt
FISHER and CO.,
Manufacturers and Proprietors of the Famous
Kola Nut Tonic
Which makes you Eat and makes you Strong, beg to
intimate that in addition to the present form of their
Tonic, which is a Bitter One, they have placed on the
Market the same Tonic with all its virtues and pro-
perties in a
SWEET FORM.
This will be known and distinguished by the name
“A.LOK ”
(REGISTERED).
Waiter: What can I serve you with, sir?
Customer: “ Oh! my favorite reviver—
“ ALOK,” with a little soda water.
ASK your CHEMIST, ASK your GROCER,
ASK your HOTELKEEPER
FOR
“ALOK.”
Mighty “ALOK” is a Mighty TONIC.
This Form of our Famous KOLA NUT TONIC
is exceedingly
Palatable and Strengthening .
You are oonscious of its BITTERNESS, but
can barely discern it.
IT GOES DOWN LIKE MOTHER’S MILK.
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH
WALES:
TOOTH & CO.
J. T. & J. TOOHEY.
CORNWALL’S AUSTRA-
LIAN BREWERY.
RESCH’S WAVERLEY
BREWERY.
CASTLEM AINE BREWERY
and WOOD BROS., New-
MAITLAND BREWING
CO., Maitland.
E. ROWLANDS, Darling
Harbor.
ELLIOTT BROS.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ANTHONY HORDERN &
SONS, Haymarket.
CIVIL SERVICE CO OPER.
SOCIETY, Pitt-street.
F. LASSETTER & CO.,
George-street.
STEWART & CO., Kent-st.
SANDEMAN, Pitt-street.
D’ARCY & CO., George-st.
SAYWELL & CO., York-st.
DE LISSA & CO., Barrack-
A. THOMPSON & CO.,
Pitt-street.
N. SHELLEY, York-street.
TUCKER & CO., George-st.
COOPER, NATHAN & CO.,
Clarence-street.
B. B. NICHOLL & CO.,
Deans-place.
J. LISTER & CO., Spring-
street.
FESQ & CO., Pitt-street.
LUCAS BROS., Macquarie-
place.
CHAS. BATH & CO.,
Bridge-street.
BROWN & CO., Spring-st
TILLMANS & CO., Clarence-
street.
HUDDART, PARKER and
CO., Pitt-street.
SEGUR, Pitt-street.
P. M'INTOSH & CO., Car-
rington-street.
P. McMAHON, Macquarie
Bond.
HOCKING & CO., Pitt-st.
RENARD & CO., Kent-st.
HOFFNUNG & CO., Pitt-st.
0. & J. B. WATSON, York-
D. COHEN & CO., Spring-
street and Newcastle.
HALL & SONS, Newcastle.
WOLFE, PRENTICE & CO.,
West Maitland.
E. RICH & CO., O’Connell-
street.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF
and CO., Barrack-street.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
Clarence-street.
MYERS & SOLOMON,
Market-street.
JNO. CONNELL & CO.,
Kent-street.
JULIUS LEVY, Angel-place.
TILLOCK & CO,, George-st.
COHEN & LEVY, Tam worth.
HOLDSWORTH, MAO-
PHERSON & CO., George-
HANKS & CO., George-et.
S. BENNETT & 00., George-
street.
JAMES KIDMAN, George-
street.
HART & FIRKIN, New-
castle.
IE YOU DO NOT SPECIALLY ORDER “ ALOK ” THE TONIC WILL BE SUPPLIED AS HITHERTO—IN ITS
BITTER FORM. IN EVERY HOTEL AND REFRESHMENT ROOM, WITH SODA WATER.
“ALOK,” 6d. per (Hass. 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for “Alok” (Registered) Mighty Alok.
>♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦****************
FISHER & GO., Sole proprietors m manufacturers,
Pharmacy: 337 George-street (nearly opp. GPO), Sydney.
MIGHTY “ALOK” IS A MIGHTY TONIC. MIGHTY “ALOK” IS A MIGHTY TONIC. MIGHTY “ALOK” IS A MIGHTY TONIC. MIGHTY “ALOK” IS A MIGHTY TONIC.
ASK FOR ALOK. ASK FOR ALOK. ASK FOR ALOK. ASK lOK ALOK.


Smoke
MANUFACTURED IN AMERICA.
Wholesale only:
ALEXANDER CAMERON,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
S«cr*ts of S(icc*s&-
Poor Stoddart’s “got the needle,”
’Cos a win he didn’t see;
How different it might ha’ been
Had they trained on HILLY TEA.
We hope that soon he may regain
His usual good humour;
But the Secret of Our Hoys’ Success
Is POJDAII and GItAJfUMA.
Drink “BILLY” TEA
“ d Eat GRANTJMA.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
tW Stiies Held at. the Auction ltooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
W alike Bkaulky Sl Co., 334 George-st.
“ Always Take Mother’s Advice.”
My mother advised me try Warner’s Safe Cure
and Warner's Safe Nervine when I was very ill
with influenza and its aftereffects, after my doctor
said he could do no more for me, and gave me six
months to live. I took two bottles of Warner’s
Safe Cure and three of Safe Nervine, when, T am
pleased to say, I was completely cured. ’ Long
Gully, Vic., Nov. Ist, 18D7. (Mrs.) \V. liQWE
POLITICAL
POINTS
Q. N. B. : Quod needed-badly.
Telegram to Convention, “Thanks.”—
Gabriel-.
“ Nevermind ! he is a long way off and
bedriddei), anyhow.”
The missionary is a person who ringbarks
savage races in the interests of the trader.
The Victorian House of 48 Rich Land-
lords always starts proceedings with the Lord’s
prayer. “Some of the members are beginning to
know it now,” says Alfred Deakin.
Vic. : “ Vic. Government has ukased that
no more grocers’ grog-licenses are to be issued.
At the recent Melb. licensed-victuallers’ picnic
there was serious talk about an onslaught on this
iniquity.
In re the S.A. Conventionist views on
deadlocks and two Chambers, an S.A. Governor—
Macdonnell—of nearly 40 years ago contended that
the only way S.A. could be safe from deadlocks
was to have only one Chamber.
There is a movement towards the re-con-
solidation of the miners’ associations of N.S.W.,
Vic., Tas., and W. A. Atone time they formed
a complete organisation, but disruptions, due
chiefly to political differences, occurred some years
ago.
Barton’s replies to interjections in Con-
vention are often brutally rough. Thus, Trenwith
pointed out, in the course of a speech by Barton,
that two clauses under discussion “ both dealt
with procedure.” Barton: “And a man and a
goat are both beasts, but it does not follow that
they are the same thing.” Barton flies to zoology
in supreme moments. On a former occasion,
speaking of his own temper, he quoted Shakes-
peare’s passa-e, commencing, “O, Cassius, you
are yoked with a lainb.”
QUID PRO QUO.
SQUATTER : “It's time you put that fence, up, Macpherson; I’m about tired of impound-
ing your cattle.”
SELECTOR : “ W eel — it’s no tired I am o’ yairdin’ yours."
Noticeable that Gold-cure Caulfield has
got nearly every get-atable N.S.W. politician to
give nominal countenance to his temperance
lecture, with the exception of three or four on
whom the cold blast of public opinion has been
blowing lately. Caulfield knows his book by
heart.
Victor : “The Siberian railway will bring
Australia seven days nearer London. Does any-
one suppose the clock of the world can be put
lack, so as to prevent Australia from taking
advantage of that? And scan the illimitable
vistas of trade ! ”
To-day's bold advocates for the absolute
equitableness of an income-tax—Ministers Brun-
ker Gould, Young, Carruthers, Garrard, and
Sydney Smith—all voted against G. R. Dibbs’
Income Tax Bill of 1893. Political opportunism
ratally blighted their sense of equity then.
The Victorian Government may shortly
propose to finance the new policy of “ reproduc-
tive expenditure ” with a loan of 2 or 3 millions—
3, probably. Premier George Turner has, in a
manner of speaking, put his hat on the back of his
head, and made up his legal mind to “go it.
dammy !
Is there no bright, live, young Australian
human man in N.S. Wales who can go up and
cook that cold-blooded political spider, Just-
ice Minister Gould at the forthcoming general
election ? that icy, pious, pulseless, fleshless
prosy administrator of Botany Bay justice accord-
ing to the la ws of Red Tape.
Attorney - General Isaacs announces that
Vic. Govt, will make another effort to pass the
Female Franchise Bill next session. The last
effort was wrecked in the House of 48 Rich Land-
lords, where most of the good intentions of the Vic.
Government are broken up .small, to make mac-
adam for the roadways of perdition.
Premier Nelson intimated on his way to
Melbourne to the Council of Premiers that if the
federal Convention pays any serious attention to
the separate claims of Central and Northern
Queensland to be heard at the Convention,
Queensland, that is his Queensland, will turn her
back on the whole scheme of Federal Union.
The alien vote for Divisional Boards in
N.Q. is becoming a matter for serious considera-
tion. There are districts wherein the Chow vote
turns the scale at every board election now.
European landlords manipulate their yellow and
piebald tenants to oust members thev don’t like.
They’ll find very shortly the same vote used to
oust themselves.
Rumored among people “ who generally
know” that, when the numbers go up, Dibbs will
be found leading the anti-Reid party at N.B.W.
general-election. <“ The straw ” that shows may
be found between the lines of A. G. Taylor's
articles in Australian Star. Lyne has the con-
fidence Of the cookies ; Dibbs that of the Sydney
mercantile community.
J o u rnal-
ist: The car-
ol in a 1 mis-
take of the
Argus, the
parting of
its ways,
was in losing
Hi gin hoth-
ain as editor.
Edward Wil-
son found in
hi in a man
after h is own
lie art, and
H iginboth-
ani began to
lay the foun-
dation of a
solid edifice,
based on
Li beralism,
which would
have cut the
ground from
under the
Symes. But
the Mackin-
non interest
found that
II igi n both-
am would not
do; they
m ust have
the cast-iron
and archaic,
wherefore he
d e parted
with a rankle
which did
not fail to
manifest it-
self when he
was Attor-
ney-General.
The Argus
said a state-
ment by Pre-
mier M‘Cul-
loch “bristled with falsehood,” and Hi", had the
pleasure of bottling up publisher Dill in the
Parliamentary stone jug.
Dear Bulletin. —ThePolice Commissioner
at Wellington (M.L.) recently stated that there
were so many cases of immorality, seduction and
heartless abandonment charged against the police
that he would not go into them for the sake of the
unfortunate women who would be thereby
exposed. He would confine himself to the
charges dealing with incapacity, assaults, em-
bezzlement, drunkenness and thieving. In many
cases men who were convicted of these offences
were reinstated by political influence. What a
lovely police force we have !— Maori.
Seeing that Sydney Truth practically
accused Lands-Minister Carruthers of (inter alia )
political dishonesty ; and that, although backed
to a remarkable degree by the whole force of the
Crown Law authorities, Carruthers could not suc-
ceed in convincing a jury that Editor Norton
should be punished for criminal libel ; and seeing,
also, that it is now definitely announced that Car-
ruthers (or the Crown Law Office) isn't going to
try further to convince a jury, etc., but is going
to sit down under the stigma ; —question is, What
is Carruthers going to do about it politically ?
MELTING THE TAR.
SCENE : Quartet-deck of H.M.S. Furoso. Afternoon
dance well under weigh. Society girl vainly try-
ing to make First Lieutenant talk.
SHE : “I suppose you adore your delightful profes-
sion?"
1ST. LIEUT. (all duty and bashfulness): “Well, yes.
I am very fond of it.”
SHE (still hopeful): “And do you like a storm?”
1ST. LIEUT. (as before): “No."
SHE (despairing but determined): “Ah, then you
must simply worship this divine day? Doesn't
it make you feel that we should make use of
every hour of it? ”
1ST. LIEUT. (brightening up on a congenial topic):
“ That’s just what I told the skipper this [?]
ing. I said, ‘ Here we are, sir, with a ripping
day for scrubbing hammocks and washing
clothes, and what are we doing with it? Why,
just dirtying the decks and’ (left talking).
Among Premier Forrest’s crowd of tame
disciples from W. A. the most amusing joke is A.
11. Henning, one-time an Adelaide lawyer. Hen-
ning—brother to the Black Flag magnate—is one
of Leg. Councillors for Coolgardie, and he
got pushed into Forrest’s Federal team at the last
moment, to fill a gap. From his first appearance
as a make-weight at the Melb. Convention up to
time of writing, Henning hasn’t uttered a word —
not even a mild “ heah, heah.”
Queensland Govt, has time and again
reiterated that its Kanaka-recruiting agents are
most capable and reliable men bent on doing their
duty properly. The other day a ship reached
Queensland with 14 “boys” on board, not one of
whom was over 13 years of age ! Apparently, the
men are all used up on the islands, and the black-
birders have to fall back on children. Medical
officers at Maryborough and Bundaberg inspected
these babes, and promptly condemned the sample
as being unfit even for cane-field manure. Now,
where was that recruiting agent, when boys were
shipped, and who was lie and is he to go recruiting
again ?
The clause which now most wants to be
inserted in the Federal Constitution is one pro-
viding that any powers which the Convention has
forgotten to define shall be assumed to belong to
the Commonwealth, and not to the States. The
biggest mistake of all—the ghastly blunder which
has pervaded the entire proceedings—is this : The
Constitution provides that certain defined powers
shall belong to the Commonwealth, while all other
powers, defined or undefined, rest with the States.
It should have been the other way about; the
Constitution Act should simply have provided
that certain powers shall be left to the States, and
that all other authority shall belong to the
Federal Government. In other words, the States
now get the benefit of the doubt, whereas the
Commonwealth should have it.
Germany’s most important ac-
quisition in China is the undying
hatred of Russia for obstructing the
southward march of that rapacious
power towards the fertile and popu-
lous Middle Kingdom.
Neat slab of criticism from
Maryborough (Q.) paper :
Tozer deserves to be bracketed with
Napoleon—“ extreme in all things.” From
private kindness to public harshness ; from
private honesty to public truth and utterly
regardless of consequences at that; from
assumed modesty to .unbridled effrontery,
he has been “ extreme in the extreme.”
Tasmanian Premier Braddon
says that there is no choice of suit-
able men in Australia from whom to
appoint State Governors! What 1—
when there are scores and scores of
hungry and homeless haw-haw remit-
tance men walking the streets on
their nppahs! Any one of these
would fill the billet of State Governor
quite as well —with the assistance of
an extra aide-de-camp to keep him
sober—as the average lord imported
at large expense.
When the Westralian Govern-
ment is at last driven to adjust repre-
sentation to population, there will be
a fearsome smash in Perth politics;
and the Five Families will go down
like a brick in the ocean. In Cool-,
gardie and Kalgoorlie, where the live
men are 2G50 p ..lb have two mem-
bers, while the dead men of Ashbur-
ton arid F. Kimberley have two mem-
bers for 155. The old fossils all re-
present small constituencies of two
m n and a dog that isn’t feeling well,
and when the inevitable readjustment
does come, the whole Ministry stands
a very fair chance of never being heard
of again.
A few days ago, in the tempo-
rary absence of Premier Reid, the
Convention decided to federalise the
public debts. There were 25 dele-
gates in favor, and only eight against,
and. as there are just 49 votes in the
Convention, the man in the chair
only coming in when parties are
evenly divided tins meant that an
absolute majority had been secured.
But Reid came-back, and heaved the
old threat that N.S.W. might feel
called upon to stand out unless the
vote was rescinded, and, owing to
that unlucky clause which provides
that there shall be no Federation un-
less N.S.W. is included, this meant
breaking up the whole movement. So
nine members—four Westralians, two
Tasmanians, and three from S.A. —
weakly changed sides, and one of the
few sensible tilings the Convention
has done went overboard.
Of nine Nelsonians returned to Q. Parlia-
ment by N.Q. electorates, four draw Parliamentary
salaries—Philp, Dalrymple and Chataway, <£looo
a y* ar apiece as Ministers ; Cowley, £lOOO a year
as Speaker—and Hamilton scoops in the emolu-
ments of Government whip. Of the five
Central Government members, none get any-
thing at all. The Wide Bay district has lost its
Minister in Tozer and has only Annear as
Chairman of Committees. The South is well
provided with Ministers Nelson, Dickson,
Byrnes. Foxton, Wilson and Barlow, the last-
named having no portfolio and drawing no salary.
Central Q. is thus governed by the extreme North
and the extreme South, in artificial alliance.
B. R. Wise :
A further and closer examination has led me to the
opinion, which I believe to be unassailable, that the
Referendum, in any form, in whatever circumstances, and
for whatever purposes, would strike a blow at the root of
Parli unentary Government, because it would make it
possible for a Ministry to remain in office without dis-
credit when it was unable to carry its measures through
Parliament.
In other words, Parliament rejects a Government
measure, and it is sent to a national vote. The
people accept it. The Government retains office
because the people are with it, whereas B. R.
Wise holds that it should go out of office because
the Parliament—which doesn’t represent the
people in this instance—is avainst it. So, in the
opinion of the academic B.R. vV., it is less impor-
tant that the people should govern than that the
old Parliamentary forms should be maintained.
The celebrated Amenity - scene, from
“Federal Convention”:—
Mr. Douglas (82 years old) : What are we here for ?
Premier Reid : Upon my word, only some heavenly
intelligence can describe how the hon. member got here.
Mr. Douglas : The right hon. gentleman need, not be
insulting in his remarks and behaviour.
Mr. Reid: The hon. gentleman is so perpetually inter-
rupting.
Mr. Douglas : Oh, oh ! What about you ?
Mr. Reid : I endeavor to interrupt so as to throw a little
oil of lubrication over our proceedings, hut my hon.
friend’s voice always seems to be leading me to the vicinity
of a steam sawmill.
Sir Edward Braddon : Are you lubricating the proceed-
ings now ?
Mr. Rf.id : I regret to say, in reply to the representative
of the smallest of the colonies, who has so steadfastly
trampled upon the rights of the majority of the people of
this country—
Sir William Zeal : Rubbish.
The Chairman : Order, order.
N.S.W. general elections being at hand,
the “ Roads-atid-Bridges ” member puts his best
foot forward. “ Actions speak louder than
words ! ” News items from S M. Herald, 7/3/’i)8 :
Sixolktox, Sundav.
The Hon. A. J. Gould, member for Singleton, has been
informed that the following amounts are available for
parks in this districtHurdekin Park, ATS ; Howe Park,
ATS; Greta, £10; Jerry's Plains, £TO.
Through representations made by Mr. Dick, M.L.A.,
the Government has granted the sum of A'2so for im-
provements to the Newcastle reserve, and the sutn of £5O
to he expended on the Stockton Park.
Mr. Fegan, M.L.A., has been successful in obtaining a
grant of A'3s with which to effect much-needed improve-
ments to the Islington Park, Newcastle.
Also, S.M. Herald, S/3/’OB
Murwillumbatt, Monday.
Mr. R. D. Meagher addressed a me ting of electors on
Saturday night in the School of Ai ts, which was crowded
to excess. ... He said that the district had been
disgracefully neglected, and if he could not get more
money spent in one t ear than Mr. Kelly had in four he
would resign.


A man may smile and smile and be
villain—or he may be only a lawyer.
“ When I was young, I loved green apples
and ripe women. Now—otherwise.”
J.H
... MV RULE ...
IS NOT OF WOOD,
IS NOT OF TIN,
NOR ANYTHING COMMON, but
. . A 6 OLD EH RULE, . .
WHICH IS NEVER TO PERMIT A CUSTOMER TO
AttMtt 09
DISSATISFIED IF I CAN POSSIBLY HELP IT. I
undertake to see that he (or she) is perfectly fitted, and I
GUARANTEE MY FOOTWEAR to give SATISFACTION.
ask Ft® the < KANG All A ’ Boots or Shoes.
As Soft as Kid, as Durable as Steel.
JOHN HUNTER,
THE BOOT KING
OP AUSTRALASIA,
City Boot Palace, George and Market Sts., Sydney,
AND 70 BRANCHES IN THE CITY, SUBURBS, AND TOWNS
IN NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Blackboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
Send for Price List. IEH
The Sydney Carriage M’n’f g Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Sydney Carriage Man’f’g. Co is the cheapest and best
place to buy Buggies and Sulkies. State what you want.
r
Bent-Shaft Sulkies,
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
The Sydney Carriage Manufacturing Co.,
MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotations
by'return post. Carriages, Broughams, &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen.
TO FAT PEOPLE.
When you have tried all known preparations to reduce
superfluous fat, and have failed to fret permanent relief,
write for a Hi)X of PROFESSOR READ’S OBESITY
PILLS. A Reduction of 61b. a week is guaranteed to
anvone, voung or old, by their use.
PRICE, ss. and 7s. 6d. per Box, from Prof. H. Read,
145 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Publications.
G-eo. Robertson & Co..
361 & 363 George Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Sc Retail Booksellers Sc Stationers.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Plain, Fancy and Commercial Stationery. Fancy Leather
Goods. Ladies’ Work-baskets. Smokers’ Cabinets.
Sole Agents for Elliott & Fry’s celebrated Cabinet
Photographs of English «V Colonial Celebrities
IV
r'ABSOLUTLY
,
TfiEY Contain
Soios 1
I P/AHO Dl/STS If
S y OCA L DUETS f ‘
l SO/VCS +? )
Lists
'Mailed
PF^EE
V
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Oonfes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Madame’s List of Unique
Books and Novelties on
application.
SjS, NAVSVO sWA*
Jl
iXfyj*
vtva^v
rCW
Vvu
Jtv
\£>
\ ANiworV^Ni
3
AoA
»vo\wc t jftuW*-
A REMARKABLE WATCH.
The Kegal Gold Stop Watch
A Genuine Stop Watch for only
The CHEAPEST
Watch of its kind in
the World.
This price includes
Carriage to any
place in the
Colonies.
Ours is the
Only Firm
Selling this
Magnificent
Timekeeper.
32/6
THE REGAL GOLD STOP WATCH or Chronograph is tin*
| douhtedly a most desirable article for Bicyclists, Athletes.
Horsemen, Oarsmen, Trainers, &e. The case is of Regal
Gold which is in appearance equal to Solid Gold, and is so
treated with that-precious metal-that it wears for years and
stands the Acid test. It has heavy bevelled Crystal face,
superior Jewelled movement, instantaneous stop action, regis-
tering to one-fi th of a second, centre seconds, sunk enamelled
dial, perfect time-keeping qualities, either as an ordinary
Watch or a Stop Watch, and it will thoroughly please every pur-
chaser. No man who is interested in sport, in any branch should
be without a Regal Gold Stop Watch, it is capable of timing
all events, no mat ter how important, quite as well as a fifty
guinea Chronograph. For cheapness, excellence and durability
of timekeeping, the Regal Gold Stop Watch is unsurpassed.
In addition to being a perfect Stop Watch, it is suitable for
any gentleman, as it is a perfect timekeeper, and is very ele-
gant. It has the appearance of a very costly timepiece. The
price is so low that it may well be called “a marvel of cheap-
ness," and it is within the reach of all. The excellent qualities
of this Watch are guaranteed. We deal with the public direct,
hence, in order to place these Watches in the hands of as many
individuals as possible and to secure the valuable advertise-
ment they will earn for us, we do not wish to sell more than
one Watch to any one person. We do this to protect ourselves
against dealers, who would purchase quantities to retail at a
price much above ours. We have determined to make the
offer of the Regal Gold Stop Watch for a short time only, as
the price of 32/6 yields us no profit, but is made that ! ow in
order to secure customers for our other lines, catalogues of
which are sent with each Watch. To secure the Valuable Regal
Gold Stop Watch your order must be sent with the attached
coupon and £1 12s. 6d. not later than Ist June, 1898.
This Coupon entitles the sender to One Only Regal Gold
Stop Watch, if sent with £1 12s. 6d. not later than Ist
June, 18.98, provided that when ordering the Watch you
promise to recommend our firm if it gives satisfaction.
(Signed) The Union Manufacturing and Agency Co.
If you are in Melbourne at any time we will be pleased to
have you call and inspect the Watch, or you may ask a friend
to do so for you. Satisfaction Guaranteed or money refunded.
Each Watch securely packed and sent carriage paid by regis-
tered post. Send money by Cheque, P 0.0-, Postal Notes or
Cash in registered letter.
Tfie Onion manufacturing & Hgency Co.
359-36 i Collins Street, Melbourne.
XTSE
Spooler’s
iRUYAL NAVY DHESSiHC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECHONS FOR USE
■"U'nEl
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil,
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottles), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivailed Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
Saddle Soap,
Plate Powder, &c.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT SHOPS,
SADDLERS, &c.
F.O. Box 185, Melbourne.
: -
Missing Friends.
CROW.— Wanted to know the whereabouts of
PATRICK CROW, last heard of in Cook-
town, Queensland. By writing to his cousin, John
Grow, South Hillend, Southland, N.Z., he will
hear of something to his advantage. Information
thankfully received and acknowledged.
“System is the Life-Blood of Business.”
The national Cash Register
>5
key
saves
Pressure
on the
Brain
. IS -A. .
MONEY : SAVER
IN ANY
RETAIL STORE or HOTEL.
Prices - - £5 to £6B,
For Cash, or on Easy Monthly Payments,
We will Buy SECOND-HAND NATIONAL CASH
REGISTER TILLS, or will take them as part
payment for New Pattern Registers.
Write for Catalogue, or call at
Head Office: 393 George Street, Sydney.
TV. A. LINGUA M,
General Manager for Australasia.
LeagOe CycliDg Caroitfal!
AGRICULTURAL “GROUND, SYDNEY.
MARCH
26th
- SATURDAYS -
APRIL
2nd
TN€ SYDNEY PLATE.
A SERIES OF SCRATCH RACES. ONE, THREE, AND FIVE MILES
MARCH STAKES.
GREAT AMATEUR HANDICAP.
NAMPPCN wheel race.
RECORD ENTRIES.
INTERNATIONAL TEAM RACE.
ENGLAND v. AUSTRALIA.
MULTICYCLE HANDICAP.
20 TANDEMS AND TRIPLETS.
Walne, Green, Megson, Body, Relph, Porta, Jackson,
Admission, Is. Stand, Xs. extra
FRED. HAWLEY, Secretary.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Money to Lend.
FIIMIllli Ki;»|!CE:D KATES.
PAWNBROKING DEPARTMENT.
N.S.W.
MONT DE PIETE
D. & I. CO. (Limited).
74 CASTLERRAGH ST., SYDNEY
(Next St. James' School, between King & Market Streets).
Southern- Branch—262 Castlereagh-st.
Interest charged on Watches, Jewellery, Pre-
cious Stones, Plated Ware and Cutlery ;
6d. per month for every ,£1 to ,£lO
sd. per month for every pound over .£lO
4d. per month for every pound over <£2o
3d. per month for every pound over ,£5O
£looand over—Special Low Rates and Conditions.
Pledges transferred from other Pawnbrokers.
LOAN DEPARTMENT.
Advances made on all kinds of securities, in-
cluding Bills of Sale, without possession.
Bills Discounted Dailv.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY REPAYMENTS.
Lewis Levy, Manager.
Hank of 'New South Wales .
Established 1817. -
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Richard Hill, Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
James Thomas Walker, Esq.
Edward Chisholm, Esq.
James Reading Fairfax, Esq.
Auditors :
A. G. Milson, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ SUIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
377 COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE.
Cable Address— Riemseil. Telephone No. 695.
Code— Mokeing & Neal., eto. Box No. 237, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
ClarKe & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLIE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all W stern' Australian Slocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDI7 ” invaluable tc Investors,
free on application.
58
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE EASIER
W. C- BLDE.IDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post Irom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Hotels.
riill
MJJfy
TO
MELBOURNE
OTICE
VISITORS.
WIMPOLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Ivilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in. Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIEF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
THE GRAND CENTRAL
OPPOSITE S.*9.
THE CRAMP CENTRAL,
OPPOSITE G.P.0.,
Ji K STOYK,
Manager.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ROOMS
OR BOARD
AT OPTION.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Trustees, Executors, A Agency
Company, Limited,
Established 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED .. .. £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £OO,OOO 0 0
RESERVES and Undivided Profits
used in the Company's business .. £44,975 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts
and Clients, 31st December. 1897 £6,021,410 0 0
DIRECTORS : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chair-
man ; R. Murray Smith, Es p, C.M.G., M.L.A.,
Vice-chairman ; John Grice, Esq., C. M. Officer,
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M. L.C. London Agents
—Messrs. St. Barbe Sladen and Wing, No. 1
Del a hay Street, Westminster.
Assigned Estates Department—Mr. L. I.
Barker in charge.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
No. 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
rpHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRA-
LASIA Limited.
Incorporated under the “Companies’ Act 1890.”
Authorised Capital 14,000,000 0 0
Capital Paid-up .. £1,710,464 13 1
Preference Shares Paid-up 305,780 0 0
Capital Called-up .. ... 39,535 611
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 750,000 0 0
2,805,781
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE,
with Branches throughout Victoria.
Directors: John Grice, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt,
M.L.C., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. Sir VV. A. Zeal, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.; Arthur S. King, Esc.; Auditors: VV. H.
Tuckett, Esq.; Andrew Bums, Esq. Chief Manager:
Francis Grey Smith ; Assistant Chief Manager: John G.
Addison; Acting Manager: G. V. Shillinglaw ; Acting
Accountant: VV. G. Sewell. South Australia (Adelaide),
with Branches throughout South Australia. Local Direc-
tor: John Bagot, Esq., J.P. ; Manager: J. G. Jennings;
Acting Manager: T. A. Edmeades. New South Wales
(Sydney), with Branch at Broken Hill. Local Director:
Hon. W. M'Millan, M.L.A. Manager: George Turnbull.
Western Australia (Perth), with Branches throughout
Western Australia. Local Directors: A. R. Waylen,
Esq., M.D. ; The Hon. J. G. H. Amherst, M.L.C.
Manager: H. R. England. London Office: 123 Bishop-
gate-street Within, E.C. Manager : A. W. Cunningham.
ipHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(Limited).
Head Office—Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £385,875
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 246,050
RESERVE FUND .. .. 35,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
—TH F. —
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated under “ The Companies Act, 1863.)
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
CAPITAL (Subscribed) £BOO,OOO 0 0
CAPITAL (Paid-up) 456,973 0 3
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, £3,116,619.
Under Government Audit.
All new business since 1893 protected under Clause 9 of
the Scheme of Arrangement.
Directors:
Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; A. J. Callan, Esq., M.L.A. ;
John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas. Milne, Esq. ; G. S. Murphy, Esq.
W. V. Ralston, General Manager.
Auditors: William Bulcock, Esq., F.I.A.Q. ;
G. C. Horstmann, Esq., F.I.A.Q.
Head Offic-: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
London Office : 8 Princes-street, London, E.C.
Sydney Office : 99 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
with Branches throughout Queensland,
and Agents in all Australian colonies, New Zealand,
Scotland, Ireland, New York, San Francisco, China,
and the East.
The Bank grants Drafts on its Branches and Agents;
negotiates Bills against Wool, Tallow, Hides, Copper,
Tin, etc., etc.; purchases and advances on Gold; dis-
counts commercial paper; makes advances on approved
security ; receives Deposits and allows interest thereon
according to arrangement, and transacts all other usual
banking business.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 04 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. . . 500,000
Amount of Capital p u able by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital . . £4,800,000
Paid-up .. .. £2,974,801 10s.
Directors :
Hon. James Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Currie, Esa., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
George Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.P. ; Hon N. Thon ley,
M.L.C.; Hon. S r Fredk. T. Sargoo , K.C.M.G.. M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors; Wm. Turner, John M'Nali, R. H. M‘Niool,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne,
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJjice: 1 Rishopsgate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, EC.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW COUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Hay market, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
TkiC rnmnahu is noted for its Prompt
I 1/10 VO SJ/ Pdl/y and Liberal Settlements.
T — United Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.
Marine, Guarantee,
Plate Glass, Fire, &
Accident Insurance.
Authorised Capital . .£500,000 0 0
Paid-Up 31,407 10 0
Subscribed 251,260 0 0
HEAD OFFICES : 79 Pitt-st., Sydney, and 405 Cold ins-
st., Melbourne. A. WEBSTER, General Manager
S. D. BURROUGHS, Secretary, Sydney.
WALLEN & WOODS
( FRANK WALLEN, \
VMember Stock Exchange of Melbourne/
Stock and Share Brokers .
55 Queen Street,
Telephone No. 1716.
Mglhotiri)?.
DICKSON & BURBIDGE,
W. Hay Dickson, Arnold S. Bdrbidoe,
COMPANY MANAGERS AND PROMOTERS,
St QUEEN ST., MELIIOUJtNE.
London Flotations a Speciality. Victorian, West Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Properties Particularly Wanted
Deposits Paid on Suitable First-class Properties.
London Agent —B. R. HARRIS, Montague House
64 Greshani-street. London E.C.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Friday, March 18, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, March 26, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Tyrian, Friday, March 18, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, March 26, 2 p.m.
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
Tyrian, Friday, March 18, 12 Noon.
Takes passengers and cargo for
Buninyong, leaving Melbourne
Tuesday, March 22.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Peregrine, Sat., March 19, 2 p.m.
■Barrabool, Tues., March 21, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, March 26, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Peregrine, Sat., March 19, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, March 26, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
lowest <t im:ext fares to all ports.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Go. of
N.Z., Ltd., 15 Bridge Street.; Branch Office, Moore
Street, near G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND J 4fi>
-VIA-
QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
T'vESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE. AUSTRALIAN.
GUTHRIE. MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
B usiness Announcements.
GILFILLAN &. IvTcCREERY,
Assayers,
ore Testing <£. Technical Chemists,
Whiteman Street, South Melbourne.
Bulk Tests by Amalgamation, Chlorination, Cyanide
and other Processes. Assays and Analyses of Ores,
Minerals, Fuels, Slags, Metals, Water, &c. New Processes
Investigated. Machinery Tested. Buyers of Gold Ores.
The New NOISELESS KEROSENE GAS
STOVE,
i “Jupiter.”
A wonderful Stove.
Converts kerosene into
gas and burns silently.
It has all the latest im-
provements. With its
cooking apparatus it
will ROAST, BAKE,
BOIL with one flame.
Price, 12/6 each. By
post 1/6 extra.
“ Jupiter ” burner
fitted to any stove.
“Primus” Stoves, 9/6
each.
Send for catalogues.
BRA.KTDT BROS.,
Lamp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
McGee’s
SHEFFIELD AND
SOLINGEN RAZORS.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for light beards, 3 6, 4 6.
SHEFFIELD RAZORS, for heavy beards, s'-, 6/-, 7/6.
Solingen Razors, for light and heavy beards, 5/-, 6 6, 8 6.
GENUINE BENGALL RAZORS, 3/6.
THISTLE RAZORS, 3 sizes, £, f, 10;-, 12 6.
All Razors Set and Ready for Use.
Best Canvas and Leather Swing Strops, 2/6, 3 6, 5/-, 7/6.
Razors Set and Returned by Post, 1/- each.
All Post Free on receipt of postal note from Andrew
McGee, Hairdresser, &<;., 6 Castlereagh-st, S3’dney.
tanglefoot
u
Tanglefoot
American
Sticky
Fly Paper
CHEAPEST,
CLEANEST,
NEATEST, and
MOST EFEECTIVE
Fly - Catcher.
0. Ss V TH M CO.,
MICH., U.S.A.,
M’k’t'rs.
Sold Everywhere.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE#
ADELAIDE F
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
I Friday, March 18.
S.S. Wollowra (from Melbourne)
Friday, March 25.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Marloo(from Melbourne)
Friday, March 18.
S.S. Wollowra (from Melb.)
Friday, March 25.
ESPERANCE BAY
}
S.S. Flinders (from Adelaide) about
March 24.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Bullarra, Tuesdaj’,
March 29.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
G. S. YUILL and CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
•Calling at Hobart.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
Passage-money : TO LONDON, Single, £35 to £7O.
Return, £65 to £lO5. TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27
10s, £35. Return, £37, £4l, £55. Cheap Fares to Wes-
tern Australia. Passage - money can be paid here on
favorable terms for passages from England. EDWARD
TRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker & Co’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MESSAGERIES_ MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
-PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to i7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
m‘|liuraith, UTEacharn & C°-
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
LUND’S LINE OF STEAMERS
—FOR—
NATAL, CAPETOWN, LONDON.
The above steamers are built at the highest class at
Lloyd’s, expressly for the Australian trade.
CARGO TAKEN TO ALL CONTINENTAL PORTS.
SPLENDID PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Doctor and Stewardess carried.
First Saloon Fare—London, from £4O ; Natal and Cape-
town, £35.
Third-Class Fare—London, £l6; Natal and Capetown,
£l6.
Full particulars from
GILCHRIST, WATT & CO.,
8 Young-street. Sydney;
JOHN SANDERSON & Co.,
11l William-street, Melbourne; or
GEO. WILLS <Yi CO..
Grenfell-street, Adelaide. Agents.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMEBS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 Ids. Return tickets at
Reduced Rates. Through tickets over the Go's Own Lines
to Europe, Asia, North and S. America. Passages from
Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the colonies.
J. MERGELL, General Agent,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.


WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.
i
Happy is the Man who has a Good Wife ; and especially happy is the wife when she
uses that Famed Article—
A. Soycr’s BakiQg Powder.
Everywhere at 6d. per Tin. It makes paltry rise and be so light, that the good wife rises
early to use it, and is always light-hearted.
SPARTAN TONIC, the Invigorator of the Day, 2/G and 4/- per bottle.
SOUL’S KOLA NUT TONIC, 2/3. This is a pure article—guaranteed.
DENTAROMA, 1/6, for the Teeth and Breath. DENT AROMA TOOTH POWDER, 1/6.
POULTRY SPICES. HORSE and CATTLE MEDICINES.
E. WILSON’S HAIR TONIC, 1/- per Bottle.
SOUL’S GLYCERINE and LINSEED, 1/-, for Coughs.
Soul’s Famous Fountains are flowing freely with Fresh FRUIT FLAVORS, 3d. per Glass.
Prescriptions Accurately Compounded by ex-pert Chemists at
Loiv Hates.
TRUSSES, SOAPS, PERFUMERY, BANDAGES.
WasbiOgtoi) N.SoCi! &Co.,m’sp.s.,
153, IGO, and 268 Fitt-street, Sydney; and at
Churcli-street, Parramatta.
The Finest, Largest, and
Most Varied Stock
op PIANOS in
Ti)€ asjd Largest WardjoGS?
m AUSTRALIA.
THE WONDERFUL CHEAP NANON PIANO, <£3s.
THE FAMOUS RONISCH PIANOS.
THE SUPERB BECHSTEIN PIANOS.
THE DELIGHTFUL SCHIEDMAYER & SOEHNE PIANOS.
THE WELL-KNOWN MIGNON PIANOS.
THE BRILLIANT WILMER PIANOS.
ALL THE NEWEST MUSIC at
NICHOLSON & CO.’S,
George Street,
SYDNEY.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST TYPEWRITER.
United. Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
SYDNEY-114 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE— 362 Collins Street.
PERTH—7I Barrack Street.
BRISBANE- Webster & Co.
ADELAIDE— Reeves & Co.
LA UNCESTON— HedIey Button.
Has No Eibbon. Prints Direct on to the Paper. London School Board has over 100 in Use.
Send for particulars of tree Trial.
jll.
I
on*
i®
1
CORNETS.
F. BESSON & CO.’S
Celebrated “ Prototype ” Band In-
struments are acknowledged to be
the Best.
“VICTORY” Compensating Piston Cornets, as per Illustr’n., £l4 7s 6a
Musical Merchandise of every description kept in Stock, at
Lowest Wholesale Prices.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION TO
A. P. SYKES,
Late PHILIP P. SAMUEL & CO.
227 Lit. Collins-st.,
Melbourne——■
Agent for F. BESSON A CO. throughout Australian Colonies.
NOTICE TO TRAVELLERS.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
THIS FASHIONABLE PASTIME is now within the reach of all,
as we supply the most PERFECT INSTRUMENTS with the
Simplest Mechanism, at prices to suit everybody. The Latest are—
The VICTOR MAGAZINE POCKET CAMERA, for Plates;
takes pictures 2| x 1£ ; fitted with two View Finders, Time
and Instantaneous Shutter. Price, 215. ; parcel post, 6d.
The DUPIiEX, a Twin-Lens HAND CAMERA, with a full-
sized View-Finder, Time and Instantaneous Shutter ; takes
plates 4Jin. x 3}in. (jp.) Price, 255. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. 2d., other Colonies 2s. 2d.
The HAWKEYE, a HAND CAMERA, taking Plates sin.
x 4in., and suitable for rough country travelling. It is fitted
with two View-Finders, Focussing Gauge, and Time and In-
stantaneous Shutter. Price, 70s. Parcel post, N.S.W.
Is. Bd., other Colonies, 3s. 2d.
HARRINGTON’S “ Amateur ” Developing and Printing
Outfit, suitable for any Camera up to sin. x 4in. Price,
12s. 6d. Parcel post, N.S.W. 2s. 2d., to other Colonies 4s. 2d.
DRY PLATES.— “ VICTOR,” per packet of 2doz., Is. 3d. ;
for “ DUPLEX,” per packet ldoz., Is. 3d. ; for “ HAWK-
-IYK.” per packet ldoz., 2s.
Dire lions with each Camera. We guarantee purchasers against
failure if our simple in-tructions are carried out.
A
Snap-
Shot.
r*
m.
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD-,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
... MERCHANTS,
66 KlnxlCS- STREET, SYDKTEY.
See Our Advertisement o»’ Hwint.y Jfage.
BPSMS’S MARBLE BAR.SYPNEy.
ass
m
m
wM
I -r
mm
m
m
m
2.:$
m ■
One of the Most Beautiful
Architectural Sights
to be seen in Australia.
The
Finest Paintings*
The Most
Handsome Decorations'
The Most
Superb Carvings!
Massive and Elegant Marbb
Columns, etc.
WM. J. ADAMS,
Tel. 728. Manager.
4
-1
12-
TiOOK OF iVATUKE
—AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK POE, HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding hack of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream of Love, and
all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Wedded, by Paul de Kock, post free Is 3d.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d ; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Mysteries Court of London, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron op Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post S^-
Miner's Handbook : Simple Tests for Minerals ;
Every Man His Own Analyst, illus., 3s 6d post free.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics, &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works op Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, a new work, contain-
ing all the tricks and deceptions with cards explained.
Simplified, for home and public amusement, Is : post
free Is 3d. Maria Monk, Is 6d ; post Is 9d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Tellino Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED. SEND STAMP FOR OUR
UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS.
SIR ROBERT
V|} Cheap Book Depot,
16 p ARK STREET, SYDNEY.
IHE
* Plum *
THI
plo
SS3 ?fc-iCS3}>
THB
‘ Plum’
(1 ENTLEMEIN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should nob fail to give our celebrated Plum
Ji Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something' superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, «e
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian Colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
/\gertts
TRY
£
—w
romatic
™wpeo
0 Rule TobaccoC 9
ZRO-A.ID
Locomotives
FOR
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
,J. »-<
,
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Managkk.
Also Representative for the “ THIaTLE " OIL ENGINE.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING
Per Post, Is. 3d


A QOgStioi)
of Streogtl}-
You never saw a RED BIRD frame collapse, and
you never will. They’re not built that way.
Should one of the many hired barrackers or commission-men for other wheels
state he saw a Red Bird collapse, bet him all your spare change lie’s not telling
the truth, and you’ll win the money.
Those who are jealous of RED BIRD SUCCESS and have other axes to
grind tell many queer stories in their endeavor to belittle our wheels. Being a
Direct Factory Branch, we can save money to rider and dealer alike. Better
get a line on our New Models early.
The Goold Bicycle Go., Limited
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCH :
64 King St., SYDNEY; 245 Collins St., MELBOURNE ; Edward St., BRISBANE:
Harris St., WELLINGTON, N.Z. ; Bundle St., ADELAIDE.
Factories — Brantford, Canada ,
THE SWISS PHOTO. STUDIOS,
King-street, Sydney
OPPOSITE FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. IN THE HEART OF THE CITY.
The Most Central, the Most Comfortable, the Most Up-to-Date, the Very Latest, the Very Best. A Broad. Well-
Lighted, Easy and Comfortable Staircase leading to the Studios. Charming Reception Rooms, Comfortable Dressing
Rooms, with every convenience, and courteous attendants.
THE HANDSOMEST AND COOLEST PHOTO. GALLERY IN AUSTRALASIA
THE PRICES ARE UP TO DATE.
12 Cabinets, with a 12 x 10 Bromide or Opal Enlargement, 10/6
and absolutely no other charge.
10/6
To celebrate the opening, we give an Extra Position FREE to each Sitter, and, as there is no charge for re-sittin
this is a guarantee for the Excellency of our Work.
No Disappointment.
The Swiss Studios.
No Delays.
King Street
(between Pitt & George Sts).
Inspection Cordially Invited.
The Swiss Studios.
HUMBER CYCLES (America)
reduced
Lady’s
Gent s i
“These are produced by the same methods as those in vogue at our Beeston Works, and are of the MOST APPROVED AMERICAN DESIGN
SAME GUARANTEE as with the BEESTON MACHINES.”
COUNTRY AGENTS WANTED.
The Workmanship and Materials are of the Highest Quality, and we give the
The AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., 4 5 York-street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
No one has so far risen to point out the close
parallel between the stand which saved the last test
match for the Australians, and the stand which did the
same thing for the English in the closing match of
Stoddart’s last series. And yet the resemblance is most
detailed. In each case two good batsmen had fallen very
cheaply, Brockweil and Stoddart in the Englishmen’s
innings, McLeod and Hill in the Australians’. In each case
one of the players thus dismissed had also failed in
the first innings (Brockweil and Hill). A man who went
in first—Ward in the one case, and Darling in the other —
was a partner in the stand. The stand was effected by a
slow, defensive bat (Ward and Worrall), and by a power-
fully punishing cne (Brown and Darling) each time. Both
partners to it were eventually dismissed on both occa-
sions. Both matches were won by six wickets, the
bowling failing to do any more damage. The only
divergence is that, in the case of the English performance,
the rapid scorer (Brown) ran up his score and got out
before his partner, while, in the one lately put up, it was
the less venturesome player who went under first.
When cricket feels the sharp edge of the axe of
reform something will have to be done about l.b. w. There
is too much of personal equation in the rule as it now
stands, and quarrels, bad temper, and veiled allegations
of bias on the part of umpires are bound to occur. In
the last test-match Darling was given “ not out” once in
each innings, against fairly unanimous appeals, and
Ranji “out” over what looked a sufficiently doubtful
case to entitle the batsman to its benefit. All three
decisions from the Australian umpire. Until some auto-
matic registering apparatus; on a photographic basis, is
devised, which will follow the movements of a batsman’s
legs and show where they are when the hall hits ’em,
some simplification of the present complex rule is
urgently called for.
Re Richardson’s bowling and Sydney D.T.
thereon. The cricketing-seribe (writes a Bulletin corres-
pondent) had evidently been bursting with that little bit
of callow criticism a long time, and, with much ineptness,
got it off on the one day when it was most flagrantly in-
appropriate. I watched the bowling (with glasses) all
through the match. In the first Australian innings
Richardson’s efforts were beyond all cavil. His “length”
was splendid. In the second innings he began loosely,
but the ball that bowled Hill was perhaps the finest one
of the match. Then the Surrey man went all to bits.
He seemed to concentrate himself on mere pace (I saw
him doing it)and his “length” was childlike and bland.
The refusal of Bannerman to give a favorable ruling in
the appeal for l.b.w. against Darling was not the cause of
his wild play—it had been painfully erratic for many
overs before. But that seemed to complete his dis-
organisation, and, thereafter, the “one bowler of
the English team ” was not wanted on the voyage.
Can experts tell us why, with a player of Richardson’s
standing, length should be such a variable quantity?
Whv should the man who on Tuesday hits the same 3pot
every time with machine-like exactitude, send ’em in soft
and spotty on the Thursday when the weather conditions
are precisely similar? Oughtn’t it to be a purely mechani-
cal accomplishment ? Anyhow, these are the facts, that
Richardson's bowling on Monday and Tuesday was the
most brilliant feature of the match, and on Thursday,
with one or two balls excepted, beneath serious notice.
• • • ¥
Stoddart, it is quite plain, never took a hand in
a goldfield’s two-up school, or he would have wanted to
look at the other fellow’s penny.
• * ¥ •
Re Ranji’s message for the boys of England ere
starting for his tour. Capt. Trott is now out with a
message to the boys of Australia. “Practice assiduously ;
never grumble; and try hard until the winning hit is
made. Let there be one captain, and, if possible, have
him always win the toss.”
* • • *
Holdar M. : “Am satisfied that this ruthless
rout of English cricket will do —has done—more to
advance the cause of Australian nationality than could
ever be achieved by miles of erudite essays and impas-
sioned appeal. Nothing succeeds like success, and the
Australian is no exception to the admiration evoked by
the topmost dog. On that Wednesday afternoon when
Darling withered the remaining remnants of Hinglish
’ope, I marked a fresh era of patriotic pride stirring the
soul of Blankyland. Assuredly those silken bonds are in
a precarious condition.”
• * * *
Stoddart will not unlikely carry a commission
from S.A.C.A. to engage one or two ground bowlers for
Adelaide Oval. Jones is already employed on the Oval,
but refuses to be considered a professional bowler.
Adelaide has had no pro. since Jesse Hide left years ago,
and looal enthusiasts are anxious for a further experi-
ment.
• * • •
Dear Bulletin. — Re par. in “Sporting Notions’*
(5/3 ’9B) about- Noble explaining his method of curling the
ball in mid air. I have seen the same thing done many
times by baseball players in America. The last time was
on 27th June, ’97 (Sunday afternoon), at a match between
a Chicago team and a team from Baltimore. Alongside
me sat an Oxford University professor who, before the
match, confided to me that he had only come there that
day to be able to prove .when he returned home that it
was impossible. But he had to believe his own eyes.—
Travelling Maorilandbr.
• • * *
During the visit of the English cricket-team to
Hamilton, Vic., “ the coming of the great Rajah” Ranji
caused all the local Hindoo hawkers to come round and
squat on their hams outside the Hamilton Club waiting
for their countryman’s appearance. Ranji, however,
didn’t appear, being too busy inventing excuses to the
Review of Reviews for the team’s recent knockout. Cer-
tain young squatters, tiring of the match, went back to
the club, grabbed a hawker “the dead spit” of Ranji,
took him inside and dressed him up in tall hat and frock-
coat like an A.D.C. at a garden-party. Taking a cab,
they started off to the match to give the people their
money’s worth. But Ranji No. 2 was too cunning—he
dropped out en route and took to the bush, fixings and all.
* * * *
As The Bulletin goes to press Victoria’s
match with the Englishmen looks like an easy win for the
latter. The local men went in first and scored 328 ; the
strangers following with 278. Towards the close of the
English innings rain fell, and the Victorians’ second
attempt was partly made in betwixt showers, with the
result of all wickets down for 132. This left Stoddart's men
with 183 to hit and win, and they laid the wood on
vigorously to the tune of three for' 138—which was the
score at time of writing. The match had no particular
points of interest, and the public earnestly stayed away.
And the commonplace person who suggests a fresh, dry
wicket for every innings of eaoh team talks to the winds
the same as ever.
* • * •
The Englishmen introduced a new effect into
their half-hearted struggle against Victoria, and the
novelty—like most fresh features in International cricket
—was a success. Little Board was put behind the
wickets, whilst perky Storer appeared in the character of
bowler and fieldsman. Result, four wickets for 79 by
Storer, two of them being due to Board’s smartness
behind the sticks. Also, for the first time, Mason was
treated as a principal bowler, and his record was four for
53. On this showing, Storer and Mason would seem to
have been entitled to lead the attack in previous
matches, but cricketing things are not what they seem.
* * • *
Stoddart’s team are dying tame, rather than
game. Witness the last performance in Melbourne. By a
strange coincidence the number of runs scored on the
first and second days, when the wicket played fast
enough, was only 283 each time.
• * • •
A peculiar incident happened in Paddington-
Burwood match last Saturday. A ball with a leg-break
on caug-ht-in the top.of H. Donnan’s pad. Kelly, on the
off-chance that Donnan might have touched the' ball with
rie . d u t 0 tak ® 5t out of pad, when Donnan
threw it to the ground. A fieldsman appealed, and Don-
nan was given out for handling the ball.
* • • »
Dear Bulletin.—The lodging of the ball in
• 8 P a s* on Saturday opened up some strange pos-
sibilities. Suppose Donnan had started running, and,
eluding the jrrabs of the fieldsmen, had run half-a-dozen
runs and then dislodged the ball with the handle of the
bat. How would the case stand ?
• * • •
Overheard at the test-match. “ The Australians
make a religion of sport and a sport of religion.”
* * * *
Trotting stallion Honesty sold, the other day,
for 50 guineas. It is 15 years to-day (Thursday) since
Honesty trotted his fastest mile, 2min. 3Criksec., so his
new owner had best lose no time with him.
* • • *
Rosehill Racing Club, N.S.W., intends in future
awarding a fairly substantial prize as a solatium to the
owner of the ever-uniuoky second. This move will be
appreciated by those who run their horses straight-out,
and thereby often secure the very barren honor of second
place.
* * • *
fancies at present for the Doncaster
Handicap are Resolute, Mirella, Vedette and Reaper, but
none of them, even in their best form, can he looked on
as too well treated. La Carabine and Virtue are a
“ a brace of Victorians who have alreadv crossed
the border, and one of the pair—probably La Carabine—
will likely be found capable of winning. Danger
threatens chiefly from Adoration, who has a rare chance
of avenging her last year’s unlucky defeat. Aurum,
Amberite, Charge, Mirella, Cravat and Eleusive have ail
been backed to win the rich Sydney Cup, but True Blue,
Toreador and The Sketch are a trio so very leniently
treated that possibly the winner will be found among
t^ m ’J oread . or in P articu,ar having an excellent chance
of landing this valuable prize, as he is a rare sticker, and
has but a postage-stamp to carry.
» • » *
Owners have responded well for trots at Sydney
Agricultural Show. Last year there was some little mis-
understanding over the inclusion of pacers in the trotting
exhibitions, but this year Mr. Webster has done the cor-
rect thing in making the competitions for pacers and
trotters. The entrants include such well-known per-
formers as Lucille, Charley, Cavalier, Syren, Harold B,
Fairbov, Tuxedo, and Picaninni. If Tuxedo is in any-
thing like form, the go between the little pacer and
Knight’s Syren should prove one of the events of the
Show.
* • * *
The curse of the trotting-race is the bottled-up
horse, which has every event in hand until the right time
comes and he is let loose. The fact of such a horse being
in a race cripples speculation and creates a field of non-
triers. And, unfortunately for the sport, everyone but
the adjuster of weights seems to know all about the good
things. Without mentioning names, the writer would like
to wager a bit that the next big Sydney trot will be won
bv a black horse, and a fine-looking animal at that, who
will probably start from scratch. Not so long since, a
well-performed mare won a race from a ridiculous mark,
the driver sending her with a watch in his hand, so that he
should keep her within a certain time-limit.
• * * •
Among the many reversals of form for which
Moorefield, Sydney, has become famous, it scored perhaps
a best-on-record last Saturday. Fassifern, carrying lOst.
61b., started a 6 to 4 favorite for Moorefield Welter Handi-
cap, and won as he liked. Naturally the public rushed
him for the Stewards’ Mile, in which he was weighted at
9st. 131 b. Starting at even money he failed to run into a
place. Farriday started in the Kogarah Stakes at 2to 1,
the next best being at Bto 1. He ran nowhere. In the
Stewards’ Mile he started at 6 to 1, and won handily from
Tripos.
* * • •
The V.A.T.C. is keeping up its reputation for
unsatisfactory decisions on protests. Ailsa Craig, a
despised outsider, won St. Kilda Cup, last Saturday',’ in
brilliant style, beating Goodman by a length and a half.
The victory left no room for supposing that the second
horse had been seriously interfered with. It was a
decisive win at the finish, anyhow, and the “books”
threw up their hats. Their joy was premature. The
owner of Goodman protested, on the ground of a cross,
and the despised outsider lost the race. An appeal to the
higher court of the V.R.C. will be watched with interest
• • * * s<’K
Resolute’s win of the rich Futurity Stakes
makes Mr. W. R. Wilson’s winnings for the present season
look formidable. They now total £9153, no mean sum for
eight months’ racing.
• * * *
The Collingwood tote-people are probably the
first in a civilised country to emerge victorious from a
protracted struggle with law norder. They have done
so, and they will apparently continue to do so as lon°- as
their funds hang out, for, as it now stands, their place is
impossible to carry under 15 minutes. By that time, the
whole of the conductors, the assistants and the gamesters
are scampering through the adjoining private houses
and therefore immune from arrest. The only entrance
is through a long right-of-way, bounded by brick walls
which has its end barricaded by a wooden wall 12ft’
high and faced with barbed wire. At the top is an in-
verted gin-case, pierced with holes, where a sentrv con-
stantly stands, and unless he reports favorably the tyler
below will not open the gate. Once past this barricade
the visitor is met by another a few feet further alon<>-’
and when this is negotiated he is in the yard and free to
gamble. On each side are low fences leading into private
houses, and on the outer boundary of an adjacent house
a high hoarding has been erected to prevent the detec-
tives identifying frequenters by means of telescopes.
This is almost an unnecessary precaution, too, for
the whole yard is almost covered by a low galva-
nised iron shed, the sides of which are enclosed by
an awning. The vigilance displayed at the gates has
utterly prevented the police getting in any number of
spies ; but, even did they flood the place, their chance of
convicting anybody connected with the working of the
tote would still be infinitesimal. The men who make the
wagers stand in a long cage of strong iron bars, at one
side of the allotment. They are dressed in long black
robes, wear masks, and are absolutely unidentifiable.
The cash-box has an opening, but in front of the opening
is a board, so that no winner sees who pays his money.
Behind the cash-box and cage are trap doors leadingTnto
the next house, and, as the detectives cannot enter that
house without fear of action for trespass, the tote people
escape every time. It was originally intended to prose-
cute the owner of the property, but it was found that the
nominal owner and the virtual owner were two different
parties. The only person who could legally be prosecuted
was an entirely innocent individual who had previously
sold the property, while the one that drew the rent was a
cunning landlord who declined to sign the transfer.
Under the circumstances, the police can do nothing but
break into the shop at every racing carnival and prevent
the promoter adding to the many thousands of pounds
which Collingwood already credits him with possessing.
Writes X.: “The Melb. detectives again raided
Wren’s celebrated fortified Collingwood tote-shop, the other
day, and occupied 15min. in knocking down back gates
12ft. high with axes, picks and crowbars. Meanwhile all the
inmates escaped through trap-doors, emerged into the
street through adjoining houses, and poked borak at the
officers. Now, providing Mr. Wren and the d.’s did not
understand one another, why were 12ft. high gates as-
sailed with battering-rams, an operation extending over a
quarter of an hour, when they could have been skipped
over noiseless!}' per ladder in 20sec. ? ”
* * ¥ ¥
“ With the result of the rubber match,” writes
Tub Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ interest in
cricket fell with a dead, dry clump. Two single innings
and an eight wickets defeat in succession argumentatively
clattered across John Bull s brain and stunned him into
silence. The papers, after vainly grasping at all manner
of palliating excuses—(such as the Pall Mall’s explana-
tion that the heavy dew was responsible for the last three
English wickets flopping for nine 1 Dew in our midsum-
mer, at midday, Great Yellow Astor 1 No, the batsmen
were frozen stiff and howled with snowballs)—owned up in
one sobbing, manful heap : England was whopped squarely
and oblongly, Australia has the finest combination the
cricketing world ever saw, the game is not as interesting
as it once used to be, and Hill should be transported to
this country for life—without the option. So we are still
brothers."
* * • *
Lord, preserve all such men from the sporting
paragraphist! Melb. Argus announces that “ Mr. George
Gray will shortly be one of the leading owners in Vic-
toria. He has been purchasing largely of late, and as
long as he gets the best he does not appear particular as
to price. Mr. Gray’s appearance on the turf is very wel-
come, as there are, comparatively speaking, but few men
of money racing at present.” The encouraging para-
graphist forgets to mention how the present scarcity of
moneyed racing men is accounted for.
» * * *
For the past six monthscyclistWalne’s wins alone
amount to about £6OO, and the actual amount made by
him during that term must tot up very close to four
figures.
* * * *
N.S.W. Wheelmen’s League holds its Autumn
meeting on Sydney Agricultural Ground March 26 and
April 2 ; and, as the League has listened this time to its
very few members possessing sense, the result is a satis-
factory programme, which only needs fine weather to
ensure success. This time the'heats of the 2nd and 3rd
class handicaps will be run-off “surreptitiously” pre-
vious to race-day, and the Sydney crowd will bless and
praise the name of Sec. Hawley for the innovation. The
fact that the 2nd and 3rd class handicaps have been very
considerably squelched causes this paper to wish the
League good luck for its forchcoming meet. There are
many features worthy of note in the League’s programme.
Proceedings will begin with the Sydney Plate (£80),
limited to 20 first-class riders. The next race will be the
Amateur Handicap-affoiding the lily-white amateur an
opportunity to graft his gall out for the delectation of
barrackers. For this a record number of entries have
been received ; the March Stakes (£2O) has 120 entries ;
the Hampden Wheel Race (£75), 115. Another satisfac-
tory feature is the International Team Race, England v.
Australia, which should be a good draw. Also the Multi-
cycle Race (£18) will have 18 multicycles competing.
The League will hold its meet on the Agricul-
tural Ground because of the good Seating accommodation
that sec. Webster has now placed at its disposal with the
big new grand-stand and terraces ; and because the Agri-
cultural Ground requires only 10 per cent, of the gross
takings, as against the Cricket Ground’s 20 per cent. ;
further, because the Agricultural Ground cannot be
swamped by members and their wives, and sisters,
cousins, and aunts. The League claims to have looked at
the proposals of both grounds from pure, cold-blooded
business considerations; and doubtless whenever the
League got in doubt sec. Webster helped it out, with his
most comprehensive hand-shake and smile.
Of course, the League’s boom-day—the Zimmer-
man meet—drew 30,000 people to the Cricket Ground, but
the League’s second best day—the day that plugger Bill
Martin won six out of seven races—drew 20,000 people to
the Agricultural Ground. And on that day the Agricul-
tural Ground had comparatively no seating accommoda-
tion to what it has now. Referring to the day of
the 20,000 and plugger Bilmartin, this was the day
on which Walne made his debut in Sydney, winning a
£5O prize. He then weighed lOst; now, not two ye'ars
later, he weighs Hist. Good for the wheel as an advt.!
* • » ¥
The flight of plugger Bill Martin was rough on
Editor Bonython, of S.A. Advertiser. He published the
account of the Martin-Evans fight on excellent authority,
and when cast in damages for libel, because the witnesses
of the battle hung back and refused to give evidence, he
secured the prosecution of Swan for perjury, so that the
real facts of the case might be made known. Swan, to
save his own skin, induced several spectators to agree to
swear to the fight taking place, but meanwhile William
sailed for America. Swan was discharged “ without a
stain on his character," but the £5O awarded the cute
cyclist has gone to Yankeeland with him, and the lawyers
are richer by £lOO costs. Judge Way was cocksure the
fight did not take place, but now he regrets that he
allowed his “instincts” to outweigh the evidence.
Martin's bond (given when Swan was committed for trial)
was estreated, but, as it only amounted to a signature,
and there was no deposit of cash, that did not do him
much harm.
* • • *
Beeston Humbers and Swifts, fitted with Dun-
lop Tyres, have been cutting down records last week on
Sydney Cricket Ground. Don Walker lowered the ), }, f
and one mile records ; Gargurevich secured the five miles;
Relph the hour record, and W. J. C. Elliott the J-mile
unpaced flying start.*
* * * *
The popular Cleveland wlseel, besides holding
the 10 and 20 miles road-records and one-hour amateur
path-record of N.S.W., also has the 100-miles world’s road-
record. The Cleveland is built strongly throughout, and
the ’9B models are among the mo. t finished cycles on the
market. The Sydney Cycle Co. Ltd., who are sole agents
in N.S.W. (or this wheei, are presenting their customers
with a souvenir in the shape of a watch or fob chain con-
sisting of four links of the splendid Cleveland chain with
a miniature sprocket wheel attached.*
* * * •
W. ,T. C. Elliott, who has just lowered by
several secs. Piatt-Betts’ record for the unpaced flying-
start quarter-mile, is one of the best all-round cyclists in
Australia. As a handicap rider he has won the ’97 Syd-
ney Wheel Race, £260; came second twice by a rim in
the A.N. A, ’97 and’9B, £llO each time; ran third in’94
and ’96 in the Austral Wheel Race. He is one of the best
pace-followers going, and, now that he has the best pace-
making in Australia at his disposal, he should cut down
the records considerably.
All this press apprehension about the
results of N.S.W. Attorney-General Want’s
refusal to seek extradition of the atmospheric
gas defaulters is pure hysteria. Maoriland has
for years refused to extradite, even from Aus-
tralia, embezzlers, absconding debtors and hus-
bands, and the like, unless the prosecutors
pay the expenses. And the volcanic province is
not yet eaten up with hordes of swindlers.
An ominous light is thrown upon the
prevalence of the cocaine habit by the recent acci-
dental poisoning of a doctor and his patient in
Melbourne. The medico, after injecting what ha
thought was cocaine into the patient, as an anaes-
thetic, gave himself an injection as a soporific,
and died of acute poisoning. Atropine had been
inadvertently substituted at the chemist’s for
cocaine. The Bulletin, by the way, knows a
man who, not long ago, took 20grs. atropine in
mistake for 20grs. antipyrine. Didn’t kill him,
either—but then he was a commercial traveller !
B. It. Wise, of N.S.W., demanded that
there should be no remedy for deadlocks in the
Federal Constitution, because “ deadlocks were
the price we paid for constitutional liberty.”
There was a time in England when smallpox was
so common that it might almost be said to be the
price that people paid for existence. (“ Servant
wanted, must be honest and industrious, and had
the smallpox,” was the kind of advertisement that,
was commonly seen in those days.) Presumably
B. R. Wise would like to preserve smallpox.
Acting-Judge Rogers, of N.S.W., says
that he is “old-fashioned enough to think that a
religious sanction is necessary to marriage.” One
thing which at least may be said on the other side
is that the secular ceremony is a lot more polite
than the religious one, inasmuch as it doesn’t call
upon the contracting parties to say things like
“with my body I thee worship.” The church’s
language is primitive, not to say aboriginal, at
times, and when a man leads his best girl, aged,
perhaps, 19 or 80, before a complete stranger, and
the latter begins making remaiks to her about her-
body, the proceedings may he very orthodox and
holy, but they are none too respectable.
Curious intermingling of farce with tragedy
in the recent Rookwood (Sydney) shooting case.
The grave-digger’s good offices in helping the old
man to a young wife; his reward with the “sack;”
his prompt return to manufacture in revenge a
couple of the cadavers through the falling-off in
the supply of which he had presumably lost his
employment;—it is hard to say whether in these
unique features of the gory episode the grim or
the grotesque is uppermost. Another remark-
able thing is that the female victim —with
a bullet in her spine, another in her right
lung, a bullet track from her left ear, through top
of right lung, to right armpit, and a hole through
the right temple to the cheek—should be still, not
only alive, but sensible and collected. Such
savagery of repeated shooting, also, combines
with what has since become known of the
slaughterer’s disposition to show that he is one of
those in whom rage is more than a merely nominal
furor brevis. When dismissed from a former em-
ployment for his insane ferocity towards the
horses under his charge, he made a display of such
murderous rage that some of the eye-witnesses, it
is said, predicted for him, some day, the rope
which he has now done his best to earn, though
the probability is that the lunatic-asylum would
have been the proper place for him long ago.


John Norton has been committed for trial
again. And what The Bulletin desires to say is
that if John is committed once or twice more he
will get so much advt. that he will wipe the floor
with Reid in Km* Division next June, and heave
the Government out on a want -of - confidence
motion of his own, and form a Norton Ministry,
and make a good many people wish they had never
been born.
The Federal Convention grows more liberal
as it grows older. James Howe, of S.A., tried,
four weeks ago, to give the Federal Parliament
power to legislate on old-age pensions, and was
badly beaten. A week ago he carried his motion
by 26 votes to 4. The four members who voted on
the Tory side of the case were Barton, O’Connor,
and M‘Millan of N.S. W., and Lewis of Tasmania.
Which is a pretty bad advt. for N.S.W.
It’s a Pink !
. . . The Pink of Perfection !
Everybody who rides it
says it is
A masterpiece of mechanical skill in all its details.
The Massey - Harris Wheel.
MASSEY-HARBIS CO. LTD., TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Branch l 163-169 William-st., Melbourne.
Branch Depots : 245 Collins Street, Melbourne; 885 George Street, Sydney;
Queen Street, Brisbane; Crawford Street, Dunedin.
Interesting Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free upon Application.
vctn^&uieniGc^a
Nutritive, Refreshing 1 , Economical in use. A breakfast
cupful of this delicious Cocoa costs less than one farthing.
HOMMD’S Marvellous MIR RESTORER
*55
#
I
c/2
fS
IS rightly considered by thousands of people
who have seen its wonderful effects on the
growth of the Hair as the very best Hair-produc-
ing Restorer extant, and the only preparation
that will arrest premature decay and perma-
nently improve the hair. This is not a quack
nostrum, like hundreds of preparations advertised,
but a Genuine Restorer skilfully prepared, and it
will in every case where the hair folicle is not
decayed positively improve the hair.
m
Read the following Genuine and Unsolicited Testimonial :
E. Holland, Esq. Dear Sir,—l wish to thank you for your skilful treatment of my hair. When
our family doctor (under whose treatment I had been for some considerable time, though unsuccess-
fully) advised me to call and see you, my hair was in a most deplorable condition, more than half my
head being bare, and my eyebrows were gone. Thanks to your beneficial treatment, my hair is now,
after ten months’ treatment, quite thick all over my head, and my eyebrows have grown in splendidly.
—Yours gratefully, E.W. Melbourne, August 13, 1897.
Send Two Stamps for Illustrated Pamphlet on the “HAIR AND ITS TREATMENT.” It
is worth its weight in gold. Ask your Chemist for “ Restorer,” or write.
Price per Bottle —35., 45., 55., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.—9d. extra for postage.
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist,
193 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
A Silver Watcb
nr GIVEN AWAY. “S*
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10a.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of
the following PUZZLE :
A*V*N*E
A*S*R*L*A.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver
Chains to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform jou if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
EXTRACT FROM LETTER RECEIVED.
I have just received the Watch and Chain, per
terms of the Advertisement, in perfect order, and the
quality of which gives me more than satisfaction.—
Yours, etc., Mrs. W. M'CARTHY, South Broken Hill.
Address—THE MANAGER,
The English Watch and Jewellery Company,
No. 9 Post Office Chambers (2nd Floor), Pitt-st., Sydney;
and No. 28 (4th Floor), Tuekett’s Chambers, 359 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
RETURN THANKS.
DR. ON LEE, after a residence in Australia
of about forty years, but mostly in New
South Wales, being about to pay an extended
visit to China, desires to return his SINCERE
THANKS for all the kindness and courtesy ex-
tended to him during that long period by all
classes of the community.
He would especially mention the Medical Pro-
fession for the liberal spirit always shown him ;
the Press, which has been uniformly fair ; the
N.S.W. Railway Officials and the Captains and
officers of steam-boats, who have ever been most
kind and attentive.
DR. ON LEE has found it impossible to call
on all his many friends, but will be glad to say
good-bye to any who can meet him on the Aus-
tralian next Tuesday, March 15th, at noon.
During DR. ON LEE’S absence all correspond-
ence may be addressed to Mrs. On Lee, Wynyard
Square. Mi. Quong Tart, 137 King-street, will
act as her business adviser.
A SILV/€R WATCH FREE.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE?
O*RW*T* H * S K * * P
P*N•T* A * T * M *
We will Present to Every Person SOLVING the above
Puzzle one of our Splendid
SILVER WATCHES,
LADY’S or GENT.’s, having
SOLID SILVER CASES, Jewelled Movements, and are
Reliable Timekeepers. List Price, 50s.
Send your answer at once, with a stamped addressed
envelope, to know if you have won the PRIZE. If so, and
you purchase one of our SOLID SILVER CHAINS to
wear with the PRIZE WATCH, they will be sent,
securely packed, free by registered post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
T\TK are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
' ' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machfnes that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
AST Agent for “Naumann” and “ Clyde” Cycles; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
“ Imperial” Bicycles.
(The Go-Lightly Kind).
Manuf. by the Ames Si Frost Co., Chicago.
The celebrated Tool Makers of world-wide reputation.
If you desire Beauty, Lightness, Strength, Rigidity, Com-
fort and Speed in your wheel, buy an I IM PT RI A I •
Duplicate parts always in stock. i ivi rtnmL.
We will supply AGENTS and DEALERS at FACTORY
PRICES (only carriage added), and will send a SAMPLE
BICYCLE to any part of Australasia (where not already
established), and if not as represented and catalogued, we
will refund money and all expense connected therewith.
Catalogues and discounts on application.
Sole Importer and General Agent in Australasia:
J. F. MCDERMOTT,
48 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
Wolf American High flrt Cycles
. . AT . .
HALF-PRICE I
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English A American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-clais Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
MACK LIN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
2G3 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Tales of the convict system, by
Price Warung. Is. 3d.
A WORP IN PRAISE - - -
Mr. T. J. STUTCHBURY INTERVIEWED.
THE MINERVA COMPANY prides itself on the high quality of its testimonials. Never
before was anything like them given to a medicine proprietary anywhere. Dignitaries of the
Church, members of the Senate, prominent citizens throughout these colonies vie with each
other in praise of Minerva Tonic. The latest addition to the ranks of those so appreciative
conies from Newcastle.
Interviewed on 15th February, 1898, by a leading press representative,
m
4
I
•X
Mr. T. J Stutchbury, Senior Clerk in
H.M. Customs, Newcastle, and one of the best
known and most widely respected residents of
Coalopolis, dictated the following note :
I have pleasure in bearing testimony to the efficacy of
Minerva Tonic, having seen its beneficial effects on my
own family, and also in cases where my recommendation
has been adopted for its use. Its recuperative effects
were markedly powerful where a loss of appetite and a
waste of system was distinctly apparent; and I can
with confidence recommend it, and do so to people where
a depressed condition of mind and body requires a tonic.
Those were the words of Mr. Stutchbury
and they are here given without embellishment
of any kind—plainly, vigorously, convincingly.
Minerva Tonic is the greatest of all known restoratives, and as such is recognised. Taken
ir the prescribed doses, it will restore lost energy, make bad appetites good, promote sleep, and
brmg back strength and confidence. Of all Chemists throughout the colonies.


7Z£<
pm
Beautiful eyes grow dull and dim
As the swift years steal away.
Beautiful, willowy forms so slim
I<ose fairness with every day.
But she still is queen and hath charms to
spare
Who wears youth’s coronal—beautiful hair.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
will preserve your hair, and thus pre-
serve your youth. “A woman is as
old as she looks,” says the world. No
woman looks as old as she is if her
hair has preserved its normal beauty.
You can keep hair from falling out,
restoring its normal color, or restore
the normal color to gray or faded hair
by the use of
Ayer’s ♦ ♦ ♦ *
Hair Vigor.
GOLD MEDALS
At tlie World’s
Chief Expositions.
SECOND-HAND
0 AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing- of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Ladies. - can and
see our OIIKAP
■u A ('H I N KS.from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Cash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
, etc. ——
l i. ROWLEY &CO ,
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY
THE FINEST TONIC
f FER BRAVAIS
'FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in restoring
the vitality of the blood, i
and enabling the consti-l
tution o resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all cases o'-'
anaemia, Influenza and (
general dobilitv.
Highly recommended for
weak and debilitated chil
dren
LANCET •* A beann/ul and interesting preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. « It has alii
the good effects -of iron without producing consti- 1
potion or disturbing the digestion, and it does not
blacken the teeth.
Sold by Chemists all the world over. (
Peafoess
and HEAD
NOISES
I Wilson’s Common ra.l I
Sense Ear Drums
Relieve all conditions of Deafness
and Head Noises, where medical
skill fails. The only Scientific
AfjRAL Sound Conductor. Safe to
wear, comfortable, invisible, no dan-
gerous wire or metal attachment.
Recommended by physicians. Write for book -Free.
J. Chalmers, 229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/ft each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2tlin. long, 5/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the ciieapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wsgzell,
110 William Street,
eorner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe List.
Prompt attention given to Country Orders.
“ Tin Italiano in Australia : Note e Im-
pressioni ” (Milan, 1897). Mr. P. Munari, of
Sydney, has just published at the other side of
the world a book setting forth his impressions of
Australia. To see ourselves as others see us is
proverbially interesting, but generally entails a
shock to our self-conceit. The perusal of Mr.
Munari’s book brings, on the other hand, a shock
to our unassuming modesty. There is no doubt
we are, as a people, better off intellectually and
socially than the masses of the old world. To a
certain extent, higher ideals have become crys-
talised into our institutions and conditions of
everyday life. This the author has recognised,
but, in the pleasure of realising the contrast be-
tween his adopted country and that of his nativity,
he draws a picture of the state of affairs here that
most of us will be inclined to regard as over-rosy.
For instance, he says, speaking of the Australian
press—
Whoever has any ideas to promulgate, projects to moot,
blame to bestow, or answers to give, provided they are
not mere trivialities or personalities, finds a free field in
the columns of the papers. The liberty of the press is
unlimited for whoever expresses an opinion, a desire, or
resolution, whatever such may be; there are no laws that
“ regulate ” or rather blindfold it.
This may be relatively true as a contrast to the
state of affairs in Italy, where every paper is
brought out under the supervision of an official
censor, who reads the matter before allowing it to
be printed (very often before not allowing it to be
printed); but, alas! there are some among us
, who retain poignant memories in this connection.
1 And, again, speaking of the police: “ The major
part are married, and spend their lives tranquilly,
respected as useful citizens of society, and not
hated as odious tools in the pay of a tyrannical
Government for persecuting and repressing the
manifestations of thought.” [This The Bulletin
reads during the progress of a certain smellful
Sydney prosecution.] “ The laws, not the police,
rule in Australia,” and so forth. These mild
exaggerations apart, the writer takes a pretty
correct view, we think, of the Australian com-
munity and its prospects—certainly a cheerful
view. He finds the intellectual tendencies of the
people, resulting in, and in turn strengthened by,
the system of public instruction, superior in the
mass to what can be found in Europe ; a progres-
sive and liberal spirit is steadily materialising in
our institutions and at the root of our social con-
ditions, and he is confident that it is our destiny
to achieve the pacific solution of the social pro-
blem by this constant gradual evolution. Woman
here is, in point of emancipation and culture, far
ahead of her old-world sisters, and will therefore
contribute powerfully to the realisation of this
evolution. On the subject of Australian independ-
ence he says—
The Australians of to-day cannot be persuaded that
they ought to depend on England—being distant and
separated in spirit and interests—simply because their
fathers came from there.
And he concludes that the complete national in-
dependence of Australia is inevitable. The vitality
of the Federal movement is simply a manifesta-
tion of the growth towards this independence.
Altogether, the book is, at least, evidence that its
author ardently admires his adopted country and
has full confidence in her future—a species of opti-
mism which, when conjoined with advanced ideals,
is often a living power to work out its own justifi-
cation, and which, therefore, we should not be
sorry to see native Australians cultivate a little
more freely.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on nasre
27 of this issue.*
Follow the Footsteps of the Wise
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYJCjISi-a. Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast colors,
is perfectly fitting, beautifully fin-
ished.
A Splendid Suit to Order, from any
Materia], JE3 3-. To Measure, capi-
tal Trousers, 10/6. A Special Line,
very good patterns, 12 6.
Dress Suits to Measure, 84 '-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5. Golf or
Cycling Suits, 35 -. Hiding Breeches,
25/-. Waterproof, Tweed, or Cloth
Overcoats, Band and other Uniforms,
Riding Habits, &c. 5000 pieces of
Woollens to select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s capi-
tal Tweed Suits, 21 -. Famous Balla-
rat Serge Suits, Indigo dye, 25 -.
Sergerette Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trousers, 5/11.
Tweed Overcoats, 21/-. Waterproof
Coats, full Capes, 15/6. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Undressed
White Shirts, Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
2/-, 2/11,3 3. Warm Travelling Rugs,
13/ . Hats and Caps of all kinds.
Our BOOK, “ The Philosophy of
Dress,” posted free, with Self-Mea-
surement Forms. Write for them.
You can order from any part of Australia, giving ad-
dress and ins.ructions clearly written. We will attend to
your requirements most honestly and carefully, doing our
best to please. You can send Cash with perfect safety,
for if Goods are not satisfactory money will be returned.
We have built-up our immense business by being tho-
roughly STRAIGHTFORWARD WITH our CUSTOMERS.
It will pay you to Write or Call Upon Us.
A,
V)
In EVERY
M©tJTH
ft
ODENS
Guinea-Gold
Cigarettes
CIGARETTES.
“Royal Ruieets”
ROYAL SMOKE.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
AsK: for
WHITE
heather
WHISKY*
Tlie Enterprising- Burglar
IS A’BURGLIKTG-,
Bet at a Terribly Increased Risk of HIS LIFE or LIBFRTY since
M'DERMOTT’S BURGLAR ALARM
IS BEING FITTED EVERYWHERE, AT SMALL COST.
See the WORKING MODELS at OUR OFFICES.
PRICES QUOTED for Installation to Any Extent at Any Address.
The MDEBMOTT BURGLAR ALARM CO.,
CASTLEREAGH ST. (Opp. Australia Hotel), SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE No. 1674.
BY R.OYA.L YVARRAKTT of AJPJPOIKTTJVEEUT •* TTTTH QTTmTiAT-”
ASK FOR
WHISKY AND
“ SCHWEPPE.”
Schwepp
ASK FOR
BRANDY AND
“SCHWEPPE”
SOD A WATER, &c.
supplied to all the leading hotels, clubs, and steamship companies throughout thf world.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
it is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD F "R
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journat
INVALIDS
ANO
THE AGED.


: '
■
■
Herr Rassrihuzsen, Celebrated Herbalist*
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated
DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR
OF THE
jjlfaline [jerbal Remedies.
WHICH HAVE CURED THOUSANDS
FOR THE
Nerves, Blood, Liver & Kidneys.
Awarded Gold Medal and Thousands of Testi-
monials.
A WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL OBSER-
VER WRITES AS FOLLOWS
“ Hundreds of lives are ruined and many homes
are rendered desolate by continued and wilful
neglect of the ordinary precaution against ill-
health.
Many people have heavy doctors’ bills to meet;
and are never free from sickness, pain and worry,
when, by just taking a commonsense view of the
matter, they will find that they will have a per-
manent and speedy cure almost at their doors,
which, while renewing the BLOOM OF HEALTH
AND VIGOR, improving the body and mind,
costs but a trifle.
How often we see strong
men in the prime of life
suddenly
Stagger in the Street,
and, on arriving at their
homes, find that they are
in for perhaps at least a
long and painful illness,
the eause, no doubt, of
neglected disorders, which
have for sometime past
been devouring their mind
and reducing their
strength. Cases of this
kind occur dailv, and an
INFALLIBLE CURE
is found in taking the
Alfaline Herbal
Remedies.
Again, we see a man
Careworn and Dissatisfied Trudging to
Business,
taking little interest in
topics of the day. who
cannot appreciate the
good things of this life,
who is nervous, irritable
and discontented, crotch-
ety in his office, and surly
in his home and al-
together tired of his exist-
ence. This man, suffering
as he is from LIVER and
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
goes in for a course of the
Alfaline Remedie ,
and in a few days you
will hear him exclaim
that it is the BEST
REMEDY IN THE
WORLD, and his im-
proved health will be liv-
ing evidence of the won-
derful virtues of th Alfaline Liver and
Kidney i'll.- , which are sold at the small price
of ONE SHILLING! per box ; posted, Is. 6d.
HEALTH &
Happiness.
How invalids
must feel the
presence of any
illness from
which they may
be suffering,
which keeps
them i n doors
throughout the
year, while they
drag wearily
and painfully
throughout the
long years of
theirlife. When
looking out into
the bright sun-
shine, they espy
some more HAPPY and FORTUNATE BioT'ER
or friend spinning up the drive, looking graceful
on the latest, up-to-date bike, and fresh and
blooming, full of LIFE, VIGOR, and HEAL I'H,
with a merry laugh which rings throughout the
house and brings pleasure and happiness in its
wake. And all due to the wonderful virtues
of Herr Bassmussen’s Alfaline Herbal
Remedies, which have cured thousands, and
thus brought about more real health and happi-
ness than all other remedies put together.
r +~(9)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S Medical Pag?.
Or the man who for weeks has been a perfect
martyr to RHEUMATISM and KIDNEYS,
who hears the huntsman’s horn, or the boys selling
race-cards, or reads account of test matches well
do we know the feelings of these unfortunate
ones. MEET THE SAME PEOPLE after a
course of the Alfaline Remedies. They are
the very picture of health and vigor, and will tell
you they NEVER FELT BETTER in their lives.
s
HI
.‘■‘m
THIS CRICKETER
was doubled up with Rheumatism only last week ;
and now he is himself again, and all due »o
Alfaline Rheumatic Fill**
WHEN THE
BLOOD
AND SKIN
are
Out of Order,
take the
AI.FAX.INE
Blood Pills,
which will
PURIFY THE
BLOOD,
CLEAR THE
SKIN,
and
ERADICATE
ALL
TROUBLES.
Mb*
fit
//I i M
w
"HOW CAMEST THOU TO BE IN THIS
PICKLE ? ” — Shakespeare.
People troubled with CORPULENCY are much
to be pitied ; they look older than they are, and
are inconvenienced in many ways ; and just look
at the difference in appearance. The Alfa'ine
\ at-Reducing Powders are a CEKIAIN
CURE ; packets, 6s.
TRIPPING the
Fantastic Toe
Is all very well for
those already cured,
but what about
those su ff er ing
fioni Corpulency,
Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
Nervous Twitoh-
ings, Despondency,
Bad Complexions,
and Want of
Strength, why
should they not
qualify themselves
to join in the world’s
fun when they can
easily do so by tak-
ing a course of
slerr Rasmus-
sen’s Alfaline
terbal Reme-
dies.
pm
m
m
CHfLDREN’S HEALTH and
HAPPINESS is so very often
interfered with by Worms,
which seriously interfere with
their sleep, and rob them of the
nourishment so necessary in
their growth and development.
Herr Rassmussen’s Alfa-
line Worm Powder eradi-
cates all kinds of worms, both
from children and adults.
Packet, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
CORN CURED
completely by using the Alfa-
line Corn Cure, which has
never been known to fail.
Bottles, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
YOUNG
LADIES
who possess everything
which the feminine mind
can desire —Horses, Car-
riages, Dresses; and
handsome girls with plea-
sant homes and fond
parents, who shower
every luxury upon them,
are often MELAN-
CHOLY and Fretful,
worrying ovet every little
disappointment or tiifls,
their complexion suffer-
ing like their tempers. Small minor matters are
magnified into serious catastrophies and they
become trying to their friends and unbearable to
‘"“Tbe’llfcUn. Universal Fills effect a
SUDDEN and MARVELLOUS CHANGE,
and all these petty troubles vanish. Hundreds
of Testimonials are received daily from these
sufferers, as well as from the most obstinate cases.
m
NERVOUS AND DESPONDENT.
That man can sit in his office day after day
throughout the year and attend to the important
duties of a merchant, financier, departmental-
head, mine-manager, hanker, expert, and politician,
&c„ and at the same tune be some
ailment which has baffled the M EDICAL PRO-
FESSION. Too close attention to business,
being confined too much indoors, and the worry
and trouble of everyday mercantile, professional
or official life, will knock up the strongest man,
who is suffering from one of the many NER-
VOUS COMPLAINTS which the flesh is heir to.
His NERVES RUN DOWN, and his BRAIN
becomes dull, and all zest for his work is gone.
After incurring FOOLISHLY BIG DOC-
TOR’S-BILL he tries some of HERR RAbft-
JIUSSEN S ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS,
and he is soon back to his work again as strong as
a LION, which are obtained in boxes at bs. and
125., Ordinary Course, 235. fid., and Double
Special Powerful Course, 435.
Ho-w to excel at Billiards.
Only a few days ago a wonderful game of
billiards was witnessed in one of the principal
billiard saloons in this city, which fairly astonished
everyone present, inasmuch as one of the players
was known to suffer from a long-standing nervous
affection, so much so that he could scarcely hold
the cue iu his hand ; but notwithstanding this he
offered his opponent (who was a professional) 50
in 100, and beat him by 20. And he gave Herr
Kassmn-sen’s Alfa line Vitality tills the
credit for his wonderful improvement.
How to Obtain Free Book.
!SF When desiring FURTHER INFORMA-
TION just drop a letter in the first Letter-Box,
addressed to HERR RASSMUrtSEN,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
or to any of his Intercolonial Branches, and his
Valuable and Useful BOOK will be sent Fit EE.
A WORD OF WARNING.
All those who intend to give Herr Rassmussen’s
wonderful Alfaline Herbal Remedies a trial,
are hereby informed that the genuine Alfaline
Remedies can only be obtained ft his own es-
tablishments, and not from any chemist or patent-
medicine seller whatever. He has no agents.
r V','
—n
m
K
V-'i
<
THE MINERS IN THE GOLDEN WEST
HAVE FOUND
The ALFALINE REMEDIES
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
A Genuine Nerve
Cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
Are a guaranteed and permanent cure for all Nervous
Affections no matter of how long standing. Boxes 6s. and
125., posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. - Special Powerful
course, 435. 6d. These prices include all advice and any
particulars required. Pamphlet sent free and unobserved.
A Real Blood Cure
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Blood Cure
Pills
Are unequalled as a BOOD-PURIFIER, BLOOD TONIC,
and BLoOD BUILDER. PURELY Herbal, and therefore
absolutely free from mercury, and is unequalled for all
SKIN AND BLOOD AFFECTIONS.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted ; Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d. All advice sent free,
and all particulars desired forwarded, unobserved.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills— An Excellent
Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indigestion, Flatulency
Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, Deranged Kidneys,
Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections of the Liver
and Kidney 8. Positively.the best remedy in existence for
regulating the bowels, which a trial will prove. Boxes,
Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 68. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant curs
for all kinds of headache, no mat ter how caused. Is. per
packer. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— Thii
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts. Price 215., posted.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35.,. 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Allaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Universal Pills— For the Blood and
Nerves. Boxes, 435. 6d., 235. 6d., 125., and 6s.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cures Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile l'owder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in ChiMren and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful f r Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney!
also LARGE BRANCHES at
Melbourne— lso Bourke Street ;
Brisbane— l6o Queen Street ;
Charters Towers— Royal Arcade;
Adelaide— ls 4 Rundle Street ;
N.Z.— 9l Lambton Quay, Wellington;
And in W;A. :
Perth— Hay Street ;
Coolgardie— Bailey Street ;
Kaigoorlie— Hannan Street ;
Premantle— Henry Street.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
With Testimonials from Everywhere.
Important.
ADVICE
FivEE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTERS to
HERR RASSMUSSEN, c/o any of his Inteicolonial
Blanches; or, if you prefer it, to his
Head Office : 547 George Street,
Sydney.
Or simply nfMressyour Letters thuafor privacy sa'- e—
“ PROPRIETOR, Box 208, General I’osr okkicb,
SYDNEY.”
REGISTER ALL LETTERS CONTAINING
MONEY, WITHOUT 1 Alu


Amusements.
T.YCETJM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
—Under the sole direction of Messrs. J. &C. MacMahon.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING UNTIL
FURTHER NOTICE,
Tlxe Terror of Paria.
(By arrangement with Mr. W. J. Holloway).
last ni » h t vociferous applause, culminating in
rapturous enthusiasm on the part of an immense audience.
F^n Cir , C \, 2s £ d * Reserved Stalls, 2s; Stalls, Is ;
Family Circle, 6d, Box plan at Nicholson & Co’s.
XTER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
Bus Less ® es > Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
anti r, WILSON BARRETT
T f*? HIS COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS !
"-T* In. © !TV/r rjjVl yyi S| VI
l9, for the SS^Sydney,
Plan, Nicholson’s. jgg- PRICES-ss„ 35.,* 25., and Is.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Mr. Harry Rickards.
miVOLI
Sole Lessee ... imukakus.
TUESDAY NEXT, March 23, GRAND OPENING NIGH r
JACK THE GIANT KILL-ttK |
By the Most Powerful Combination of Comedians and
pbtpps Pantomimic Artists in the world,
xj Ss, 2s, and Is. Plan now open at Paling’s
No Booking-fee. No Early Doors. ranngrs.
B 1JOU c THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
bole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
„ AN ARTISTIC AND COMPLETE SUCCESS !
Mr. Chas. Cartwright Miss Beatrice Lamb
AND NEW LONDON COMPANY
In the great London Haymarket success,
A marriage of convenience,
And a Dramatic Fancy, DREAM FACES.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s, and Is, Plan at W, H. Glen and Co.
■JIHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Managers.
n Ho Howay and William Anderson.
CONTINUED SUCCESS of the Ever-Popular Comedian,
GRATTAN RKSCS,
Now appearing in the romantic Irish Drama, SHIN FANE
KIUG6 will make his farewell appearance.
POPULAR PRICES!
ALEXANDRA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Management of Dan Barn
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, at 8 o’clock) TO-NIGHT
Ban Barry's Bramatic Company
In the Intensely Exciting and Thrilling Story of tb
Lawless Deeds of
Tlx© Kelly G-ang.
CHANGE OF BILL EVERY SATURDAY.
Just Note the Prices—2s., Is., and SIXPENCE.
■pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNI
bole Lessees and Managers :
Messrs. WILLIAMSON and MUSGROVE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS
Of the Brightest of all Musical Comedies,
t i
tf
TN€ FRENCH MAID.
SATURDAY, March 19 - THE GAY PARISIENN
PRICES AS USUAL Box Plan at Allan’s.
„ Amusements.
QPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
_ Lessees and Managers, STANFORD and BARNES.
Fourth
Week
{ EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock, j
Fourth
Week
New and Original Australian Drama,
Prices,
6d, is,
and Is 6d.
| Tracked Powi) I
Box Plan
at Theatre.
M.
. C. R. STANFORD as Trooper Charlie Pennyquick,
■KTTi.ir supported by the Full Company.
NEW SCENERY, NEW MUSIC, NEW EFFECTS.
THE- EVENT OF THE YEAR.
HARMSTON’S
Circus $ gigantic Zoologfe
OF PEBFOBITNGI ANIMALS.
THE OLDEST AND BEST TENTED EXHIBITION
T . . _ . . ON EARTH.
It is Coming in all its Magnificence, and will pr'-ve to be
a Mighty Maunet.
TIME TESTED IN THE CRUCIBLE OF PUBLIC
OPINION.
An AJI-iiicluding, Overshadowing Amusement
federation of unquestioned responsibility
and Stirling merit.
MASSIVE IN PROPORTION.
PERFECT IN EVERY DETAIL.
UNDIVIDED! Undiminished! UNEQUALLED!
A Show that presents an
Array of thoroughly Reputable Artists, who
present an Entertainment that is
THE EPITOME OF EXCELLENCE.
An overwhelming circus presented, teeming with even-
valuable attraction. IT HAS FORMED NO ALLIANCES!
IT HAS NEVER BORROWED A TITLE ! IT HAS
NEVER HIRED A NAME ! It has always stood up for
the most wholesome, clean, and commendable features
of the arena.
IT COMES TO SYDNEY
after a prosperous tour of India, Burmah, China, Straits
Settlements, Japan, Manilla and Java, and seven weeks
of unprecedented success in the city of Melbourne. It
has been accorded the highest hmirs ever met with by
any circus organised, and is justly styled
The World’s Greatest Show!
OUR ANIMAL KINGDOM.
Every Nation Contributing!
The Royal Bengal Tiger “ DUKE,” the largest tiger in
captivity.
The Monster ELEPHANT and her BABY (14 months old).
The only one in the world on exhibition.
LOCATION: BELMORE PAR!'.
GRAND OPENING DATE.
Saturday, 2nd April, 1898.
Mrs. HARMSTON LOVE, Proprietress.
ROBERT LOVE, Manager.
T>OYAL STANDARD THEATRE SYDNEY
(Next Metropolitan Fire Station, Castlereagh-st.)
Sole Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Robert Henry.
Every SATURDAY, MONDAY, and TUESDAY Evenings.
73rd \
WEEK /
HENRY'S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
7 3rd
WEEK
The Great Irish Patriotic Drama,
The Green Lanes of Ireland-
Wed., N. Sydney; Thurs., Waverlev ; Friday, Petersham.
A NEW PLAY EVERY WEEK.
ADMISSION A SILVER COIN ADMISSION.
ART JEWELLERY at LONDON PRICES.
THOUSANDS OF VERY LATEST NOVELTIES.
Gold 2-Bar Brooch.
With Amethyst Pendant ... 13s 6d
With Bell Pendant
12s 6d
Gold 2-bar & Buckle Brooch.
Set with Pearls and Red Stones, or Pearls
and Blue Stones, 17s 6d.
eSßfiii
■
Ho
15c. Hall-marked Brooch.
Set with Ruby or Sapphire, 18s 6d.
cr
15c. Hall-marked Brooch.
Set with 2 Diamonds and 1 Ruby or
Sapphire, 255.
9-carat, 13s 6d pair. 15-earat, 27s 6d pair.
Silver, 3s. pair.
20 other Patterns from 10s 6d pair.
18c.
Band Ring'.
1 Fine Diamond, 40s,
60s, 100 s.
Ruby or Sapphire,
30s, 455, 60s.
Opal or Pearl, 255,
40s, 50s.
Plain Band
Ring.
9-c., 12/6, 15/-, 20/-
15-c., 20/-, 22 6, 27/6
18-c„ 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
With any name,
1/- extra.
New
Pendant Brooch
with
Amethyst Heart;
9-carat, 10s 6d
15-carat, 12s 6d
Gold Novelty Brooch.
Bar with Bow, Pearl Set Bird, Amethyst and
Bead Pendant, 20s.
New Gold Brooch, Bs. 6d.
Hall-marked Gold, Pearl Set,
2-Bird Brooch, 17s 6d each.
Gold Lucky Wish-Bone Brooch.
With Amethyst or Garnet Shamrock, pearl
centre, 20/- each.
Plain Large Size, 7s 6d ; Small, ss.
Pearl Set all round, 20s.
9-carat,
17 6, 20/-, 25/-
15-carat,
35/-, 40/-, 457-
Silver, 4/-, 5/-
18c. Zia Parisiexme.
2 fine Diamonds, £5.
1 fine Diamond, with
1 Sapphire, Ruby, Opal or
Pearl, £4.
18c. Gipsy.
3 fine Diamonds, £2 ss,
£3, £4.
1 fine Diamond, with
2 Sapphires, Rubies, Opals,
or Pearls, £ll6s, £2 ss, £3.
18c. Half Hoop.
B Fine Diamonds, £7los.
Smaller Stones, £4, £5, £6.
2 Fine Diamonds, with 3
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals or
Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
6 Lovely Opals, 455, 50s, 60s
18c. Marquise.
Set with 14 Diamonds and
1 Ruby or Sapphire,
Emerald or Torquoise
centre, £4a 4s.
POST FREE. —Please Send far Illustrated Slips of Novelties.
NOTE Our Only Australian Address-
lift: k
90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
WHO ARE THE HAPPY,
WHO ARE THE FREE P
S'
You tell me and I’ll tell thee:
Those who have tongues that never lie,
Truth on the lip, truth in the eye;
To Friend or to Foe,
To all above, and to all below.
These are the happy, these are the free,
So may it be with thee and me.
What Higher Aim can Man attain than Conquest
over Human pain ?
ORAWINC AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement, Breathing Impure Air, too Rich Food,
Alcoholic Drink, Gouty, Rheumatic and other Blood Poisons, Fevers, Feverish
Influenza Colds, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Pimples
on the Face, Want of Appetite, Sourness of Stomach, &c. (It prevents Diarrhoea,
and removes it in the early stages.)
USE ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’
It is Pleasant, Cooling, Soothing, Health-Giving, Refreshing and Invigorating.
YOU CANNOT OVERSTATE ITS CREAT VALUE IN KEEPINC THE BLOOD PURE AND FREE FROM DISEASE.
an illustration of the beneficial effects of ENO’S ‘FRUIT
SALT,* I have no hesitation in giving the particulars of the case of one of
my friends. SLUGGISH ACTION of the LIVER and BILIOUS HEADACHE
affected him, so he was obliged to live upon only a few articles of diet, and to be
most sparing in their use. This did nothing in effecting a cure, although persevered
in for twenty-five years, and also consulting eminent members of the faculty. By
the use of ENO’S ' FRUIT SALT ’ he now ENJOYS VIGOROUS HEALTH ; he
has NEVER had a HEADACHE or CONSTIPATION since he commenced to use
it, about six months ago, and can partake of his food to the great satisfaction of
himself and friends. You may well extend its us e pro bono publico. I find it makes a
VERY REFRESHING;and INVIGORATING DRINK.—I remain, yours faith-
fully, J. W. Neil.” —( From the late Rev. J. W. Neil, Holy Trinity Church , North Shields.)
HEADACHE and Disordered Stomach.— “ After suffering for nearly
two and a half years from SEVERE HEADACHE and DISORDERED
STOMACH, and after trying almost everything, and spending much money, with-
out finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to try ENO'S * FRUIT
SALT,’ and, before I had finished one bottle I found it doing me a GREAT DEAL
of GOOD, and now I am RESTORED to MY USUAL HEALTH; and others I
know that have tried it have NOT ENJOYED such GOOD HEALTH for years.
—Yours most truly, Robert Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford."
The effect of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ on any DISORDERED and FEVERISH
condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY
and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —Examine each Bottle, and see CAPSULE is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT'
Without it, you have been imposed on by a WOE THLESS imitation. Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘ FRUIT SALT • WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
WARRANTED
Finest fland-made BRIARS.
Sole Agents-S. HOFFNUNG & CO., BRISBANE.
VICTORIA""ftND"TASMANIA.
JUBILEE
SUNLIGHT & LIFEBUOY
ending December 31, 1897,
and March 31, 1898.
SOAP COMPETITIONS
£5OO
IN PRIZES GIVEN FRFF _
For SUNLIGHT and LIFEBUOY SOAP WRAPPERS.
PRIZES given for each of the above Competitions.
3 Lady or Gentleman’s Helical “ Premier ”
Bicycles value £24 each
6 Lady or Gentleman’s Rolled Gold Watches £4 4s. „
12 „ „ Half-Hunter Watches „ £2 2s. „
30 Sets of Carvers „ £\ | S .
Cloth Bound Books „ £lOO
SEND THIS TOF PORTION
1
GHTSOAP/
y: WHY DOES
f " A WOMA N
"took OLD "
SOONER THAN
Full particulars, Rules, &c., in circulars which will be delivered from house to house, or can
be obtained by application to BURGESS BROS., HOBART.
j. mckenzie & co., Launceston.
The Smelting Co. of Australia
'LIMITED).
Mi
i PURCHASERS OP ALL CLASSES OP
{old, Silver, [ead w Copper Ores $ Products.
WOKKS, situated at DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), 56 miles from Sydney, N.S.W.,
Comprise PLANTS for CRUSHING, ROASTING, BLAST FURNACE SMELTING.
SULPHURIC ACID MANUFACTURE, LEACHING, BULLION REFINING, etc., etc.
under direct supervision of G. H. Blakemokk, Metallurgist, late of Broken Hill. The favorable
situation of the works, being in the midst of the Southern coalfields, affords unrivalled facilities for
obtaining cheap Coal, Coke, and Fluxes, thus enabling the Co. to pay the highest prices for ores of all
descriptions. Prompt Cash Settlement on agreement of Assays.
Rates quoted, and all information supplied on application to
JOHN HOWELL,
(late General Manager of Broken Hill Proprietary Mine),
Managing Director,
Mutual Lira Buildings, MAKTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.


FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
Strong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
¥
ASCOTTE
TOBACCO.
Jefc t* at
yoif get
it —
■
m
3ol§ Agents—Si HOFFNUNG- So CO., Brisbane.
Hairdressers ana Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
Just Landed. —Special Shipment HUMAI
lIAIR, comprising 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 2
inches Bestquality English Clubbed Hair, inalat i;
variety of shades ; also, Turned Hair from 16 t
24 inches. Curled Ringlet, 10, 12, and 14 inohei
Croquignolle Hair in all shades, for fringe-mal
ing. White Straight and Crop Hair, all length;
Fringe and Silk Back Hair Nets, Wig Block;
Gauze Silk and Cotton Wig Nets, Curling Tongi
Crimping Irons, Pinching Irons. The Loung
and Horsehair Hairdressing Chairs, a large stoc
to select from. We always have on hand a larg
variety of Hairdressers’ Requisites, includin
Mirrors, Shampooing Basins, Hair Brushin
Machinery, Razor Strops, Hot Water Urni
Razors (all makes) Razor Hones, Barbers’ Pole:
Hair Clippers and Clipper Springs, Cuttin
Combs, Shaving Mugs, Combs, Brushware an
Perfumery, Shaving Soap. Essential Oils, &c.
N.B.—We engage men for Country Clients an
give trial in our own saloon before sending awaj
Hair Patterns matched in difficult or
rare colors.
TO THE LADIES.
Ornamental Hair Department-
Ladies’ Fringes a speciality ; best manufacture, newe
design, 10/6; wire foundation from 4/6. Fringes ma<
from own pattern of hair and design, iO/6. Best Engli:
Hair Tails from 5/6 to' 42/- each. Wigs, Scalpets, &
Complete Dressings made to order at lowest quotations,
CRAIG & AITKEN
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUS
680 <>B2 George Street, Sydney.
V
'-'bun Life oa thatSiqaje.t tobacco l
SMOKE SIGNET TOBACCO ONLY
Best Cigarettes are Wills’ Three Castles.
MARCEILA CHOICE 3d. CIGAR.
I ales of the CONVICT SYSTEM, b
Pkioe Wauung ; Is. 3d. posted.
“S.L.” writes from Wyalong, N.S.W. :
Ed. Bulletin. —How's this for law ? A and B were
homestead selectors of adjoining blocks, and B refused to
erect his half of the dividing fence. A had consequently
to erect the whole of it, and intended bringing claim for
half cost before local Land Board. But before this could
be done B.’s selection was forfeited and all improvements
on forfeited selections revert, according to the present
law', to the Crown. B had made no improvements, but
the person who has now selected the forfeited block has
been officially notified that he will have to pay the Crown
half the value of the fence which A erected. Another
selector, whose land adjoins B’s forfeited block, has had
his fence, erected at his sole expense, up for over five
years, but is nevertheless informed that the Crown has
come into possession of half of it.—S.L., Temora.
One of those brilliant discoveries that lie
just under the public nose has been made by the
Sydney D.T. correspondent who suggests that, in
the matter of jams, pickles, and sauces, &c.,
Agricultural Show prizes should be allotted, not
upon the quality of articles specially prepared to
annex them, but upon the quality of the pro-
fessedly equal grade, as bought at haphazard from
the retailer. In a Word, hot upon what the com-
peting manufacturers can give the public, but upon
what they do give. Atrleib
S.M. Herald points odt, ftith quite uri-
usual vigor, thatN.S.W.Governtaentisnot Holding
its big land auction this month —the biggest thing
of its kind since 1882 —to raise money for the
present year’s revenue, which is, probably, in some
upside-down sort of way, the reason why all the
money is to be paid by 30th June, in time for
inclusion in the year’s revenue. Obviously, the
Government only demands the money so per-
emptorily because it doesn’t want it. The Herald
also points out that the land is only scraps and
remnants of no real use or value, which doubtless
explains why it includes selections as large as
624 acres, and why, even reckoning the half-acre
town allotments, the blocks average 110 acres
each. Also, the HERALD is of opinion that the
idea of the Reid Govt, being ili want of money is
too absurd to be worth mentioniiig, and as the
expenditure for the current year is already
i 8517,000 more than the revenue, why, of course,
it doesn’t want money. Any fool can see that.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements, Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London *
“ Scribe,” to The Bulletin
Re the late Nathaniel Kinsman, tHe much-marrying
parson, of whom you printed a portrait recently. He
celebrated, in all, about 9000 weddings. This fact alone
explains the allegation that his. splicings figured more
often in the Divorce Court than those of any other cele-
brant. A wonder if they didn’t. Kinsman, indeed, did
as much as a whole big” denomination in himself. The
most searching inquiries by Govt., with a keen desire to
oust him, failed to discover anything essentially dis-
creditable. Kinsman was indeed a vast public benefit,
and he is certain to be replaced by another prac-
titioner of the same order, one who, , for 55., ec-
clesiastically varnishes oyer the dry, stodgy bru-
tality, as it were, of the registry. • The slanders
against him emanated from the clergy, because they got
two guineas, and upwards, in their limited way for doing
the same job. Kinsman was a legally and perfectly-
ordained clergyman, of nearly 40 years’ standing, of
unblemished character, thoroughly respected in the
suburbs of Fitzroy and Collingwood. To be sure, he
carried on the business of an auctioneer; but would it
not be highly creditable to the clergy at large if they
followed Paul’s example and did a little tent-making?
This ndarriage line happened to be thrust on Kinsman,
and proved lucky. He long officiated as minister of the
Free Church of England, in his little chapel, for
the love of the thing, before the marriage business
began to open up. Before this he was an ac-
tive member of St. Mark's, Fitzroy. With all his
estimable qualities, it cannot be denied that Kinsman
had the perfect ludicrous appearance of a Chadband—fat,
Uhctuous, clean-shaven, clad in rusty black with white-
chokers. The funniest thing was to see him in his auction
pulpit with the dames of Collingwood round him. He
used to say he could beat universal-provider Whiteley,
because he was able to provide the wife, too. In his
snuggery there was a little horsehair sofa, and he would
Say, “On that little sofa how many thousands of happy
couples have sat "—[Pinch for stale news.—Ed. B.j The
marriage-fees of his career during 30 years after all only
amounted to about £2OOO, or, say, £1 ss. a week, surely
not a thing to make a fuss about. That he was a kindly,
charitable, open-handed, large-hearted man is the mere
byeword of his locality.
I'll Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine!
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. 6d.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
David Braham g C°.
. . HAVE OPENED THEIB . .
SPRING GOODS!
Which comprise all the Latest Novelties
—in—
(jCQtlenjeo’s — h —
—if— SOitiogS
For the Coming Season.
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Free
■ by post.
Vickerman’s Summer
SERGES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Cellular Clothing.
Pamphlet and Price-List post free to any address.
73 & 75 KINOr STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets).
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
[Completely overcome Deafness
'and Head Noises, no.mnter of
jfhow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Educational.
Dental College & Oral Hospital
OF VICTORIA.
Opposite Exhibition Grounds, Melbourne.
STUDENTS Enrolled. INFIRMARY open
Daily, 9 to 4 ; Saturday, 9 to 12.
E. LENTHALL OLDFIELD, Principal.
"iNPICEjTIo^
IJVerVovs
Headache
PMRoT
BR^ND"
\p Hf OlUroß.'
Woundc
(oOGHj (?LPS if
IBeware op
IMITAT!°AiS
MELBOURNE.
WANTA
00 YOU
POST FREEv^
Watches-Clocks-JeWellery-BirtHday*
WeddipJc z, CHristeiMg Presents
H NeWMAIS)- 1755177-ELIZARETri s**
OPPOSITE G:P.Q.— — ■«
MELBOURNE.
A CART-LOAD OF GOLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEI
“ If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness, into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has restored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain piay be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address^-
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send addressed envelope to Mr
WILBER KELLOGG, Box 344 Melbourne, Vic.
In use 50 Years before Victoria was Queen.
Ladies should always Knit with
REE
HIVE
KNITTING
Scotch Fingering, Wheeling, Soft
Merino, 1 Andalusian, and other
qualities. All “Beehive” Brand.
NOTED ALL OVER
the world for quality, colours, softness and durability.
TRADE /AARif%ij
Trade, Mu.' k RcgMeml.
Estab ishedl7Bs.
Sample SHADE
CARD FREE BY
POST.
Also “ Beehive ”
Hosiery&Under-
wear manufac-
tured from the
‘Beehive Wools.
J. aJ. Baldwin
HAUFfX,
ENGLAND.
CHh
INBUR
If. ADC
*'X-
i* ' rho-FHWoVs 5 ' * ■ Y*j* I
CompanyL?f
tDIH BURGH.
'f a 'SmSSMOi
X j.’.J f iriu/n'^ uuv^'Zi
jjrink
Ploderately.
Take a little Whisky
‘ ‘ for the stomach \s sake ’ ’;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “D. C. L. 11
Scotch is the best. One
.glass., at: meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain- water, .assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically; recojnmended
as a safe and absolutely
pure, stimula n,t.
“DiGrL.” stands with-
t>tit a tivaii
Insist oii
• d.c.l:
PO WER WITHOUT GAS OH STEAM
THE
Hercules Oil
Engine,
(LAND OR MARINE)
The Simplest, Cheapest,
and Best Engine for
any purpose.
Built in all Sizes,
from 2 2 to 200 H P.
No Eflg ; n3?r required.
f ipilos'olB Imposs b.e
Always Re idy to- Use
We have one of these Engines running at our prem r
ises, where full particular? can he had on application
' INSPECTION INVITED.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
87 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only' stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES li stages, and
restore ui. e wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), o-ivins- illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical. • • , • ' ,''
GERMAN ELECTRIC -APPLIANCE .AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
I'ucrasy will completely de-
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know-
ledge of the patient , who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamphlet on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
EASILY
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
CURED
Dr. Gibbons,
137 Elizabeth-st., Sydney,
Who is trebly qualified and registered, may be
Consulted on ALL DISEASES, either personally
or by letter.
Fee - £l.
which, in most cases, includes Medicines.necessary
for a COMPLETE CURE.
Dr. GIBBONS has many thousands of testi-
monials from every district in Australia' : ii 1 in-
tending patients are invited to correspond with
Dr. GIBBONS,
at 137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Nen/oCiS Weaki)€&s - •
AND
C€r?bro-Spii>al Disease^,
are specially treated by a NEW METHOD,
which has proved most successful in the hands of
Dr. GIBBONS.
Patients not feeling able to properly describe
their cases may write to Dr. GIBBONS, who will
make matters easy for them, and will assist them
by every in his power.
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, 1
PROPRIETOR, Box 230 G.P.0., Sydnej
Please mention this paper when writing.
Tales of the convict system-
Prioe, One Shilling ; per Post, Is. 3d.


In Summer and. ‘Winter, in Sunshine and Snow*
Dr. Williams’
BEING HAPPINESS AND BELIEF TO TOETUBED MEN AND WOMEN.
7500 SUPPOSED INCURABLES have been ABSOLUTELY CUBED.
Mom Read Beloui.
An Australian Actor!!!
HE SUFFERS FROM NERVOUS PRO-
STRATION.
A PEFECT AND COMPLETE CURE.
WHAT MR. DAN BARRY SAYS.
The name of Mr. Dan Barry, the clever actor
and popular lessee of the Alexandra Theatre, Mel-
bourne, is one with which all Australian play-
goers are familiar ; it would be difficult, indeed,
to decide in which of the colonies his name and
admirable portrayal of various Irish characters
are least familiar. Mr. Barry is proud to class
himself as a self-made and educated man. From
the agg of elevep up to that of thirty-eight Mr.
Barry has retained his liking for a professional
life, graduating in a circus, following it up as
theatrical agent, joining a Melbourne paper, and
so on through a Bohemian life until he attained
the rank of manager and proprietor of his own
company. When a representative visited him,
the lessee of one of the most popular of Victorian
theatres courteously granted a request for a few
moments’ conversation. Mr. Barry said it would
be sufficient to fully explain the total benefit, he
had received from the use of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills.
“As I have told you,” said Mr. Barry, my life
has been a varied one, and there are but few
cities and towns in Australasia I have not visited
at some time or the other, and it will , not be
long,” he added, “before I visit America. A
theatrical manager has much to do mentally, and
as a result I commenced to feel the strain some
two years ago. A man of my profession, com-
pelled to be letter-perfect in some scores of charac-
ters, and having to attend to all departments of
the theatre, has his mental faculties fully em-
ployed. Frequently I felt, mentally and physi-
cally, quite exhausted. I was also affected with
neuralgia in the head, which often seriously in-
terfered with my duties. At night, my sleep was
restless, and of no recuperative benefit, and my
illness commenced to tell on me so seriously that
I consulted a medical man. He told me that my
system had run-down, and that I wanted a tonic.
He gave me some pretty extensive medical advice,
which developed into a large-sized bill. I would
not have had any objection to the bill had I re-
ceived any benefit; but I had not; so I tried a
second medical man, with no better result than
the consoling information that my evident state
of debility and want of tone required me to
take an extensive rest. This rest was, of course,
an impossibility. Noticing my indisposition, a
fellow - professional suggested I should try Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. I followed his advice, and
purchased a supply. After using these pills for
six weeks I found myself free from all signs of
debility and its attendant ills, and fully recovered
in spirits and health ; in short, ‘ Richard was him-
self again.’ ”
“ And you recommend them ? ”
“Yes, I do. If I see any member of my com-
pany showing the least signs of brain-fag or being
run-down, I recommend a course of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, and have never known them to fail.”
Intolerable Indigestion!!!
IN AGONY FOR 15 YEARS.
A MELBOURNE LADY’S GRATITUDE.
(From the Leichhardt Standard.)
1
“ For fifteen
years I suffered
from indiges-
tion.” This is
what a Mel-
bourne lady
(Mrs. Boyes),
now residing
at 162 Dowl-
ing -st., Syd-
ney, where she
is on a lengthy
visit, said to a
reporter from
Leichhard t
Stan dasd.
“A long weary
time to be ill,”
said that lady,
who is at pre-
picture of health and strength, “and I might
nave been suffering still if I had not had the good
fortune to drop on a paragraph in the Melbourne
papers describing a cure by Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People, in a case very similar to
mine. Though I always had indigestion with me.
it came on much more violently at times than was
01
r
m --
(Facsimile of only genuine package).
usual. The attacks
were at first compar-
atively light, but as
years weht on they
became more and
more severe. They
commenced with a
feeling of sickness
and a disinclination
to eat, and when I
did manage to eat
some light food it
would lie on my chest
in a heavy, immov-
able lump. The sen-
sation was most op-
pressive and distres-
sing, and sometimes
I was in such pain
that I could hardly
sleep, and often J
would wake up in
the middle of the
night with a start
and not get anymore
sleep till the morn-
ing, and when T did
350,000 000 pm.
were
This Proves their
Gigantic Popularity.
get out of bed I would feel depressed in spirits, and
quite overcome by a feeling of lassitude and weari-
ness. I had violent headache, and a most awkward
giddiness when I got up suddenly from a sitting
posture, and I suffered from a continual bad breath
and an unpleasant taste in the mouth. I also had
bad bilious turns. I was not as you see me now,
but was much thinner, with a pale, unhealthy com-
plexion. During all these long years, in addition
to the attention of doctors and medicines, I tried
a large number of other remedies, but none of them
did me an atom of good. At length I tried Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. The effect was astonishing :
after taking them for only a short time the attack I
was then suffering from was completely got rid of.
I had a sound, healthy appetite, which I hadn t
had for years, and my sleep was no longer dis-
turbed. I took altogether about 12 boxes, and
the Pills completely cured me of both my indiges-
tion and biliousness, and I have never had the
least return of these complaints, or, in fact, of any
illness, since.”
♦
Racking Rheumatism!!!
A STARTLING ULTIMO CASE.
LAID UP FOR AN ENTIRE YEAR
A reporter recently visited Mr. Walter Tye, of
33 M ‘Arthur-street, Ultimo, Sydney, whose mar-
vellous recovery from a most severe attack of acute
rheumatism has been the subject of much com-
ment in that neighborhood. _ Mr. Tye proved to
bel a young man of great intelligence, and he
readily volunteered to give the following state-
ment of his illness and recovery :
“ It is some eighteen months ago that,after being
out in very inclement weather, I commenced to
suffer from aching agonies in the limbs and body,
and flying pains and stiffness in the joints ; and I
also experienced sudden chills, generally succeeded
extra work caused by moving from place to place,
for I have been a great traveller during the last
year or two. Anyhow, after my last journey I
began to feel very low and depressed in spirits ; I
could eat scarcely anything, and began to get
very thin. And as far as my color —well, I was
as yellow as if I had a severe fit of the jaundice.
An old friend of mine, who met me in the
street, looked me straight in the face and passed
me by without recognition, and she was posi-
tively shocked when I ran after her and
told her who I really was. I got from bad
to worse; the least exertion wearied me, and my
ordinary housework became too much for me. My
gums grew quite white, and my lips looked a
%
mi
V
*6
bluish-grey color. My sleep was restless and
disturbed, and I was so tired in the mornings I
could hardly get out of bed, and when I did I
used to lie on the sofa, feeling I hardly cared what
happened to me. I saw a doctor, who said I
needed a strong tonic, and I had several bottles
of physic from him ; but I grew no better. I was
in this miserable and hopeless condition when I
heard from someone who had been cured by them
about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and I at once got
some. After taking a few I was agreeably sur-
prised to find a real and distinct change for the
better. I got rid of that miserable depression of
spirits, which in itself was enough to keep me ill,
and in a few days I was able to sleep the night
through without interruption. The Pills, too, gave
me a good appetite, and I began slowly to get
cheerful and fat again. My color came back, and
after taking six boxes I was completely cured, and
found myself as strong as ever. I shall always
remember my oure with gratitude, and shall, you
may be sure, recommend this wonderful medicine
to any of my friends who may have the bad for-
tune to suffer as I did.”
Mrs. Johns resides at 60 Yurong-street, Sydney.
Has the Heat prostrated you ?
Do you feel nervous and depressed ?
Do you suffer from Indigestion and
Insomnia ? Are you afflicted with
nervous headaches ? If so, try Dr.
Williams’ Fink Fills for Pale
People. They are a sure and cer-
tain specific for all prostration and
evil effects of the heat. They will
make a girl bright and beautiful,
and a man vigorous and alert. To
young and old they bring good
health and happiness.
We have Branches at Brockville,
London, Paris, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Capetown, Durban, B»io
Janeiro, Buenos Ayres. We have
Agencies at Schenectady, Mel-
bourne, Auckland, Brussels, Cairo,
Madrid, Geneva, Colombo, Bombay,
Calcutta, Hobart, Honolulu, Perth,
Shanghai, Wellington (N.Z.), St.
Johns (Newfoundland), Hamilton
(Bermuda), Kingston (Jamaica),
Mexico City, Havana, Bridgetown
(Barbadoes), Georgetown (British
Guiana), Jerusalem, Algiers, &c.
by heavy sweats. The pain I suffered was so
severe that sleep was an impossibility, and should
I doze off I would be suddenly aroused by spasms
in the muscles of the joints, in which the rheuma-
tism was worst. I had the best medical advice,
and the premises of a well-known chemist were
fairly ransacked in search of a specific that would
tend to alleviate my agony. To make a long story
short, I was laid up for 12 months.
“Relief, however, at last arrived, and from an
unexpected quarter.
“ Boilermaker Jarvis and his wife are near
neighbors of ours, and I had read of his wonderful
recovery from locomotor ataxia by the agency of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I determined to try
them, and did so. It was not until after the
third box that I experienced any decided change
for the better, but mine was a case of long stand-
ing, and, it was feared, one that might become
chronic. My health then improved by leaps and
bounds, and I am now, as you can see, strong and
hearty. I took, in all, eight boxes.
“ The nature of my business calls for the display
of considerable activity, and I am pleased to state
that I have had no return of my old symptoms,
and can face the coming winter without any
anxiety.”
“Have we your permission to publish these par
ticulars, Mr. Tye ? ”
“ Certainly, you have.”
Mr. Tye, senior, strongly corroborated the story
of his son’s complete recovery, which lie said was
alone attributable to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People.
A Lady’s Anaemia!!!
SHE WAS MISERABLE AND HOPELESS.
NOW SHE IS HAPPY AND HEALTHY.
Mrs. Johns is a pretty and vivacious young lady
of about 25 years of age, and in answer to the
questions put to her recently by a reporter she
said : “ I have been very ill, but at present T am
enjoying excellent health and spirits. Indeed, I
don’t know that I ever felt better in my life. I can
safely say that I owe my satisfactory recovery en-
tirely to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. ’The first
cause of my illness was, I think, the worry and
A Sufferer from Fever !!!
A TRIUMPHANT RECOVERY.
Mr. M. B. Davis, Johannesburg, writes as fol-
lows “Some time ago I was a sufferer from
fevers (typhoid and malarial), fearful headaches,
biliousness and general debility following. For
the last two years I have spent all my savings on
doctors and patent-medicines,- but without avail.
I was fast becoming worn out, both mentally and
physically, with the worry of increasing debt and
\\
weakness. I
heard one day,
from a friend of
mine, of the
great merits of
Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for
Pale people,
and, in despair,
I bought a box,
but with little
faith, as doctors
and patent-
medicines had
only exagger-
ateamy malady,
and hope for
recovery had
almost disap-
peared. I had
taken only a few
pills though when I began bo recover, the miser-
able feeling to vanish, and once more 1 began to
take an active interest in life. Ambition re-
turned with a new hope and after the third box
of these wooder-fnl pills 1. f'lt better than ever
before in my life. Tam now able to attend to my
business as closely as when a young man, and
without my forn vr feeling of languor and helpless-
ness. Moping that this letter may be of use ns n
testimonial for Dr. Williams’ I’ink Pills, which 1
am determined to recommend to all my friend-
who have suffered in the same way,
T remain, etc.,
M. B. Davis.
Box No. 1079, Johannesburg.
The Change of Life !! I
IMPORTANT TO LADIES.
An interesting story of hope found in a hopeless
case is told by a Dewsbury Chronicle reporter in
that important newspaper. He writes:—“l
visited Mrs. Benjamin Smith, Ostler - square,
1 Back Tweedale-street, Dewsbury, who had been
a hopeless sufferer, but had at last found relief
from pain.”
' “ Ten years ago,” she stated—she is 50 now—
“‘change of life ’ left her with chronic rheuma-
tism in the head and eyes. Her last illness com-
menced fifteen months ago. The pain in her head
was too acute for words. She got no sleep either
night or day, nor could the most skilful medical,
attention give her relief. She had a naturally-
sluggish liver and a weak heart, and her illness
had so preyed upon her eyesight that, in her own
graphic words, she ‘ could only see the shadows ’
of objects before her. But in this, as in many
another case, hope was not futile.
“ I saw an account in the paper,” said Mrs.
Smith to the reporter, “ of the marvellous cures
effected, where all ordinary medicine had failed,
by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and
my husband got me a box. I had only taken half
when the pain left me just like magic, and it’s to
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills alone that I’m indebted.
I’ve had only two boxes.”
Typhoid Fever’s Effects '■ 15
A WOMAN’S GRATITUDE.
Mrs. J. E. Griffin, of White Head, New Bruns-
wick, writes: —“Twenty-two years ago I contracted
Typhoid Fever, which left in my system the seeds
of disease which all these years have caused me
much suffering and inconvenience. The trouble
appeared to be mainly in the form of hip disease,
which left me very lame. This produced extreme
i
nervousness, and frequently I passed sleepless
nights. I tried many remedies, but without any
marked benefit until I began to use Dr. Williams
Pink Pills. I have used in all ten boxes ot this
grand medicine, with the result that my lameness
has disappeared, my nervous despondency gone,
and I now always get sound, refreshing sleep.. l
feel very thankful for what Dr. Williams Pink
Pills have done for me.”
4
To Men and Women'!!!
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are offered the publio
with a full confidence that there is no disease
arising from a Watery or Impoverished Condition
of the Blood, Shattered Nervous Forces, which
they will not cure if the directions are faithfully
followed, and the treatment persisted in ; they are
not a patent medicine, but are a thoroughly scien-
tific preparation, the result of years or careful
study. They have an especial action (through
the Blood) upon the Sexual Organs of both Men
and Women. It is a well-recognised fact that upon
the healthy activity of the sexual functions de-
pends the mental and physical well-being of every
person come to adult years. It is that which
gives the rosy blush to the cheek, and the soft
light to the eye of the maiden. The elastic step,
the ringing laugh, and the strong right arm of
youth own this same mainspring. How soon do
irregularities rob the face of colour, the eye of
brightness! The blood becomes impoverished,
the victim pale. The pallor of the skm is often
the only outward mark of the trouble within.
“Dr. Williams’Pink Pills for Pale People en-
rich the impoverished blood and then vigour
returns, and the bloom of youth again mantles the
faded cheek.
4
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold only in
boxes bearing the firm’s trade-mark and wrap-
per (printed in red ink). They are never sold
in bulk, or by the dozen or hundred, and anj
dealer who offers substitutes in this form w
trying to defraud, and should be avoided, bee
that each box is encircled by a blue warn-
ing label, and regard with distrust the man
who wants to sell
you somethin g
which he says is
just as good. He
only wants a bigger
profit.
These Pills are
not a purgative.
They are genuine
only with the full
name, Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People,
and are sold by all
chemists and by
the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Com-
pany, Sydney, who
will forward (post
paid) on receipt of
stamps or post or-
der, one box for
2s. fid,, or half s
dozen for 15s. 3d.
They are unrival-
led rr a tonic for
both sexes.
■x'c ■
m
(Facsimile of only genuine package.)


Soft Ca O'/as Sbirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30 - per 14-dozen through-
outthe colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Very Strong-, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. PIKE KIIOTHERS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
“ A.PEKTTA.”
The best Natural Aperient Water, for con-
tinuous use by the constipated, the gouty, and
the obese.
“ Its composition is constant.”— Lancet.
Sole exporters: The Apollinaris Co. Ltd., 4
Stratford Place, London, W.*
SUN HATS & HELMETS
lEEE BY POST.
,UAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Sole Manufacturers,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
POKER MACHINES.
Up CiC/mS FREE
:■ yg|
' ' -=-iJl_ rfn ~ r i)
TjvaFMTSKS.;.r3ir=jr. - r^r^grJ
ffO«OP3? IN THESLot\\|f
gmiaiuumi
JSto Extortionate Prices,
We give Value for Money.
Purchase from Us and Save
Your Cash.
Cigars!
Best Value
in N S.W.
LAWRENCE’S Patent Tobacco Cutter.
A
U
T
O
M
A
T
I
C
/,y.
s
E
Ii
P
P
E
E
D
I
N
G
For
Counter
Use.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
(Dick Simmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
Direct Importer of Tobacco, Cigars, Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods, Cutlery, Brush-
ware, Soaps, Perfumery, Stationery, Hairdressers’-Requisites. Send for Price List.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
—Minimum 11ii
T'WR MOST DEUCIOUS SAU€K lIS THE WORL».
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OF BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold 111 Bottles, 6d., i-, and 2- eacli.
Proprietors : GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO, LEEDS. ENG
Sole Ajfents for Mkw South Wales:
TII,L,OCK & CO., KENT and J.IVERPOOE STREETS, SVUNEV.
Fresh.
Cooling.
Sp arkling.
VELTEN LA6ER.
THE NEW FRENCH BEER.
A combination of PURITY, FLAVOUR and STRENGTH.
Tim
Letters Patent, No. 2500.
Half-Tester Wood Bedstead
AND
Heavy, Close, Double Woven Wire Mattress
(Combined), any color wood.
Size— 63? x 2J, 3, 4, 4-| feet.
Price—lss., 17s. 6d., 205., 225. 6d., 255.
SOLD by all STOREKEEPERS, IRONMONGERS and FURNITURE WAREHOUSES.
J. Lawler Sc Sons
Manufacturers
and Patentees,
610 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DTIFY COMPETITION-.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A Master.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The devil thatdwelt within him had stamped
its brand, undeniably,, upon his whole personality.
His face was pallid, to almost the hue of death ; a
pallor intensified by the curly, black hair, and the
eyes, so deep and fiery that one almost wondered
that they did not burn the high, slightly-arched
nose which kept them asunder. His thin, blood-
less lips were such that, when he closed them
•tightly, they formed only a livid, narrow cicatrice
‘beneath the black moustache.
He was passionless cruel adamant. None
.who had known him from his youth could remem-
ber that he had ever relinquished a design ; fore-
gone a revenge ; stooped to pity. Many a woman
could have declared him relentless, only that
women, after passing through the hands of such as
he, never speak—if they can help it. To him, a
woman was scarcely human; she was merely a
sentient thing, having no will, no power of
resistance where a man asked. Man signified
master, woman the slave, in his philosophy ; and
through his life he was true to his own faith.
He married ; he himself scarce knew why, unless
it were that he wanted someone ever at his hand,
upon whom to practise the essential tyranny of
his nature.
. To his wife he gave at first that kindness which
one might give to a captive bird, but with the
novelty departed the softness, and he became
■himself —pitiless and cruel. Often he regretted
that Nature had limited his inventiveness. The
schemes he could devise to harass and humiliate
the slave who bore his name were forceless com-
pared with his wish. That he had never beaten
her was solely because that would have been
coarse, and he abhorred coarseness. He must be
refined, even in his cruelty.
* * * *
- When the doctor brought home his newly-
wedded wife, folk who hurried effusively to
welcome her were chilled at their reception.
£?he was very tall and handsome, but she was
cold and haughty. Nothing seemed to move her
from her icy reserve. In her appeared no enthu-
siasfn, no feeling, no warmth. She might have
stoiffi to a sculptor for a statue of Virtue, and the
marble could scarcely have exceeded the model in
Chill tranquillity. This was the woman whocaused
the.Hivid, narrow cicatrice to move beneath the
black moustache, and the deep eyes to glow redly
over the high-arched nose.
Of his wife the man had wearied, and this
woiißm interested him. She was so calm upon her
pedestal of reserve that he coveted her as a child
might covet the stars, only that he knew he could
obtain her, and the cicatrice was very livid as he
maflb the silent determination to do so.
lii-the ball-room that night perhaps the lights,
the laughter, and the music moved him to volup-
tuousness ; perhaps the devil within him whispered
that this was as good a time as any.
The doctor’s wife sat apart, and he approached
her.
. have only one left,” she said, and she handed
him her programme. He wrote his name on the
gilded card, and sat beside her.
44 You looked lonely,” he said, his eyes on hers,
and his lips smiling.
44 1 am never lonely,” she replied, calmly. 44 1
have always myself—and my husband.”
44 Your husband ? He neglects you to-night.”
44 It is the way of husbands,” she said. 44 Your
wife is alone yonder, and you—are here.”
The corners of the bloodless lips came down im-
perceptibly, and the deep eyes glowed.
“My wife is doubtless glad that I am here —
rather than yonder.”
She was puzzled, and he saw it. He laughed
softly, and rose.
“ This is our dance,” he said.
44 Will you allow me to take you for some re-
freshment ? ” he asked, as the music ceased.
“No ? Then let us go out into the balcony. It
is very hot here.”
Outside, where the drooping greenery made a
pretty arbor in the lamp-light, he sat her opposite
him. For a time, she bore his gaze unflinchingly;
then something in his eyes caused hers to drop in
confusion, and a faint color flickered in her cheeks.
She half arose, as if to escape, but his voice
arrested her.
44 D0 you know that you are very beautiful?”
It was only a purring whisper, that seemed
scarcely to vibrate the air, yet she heard it dis-
tinctly.
“ My husband has told me so—often,” she said
quietly, her cheeks scarlet now.
44 Do you think of no one but your husband ? ”
Again the purring whisper.
“Excepting myself,” she replied, calmly.
44 You will, some day. You will think of me/”
44 You are insolent —or mad ! ” she said.
44 You will think of me,” softly, 44 because I love
you! ”
Her foot stamped passionately on the floor, as
she arose with an angry gesture to leave him.
With a quick movement he caught her arm, and
she was powerless.
44 1 love you, and I will win you. You think
you love your husband, but when you love me,
only then will you know What the passion is. No
man need fail with a woman. She must yield,
and you will yield. Will you yield now? Why
fight, when it is so useless ? ”
44 My husband will horsewhip you ! ” she cried,
passionately. 44 He will kill you.”
44 When you are mine, he will kill himself.”
He seated himself- She looked back at him as
she fled through the door. He was sitting half in
the shadows, silent, motionless, the thin bloodless
lips smiling sweetly.
* * * *
It was another night. The clock in the next
room had long since struck twelve, and the doc-
tor’s wife arose from the bed she had lain down
upon an hour before. She negligently drew on a
wrapper, and, taking the lamp, went into the ad-
joining room for a book. Her husband was absent
on a sick call, and she, solitary, was restless and
nervous. She had placed the lamp upon the table
and turned to get the book, when she heard the
door close gently behind her, and the soft sound
of a foot on the carpet. She turned quickly.
A man was leaning, quietly, up against the
door, his thin lips smiling, and his deep eyes gaz-
ing placidly at her. For a minute there was
silence; then a silver stroke rang through the
quiet house.
44 One o’clock,” he purred, very softly.
r ‘ You here ! ” Only fear prevented the words
from being a scream.
“Because I love you,’’ he returned, calmly.
“ Will you not sit down ? ”
44 If you do not go, I will call for help,” she said,
44 Very foolish,” he replied. “ That will makea
scandal—sooner than need be. ”
She sank, half-fainting, into a chair.
“Quite right,” he smiled; “what time to-
morrow will be convenient for you ? ”
“Convenient?”
44 Yes —-to come with me. I said you would
yield, and you will. Before Igo you will promise
to be mine before this time to-morrow night.”
She gazed at him, silently. From his pocket he
drew a paper and spread it on the table before
him.
“ I must have your promise in writing,” he said
softly, smoothing the paper. 44 Because otherwise
you might forget. I have drawn it out; you have
only to sign it, and I will go at once. Then, if
you break your promise, I will have to show this
paper—signed by you—to your husband, and then
—well.”
44 1 will sign nothing,’’ she cried, starting up.
44 You cannot force me.”
He smiled —went round, and placed the paper
quietly before her.
44 Sign,” he said, offering her a pen.
44 1 will not! ” she cried.
“Listen! Your husband will be here shortly.
What will he say if he finds me with you at this
hour? Very excitable man, the doctor ! ”
She sank down, sobbing, and then came a loud
knock at the front door.
44 Your husband,” he said calmly.
Her face lighted joyfully, and she struggled to
rise.
“No use,” he said, and taking a revolver from
his pocket he placed it on the end of the table
nearest the door.
The knocking was louder and impatient.
44 He is getting angry,” he said coolly. 44 He
will force the door in a moment.”
Then quickly he seized her arms and stooping
before her placed them over his shoulders. Only
there —he could not clasp them behind. His face
pressed down close to hers and he whispered—
-44 Thus I will hold you. When he comes in he
will be mad with rage. He will see that revolver,
and shoot us both. Do you hear ?—shoot us both !
Tnen he will go to the gallows, believing you had
betrayed him.”
Downstairs sounded a crash as of falling glass.
44 He has smashed the window,” the man said, re-
leasing her. 44 Will you sign?”
Her limbs were trembling, and a choking sound
was in her throat. He forced the pen between her
fingers, but they rested inert.
Hurried footsteps were heard on the stairs.
He seized her by the shoulders, and his grip
seemed to galvanise her arm to life. The pen
moved rapidly, and then clattered to the table.
The man smiled triumphantly, and was gone in
an instant. The doctor, entering immediately
after, found his wife senseless on the floor.
• • * •
The bloodless lips were at rest in the morning,
when their owner’s wife arose from his side. On
the dressing-table she saw a folded note. She
opened and read it, and sank back upon the edge
of the bed.
He was awake, and smiling at her.
14 You have read it, then,” he said. 44 1 placed
it there for that. . ,
After breakfast, he called her to him, ana
handed her a letter. ~ ~ T
“Take this to the doctor’s wife,’ he said. 1
have changed my mind.”
Rebellion was in her face. Carry his message
to the woman for whom he was going to ieave her .
She would not do it! . .
But she did—as she did everything he wished.
The letter ran “I am returning you your
promise. When I was wringing it from you, 1
scarcely knew whether or not I intended to bold
you to it. But you seemed so impregnable, and 1
was determined to conquer. I conquered, and 1
am satisfied. Bor the rest —well, I will stay with
my own wife for the present.”
P. T. FREEMAN.
He has arrived at last, and by-and-by a
common, ordinary pedestrian will be as rare a
thing as an up-to-date suburban councillor. A
Melb. firm now employs a man going messages on
pneumatic-tyred roller-skates. He gets over wood-
blocks and metal-roads in good style, too.
A house typical of the old convict-days is
now for sale —Macleay House, El izabetli -street,
Sydney, the old home of Alex. Macleay, N.S.W.
Colonial Secretary. It was built exclusively by
convict-labor at a nominal cost to the official
owner.
‘ 4 H,, ” concerning the late Toni Bracken :
It seemed my duty this morning to glance over the late
Tom Bracken’s volume of “Musings in Maori la nd, ’
scarcely having looked at him before. The volume
printed in Germany—must surely be in every way the
most creditable M.L. book to date. Prefaces by Grey
and Stout. I conclude from his writings that Bracken
was a Catholic, and spent most of his life in Australia.
His religion hampers his pen a little, but he has a
delightful freedom from the cynicism too characteristic
of the Australian poet. He dedicates his book to Tenny-
son. Bracken has no depth. He has read Shelley much,
and pleasantly emulates the descriptive parts of the Pro-
metheus, without ever touching one of those chords
which mark the poet par excellence. Bracken is just a
nice, gifted, silvery, readable writer. His occasional
pieces are much above the usual calibre of those things,
and may rank with such striking off-hand verse as Shirley
Brooks contributed to London Punch. They must have
hit hard at the time. One upon the death of the sympa-
thetic actress, known as Miss Fanny Cathcart, Mrs. Robt.
Heir, and Mrs. Geo. Darrell, has the charming idea of
commencing each verse with a line from one .of her
favorite parts. Bracken tried too many styles indeed,
almost all. No great poet has such variety as he affected.
The reader nearly always has an underlying reminiscence
of Wordsworth, Longfellow, Kendall, Gordon, or some
other of his masters.


Verdict of Adelaide coroner’s jury :
“ We, the jury to regards of Mr. Fry’s family’s deaths
decide as to its being wilful murder through a troubled
mind by Mr. Fry.”
A young woman, aged 26, residing in
Dunedin (which is Scotch and Calvinistie) recently
made application to the Mayor of that city to
have her fourth illegitimate child committed to
the Industrial Schools. Also, she applied to the
authorities of the Benevolent Asylum for an order
for admission to the lying-in ward, as she was in
hourly expectation of becoming an unmarried
parent for the fifth time. And his flabbergasted
Worship said that she ought to be put away in
the idiot asylum.
Ladies and Gentlemen in tiie Country.— lf you should
come to Sydney at Easter for the great Agricultural Show,
(which promises to be the great event of ’9B ; over £3OOO
worth of prizes will be given away), call in and leave a
record of your measures with our dressmakers or tailors.
(No charge for registering measures). Many ladies and
gentlemen have already taken advantage of this free
registration of measures, and find' that it is most conve-
nient, and a saving of time and trouble when ordering
garments of any description from us.— Hordern Brothers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*
m
m
s>.
M
5%
'm
m
vM
%
m
m
///
K
m .
iTiv
y/
r
1
////
MR IP?
/////
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
11 Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion.”
♦
4,
*
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons,
England:
PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others/’
The Quiet City.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We came to the quiet.eity, where quiet people be,
By the shore of a shoreless river that turns to a
tideless sea,
We came to this silent city, where the silent people
lay,
In the year of Ever-never, in the land of Night-
and-Day. .
But lest, in the town enchanted, there worked o’er
. my Love its spell, - *
She wore in her hair a garland of the woven im-
mortelle ; . !
The pearl on her bosom glowing was not more
rare than she,
The rose at her heart that quivered might not as
lovely be.
But there burst no band of music, and no organ
-swelled sedate
As we crossed the arched entrance of that city’s
outward gate;
The sound of our steps but echoed thro’ its quaint
and narrow street,
The sound of our words which faltered, the sound
of our hearts that beat.
They dwelt on the quiet highway, yea, an hundred
thousand strong,
But they rose not up in welcome, and they came
not forth in song,
And there cursed no man at our coming, and there
asked no maid of our quest,
Though the flower at her heart had withered, and
a Hand to my heart seemed pressed.
We cried to the quiet townsfolk, we called unto
some by name, ",,
But none to our calls responded, and none from
his dwelling came.
We knocked, but they made no answer ;we wept,
but they heeded naught.
I said to my Love, “A marvel, and one with a
meaning fraught 1 ”
“ They are mute in this quiet city—mayhap they
are all away
In the Land of the Ever-Never, in the country of
Night-and-Day,
Or they speak in the Silent Language that maybe
the quick cannot hear; ” : ■ ’ ■
Then trembled my Soul as she whispered, “ Haste,'
Love, ere the night appear ! ”
Pale too were her lips as we hurried, but paler her
cheeks as she spake: ;
“ Dear Love, will they sleep tor ever ?• 7 Dear
Love, will they never awake ? )
Will We in the Time that is coming, the Time of
the Long Ever-more, , '
So rest as these Others are resting, so sleep with
the close-fastened door ?,
I said to my Love as we hurried, “ ’Twas written,
' sweet-heart,'An J d ’£ will be;
The river rolls backward not ever, but onward at
last to the sea.” r - ■ ‘
t " Love, cried, my Love in sore sorrow,
. “’t w.ere well had two streams never met,
1o mingl'e mad mirth' and sad music - to know and
to be—and'forget I ”
We passed through the streets together where the
quiet people lie
Under the rain and the sunshine, under the cloud
and the sky ;
Out where the day springeth never, out where the
; moon never glows,
Out where each man for his neighbor hath builded
nn ; strange, ho uses in rows.
We came from that quiet city where those quiet
people be; . ,
I turned to my Love and trembled ; her great eyes
turned to me.
Then poured we red wine together, then filled we
our glasses high,
And drank to the quiet people in silence, my Love
• . and I. ,'
E. J. BRADY.
Now that Q. Govt, has decided to prose-
cute Q.N.B. ex-directors and auditors, it would be
interesting:. to know upon what given material
Messrs. Pilcher and Sly, of Sydney, to whom the
case was submitted, based their opinion that no
prosecution could lie against the defendants.
The picture to be presented to the sub-
scribers of the English Art Society this year is a
specially fine engraving of E. A. Abbey’s noble
painting,- “ Richard Duke of Gloucester and the
Lady Anne.lt is a magnificent subject magnifi-
cently dealt with, noble in conception and superb
in composition. It is a picture that seizes the
attention as in a grip of iron, and holds it unre-
lentingly.' The treatment is eminently decorative
without ceasing for a moment to be remorselessly
realistic. It is undoubtedly one of the finest
effects in mediaeval dramatic art ever attempted
by Abbey—or by most other people.
To The Bulletin, from Tasmania
Ben Tillett showed his square jaw in Hobart the other
day, and was received with a plentiful lack of enthusiasm
by the men in moleskins, and a half-timid, half-tolerant
curiosity by the officially respectable. Between the two
icebergs Ben would probably have been frozen but for
his own internal Are and the warm welcome of a faithful
few. These latter demanded, and got, a mayoral recep-
tion for “ Aid. Tillett, L.C.0.” The sturdv 'little agita-
tor’s personality somewhat thawed the tallow-fats on the
local council, and they even “ hear-hear'd ” Tillett’s in-
teresting talk on L.C.C. matters; but when he spoke out
for the dernocratisation of municipal institutions, the
representatives of Proputty looked at the clock and
glanced furtively towards the door. Tillett’s frigid recep-
tion in Hobart is easily accounted for : Labor organisa-
tion is a dead-letter in that city—the only apology for a
union (the typos’.) has just gone down badly in a dispute
with the local evening print—and an agitator of Tillett’s
stamp is 100 years ahead of the average Labor thought of
the place. It was different on the W. Coast mining fields.
There the Miners’ Union welcomed the visitor with bands
and banners and packed meetings, and greeted him as a
well-beloved comrade. At time of writing, he was trying
to tear himself away from the hammer-and drill artists
for the purpose of having another shot at Hobart’s hope-
lessness per medium of a big free meeting. Hobart
being great on free entertainments, Tillett may count on
at least one decent-sized congregation to preach at.
LAND OF THE CROCODILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed
like the Archduke Charles of Austria when he
boarded the Merrie England to call on Caledonian
Gov. Macgregor, of Papua. Never had Ormuz or
Ind showered on their kings more “ barbaric pearl
and gold ” than glittered on the attendant staff.
And they were received on the Merrie England
by a plain, broad-shouldered man in serge trousers,
a Crimean shirt, and a light twill coat. That was
Gov. Bill Macgregor, a modern sterling “ armed
soldier of Democracy,” in whose big heart there is
much of that old “ fierce native daring which
instils the stirring memory of a thousand years.”
A Dutch Admiral who had visited Macgregor some
time before presented himself in such dazzling
splendor that the Papuans were inclined to fall
down and worship him as a god ! And the Dutch
Admiral and the heir to the throne of Maria
Theresa both wondered if that plain man in the
Crimean shirt was really the Governor of British
Papua and representative of the British Govern-
ment.
* * * *
Next day when the Archduke and his staff
came ashore on a shooting expedition, they were
chiefly clothed in velvet, with capacious leggings
and silver-handled hunting-knifes. The lawyer-
vines fairly laughed as they lifted off the plumed
hats of these Nimrods, hooked them up by both
ears, or engraved cabalistic characters on their
gable-ends. The hunters swore in seven distinct
Austrian-empire lingoes. Next day they went
ashore in shirts and trousers and straw hats—and
got lost! The Austrians in camp rushed madly
round, and fell against each other, and tumbled
over logs, and yelled in the aforesaid seven dis-
tinct languages, and started platoon musketry-
fh’ing until the welkin was knocked senseless. As
darkness descended, and the Archduke had not
turned up, Mac quietly started with a lantern and
four Papuans, and found the prospective emperor
and his followers three miles away, stuck up in a
lawyer-vine scrub and preparing to camp ! The
Archduke observed that Diogenes Macgregor with
his lantern was the most beautiful sight he had
ever seen in this world.
* * * *
In the staff of no other potentate on earth
could the following incident have happened. It
represents the philological labyrinth in which the
Austrian empire is entangled. The Archduke
had shot a wallaby and sent it to be cooked. The
bearer spoke German ; the cook was an
Italian, and neither could speak the language
of the other ! The instructions got hope-
lessly mixed, and both parties grew angry.
Just as the German was about to bash the cook
over the head with the wallaby, and the cook was
going to retaliate with a saucepan, Macgregor
came to the rescue as interpreter, and Sauerkraut
and Maccaroni fell into each other’s arms and
wept! Just picture a British Governor, on
the savage shores of Papua, interpreting
between two members of the Archduke of
Austria’s own household staff. No wonder that
Czechs and Germans drag each other round by
the scalp locks in the Austrian Legislature !
* • * *
The Archduke’s chief joy in the primeval
forest of Papua was to sit on a log and eat straw-
berry jam out of a tin with the handle end of a
spoon ! He was pleased with everything and
everybody, and is evidently a polite and amiable
man whose policy of “tacit acquiesence” may be
fatal if applied to the empire he will one day be
called to govern.
* * * *
One of the labor - organisers who went
out to N.W. Q., previous to the strike troubles,
was a bit of a new-chum. He called on a squatter
near Longreach, and asked him if he employed
any cheap, labor. The squatter said he only had
t n aboriginal stockman, from the Condamiue!
Ah, well, said the organiser, who thought the
natives of the Condamine were Papuans, in the
care of missionaries, “you will be able to get me
his birth certificate.” The squatter fell all of a
heap into a.canvas chair, and next day the new-
chum organiser learned that Queensland gins are
not particularly regular in registering the birth of
their children!
* * * »
A comic drama at the mission station, at
the mouth of the Batavia River, in Cape York
Peninsula: Japanese and Malay pearlers land
within three or four miles of the station, and buy
native women with flour, sugar, and tobacco.
The women go on board the boats in the evening
and return to the shore next day. The mis-
sionary (Rev. Mr. Hey) decided to appeal to the
manhood and self-respect of the aboriginal men.
He told them they would be knocked on the head
m short order if they went to the Japanese and
Malay country in search of women ! Three days
afterwards, a band of Coen River myalls marched
up to the station escorting five Japanese prisoners,
with their hands securely tied behind their backs !
Five subjects of one of the great naval Powers of
the age, captured and inarched to a Presbyterian
mission-station by a rabble of naked savages!!
The five Japs fully believed they were going
to be killed and eaten. But the Coen
myall has a keen sense of humor, and the
desire for loot is strong within him. They
liberated one Jap, and sent him on board to bring
four bags of flour and a lot of sugar and tobacco
as a ransom ! Then the liberated Japs boarded
the lugger and sailed away in all haste, after
christening the locality the “ Coast of Devils ! ”
MAROOGALINE.


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
TK)R BihOTis and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headachy
X Uiddmess, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
° f Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
wttt and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL LIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
invßed to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BE ECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act hice magic a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
uscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts ’ admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Larged Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Bold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
Bonningtons Sarsaparilla, 2/6
MAKES PURE BLOOD, Strengthens the Nerves, Sharpens the Appetite,
Removes that Tired Feeling, and makes LIFE WORTH LIVING.
Bonningtons Liver Tonic, 2/6
RESTORES THE FUNCTIONS of the Nervous System, Prompt ia
Action, and a Perfect Regulator of the Body.
GOUT
Readers of this paper should
know 'that to effectually cure
Goub the great thing to do is.
to eliminate from the system the
uric acid, which is the cause of
the malady, and nothing does
this so effectually as Bishop s
Citrate of Litiiia. All doc-
tors prescribe it. Of all Chem-
ists in two sizes. A Booklet on
Gout sent post free on applica-
tion to their Australian Dep6t,
18 O’Connell -street, Sydney.
Inventors and Sole Makers —
ALFRED BISHOP, Ltd.,
48 Spblman St., London,JE.
CURED.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their lise
In every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nsw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they airs
spurious.
Visitors to
Melbourne
Should Stay at
Tankard’s Temperance Hotel,
Corner LONSDALE and QUEEN STREETS.
Established over 40 years.) Situated in Centre
of City. First-class Board and Residence .61 per
Week (single room); 4s. per Day.
W. L. NEALE, Proprietor.
SOMETHING NEW
UNDER THE SUN.
The
LATEST
CURE
And
GREATEST
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica,
Bruises, Cuts, etc.
... 2s. Bottle.
Post Free
The DON GASH TRADING 00.,
206-214 Jobnston-street, Collingwood,
MELBOURNE, Vic.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
C O GO A
BOQQiQgtOO’S
IRISH MOSS
Unequalled as a Specific for the CURE of COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA,
PNEUMONIA, SURENESS and TIGHTNESS of the CHEST, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP, DIFFICULTY OF BREATH-
ING, and all other LUNG COMPLAINTS tending to Consumption. In Large
and Small Bottles.
Boi)f)ii7gtoi)’S Pills
CURE all LIVER DISORDERS, BILIOUSNESS, SICK HEADACHE,
< . INDIGESTION, FLATULENCE, DIZZINESS, CONSTIPATION.
Do not G-x*±x>e..
BSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGO*;, SON, & CHAPMAN ; and DAVID COHEN & C 0.,, SYDNEY.
THE FATAL REMINDER.
MISS UGLY MUGG: “ave you noticed that I am sitting under the
mistletoe ? ”
HE: “No. Good-bye!”


“OLEAC”
Jluihl. F.L.S , Itotunirtt 10
H.R.H. tlie JL'rince of Wnlfti
I‘ermanenc Core. Self Applied,
3o2.Jars2 6 By post 3/-
“OLEfIC”
COLONIAL RKJ*Ki KKKTATIVB FOB THU PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J. E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melb.
GRIEFEUDORFF’S
‘KEITiO’
TESTIMONIAL.
Maldon (Victoria), Slat September, 1896.
T have much ydcasure in stating that the South
German Gold Mining Company has used Grief en-
dorffs " KKPHO” to paint the inside of our
Cyanide Vats to save the timber from absorbing the
cyanide and gold liquor. Wo are yJcased to state
that we found it admirably suited for that purpose,
and can safely recommend it to others.
W. 13. GRAY,
Managing Director South German G. V. Co., Maldon.
ALSO useful to Squatters for COATING
Waters Tanks; Electricians and Chemical
firms for COATING Acid Tanks, and all users of
Casks and Wooden vessels. In 5 and 10 gallon
drums, from all wholesale druggists.
Send for Circular to Agents,
ALFRED LAWRENCE & CO.,
527 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-J
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
ii@©
‘ TUB BSATKR.
<spHE ,fJ'BBOr
"Will#!
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ the block,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortl)ii)gtoD PGrppiog EogiQC Conjpaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll BrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
WORTHINGTON
32 Clarence-st.,
trade mark*
REGULAR PATTERN.
Agencies s
Victoria: WELCH, TERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terraco,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stoclc.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
m
B ■ 1
KdU&llßßi
oo
I—l—l
OC
LJ-
GO
■
MBMpi
Pioneers of
The COUNTRY MILK TRADE; the FACTORY SYSTEM OF ‘BUTTER-
MAKING (which has done so much for the colony and colonies); the
CREAMERY SYSTEM OF BUTTER-MAKING (which has done more) ;
REFRIGERATION; ICE-MAKING.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR
Agenta Everywhere.
The Company sells only the very Best Articles. Supplying all the principal places of Sydney with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish, Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
VISIT the CITY DEPOTS (Refreshment)— 92 King 1 Street and 23 Hoyal Arcade—for
AFTERNOON TEA.
Note.—Arrangement* may b« made at either of these I>epota for AFTERNOON TEAS for Prirate Parties.
1 is one of the BEST IN THE WORLD.
STREET—THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATE SON, Manager.
Have in Stock—
Ingersoll Air Compres-
sors and Rock Drills
of all sizes,
Knowles Pumps for
all services,
Blowers and Ex-
haust Fans,
Rockbreakers
and Rolls,
Pulverisers,
Sample
Grinders,
Ore
Feeders,
Forges,
Screens,
Horizontal
and
Vertical Engines
and Boilers,
Horse Whims,
Water Wheels,
Engine
Governors,
Dynamos,
Electro-Copper
Plates,
0
Retorts,
Bullion
Moulds,
Shafting, '
Pullies,
Belting, Oils,
All kinds of
Engineers’
Tools and
Fittings, and
Mine and
Mill Supplies,
$
Sole
Agents for
“ Three
Bullet”
Brand
Mining Steel.
THE - -
VIBRATOR OSCILLATOR
ALL SINGER SPAVIN (I MACHINES.
ALL SINGER SEWING MACHINES.
THE - -
Batho’s
Baking Powder .
TN SOI>VENT ESTATE of Weadon, Thomas
A & Co., G unmakers, corner Little Collins ahd Eliza-
beth Streets, MELBOURNE. The Trustees offer to
the Public, to CLEAR the BALANCE OF THE
STOCK
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading 1 Guns, best twist barrels, walnut stock, double grip, box spring triggers, best steel
locks, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price M B, reduced M 2 17s 6d each, complete.
5 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, snap action, walnut stock, very best barrels, choke bore, steel locks, with
cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price 410 10s, reduced JB3 17s 6d each, complete.
7 Double-barrel Breech-loading (tuns, engine-turned rib, extension rib, rebounding locks, snap action, left-hand
barrel full choke bore, right-hand barrel modified choke, with all the latest improvements, with cartridge machines
and cleaners complete. Usual price £l4, reduced £5 each, complete.
4 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, special quality, solid liar action, highly finished, with all the latest improve-
ments,unequal for quality, with cartridge machines and cleaners complete. Usual price ’ 21, reduced £7 lOsea. complete.
Cartridges can be supplied for the Breech Loading Guns at 6-> Od per 100 in any size shot. All Orders Delivered
Free, carriage paid to any address in any of the Australasian colonies. A Fair Trial given with every gun.
THE LONDON SMALL ARMS COMPANY 137 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE,
Absolutely Cheapest in Australia for BICYCLES, B.S.A.’ SETS, PARTS and CYCLE ACCESSORIES.
Tangent 8poltes(all Nickle, Perry’s, 4 3 gross), Nipple’s, 2/9 gross. Steel Balls (2 3 gross), Rim Washers (lid. gross),
Dunlop Valves (10 - d»z.), Brakes (complete, 6 6) Outside Covers (Dunlop principle, 12 6), Inside Tubes 3 6, Brooke's
Saddles 60, Bleumel Cork Handle-tips (10 -doz. pairs), B.S. A. Racing Sets 90-, Send, for trnde Illustrated Price
L.V. Gu iranteed to supply 25 per cent, cheaper than any other house in Australia. Pneumatic-Tyre BICYCLES,
up to date, 27, MU, 20, tlo, • 12, guaranteed 12 month*. Trade supplied.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Sydney: 74 Clarence-st. 345 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
• •
m
Steam Engines,
Horizontal and Vertical,
of the Most Approved Designs
and Highest Workmanship, from
one horse-power.
All our Engine* ore fitted with The Pickering
Governor (for which we are Sole Agents), the
most, Perfect Governor ever wade.
Every Description of Engineers’ Hand & Machine
Tools in Stock.
All kinds of Engine & Boiler Fittings, Machine & Mill Supplies.
Write for particulars and prices. All enquiries promptly and intelligently replied to.
