

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ aud GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE & C
SOLE
AGENTS
249
GEOR
Modern Timber-cutting Machinery.
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR ANY°SIZE OF LOGS. *
Up-tO“Da,te E ’ lour Milling lS, t T Engines «£r 33oilers,’ Steel Wiiuimilla.
Milla Erected and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATION
sent on application
to
Fleming,
24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
260
Prize
Medals.
21,200
Steam
Engines
Sold.
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
, Cl GARS
TKS
a vtntr
'/LDKrXAGRAtvr
SMOK£
MIfFS
®F &
ijw Is.
MRiJrm^SYDHIY
ON, BATTLE & C°>m ntt Street, SYDNEY.
■£rr o O JdioojrT ‘noisnyr
aoa sxNaov aios
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE-PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES
_ - - and BOILERS AND PUMPS.
S,IOOBNTRrC 3VT /%. <~7T-qr SA.W
SEIIffCHiSS, &c., &c.
THORNE'S
A 1 WHISKY.
Ask for Colonial-made Wire Netting-.
-A-ncl s && tliat you get it.
OOF
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Orders.
Lysaglit Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices— Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney,
Works -Chiswick, Parramatta River.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Uli
K*
PROOF
w
smii
OTICE
MELBOURNE
VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
HOBART.
- ”
Hadley’s Orient fiotel.
a/Z
4zqS.
%
CO
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING^
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWIuI & SON, LTD.,
IX7 Yorls: Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, (Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
Boomerang Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
Adopted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
rnglieat Awards wherever Exhibited.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Edig wan • Lamp.
ECONOMY IN - -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
IBS SDMI I SWAM
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Victorian Agency for Lamps: NEW AUSTRALIAN
ELECTRIC CO., Ltd., Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
V 01. 19.—N0. 974. j
[Saturday, October 15, 1898.
Registered at the G-eneral Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


The Bulletin will publish this month-
fair Girls and Gray Roms
lUifb Other Uerses,
By WILL H. OGILVTE.
Reprinted from the Australasian; the Sydney Mail;
the Border Watcii, S.A. ; the Western Champion,
Parkes, N.S. W. ; the Independent, Parkes,
N.S.W. ; and The Bulletin. With
several hitherto unpublished
pieces.
Handsomely bound in doth , pod free 4k Gd. Orders
sent at once, ■with remittance, will be. forwarded
immediately on pub/ini ion.
Jpi!
RY APPOINTMENT TO lITS EXCELLENCY 7 TIIE
' governor:
GEORGE HOBS .XTSON AH© CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AM) STATIOXKIis.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. BRITANNIA.
Spurgeon, C. H.. Life of, vol. 2, 10* 6d, post llsdd-
M •ndlam’s, Humphry, 2s 6,1 and 3s 6d, post is and 4s :
Lvall’s Won by Wait in- 2s 6(1 and 3s 6d, post. 3s ami 4s ■’
Gras The Terror, 2s 61 and 3s 6(1, post 3s and 4s ; Lush’-
in-ton s Sermons for Boys, 3s 6d and 4s j Sava.!-e’s Cap-
tive Princess;' 2s, post 2s 6.1; Baudot,’s Hope of the
'I apply, 2s 6d and 3s 6 I, post 3s and 4s ; Warden’s Sensa-
tional Case, 2s 6d and 3s fjd, post. 3s and 4s.
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS. B.v Rolf Boldrewood.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.’S SPECIAL
EDITION, 3vo. W rapper 6(1, .post bd.
Just Published :
A HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL CYANIDE
OPERATIONS.
By Wm. 11. Gaze, M.D., F. lI.S. Or. Bvo. 7s.od, post Bs.
THE lIUIA’S HOMELAND, ANI) OTHER VERSES,
by Roslyn, ss, post os 6d.
Now ready THE AUSTRALIAN .FRUIT GARDEN •
A Practical Manual, by J. S. Heron. -
Is, post free. Is 2.1. •
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
TO WRITERS.
rjlH7 ( v S.A. Critic desires Prose and Verse
Contributions for iis New Year number
Only short, bright articles desired. Matter suit-
able for illustration preferred. Contributions
should be forwarded before 11th NOVEMBER.
Address—
EDITOR, Thk Critic,
1 Brook man’s Buildings,
Grenfell-street, Adelaide.
file fyfletlfij publications.
A Golden Shanty (tales and verses by Bulletin
writers), Is. 3d. ; doth, 2s. 4d.
The Last of Six and Other Stories, by
Ernest Eavenc,,ls. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System, by 1 Price
Wakung ', Is. 3d.
Works 1 by Francis Adams (transferred from
the original Publishers)—
’Complete Poetical Works, ss. A limited
number of copies remain.
. Songs, of the Army of the Night, 2s. 6d." A
1 few copies remain.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
i George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates tin proportion to services) on applica-
tion, Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin,
SMOKE
CAMEO
CIGARETTES
. . ... ’
They are comforting and delightful at such a time .
THE RED PAGE.
And you love me ?
I love you.
You are, then, cold coward.
Aye.- but, beloved,
When I strive to ounie to you,
Man’s opinions, a thousand thickets,
My interwoven existence,
' My life,
Caught in the stubble of the world
Like a tender veil,
This stays me.
No strange move’can I make ' ,
Without noise of tearing.
I dare not.
If love loves,
There is no world
Nor word, i
All is lost . ,
Save thought of love
And. place, to dream.
You lose me 7
I love you.
You are, then, cold coward,
Aye; but, beloved • . . A ~ .
Sephen Crame.
The essence of Art is emotion^-a movin gof the
mind, ihat is, in order to give an artistic im-
pression there must be. a certain activity in the
brain to commence with ; from a quiescent or
stagnant brain nothing cjhtin-s, The new book of
Genesis will relate how in the jitter days Art re-
create, d the heayen, and the earth. And the earth
was .without £ain tifig and sculpture ; and dark-
ness _ was upon the face of the poets. And the
Spirit of Man mured upon the face of aesthetics.
The soul of Art is emotion to be moved and to
move. But the limbs afid outward flourishes are
the quantity (force),and q’uality (kind) of emotion.
The limbs-are .easily' dealt with : you can ’say at
once that the lustier they are the better will be
the Art. Plainly, when there is a choice between
a half-dead emotion and one all alive and kicking,
the latter is better, One measure of the value of
any artistic aqhievepiejit is the strength of its kick.
When a poem gives you the sensation of being
turned inside out aim held 'gasping over the In-
finite by a single hair, ‘it has gone far to prove
that it really is a poem, and not an exercise in
verse by an experienced or inexperienced word-
juggler. The new gospel according to .John will
declare that there is more healing in the pool of
Art when it ps troubled by twenty angelpdwer
than by o.tfe or two angelpower,' and that in pro-
portion as-the angel power.is multiplied will in-
crease. a Philistine chippie's chance of being made
whole. ? .
* . . * * T-
It is in consideration of the quality-flourishes
; that,.the trouble begins. You can' say that Art
rests on emotion, and that, .other things equal, a
big emotion is better than a little emotion ; but
—V —what kind of,a big emotion V For the sake of
argument, we may confine , scrutiny to that parti-
cular activity of Art which is. called Literature;,
and to the particular phase of that activity which
is. called Poetry. Standing on the ground' already-
won, cine can see that, in so • far as Literature is
Art, it is the function of Literature to convey big
emotions (of the right kind) by the use of words,
and it is the function of Poetry to convey big
emotions (of the right kind), by-the’ use of: words
rhythmically ordered.
[Since big emotions of the right kind belong as much
to Prose as ,to Poetry, the, essential .difference between
Poetry and ■ Prpse; lies itirthe iime-pulse ; or mhsic-heat
the rhijilimj, which is the peculiar bfoperty of.
Poetry, When the rhythm is well-defined, it is obvious
to every. reader that .a form, of w ords has the charac-
teristic of Poetry; when undefined, that it has the
characteristic of Prose. But (1) the well-defined passes
imperceptibly into the undefined ; and (2) readers’ears
naturally vary in atuiteness, and are variously tuned by
education ; so that there is a borderdine' class of compo-
sitions which we cannot with general acceptance define
either as Poetry or Prose. For example; I have heard a
Master of Melb. University Arts declare that Whitman's
Till with sound of trumpet,
Far, far off the daybreak calls—hark ! how loud and clear
I hear it wind !
Swift! to the head of the army !—swift ! spring to vour
places, .
Pioneers ! O Pioneers !
is plain prose, and should be printed *
Till with sound of trumpet far, far off the davbreak
calls Hark, how loud and clear I hear it wind '' Swift
to the head of the army ! swift, spring to your places
pioneers ! O pioneers !
Yet that verse and the others joined with it seem to
me to have a rhythm quite sufficient to justify Whitman
in calling them Poetry. On the other hand', I find the
rhythm of the fragment at the head of this page insutfi-
cient for Poetry, ami should class it as dramatic Prose.
Bui the book containing it was referred to as “Stephen
Crane’s poetry” in an English review. Plainly there is a
personal equation to he solved ; and the solution depends
upon the factor of physical (aural— i.e., cerebral) effici-
ciency.J
_** * »
J. E 8. Ijenerie has taken the trouble to collate
a number of definitions of Poetry. Here tliev
are— J
Aristotle (“Poe tics,” L.i.): “Poetry is an imitation of the
actions of men by the use of rhythm, words, and melody.’
Plato (Ion) : “ Poetry is not an .art, hut a divine power
which m >ves you like the lodestone. This stone not only
aLtracts iron rings, hut magnetises them, so that they
a.so can attract; so that, you may have noticed a series rf
rings hanging one from another like links of a chain, but
from the si one comes all this power of attraction. Thus,
too, does the Muse, as the lodestone, move men divinely
inspired—the ring nearest the stone being the poet, and
the r. st of the rings the hearers of the poet’-s lay, whom
he inspires divinely likewise.’’
Novalis (“Fragments.’' Berlin, .1850): “Poetical sen-
timent has something akin to the sense of divination, to
the feligious sense, even to
blink.p re (“Timon of Athens, ’ see also “Midsummer;
Night s itryam," VI.):
“ Poesy is as a gum, which oozes
From whence ’t.is nourished ; the fire in the flint
* hews not. till it be struck ; our gentle flame
Provokes itself, and like the current flies
Each hound it chases.”
Wordsworth. (Preface to Lyrical ballads) : “ Poetry is.
the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings; it takes
its origin from emotion recollected in tranquillity.
The emotion is contemplated until ... the tranquillity
gradually disappears, and an emotion kindred to that
which was before the subject of contemplation is gradu-
alf\ pioduced, and does itself actually exist in-the mind.”
Uoleridge (“ Table Talk ”) : “ Poetry is the use of the
best words in the best..order.”
Mill (“ Essays,’ B nthani) : “Imagination which
enables us by a voluntary effort to conceive the absent as
if it were present, the imaginary as if it were real, and to
clothe it in the feelings which, if it were indeed real, it
would bring along with it, constitutes the poet.”
Jonson (“Discoveries”): “Poetry is a speaking
picture”
Shelley (“ Poetry,” Chap. I.): “ Poetry may be defined
to be the expression of the imagination.”
Goethe-(“ Conversations,'’ 1826): “ A, poet deserves not.
the name while he only speaks out his few subjective
feelings ; hut as soon as he can appropriate to himself qnd
express the world, he is a poet.”
Macaulay (beginning of essay “ Milton ”): “By poetry
we mean the art of employing words in such a manner as
to produce an illusion on the imagination, the art of
doing by means of words what the painter does by means
of colors. . . . Truth is essential to pofetry, but it is the
truth of madness.”
Carlyle (“Survey of German Poetry”) : “ Poetry is the
attempt which man. makes to render his existence har-
monious, the utmost he can do for that end; it spriims
therefore, from his whole feelings, opinions, activity, and
takes its character from these.”
Keble (Essay “Walter Scott”): . . . the indirect
expression in words, most appropriately in metrical
words, of some overpowering emotion, or ruling taste or
feeling, the direct indulgence whereof is somehow’re-
pressed.”
Shairp (“ Aspects of Poetry,” c. iii.): “ When the pene-
trative or interpretative power of imagination )avs hold
of the essential beauty of existence or Nature and ex-
presses it in a few immortal words, we have poetry.”
* * * *
But there is only partial .help iii any of these;
they all leave out the essential quality of rhythm.
Boss net’s sermons are a criticism of life; Pater
and Jefferies .and many another give (in prose) •
exquisite expression to an exquisite impression
aud so on. To begin with. Poetry must have a
rhythm sui,li:;iently define Itoimpres’s the brain (Say,
one brain).' Then, having found its rhythmic vehicle,
it must load with its biggest emotion; and one’s
brain, (say, the best or most sensitive brain), is the
measure of the size of the.emotion. And, above
all, Puatry must make, sure that it has the right
kind of emotion—and, we might add, that the
emotion is expressed in the right way. And when
the kinds and expressions of emotion are brought
to analysis, it will be found once more that
a man inhst measure Ins own universe, form
liis own judgments, crown with his' own’ laurel
his own, poet. “What is. Poetry?” must be
settled in the last resort not by standards, or
schools, or precedents,-but by the character of the
molecules stored in the brain-pan of John Smith.
Nevertheless, as Aryan brains have an average
weight of something like 500 z., and are susceptible
of something like an average polish, at any given
time many people are usually in agreement as to
what is or is not poetry. In easy cases and plain
instances, that is ; for at every fresh advance in
difficulty the problem causes debate as endless as
the diversity of the debaters' minds. Corning
down to the. 'convenient concrete, here is one of
“A Charming Variety of Poems upon Charming
Subjects,” by Frederick Rubery, a resident of
N.S.W.
The author considers this poetry ; though a sen-
sible preface indicates that it is poetry on the
small scale. It has rhythm, certainly ; but it does
not yield the right sized emotion, or the right
kind, in the right way. It may be called Poetry,
class I. Going higher, here is one of “ Poems, by
C. Harpur lie lias two or three better, and a
great many worse.
Now, I would put that piece in tlio same class
ILL as the Harpur piece; It is merely narrative,
winle< Harpur’s contains an idea ; and', chiefly for
this reascm, HarpiirVeniotion seems to me' larger.
But it is not so poetical'in kind as the Stephens
emotion, and it is not so poetically expressed. So
the totality of poetical impression is for me, as
nearly as I can judge,> about the same. And now
w : e will jump away up to class VI., the ether
where Koderic Quinn poetically lives.
That is a piece written for The Bulletin, anc
now first printed; and in one sens® poetry can go no
higher. You can get a larger emotion still, a
more vivid emotion, and conceivably one expressed
just a little more dexterously; but never one
higher in poetical quality. For it has that
glamour, that mystery, that sense of hovering on
tiie verge of the inexpressible which is the
keenest and rarest of all poetical emotions. Ho
to 1113' mind Roderic Quinn stands highest in
kind of all Australian or quasi-Australian poets.
But in the final judgment you have to consider
weight and quantity of achievement as well. And
each of our writers lias his own excellence. Ken-
dall is the sweetest; he is like honey to the palate.
Haley brings intellect to aid his fancy; if he
were only a -little warmer he would be above
Kendall. As it is he is in the first class
with Kendall and others. And when Ogilvie
reaches publication he will certain!}' go into
the. first class too. He is the most spontaneous,
the most lyrical of all ; and his best work is still
to be done he is improving every year. Haley
moves slowly in his verse; even Kendall only
flows ; but Ogilvie gushes, leaps, runs and rushes
singing. His instantaneous reaction to emotion
evokes an emotion as instantaneous. He is
not the best of our bards, though he ranks
level with the best. He has not quite Lawson’s
intensity, but he has a finer note and a broader
sweep ; he has not Paterson’s humor, but he, loves
his horse as well as Paterson, and knows his bush
better. He does not give me the highest emotion,
the most lasting emotion, but he gives me the
most exultant, the liveliest and purest and most
natural emotion. He is the only poet in Aus-
tralia who can bring 1 tears to my eyes.
GOD SAVE THE BANKS.
God save our noble banks,
Those of the lowest ranks,
Long may they bravely stand
In this our sunny land,
And with Thy powerful.hand-
God save the banks.
Lord, we, Thy humble friends
Pray for good dividends,
Daily increase our store,
Sending in more and more,
This we do now implore,
Gpd save The banks.
Think of the many poor
Think what they must endure.
May the Commercial stand
Guided by Thy strong hand,
We echo from our land
God save the banks.
Soon may the Joint Stock share
Blessings named in our prayer.
And also to he frank.
Found us the Nat ional Bank.
We ask from every rank,
God save the banks.
Lord, we shall render thanks
For National S wings Banks,
Put forth Th.v powerful hand,
Then hanks will firmly stand.
We ask throughout onr land,
God save the hanks.
THE FORGOTTEN.
He shone in the senate, the camp, anti the grove
The mirror of manhood, the darling of love.
He fought for his country, the star of the brave,
And died for its weal when to die was to save.
And Wisdom and Valour long over him wept,
And Beauty for ages strewed flowers where he slept.
And the bards of the people inwrought with their lays
The light of his glory, the sound of his praise.
But afar in the foreword 1 have faded t'heir strains
And now of his being what record remains'.? ’
Within a lone valley a tomb crumbles fast,,
And the name of the Sleeper is lost in the past......
That may be set down as. Poetry, class III. It
has rhythm; it conveys an emotion of a tolerable
size and kind with tolerable skill. Compare it
with:a piece by Brunton Stephens, in “Fayette
which the late T. J. Byrnes praised—. ’
Australia ! Beautiful Australia
A land of beauty ! -By a rustic bridge.
Formed by a fallen trunk, w&.reached a shrine
Whose pillars were, of hrowmstemmVl fern, whose roof
Was delicate tracery of fronds, whose spires
Were soaring- euealvpts clad from slenderest branch
To lowest bole in <*ai‘j» of silvery white
Here pink-veined o.chids bloomed ; in-every nook
Sweet violets nesile-i ; through the shafts of fern
A runlet crimsonf-d in the sunset glow,
Edged with luxuriant growth of maiden hair,
Bv willow-leaved ac-icias overhung ; •
V\ hile through the f athery green that fringed the .’bank
The wild lobelia pushed her purple flowers,
Sister’d by many a yellow starry bloom,
Anri graceful things with spike or panicle,
Chalice or bell, to us all rare and strange.
THE CAMP WITHIN THE WEST.
0 did you see a troop go by
Way-weary and oppressed,
Dead kisses oh the drooping lip
And a dpad heart in the breast ?
Yea, I-have seen them one by one
' Way-weary and oppressed,
And when I asked them, “ Whither speed?”
They answered “ To the West ! ”
And were they pale as pale could bo—
Death pale with haunted eyes,
And did you see the hot white dust
Range round their feet and,rise ?
- O',-they were paleas pale could be,’
A nd pale as embered lea f ;
The hot white dust had risen, but
They laid it with their grief.
Did no one say the way is long,
And crave a little rest ?
0 no, they said, “-The night is nigh,
Our camp is in. the , West !
And did pain pierce their feet, as though
The way with thorns were set,
And were they visited by strange
Dark angels of regret ? ”
O yes, and some were mute as death.
Though shot by many a dart,
With them the salt of inward tears
. Went stinging through the heart.
And how are these wayfarers called,
And’whither do they wend'? ’
The Weary - Hearted—and their road
At minuet hath an end.
Shed tears for them . . . Nay, nay, no tears
They yearn for endless rest;
Perhaps large stars will burn above
Their camp within the West.


RS
■ ■
0
.
Sydney’s Reading Specialists,
-WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOCJNG MEN.
d
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.— A man who has lost his will-power, by continually
committing himself to those habits of dissipation or abuse that unfit him for nearly all the walks of
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialists. Now, the experience of 20,000 men
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have openly endorsed the treatment of
VI
which has restored them to a perfect manly state. This is not the ineie verbiage of <i single man,
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Mini who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice all modest feelings to prove
to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if you have any of them, you require the remarkable treatmeirt
which has made both fame and fortune for Drs. FREEMAJN &
WALLACE.
If
k . $
In the Laboratory.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature- weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your faoil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down ?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small ot back?
Have you pains in head ?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms :
Do your eyes twitch?
Do your hands tremble?
Do you feel shaky ?
Can you walk without halting?
Are you melancholy?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary?
Does your head swim?
NervousJ)ebility.
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken ?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor ?
Have you no vital energy?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do your hands or feet sweat?
Has'the brightness left your eyes
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
*222
urr
H
spec Ojf
.All Trams stop at the Dooi
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to thatunique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bility, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
h
& C h\&
TYPE. n Wpt;X
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration
are open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms.
S 3
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDKTEY.
Please mention ttus Paper when writing .] Correspondence, P.O. Box 1359.
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
Rescued at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300_ pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 1C colored plates, is now
ready. Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer—in fact, all
classes and condition of men—should purchase a copy.
Price, XOs.;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l,
£
137
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY
DR.
GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified, and registered in London and the Colonies as a Physician
and Surgeon, received his education in the English and Scottish universities and
completed his studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He has made a le-01 g
study of pRIVATE NER VOTJS & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin and course, and has discovered the
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He has, by his unequalled success during
a period of many years, obtained the highest position jn his profession. Ihe various diseases
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto oaused more misery and suffering
than any other kind of trouble that affeots the human frame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who. as the result of early follies, or excesses of more mature age, suffer
from any of the following symptoms, namely -. Frequent headaches, giddi-
ness, drowsiness in the daytime, irregularity of the bowels, feeling ot full-
ness after eating, specks before the eyes, halos or circles round a candle,
cold hands and feet, pains in the back or under the shoulder-blade, tender-
ness of the breastbone on pressure, yellow discharge from the mouth on to
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasant dreams, clammy hands, an aversion
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine, after standing, fear or something dieac u
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, cbest, legs, or face, failing memory,
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, Ac., &0., should consult him, for he is now enabled
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps h.e will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
the symptoms enumerated above, Do Not
Delay, your oase requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sib
down quietly, in the privacy of your own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
Dr. GIBBONS
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send Gd. in
stamps, and Dr Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GTBPONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribi s Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by fire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
s^iDNEY.
Or if preferred, “ The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING HOURS—Daily,
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONSULTATION FREE.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would KNOW THE GRAND
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS, the OLD SECRETS,
and the New Discoveries of
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing' how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy ENTIRELY
FREE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
‘ TRIUMPH,' P.O. Bos 162, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Everyman desiring VIGOR and an acces-
sion of VITA lITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Fee, £l which in mostcases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for WEAli.fi ESS, DEBILITY,
etc., and those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer—in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
115 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
THE NEW FRENCH REMEDY.
TUA
M \RK.
This sucoesslut n.io liiuli I_> pupmai ienn u ; , as
employed in the Continental Hospitals by Kicurd,
Ilostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to lie sought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses rv.-i-\ thing t.i berto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
in a retnai ka ly so o t time, otlen a tew days only,
removes an discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and ntliei ■“Pri-ot - di-ea es.
THERAPiON No 2
for impart tm- utond, scinvy, pnop.es, spots,
blotched pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
dary symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, &e., to the destruction of sufferers'
teeth and ruin of health. This preparation purifies
tliewholesystrni through ihe blond,and thoroughly
eliminates every p isonous i atter 'rmu the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nei Vous exhaustion, waste of vu ality,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consequences of
early error, excess residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses surprising power in
restorin'.' stia-ngth and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION ” ! “
Oheini'ts
1 Mt
the principal
s tlirouginmt the World.
Price in ling.and 2/d & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numbers is required,and observe
nl) we Trade Mark, which is a lac-simile of word
“• Therapion ” as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
Therapion—FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co., and ROCKE, TOMPSITT & Co.
Agents for
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S
Pavorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
deucy, etc., are to be found in the
“Liglxt and. Life.”
This valuable. Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
s ealed) on receipt of Six Benny Stamps.
Address—S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy, 78 Hunter-st., SYDNEY.
n Mcn^|
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit. Marital Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send for des-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address—
„ J. HINTON-WILLIS,
Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts., Melbourne.
VARICO
CELE.
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Painless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address—
Vfm. LANGSTON, M.8.C.5., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AN INSTRUMENT OF TORTURE
is a truss made on the plan of the above, with a heavy
steel or iron band, as you know if you have been in the
habit of wearing one. Throw it away ! Why will you con-
tinue wearing such an instrument of torture, when we
can furnish you a most efficient truss — Elastic —without
an iron hoop or steel spring about it, and one that may
be' worn with ease and comfort both NIGHT and DAY!
As for CUKES, Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magnetic Elastic
Truss HAS ACCOMPLISHED THOUSANDS ! It is an
American Invention, made and sold for the past Twenty-
two years in America. It may now be had in Australia,
where it is performing most REMARKABLE CURES. It
is the only ELECTRIC TRUSS in the World ! If ruptured,
investigate at once. Call for free books, price list, &c. ;
or write for same, enclosing 2d. in stamps for postage.
Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A. ; or
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO.,
158 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €fi)brocatioQ.


TATTERSALL’S
• • . Monster Prize List
REGISTERED
ADDRESS.
TATTERSALL,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
Melbourne 0. November 1.
100,000 SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot rne-
Shares in the above.
Name_
£i
Address^
Melbourne C. j November 1.
100,000 SUBSCRIBCRS at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Shares in the above.
Name_
Address.
Melbourne C. 100,000 at 5.
SPECIAL CONSULTATION.
To be Drawn at 10 a.m. on the Day of the Race.
Clients will kindly Note this when applying for tickets.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me.
.Shares in the above.
oG
Name
Address.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


of FaSbioi)
QNTHOHV • riORDERN’S
PORTFOLIO OF • • •
SPRINfi & SUMMER
FASHIONS, 1898-99
IS NOW READY —’’
Also we have published, for the convenience
of residents in the country, the following
separate Catalogues and Price Lists
Harness and Saddlery
Cricket, Lawn Tennis, &0.
Plumbers’ Goods
Carpets and Art Decorations
Guns and Ammunition
Underclothing 1 for Ladies and Children
Groceries and Provisions
Horticultural and Garden Implements, &0
Fancy and General Stationery
Furniture (illustrated)
Patterns and Quotations sent Post Free
everywhere.
4
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS,
Haymarket (Only), Sydney.
ATKINSON'S
EAU
DE
COLOGNE
THE FINEST ENGLISH MAKE.
More Fragrant; More Lasting; j
and very much more refreshing
than all others.
USE ATKINSON’S ONLY.
AND BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Only genuine with “White Rose” Trade Mark.
Of all Dealers & of the Manufacturers —
J. & El. A-TKIISTSOISr, Limited,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at itii
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhill, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883,14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro
prietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. 6d. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
™£ GRAPHOPHONE.
50/;,
LBE
gr£
The Superior
TALKING
MACHINE
requires
No Needles, and
RECORDS
YOUR OWN SPEECH,
SONG, OR MUSIC.
Price (including Reproducer,
Horn, and Record), £2 10s.
2 to 6,000 CHOICE RECORD
always on hand. Send foi
List and Illustrated Cata-
logues of Violins, etc., etc.
ALBERT & SON, !!8 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
AGENTS FOR THE PORTABLE VAPOR BATH CABINETS.
Trade Supplied Cheaper than any other house. Largest Importers of
MUSIC, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS and NOVELTIES. Goods
forwarded to any part of Australia Duty Fa**;
A^/V/Wp
mmm
oSrvn/w*
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real pood stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
Australia!} f^titGal
JUBILEE YEAR.
Established 1849.
Provident Society.
With the close of the
existence. Members are
vear 1898 the Australian Mutual Provident Society will complete FIFTY YEARS of its
are invited to make this a RECORD YEAR by taking out additional policies themselves, and by
ALL POLICIES ISSUED before
Amount o! 0>? Surplus
aiXd tonlStaSeKb”Suring th,49y«S,™li„ s 18OT-™ dht "b»ted
the Policyholders for the single year 1897 was £445,235. EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
Accumulated Funds, £14,479,578. Annual Income, £2,094,706.
o- T p ARROTT KOMG M. L. A., Chairman ; THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
“TS i W. MBhS, is,. 1 BENJAMIN 'SHOBT Esq- I J-£f
Es, ;E. J. BLACK, Es,. Oensr.l Manager and Actuary . BIOHABB ICtcE E I.A, l .r.A l’E
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s.. £lO 10s.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
r
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buj'ers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
Positively the Best
Dressing
is
It
«t*s-
*s*
a?'
9 ~sr
<sr> ">o
FOR
PRES ERVING St BEAUTIFYING
THE HAIR.
Specially Prepared and Perfumed for
Toilet Use.
“HAKLENE”
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer.
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents its
Falling Off and Turning Gray.
Unequalled for Promoting the Growth of the
Beard and Moustache.
The World-renowned Remedy for Baldness
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes. Pre
serving, Strengthening and Rendering the Hair
beautifully Soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
ruff, etc., also for restoring Gray Hair to its
Natural Color, it is without a rival. Physicians
and Analysts pronounce it to be devoid of any
metallic or other injurious ingredients.
The Hon. Mrs. Thompson’s Testimony.
Ackworth Moor Top, Pontefract. —The Hon.
Mrs. Thompson desires to testify to the valjie
of “ Harlene ” for strengthening and preserving
the hair, and will be pleased to allow her testi-
mony to be publicly used.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle.
May be had from Chemists, Hairdressers arid
Perfumers all over the world.
Edwards’ “HARLENE” 00.,
95 High Holhorn, LONDON, W.C.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.,
66
!E*liot ogr a'pliic Mercliaixts,
KING STREET, SYDNEY,
and 64 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
CINEMATOGRAPHS.
Harrington’s Exhibition Cinematograph
(imported). Absolutely the best
machine in the market, and is com-
plete for taking and projecting animated photographs. Edison Standard Guage, price complete, £3O.
The above machine for taking photographs only £22 10s.
Harrington’s Drawing-Room Cinematograph
(imported) may be used in con-
junction with any ordinary
magic lantern for showing animated pictures in drawing-rooms and small halls. The instrument is of
the Edison Standard Guage, price complete, .£8 Bs. .
Although sold at a cheap price, this machine is m every way a reliable article of the hgst work-
manship. _ _ „
FILMS, latest subjects, 40s. each.
CAMERAS:
The PREMO V. HAND CAMERA, i-plate, 255.
The DUPLEX ~ i-plate, 255.
The POCKET VICTOR „ for plates, 21s.
The POCKET KODAK „ for films, 21s.
Send for Descriptive
Pamphlets.
A Large Stock of all kinds CAMERAS from 3s. Cd. to =£so.
Send for NEW COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 7, Now Ready,
Post Free on Application.
r 1 ; >i
ill
H
mm
Telephone, 26 with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks of Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand Mall will accommodate 800 persons.
Water Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation. • '
Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating >
TERMS MODERATE.
fHE
* Plrnn’
PZO
THB
‘ Plum’
( ENTLEMEISI who ftnd their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
trial. This razor is superior to any other, it is .specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d. cake.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle" in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole
Agents
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the world.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
LOOK A-T OXJR PRICES !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers —not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, £6 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Buckboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, £26. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from £2l. All descriptions of Saddlery
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
hoards , Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£8 18. 6.
and Harness at lowest possible prices. »«wrrnivu
Not Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriage Manufacturing Co., Brown-st., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send, for Otar Illustrateci Catalogue.
Verse at a Venture.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Black Sheep.
By WILL H. OGILVIE.
They shepherd their Black Sheep down to the
ships,
Society’s banned and cursed ;
And the boys look back as the old land dips—
Some with a reckless laugh on their lips,
And some with a prayer reversed.
And it's Goodbye, England l and Goodbye, Love !
And maybe ’tis just as well
When a man falls short of his Heaven above
That he drop to the uttermost Hell.
And the anchor lifts and the sails are set:
!Now God to your help, Black Sheep !
For the tray world laughs ** They will soon for-
get!”
But fired in the embers of old regret
The brand of the world bites deep.
They turn their Black Sheep over the side
To land on a stranger’s shores ;
To drift with the cities’ human tide,
Or wander away where the rovers ride
And the flagless legion wars.
And Hope for some is a broken staff,
And for others a golden stair,
Who live for the echo of Love’s low laugh
Or Somebody’s face in a photograph,
Or a coil of Somebody’s hair.
And some that have carried a parting gift
May kiss it and fling it away
Far over the clouds that no winds lift
To follow where our dead hopes drift
And rest where dead hopes may.
They bury the Black Sheep out in the Bush
And bury them none too deep
On the cattle camps and the last gold rush,
And the grasses grow over them green and lush
And the bush-winds sing them to sleep.
And it’s Goodbye, Struggle ! and Goodbye, Strife l
And maybe’tis just as well
When a man goes down in the Battle of Life
That he shorten his road to Hell /
Memory Town.
From dawning to dusk moves the crowd in her
street
With eyes looking upward, quick pulses that beat,
And slow feet that loiter, and dumb lips that call
Where sunshine and shadow are crossed for them
all.
In mystic mosaic her pavements are set,
A stone for Sweet Thoughts, then a stone for
Regret.
The walls of her houses are handsome and high,
Whose balconies break the blue line of the sky.
On one side the sun fires the columns with light,
On one side the shadow lies blacker than night.
On one side Youth’s Joys from their windows look
down
To watch the wayfarers in Memory Town.
They laugh with low music that each understands
And wave their white kerchiefs and kiss their
white hands.
They fling their gay garlands, white roses and red;
But Care gallops past us and tramples them dead!
On the other side stand the Gray Griefs of the
years,
The hands on the railings are wet with their
tears.
With sad eyes and wistful they lean and look
down
On the lone hearts that loiter in Memory Town.
They bind no white garland, and weave no red
wreath
But strew the dark cypress that whispers of Death.
So sunlight and shadow are crossed in the crown
That the old years have wrought us in Memory
Town.
The Front Bank.
We fight on far tracks unknown ;
We ride the way of the rover,
Each with a line of his own ;
Our banner the blue sky over,
Our bugle the bushwind’s tone.
We charge where no red squares kneel,
We ride with no helmets glitt’ring,
We carry no gleaming steel;
But our reins are foam to the bit-ring,
Our spurs are red to the heel.
We war by the watching stars,
No women look to our wounded,
No white hands bandage our scars ;
Fjr us no medals are rounded
No ribbons or clasps or bars.
Swordless and swift we go;
O ir brown arms bared to the slaughter,
Our hearts with the quest aglow ;
We battle and ask no quarter,
Our faces turned to the foe.
At last in the smoke of the years
Far from where camp and tent lie,
From clashing of shields and spears,
We slip to the earth so gently
That scarcely a comrade hears.
We slip to the earth and lie
Clay-cold in the golden grasses,
White faces turned to the sky ;
And the last of our longings passes,
The last of our dreams goes by.
. But the drums beat, year to year,
And men from the wings close round us,
And men ride up from the rear
To win—where no smile has crowned us,
Or lose—where it costs no tear.


■ftEPtt
EVERY NOVELTY
lOlLtr
MANU
jr.-- * c «4R4NTEE Tttt
Brushes iaptiEßs ~
Washington H Soul & c?
■ *' 5/DM E
: s
f r mp-MW ■ ;
.■
• ■mmm
lit
h
> . •
ir j*
m -Ask#
m
mm
■ . •
■ •• . .v;,,5:.; - .
a r > *.
. '-C#T » > »f »
. '.
- ■•
Hotel
Australia
RATES
From
1 2/6
per Day.
H. E. MOORE,
Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
P&B Ruberoid
(3-10ths
railway.
hat of iron) shows a
Other thicknesses
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
EUR
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents. E. RICH & CO. O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Frank Logan, Eagle-,street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Adelaide.
Messrs. Ross and Jack, 10 Custom
<Juay, Wellington, N.Z.
House
HELIDON SPA WATER
“Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
ALE.
1 T.m
to SYDNEY
CgSfrs-; g»ria^^^j^S^»r-=r*a
I ffi&l
yy) [SS]
Families, Tourists, Business or Pleasure-
seukers should stay at the most modern
of Sydney’s hotels—
. Tattersall’s.
Hotel & Cafe.
Telegraph Office ; Telephone 728 ; Elec-
tric Light. Three minutes or less from
four leading theatres and G.P.O.
TARIFF: Bs. per day upwards.
W. J. Adams, Manager.
Painless Dentistry.
the ....
Condon flental
Institute.
Dr. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. As 11 MR, Dentists.
&ST” Modem Dentistry in nil its Hr tenches
legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY- 98 KING ST., SYDNEY -ONLY.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFE TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOIH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc,,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases— especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
t«0
TILLE
Oh'PAN
. IMT!
BIHfIUHG
lE,I
Trade
Mark
71 »V ■ I ETO H S > L p
Distillers CompamyL’
EDIN BURGH.
• (?u wAAn
‘ ift* "»6“/.rJh/il f*iiJiii[*n""Qt _
,' ‘ W S “J tu'u Aft At Ju/iSm
Drink
ffloderately.
Take a little Whisky
‘ ‘ forthe stomach’s sake
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
o drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
Insist on
‘ D.C.L.’
C'oolg*ardie
International Mining 1
and Industrial
Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 1899.
For Schedule and particulars, apply G. WILLIAMS, Secretary, Coolgardie, W.A.
SYDNEY
LAGER
brewed by
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld.,
Moore Park, Sydney,
IS
a healthful, delicious .
Light, Sparkling. Stimulating.
In Bottles and on Draught at all Hotels.
The Ideal Summer Drink: drawn through Ice.
Prices and particulars from
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld., Moore Park, Sydney.
lER
H
*
TmTTTT , " ini
m
'■ i v -I
i
11 .
7 •;
• : • ■, r .
»' s>• - ' >I • ;
C
*
"*
M
«««
|NWP
'
.
Si
MOKEKS of^USTBALIA-W


The Bulletin.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 19.—N0. 974.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1898.
Price, 6d
.Ra'\!-I;hm//1T IAST!
PrfinUr'Afeid -’ NW Tp\y £ou,
'Uni cluyc&ibiyij -riciali^^•
Barfon - Witt) bfeasure,- So as
' tjuu jdidij ijt "
AT LAST!


The Bulletin.
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TEH MS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... . £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Pratts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in. Blade and, White.
A nyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; Street
& Co.. Cornhill.
| ;San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co.. 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. 11.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout.-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo.— W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji.— Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levuka.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
West.ralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on / nterprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. \er
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage lsd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight — now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
1 f^'alZeZztfi.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1898.
The N.S.W. Marine Board.
The New South Wales Marine Board, which
has been advertised of late in a variety of
ways, is down in the Ministerial programme
as an institution whose extinction is to be
attended to. But many other institutions
have been down on the same list for many
years, yet they still survive ; and, unless the
public keeps an eye on its Marine Board,
that aged and incapable institution will pro-
bably live for a long while yet. The politi-
cal interests involved are comparatively few,
and all the votes that could be secured by
attention to this matter are hardly enough to
be worth counting. The seamen are the
class most interested, being the one most
frequently drowned under the present sys-
tem, but seamen are not a political power of
any magnitude. A very large part of the
mariner class has no vote ; it is merely a
casual Hans or Jorgensen who has dropped
into an Australian port in passing ; and the
part which has a vote is not very numerous,
and is more often absent on polling-day than
any other section of the community. The sea-
faring vote which is actually recorded at
any given time is inconsiderable. The
Marine Board’s methods may help to drown
a few passengers now and then ; but the
average passenger is very little acquainted
with nautical details, and if he gets ashore
after a wreck he seldom knows exactly what
struck him. It isn’t the interest of the
captain or the owner to enlighten him,
either. And if the Marine Board, in
its own tired way, lets vessels go to sea im-
perfectly equipped, and these vessels come
to grief, the Board’s tired investigation after-
wards is not likely to bring out very clearly
that the Board’s own tiredness and incapacity
had anything to do with the disaster. Also
the Board, being gentlemanly and perfunc-
tory, and mainly representative of the ship-
owning class, gives satisfaction to the bulk
of the shipowners, so their influence, at all
events, won’t go to actively help on its ex-
tinction.
It is questionable if the Marine Board ever
showed any signs of efficiency—except in
one direction only. It doesn’t profess to in-
spect or supervise the mere cargo vessel
unless incited thereto by a demand from the
crew that the old tub shall be inspected ; if
there is no such demand the cargo vessel
is practically under no supervision at all.
To all intents and purposes the Board is
authorised to leave the cargo ship alone, and
the efficient manner in which it has left the
cargo ship alone is beyond all praise. But
it is generally understood that the passenger
vessel is under strict supervision. It has to
carry sufficient boats to accommodate every-
body on board in case of necessity, and the
condition of these boats is supposed to be
under rigid scrutiny. The supply of life-
buoys and danger-signals and other appli-
ances, the nature and sufficiency of the
passenger accommodation, the smellfulness
of things, the ventilation, the fire-extinguish-
ing apparatus, the alleged water-tight bulk-
heads which are not water-tight, and which
have doors in them that won’t fasten—all
these and other matters are alleged to be
carefully attended to. And there is every
reason to believe that they are not.
* * * *
Up to some time in 1894 a distinction was
made in New South Wales in the treatment
of foreign - going as apart from coastal
steamers. The former were inspected on
leaving Sydney by a person strangely de-
scribed as Surveyor to the Emigration [De-
partment, who saw that they were reasonably
safe and wholesome. The coastal vessels
were under the glazed and filmy eye of the
Marine Board, which apparently saw no-
thing. The results were so bad that in 1894
the Collector of Customs refused to clear
the over-crowded vessels in the Westralian
trade unless they were subjected to the same
survey as the foreign-going craft, and the
system of inspection then inaugurated showed
how effectively the Board had slumbered at
its post in previous years. The following
were some of the discoveries made :
S.S. : 255 passengers. Had berths for 3XO steer-
age passengers though only sufficient space for 238.
Access to women’s compartment was through single men’s
open berth compartment only. Three life-boats were in
very bad order, a large number of the air chambers hav-
ing holes in them. There were no means whatever of
connecting any fire-hose to the pumps, as none of the
hose had couplings on them.
: Had berths for 186 passengers. Proper space
for 94 only. The steerage was excessively crowded, and
one small and steep ladderway was the only means of
access to the deck. Boats were in very bad order and
very indifferently equipped. Two of the boats were con-
demned here as being quite unfit for the service. The
fire hose were defective and insufficient. Crew: boat-
swain, carpenter, and two able seaman ; the rest boys.
Vessel detained.
. : Life boats in very bad order. Fire hose defec-
tive. Life belts defective.
: Practically no fire hose and distress signals
deficient.
* • * »
Some more samples :
: The watertight doors in the principal bulk-
head of this vessel were found to be out of order, and not
capable of being closed on an emergency. Vessel was
leaving for Newcastle when I made this discovery, with
the intention of filling bunkers with coal, after which the
bunkers could not be got at . . . The Marine Board de-
clined to take any action in the matter.
: This vessel, having space for 290 steerage
passengers, had berths for 417, and recently landed as
many as 432 passengers at Fremantle.
and : These vessels have each space for
246 steerage passengers, but carried berths for 299 each.
... I have now caused the berths to be reduced to the
proper number, and in this I had the concurrence of the
inspector of the Sydney Board. But they (the Board)
were not prepared to take the initiative.
: When this vessel was under survey, prior to the
fire which took place on board, I had an additional fire-
hose placed on board. And I have since been informed
that but for that length of hose the fire could not have
been got under control. . . . The same vessel on her last
survey was carrying old and badly-conditioned boats in
the davits intended for the principal lifeboats.
: The first time this vessel came under the
Emigration Survey it was found that there was no means
of closing the doors of the principal water-tight bulkhead,
although the vessel had just passed the Marine Board
survey.
: A similar defect existed, overlooked by the
Marine Board for several years.
* * * »
This much-needed supervision went on for
two years. Then, in 1896, the control of
the work was transferred to the Marine
Board—the same institution which had pre-
viously let everything slide so affably, and
the Board soon got rid of the surveyor
(Captain Vine Hall) who made all this pain-
ful worry about defective boats, and unwork-
able fire-hose, and overcrowded ships, and
alleged watertight bulkheads with doors that
wouldn’t shut. So things dropped back into
the old groove, and have remained there
ever since. There was no known reason for
the change, unless it might be that all this
activity disturbed the Board in its sleep.
So far, no big holocaust can be directly
traced to the Marine Board’s laxity, though,
when there is such a thing, it is hardly likely
that-the Marine Board will do the tracing
with sufficient energy to bring the deed home
to its own door and deposit it on its own
doorstep. Such a thing would be too much
to expect of any Board" And with luck the
Board’s method of doiixg its work may
produce no serious disaster for a long time.
On the other hand, the disaster may come
any day. The situation, so far as the public
is concerned, is this : The Marine Board is
partly nominated by the Government and
partly elected by the shipowners. Also, the
elective members are themselves shipowners.
So far as it is a representative institution it is
solely a shipowners’ institution. In its judi-
cial capacity, its business is largely to try the
shipowner. The sailors and passengers and
the public at large constitute the plaintiff,
and the shipowner is the accused, and the
unwritten charge includes everything that
can be done in the way of endangering
human life by sending rotten or badly-
equipped vessels to sea. And, so far
as the Board is elective, it is elected
solely by the accused ; it is a case ’of
the suspected burglar electing the Chief-
Justice with the additional proviso that
only a person suspected of burglary is quali-
fied for election as Chief-Justice. If the
elected member supports an inspector who
insists on too much expenditure in the
way of life-saving apparatus, or is too much
given to inquiring into the condition of the
old vessel which left its bones in the deep
sea—well, the shipowner is as human as any
other human being, and he isn’t likely to
elect that member to his salaried billet
again. But it is very unlikely he would
make the mistake of electing any such mem-
ber in the first place. And the member
being himself a shipowner has his own ships
inspected by his subordinate, and the subor-
dinate is supposed to peremptorily stop his
boss’s or his boss’s friend’s “ cronk ” ship
from going to sea,, and to give evidence, if
necessary, before his boss’s board about the
lamentable state of his boss’s ship. And
the said boss is supposed to appoint a man
who will take an absolutely unbiassed view
of the boss’s ship, and to bear him no ill-
feeling for doing it. Which is all so pro-
bable that it is simply bursting with proba-
bility.
* * * *
To put the matter shortly : No shipowner
should sit on the Board which may have to
inquire into the condition of his own ship.
No shipowner should have a voice in electing
the Board which is to inquire into the con-
dition of his ships. The board shouldn’t be
crowded with ancient mariners who haven’t
been actively engaged in their profession for
20 or 30 years, \vho know practically nothing
of seamanship as it is now —the ancient
brig and schooner and ketch crowd to
whom the practical working of a steamer
is a black, blank mystery. And the
ancient mariners should be paid a suffi-
cient salary to make them independent of
any income from any private pursuit con-
nected with shipping and shipowners. Of
course, if the public, which pays the
salaries, wants the present kind of Board it
is entitled to have it. But in case it doesn’t
want this kind of Board it is only fair that
the public should know what kind of a Board
it has got.
The Middleman in Some of His Aspects.
The South Australian Early Closing Bill—the
one which states in its interpretation clause
that “ woman ” means a “person of the female
sex ” —is another encouraging outrage on the
liberty of the subject. It provides for the
shutting of certain classes of shops at six, and,
in the shops which are exempted from closure
at fixed times, it is provided that no female or
child shall be employed over 48 hours, and no
adult male over 52 hours, per week. Which,
after all, will mean that exactly the same
amount of work will be done, and,"in the main,
by the same people—all the jeremiads about
the ruin of the tradesman notwithstanding.
The great mass of the people spend all their
earnings, and must needs do so even if the
shops only kept open four hours per day—the
sufficient reason being that they have to spend
all their earnings in order to keep sufficient
clothes on them and sufficient victuals in them ;
therefore the early-closing movement will make
no difference, so far as this very large class is
concerned, in the takings. And, in the great
mass of cases, the fact that the business is com-
pressed into fewer hours won’t necessitate the
employment of any more hands. Innine-tenthsof
the shops of any town or city—the smaller ones
that is—a large proportion of the time of the
lone, lorn proprietor is spent in leaning up
against things to fill in the intervals between
customers, and a good deal more in furtively
blowing the dust off the stock, which dust has
gathered there because there are not enough
customers to keep the stock in a reasonable
state of disturbance. And if his customers are
compelled to do their business in eight hours
instead of in twelve, lie can stand the rush per-
fectly well without having to hire extra assist-
ance. The universal provider who, as a rule,
manages to keep his staff at high pressure all
the 12 hours may be compelled to hire extra
assistance if his business has to be done in two-
thirds of the time, but if so it will be so much
the better for the labor-market. And the
universal-providery man, as a rule, can afford
to stand the shock.
* * * »
The early-closing idea, however, valuable as
it is, only touches the fringe of a great subject.
The whole art and mystery of shop-keeping is
a social problem. The shopkeeper, to begin with,
is a non-producer; he adds nothing to the aggre-
gate wealth of the community (wealth being a
term of wide application which covers every
kind of useful furnishing for the body or mind);
therefore it is to the community’s interest that
there should be only as many of him as are
actually required. It is to the community’s
interest that every wholly non-producing class
should be kept down to the smallest convenient
dimensions, because the non-producer has to
live on the producer—somehow. The way he
does it may be none too clear, but the fact is
incontrovertible, for there is no one save the
producer that the non-producer can live upon.
And shopkeepers—wholesale and retail, but
principally retail—are probably twice or three
times as numerous as there is any need for.
Instead of there being just about as many as
are needed to satisfy the public requirements,
there are, in the cities and large towns especi-
ally, just as many as can possibly eke out a
living at the game, and a large margin in addi-
tion. The margin slops over periodically into
the Insolvency Court and elsewhere. There is
probably about as large a superfluity in the shop-
keeping class as in any other ; and when the
vast superfluity of lawyers, brokers, financiers,
and all the vast crowd of mysteries who seem
to live on nothing in an office is taken into con-
sideration, this is saying a great deal*
* * * *
The losses, so far as the public is eoncernfed,
appear in so many \VaVs that they abe difficult
to enumerate. The producer, who pays fbr
everything ih the tend, has to find the rent for
All the superfluous shops. He has to pay for
the sickly glimmer of gas inside, and to find
the proprietors and their families in food, and
clothing, and taxes, and miscellaneous ex-
penses. If there are two or three miles of
superfluous shops in a large city lie has to keep
these two or three miles of roadway in repair.
If the superfluous trader goes insolvent and
cloesn t pay for his stock it makes no difference
in the ultimate loss. The population can only
buy a certain quantity of food, and clothes,
and boots and other things, and if these goods
are distributed in 10,000 shops where 5000
could do all the trade, then the prices must be
higher to pay for the rent of the other 5000
establishments, and to support the people who
run them, and to pay for the gas and shndrifes;
And even this doesn’t tepresent the whole loss.
If there are 60,000 adults ih a community and
10,000 of them are trying to live bv
being middle-men of various degrees, it is ob-
vious that the 50,000 producers must
needs support the 10,000 middle-men somehow.
And, if 5000 are sufficient to do all the middle-
man work which actually wants doing, and the
number can be reduced to that, and the other
5000 can be forced into the producing classes,
then, instead of 50,000 producers supporting
10,000 non-producers, it becomes a case of
55,000 supporting only 5000. The superfluity
of the other 5000 can’t be wholly gauged by the
amount of time which the small' melancholy,
unprosperous shopkeeper spends leaning up
against something in absolute idleness. If there
are two cheap bootmakers in a street where
one would suffice, the time which the other
bootmaker spends in putting his stock out in
the morning, and taking it in at night, and
cleaning his big window, and blowing the dust
off his wares—the dust which comes from lack
of business caused by being a superfluous boot-
maker, and putting the big fat price-tickets on
his goods, and doing many other things—is all
loss and waste. And the community pays.
* « * „
Of course, any interference with the super-
fluous non-producer would be an interference
with the liberty of the subject. But, seeing
that the non-producer must needs live on the
producer, the latter has a fair and legitimate
excuse for interference. Some day, probably,
he will interfere by calling on everybody who
runs a shop in any town or city, or who lives
by any kind of mysterious expedient in an
office, to pay a tolerably heavy annual license-
fee. Such a proceeding ought to produce quite
a number of useful results. It would supply
revenue, and help to relieve the burden of the
producer. It would considerably reduce the
number of middlemen, and probably the re-
mainder would make so much better a living
that they could pay the fee without increasing
their prices. It would increase the number of
producers by forcing a portion of the unpro-
ductive class into other occupations. It would
help to keep down the city population, which
is much too large in proportion to the size of
the community for the profit of the nation at
large. Also, it is too large proportionately fot
the good of the nation’s health ; a community
with a capacious chest and a robust lung and a
powerful muscular development can’t be grown
in the shops of the city streets. The
community already asserts its right to
charge a license-fee to the hawker, who is
merely an itinerant shopkeeper, or even
to refuse his license if the non-producer who
comes round to the back-door is growing too
numerous ; and its right to license the shop-
keeper, who is simply a stationary hatvker, is
quite as incontrovertible. It licenses the grog-
seller, and retains full power to limit the num-
ber of dealers in grog where there are already
enough to supply all the grog that the com-
munity seems to require; and it is quite as
reasonable to license the dealers in boots and
sugar, and to restrict them if they appear to be
growing more numerous than is necessary,
seeing that the existence of twice as many
dealers in boots as are really essential only
results in the public paying more for its boots.
Ihe superfluous men’s rent and living expenses
must come out of the price of boots somewhere.
Up to a certain point competition reduces
prices by preventing monopoly. Beyond that
point it raises them, by compelling the com-
munity to support too many people and too
many people’s landlords, and to pay too many
gas-bills, out of its aggregate boot expenditure.
* * * *
In a casual sort of way the compulsory early-
closing idea is a recognition of this evil. When
there are more people trying to live on the
boot-trade than the boot-industry can support
there is always a temptation on the part of
boot-dealer No. 1 to remain open an hour later
to snatch the last possible remnant in the way
of sales, and the natural result is that boot-em-
poriums Nos. 2 to 100 are apt to keep open as
late, or even later, to prevent No. 1 annexing
an undue proportion of a trade that none of
them can afford to lose. And the end of it is
that the whole crowd remain open to the very
last hour when it is possible to make enough
profit out of the very last boot-buyer to pay
for the gas. And the miserable employe natur-
ally sutlers ; there are no more boots bought
in the aggregate, for even if all the boot-shops
in Christendom remained open night and day
no one would have more than two feet after all,
therefore there are no more profits, and the ex-
tra hours bring no more wages. The compul-
sory early-closing idea is an attempt by the
State to remedy one result of excessive compe-
tition and to save the employ e from the em-
ployer ; also, incidentally, to save the employer
from himself and his gas-bill. And it is quite
as reasonable to go a step further and compul-
sorily reduce competition among the non-pro-
ductive trading class by licensing the whole lot,
and by reserving the right, in extreme cases,
to refuse licenses. In this respect it is neces
sary to draw a sharp line between the pro-
ducer and the non-producer. The middleman
is a necessary evil, and, when he grows to the
dimensions of an unnecessary evil, the unneces-
sary part of. him calls for active discourage
ment.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Municipal One-Man-One-Vote.
It is curious to find two such Tory authorities
as the Argus and Mayor M'Eacharn advo-
cating the establishment of a big corporation full
of Socialistic ambitions, out of the 20 tin-pot
cities and boroughs of Melbourne. M‘Eacharn
even urges that Melbourne should follow the
splendid example of Glasgow, Birmingham and
London; that the corporation should run the
trams, buy up electric-light works and other
public utilities, establish baths and washhouses,
buy up slum properties and erect suitable
lodging houses and artisans’ dwellings thereon,
provide municipal bands, improve the ap-
proaches to the city, lay out drives and public
squares, and provide technical education. A
large order, but perfectly feasible. Also, most
thinking people in Melbourne now hold it to be
essential that the City Council, when it comes,
shall take over the business of that horribly-
confused pale elephant, the Metropolitan
Board of Works, and fire out Bard Fitzgibbon
from the mismanagement thereof. The great
Fitzgibbon institution is incapable, slow, dun-
derheaded, and practically insolvent. It gets on
so slowly with its work that instead of connecting
15,000 houses every year with the new drains as
promised, it barely overtakes 2500, at which
rate the whole work will take some 30 or 40
years to finish. It has a deficit of ,£40,000 a
year, and it made a dead loss of <£265,000 by
putting a large proportion of one of its loans
into the most notoriously rotten bank of issue
in Melbourne. Also, when it sent its Fitz-
gibbon loan-floating in London that scrambling
old poet lost nearly ,£BO,OOO in one lot by sell-
ing a 4 per cent, loan at ,£9l 17s. 6d. per £lOO.
And the Melbourne city corporation, with its
huge debts and deficits, and its yearning to
build monuments in the shape of useless mar-
kets, is nearly as bad. There is plenty of
reason why these institutions and the 19 other
corporations should be led out and gently pole-
axed in a quiet place, and a County Council on
the London pattern created in their stead.
Where the trouble comes in is just here. Lon-
don didn’t achieve its success by simply creat-
ing its County Council. It never had a decent
municipal Government till it went in for
one-man-one-vote in municipal matters.
Its old plural property-vote corporations smelt
just like the Thames in its old, unclean days,
and the change only came in when the pro-
perty-vote was abandoned. Exactly why the
difference happened is a matter for conjecture.
Probably it was partly because, when the
municipal and Parliamentary votes were prac-
tically assimilated, it became worth the while
of an able and ambitious politician to reach out
for a municipal billet, by way of getting a
firmer hold on his Parliamentary constituents.
And probably it was chiefly because the
multiple-property-vote puts the bulk of the
power in the hands of the landlord, v/ho lives
in a nice, broad, clean street, and he doesn’t
need to care what happens to the streets that
are nasty and narrow and foul. In fact, his
interest lies in leaving them as they are, in
order to save the expense of improvement.
Until the votes of the people who actually live
down the disgusting back-lane become of as
much direct importance to the municipal can-
didate as those of any other people, the dis-
gusting back-lane is likely to receive little
attention. And that is just what one-man-one-
vote in municipal affairs is meant for.
4.
The Missing’ Allotment-Owner.
A useful little measure to enable municipali-
ties to let or sell land on which five years’ rates
were unpaid, and thus recover their money,
foundered last week in N.S.W. Assembly.
According to the daily-paper report :
Mr. E. M. Clark opposed the measure on the ground
that it would inflict a lasting injustice on the thousands
of landowners who are annually wrecked on desert
islands, and are never rescued until after five years. It
might also lead to valuable city properties being sold for
a few shillings, because the holders had lost all their
money gambling in South Africa, and were not able to
pay their passage back to Australia in time to claim their
property.
Apart from this cheerful blob of humor, the
idea is a good one, and should be universally
adopted. If it had been adopted 40 years ago
it would have been better still. Australia is
dotted all over with bits of land which were
bought as a spec, by some ancient pioneer, who
afterwards pegged out somewhere beside a dry
creek, or otherwise vanished from moral
ken and became part of the great Billjim
mystery. His allotment has 25 years’ rates
due on it, which the municipality much re-
quires ; and it is an unsightly gap beside the
street, with old kerosene-tins on it, and it is
mainly useful for the small boy to swear upon.
The unclaimed allotment is locked-up capital,
and anything that will put it in circulation is
good for the community, for prosperity doesn’t
mean abundance of capital so much as the
vigorous circulation of what capital there is.
Moreover, the proposed .law would be a just
retribution on the absentee. Many vacant
eyesore allotments in and around our cities are
owned by gentlemen in Europe who pay no
rates, but are quite willing that their proper-
ties should be improved and made valuable by
the rates of other people. The seizure and sale
of the allotment owned by the gentleman in
Europe seems highly advisable.
_l
The Upheaval of Donald.
The enfant terrible of the Vic. Leg. Council is
Donald Melville, who makes most scandal-
ously truthful comments on bis opulent mates.
Only last week this disgraceful rich landlord
remarked that Fitzgerald, the Great Fitz-
gerald, had been “asleep for the last 35 years.”
Also Melville informed Dr. Embling that he
was assuming the People of Victoria to be the
people who surrounded him at his club, and
sang his praises at public-houses. After which
the shocking old capitalist upbraided Fatman
in general for “ thinking more of property than
of manhood.” This cannot be allowed to go om
The Vic. Leg. Council is more or less a syndi-
cate for securing the re-election of its own
members, but The Bulletin must respect-
fully suggest to President Zeal and co. that
Donald Melville’s admission to the House
was a sad mistake. Probably he got there
under false pretences, but it really doesn’t
matter whether he was a traitor to the cause all
the time, or became a traitor from conviction
after a year’s experience of Leg. Council
“debates.” Enough that he is now unfitted
to express the feeling of the country, and does
not obstruct business in a whole-hearted man-
ner. The House despises its Donald Melville,
of course, for he is merely one man against 47
as a rule, but if those 47 ask The Bulletin
whether the odd man’s presence is or is not an
Insult to the House The Bulletin’s answer is
Yes. He ought to be thrown out unceremoni-
ously, as though he were an improved Land
Tax or any other dangerous measure.
4
Railways and Wool Exports.
For the quarter ended 30th September, ’9B,
N.S.W. exported 121,000 bales of wool in all,
and of this quantity 73,000 bales were shipped
direct from N.S.W. ports. On the other hand,
39,000 bales went via Melbourne, and 8600
went by South Australian ports. The quantity
shipped direct from N.S.W. ports was 1351
bales more than in the corresponding period of
’97 ; the quantity shipped via Melbourne
showed an increase of 3732 bales. The N.S. W.
wool-export business, in its relation to the
Federal railway problem, calls for a lot of hard
consideration. At present the parochial crowd,
which desires that each province shall keep
its railways under its own separate manage-
ment, is distinctly on top, and the general
ignorance of the multitude, and the general
incapacity of politicians, are likely to keep it in
that lamentable situation. Yet there are plenty
of obvious and admitted disadvantages about
the provincial system, among which the follow-
ing are the most conspicuous :
(1) It involves the cost of six managements instead of
one.
(2) It perpetuates the break of gauge, with the result
that goods have to be painfully and expensively loaded
and unloaded at the borders. This trouble will get worse
as railways increase, and there are ten border junctions
for every one now existing. The break of gauge trouble
can’t be cured except by Federal control, for the pro-
vinces can’t possibly agree to any fair division of the cost
of unification. The only way is to have one system, and
charge the cost of unification to the general fund without
any division.
(3) The present system also involves the cost of build-
ing 500 miles of line where, under federal management,
200 would be ample. For it requires that every place in
N.S.W. shall have a line to Sydney or no line at all, even
if Melbourne or Adelaide is 300 miles nearer.
(4) Many places which are near to Melbourne or Ade-
laide, but very far from Sydney, have consequently to do
with no line at all. Therefore, the progress of the out-
lying parts of N.S.W. is retarded, population doesn’t
increase, the State loses land revenue, land-tax, income-
tax, and other profits.
(5) Many other places in N.S.W. have to pay twice, or
more than twice, the freights that would be otherwise
necessary, or else their goods have to be carried at a loss
and the loss made good by levying exorbitant rates in
other districts.
(6) The country is loaded with needless debt and need-
less interest through building 500 miles of line in many
places to connect with “ our ” city when 200 miles to con-
nect with the nearest city—the one across the border—
would suffice.
And all this loss and worry and foolishness is
to no purpose after all. About one-fourth of
N.S.W. is nearer to Melbourne than to Sydney,
and despite the fact that N.S.W. stands the
heavy loss of five unprofitable railways to drag
the Riverina trade to Sydney, Victoria takes
more than a fourth of the trade after all. It
gets the entire amount that would naturally
go its way if all this dead loss were
avoided, and N.S.W. ceased protecting its
railway industry by cutting rates, and build-
ing needless lines, and followed the Free-
trade principle of letting commerce take its
natural outlet. The object of the present
policy is to develop “ our ” territory, and it
rather hinders than aids development by
making it impossible to supply railways in
many outlying districts. Its other object is to
retain “our ” trade, and the trade, after all the
millions wasted in retaining it, refuses to be
retained any more than it was before. The
short way out of the difficulty is to put railway
management and construction under Federal
control, and abandon the hopeless struggle. No
policy that will ever be devised can make 500
miles as short as 200, and that is just what is
the matter.
♦
Ah. Toy and the Color-Line.
The juristic works in the legal alcoves of the
Ark, no doubt, contained the maxim that eter-
nal vigilance is the price of Liberty. Victoria
showed rather effectually a few years ago how
to preserve her population from undue admix-
ture with saffron or leprosy or Confucian con-
fusion. Although she had a Chinese Restriction
Act with a poll-tax, she denied that the pay-
ment of this tax gave any alien any right to
land in Victoria, and promptly warned off a
crowd, including Ah Toy, from her shores.
Her action, though disapproved in her own
courts, was upheld by the Privy Council. It is
somewhat mysterious why, in the face of all the
talk against alien immigration to the Australias,
this power is not made use of by the growling
Governments. Victoria had a hard fight to as-
sert the principle : why don’t the others profit
by and support her victory ? Any Government
in Australia could, under that Privy Council
decision, prevent a single Chinese, Japanese,
Javanese, or, if they wished, Kanaka, from
landing in its province. Imperial dictation is
the only bar, and the “ crimson thread” busi-
ness is genuine enough to make the probability
of that negligible. If the Governments don’t
act on that principle, and if they continue to
sympathise with those who don’t want the
Asiatic, the only conclusion one can come to is
that the said Governments aren’t sincere in the
matter. With eternal vigilance, in Ah Toy
fashion, upon every ship from Asia for a few
years, there would be no color-line problem
and there would be several sincere Governments
in Australia.
—
The Line that Can’t he Drawn.
When a Sydney jury, the other day, found
Napoleon Jean Lisson guilty of the slaughter
of his sister-in-law, they illogieally recom-
mended him to mercy, on the ground that “ he
was insane when he committed ” the act. For,
if insanity means irresponsibility, the ques-
tion of Lisson’s mental condition, before
or since the deed, should have been entirely
outside the record. No matter how sane a man
may have been all his lifetime, if he becomes
insane for five minutes he is for that five
minutes just as irresponsible as if he had been
a lunatic for half-a-century. And, in any
case, no matter how normal a man may be
at other times, the epileptic furor which,
according to Dr. Angel Money, was pro-
bably responsible for Lisson’s outbreak, is
known to be, while it lasts, an insanity as
acute and imperative as that of any chronic
homicidal mania. The point upon which the
judge in this case mainly relied as constituting
criminal responsibility was that Lisson was
conscious of the nature of his murderous acts.
Exactly through this point passes the line
of cleavage between the judicial conception of
insanity and the medical; because it is a
commonplace of alienism that a man may, by
either sudden maniacal impulse or overmaster-
ing fixed delusion, be forced helplessly into acts
of which he not only understands the nature
but actually has the utmost horror. The law is
doubtless compelled to some mechanical rule of
differentiation, but the forensic theory—as so
stringently insisted upon in this case—would,
if carried to its legitimate conclusion, exclude
from irresponsibility every mentally-affected
person who isn’t an obvious drivelling idiot.
And though, as the Judge said, there has not
yet been laid down any definition of
insanity which will entirely hold water,
there was nevertheless, in Lisson’s case, about
the best-obtainable practical test of insanity.
If a man is not mad who suddenly and cause-
lessly makes a murderous attack on those for
whom in his normal state he would probably
lay down his own life— (Lisson when he killed
his sister-in-law also savagely hacked at his own
two children) —we may as well strike the word
“ insanity ” out of the dictionary.
The Parson’s Business Circular.
With the accession of a new Postmaster-
General The Bulletin returns to an old subject
and desires to draw the attention of Hon,
Varney Parkes to the number of registered
publications allowed to pass through N.S.
Wales G.P.O. as newspapers, although not
coming under the definition of such laid down
by the Postal Act. This paper has before it a
copy of a four-page leaflet (one of about 60
similar publications) registered for transmission
as a newspaper and published by All Saints
Church, Petersham. The front page consists
entirely of the specification of the church ser-
vices for the month ; page 2 contains the offer-
tories, baptisms, and burials ; page 3, an
account of the tea-meeting, mission, and con-
firmation services ; and page 4, a list of
Sunday-school lessons. In direct violation
of the postal regulations also, there is in-
serted in the publication a circular (with
nothing to show, as required, specific
connection with the main sheet) expa-
tiating upon the merits of a deceased clergy-
man, and soliciting subscriptions towards a
memorial to the rev. defunct. The Bulletin
simply takes this particular “ newspaper ” at
random, out of a host of similar sheets—all
merely exploiting some insignificant kirk or
tin-pot bethel—which are being carried at
State expense, and which thus give the parson
a distinct advertising pull over the other trades-
man, who has to pay postage at Jd. each on his
business circulars. The R.C. person may not
object to the State carrying loads of Church of
England literature as long as it does ditto for
him —and vice versa; but this paper entirely
fails to see why the unsectarian citizen
should be penalised with the expense of this
neat little Church family arrangement. The
postal regulations are perfectly explicit upon
the point. Will P.M.G. Parkes allow a con-
tinuance of this flagrant violation thereof? If
he does, it will be more than ever plain that
State aid to religion has not been abolished in
N.S. Wales.
♦
The little row--it was only a little one, after
all—which woke-up Queensland Assembly, last
week, was disappointing, inasmuch as it wasn’t
carried to its legitimate conclusion. It began
with a trivial altercation between Speaker
Cowley and Labor-member M ‘Donald, and
the new egg-bald Premier, climbing into the
breach, carried a motion suspending M'Donald
for a week. Then two officials arrived to carry
the suspended member out, but M'Donald
held one and Hoolan the other, and paralysed
the machine of State. If the Opposition,
having once got into a state of insurrection,
had risen unanimously just then, it might have
locked the Assembly in, and emptied the gum-
bottle on Dickson’s bare cranium, and forced
Speaker Cowley, under pain of being undressed
and inked all over, to suspend the whole Minis-
try for a fortnight, for, though it was in a
numerical minority, a good many of the Minis-
terialists are too old to count for much in a
free aud off-hand shindy. But, after shaking
the official for a minute or two, M'Donald
agreed to go out, and there was no fight after
all. The most exciting moment in the proceed-
ings was when Hoolan alluded to the Speaker
as a “contemptible little nigger - driver.”
Which remark was partially inaccurate as well
as unusual, for Cowley isn’t formidable enough
to drive any adult nigger.
4
The attention of the Social Gimlet Brigade,
the W.C.T.U. purists and others of that species,
who are perpetually prating about the pro-
tection of girls and age-of-consent, is hereby
cordially invited to the case of Charles
Howard, committed for trial at Fitzroy (Melb.)
Court, on Sept. 22nd. The girl in the case,
aged just 15, was induced by her companion-
one Minnie Harmer —to go to accused’s house
in Fitzroy, where, it is alleged, the offence was
committed in the presence of aforesaid Harmer.
It seems to have been a cash transaction, the
consideration being the sum of one shilling,
which the Harmer damsel promptly claimed as
hers, though subsequently the money was
divided. La Harmer corroborated the other
girl’s evidence, giving her own age as 18. The
man, as stated, was committed for trial, but
nothing was said about confining or restraining
Miss Harmer. Wherefore, the moral people
before-mentioned are desired to take her in
hand and exhibit her as a shining example of
the want of protection afforded to innocent
girls from the wiles of designing men.
Harry Stockdale, who probably knows more
about the alleged de Rougemont country than
any other living man, writes to The Bulletin :
While hardly considering the be Rougemont romance
worthy of serious contradiction, let me emphasise a few
points which should discredit this ingenious fictionist
even with the most credulous. If be R. had led for 28 years
such an existence as he describes, he would now be an
old and enfeebled man, and would to a certainty bear on
his person some of the raised markings customary
amongst the people in question, even if he had not under-
gone circumcision or the terrible “ Sturt’s rite.” 2.
There is no Australian tribe of which something is not
known, and with none of them has been found any
knowledge of the manufacture or use of metal. 3. The
universality of the exchange and barter custom amongst
the aborigines makes it incredible that, if the gold
utensils be R. describes existed, no other white man
should ever have heard of them. 4. The boomerang is
unknown in the locality referred to by be R. The natives
for hundreds of miles of the adjacent territory are spear-
men pure and simple ; and, even if the boomerang had
been used against him, it would not have been the “ re-
turning ” missile but the heavier war-boomerang, which
is not constructed so as to come back to the thrower.
Besides these, there are scores of apparently insignificant
points which, to anybody knowing the country and people
in question as I do, would be quite sufficient of theniselves
utterly to discount this ingenious Switzer’s veracity.
[Re The Bulletin’s recent observation that,
if anybody could throw light on this de Rouge-
mont business, it would be Harry Stockdale, it
now turns out that de R.’s island is actually
identical with La Crosse Island, in Cambridge
Gulf entrance, which Stockdale rented for
some time from the W. A. Government. — Ed. B.]
♦
“ Disgusted ” to The Bulletin :
Premier Reib, in his speech on the censure motion,
laid much stress on the pluck of his Government in
tackling civil service reform, and on the number of votes
it lost thereby. He so well knew the jelly-fish nature of
said service as to be aware that he could jump on it with
all his feet. When the Crown appealed to the Privy
Council against the decision of N.S.W. Full Court in the
case of Abams v. Young, civil servants were asked
by circular to assist Abams (a prominent civil
servant, of ability and integrity, who had been dismissed
under the plea of retrenchment, and replaced by a
temporary official), who had already borne heavy expense,
in vindicating their rights. Three thousand circulars
were posted at a cost of £7 10s., and responses from under a
dozen, totalling £5 10s., were received ! The Crown
appeal was dismissed with costs, but Abams has since
been non-suited on a point which his legal advisers main-
tain has already been decided by the Privy Council. He
has now again appealed to the Full Court. But the
noble army of public servants are unanimous in allowing
him to do it at his own cost. Even those of the retrenched
brigade, who are ready to serve writs or have already
served them in anticipation of reaping the fruits of the
fight which Abams has fought, have, with one or two ex-
ceptions, refrained from assisting. Surely such an
emasculated lot deserve any treatment a callous Premier
prompted by a needy Treasury may inflict.
Sagasta attributes the reverses of Spain to
national anaemia ; and Lord Salisbury spoke
recently of the inevitable transfer of the
possessions of decadent races to their more
vigorous neighbors. History is full of such
instances. Two centuries after the conquest of
Asia by Alexander the Great the Romans
humbled Greece to the status of a province,
only to succumb in their turn to the barbarians
of the North. The might of the Crescent,
which long threatened to bring all Europe
under the Mohammedan scimitar, has in our
own day become the “Sick Man.” At the
present time the three races which stand out
in vigorous pre-eminence are the Anglo-Saxon,
the Slav, and the German. Although France,
the only nation that counts beside these three,
still dominates civilisation by her national
elegance, and wit, and gaiety, the three
races named have hopelessly outstripped her
by sheer force of reproduction—by big bat-
talions of babies. It seems probable that the
weight of Anglo-Saxon power will be largely
transferred in the coming century to the shores
of the Pacific ; and that Russia will be the
great Asiatic power, assimilating or being as-
similated by the Mongolian hordes into a new
civilisation ; while Germany, with her disci-
plined energy, farseeing statecraft, and philo-
sophical insight, will become the great middle
kingdom of Europe, gradually absorbing her
smaller neighbors until her dominion stretches
from [the Skagerack to Salonika, and possibly
through Asia Minor to the Persian Gulf. This
seems to be the geographical trend of national
expansion : but what social cataclysms, what
internal revolutions—intellectual, moral, and
political—will be passed through can be only
dindy guessed at. The 19th century has been
an era of scientific and mechanical triumphs. In
this age men have learnt to work. In the 20th
century will they learn to live ?
One of the contradictions of N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary Government glaringly asserted itself
last week, when after it was loudly proclaimed
that no M.L.A. should vote to put money in
his own pocket, all the Ministers of the Crown
cast their votes to repel a censure motion—
thereby securing themselves in office and conse-
quent pay. In several European and American
Legislatures, Ministers don’t vote when their
existence is at stake, and in some Australasian
Parliaments Premiers have been known to
voluntarily forego Ministerial votes on critical
occasions; but the general practice, especially
the N.S.W. one, is for the Premier to squat on
the bench when the division bell rings and vote
that he himself has the confidence of the coun-
try, and for his Ministers to do the same thing
in their , own regard. This is certainly voting
themselves office and pay; and when the
majority for the Government is only equal to
or less than the Ministerial votes cast the
viciousness of the practice is self-evident.
♦ — :
Some vigorous language re the little ways of
the Salvation Army :
Editor Bulletin, —Some more about the Blood and
Blazes Brotherhood. The social annual appeal pans-out
an average of £25,000 to £30,000. A progressive pro-
vincial town and district is expected to return about
£lOO. All officers are expected to canvass district within
a radius of 50 miles. No travelling exes, allowed. Mean-
time, captain and “sub” get their “screw” best way
they can out of the ordinary five-tinies-a-Sunday collec-
tions. When the “social appeal” is on no “screw”
is forthcoming. Lucky if they pay rent. Every
penny collected in the district is at once sent to
the C.W.O. in Sydney. There may be scores of Mag-
balens where that money was collected, but not a penny
is used to attempt to raise them from the mire, or any-
body else there. Centralisation up to the hilt! Then,
on top of the S.A. appeal come self-denial collections, and
the province commanding-officer fixes financial targets
for the officers, who in turn fix them for Brother Bang the
Drum and Sister Tambourine. And the thing goes on
again, so the town loses another “ monkey ”or so. And
the officers revel in the luxuiy of bread and dripping
or, say, liver. Wretched indeed is the condition of most
country captains, while the “big-guns” live in clover,
travel all over the shop, and, on an avt rage, support a
family of six. For head officers are invariably champion
well, mullipliers ! 7x 7.


Jhe Best Company to Insure in is the
Good for its Policy-Holders.
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY of NEW YORK
£vL C if? hliS r ed 111I 11 ,l he - vear l? 43 as a Purely Mutual Life Insurance Company, having- neither stockholders nor
Sgysw
85S f 5S n iTXuSa^S he " rh *'»- ■>'
“Total Admitted Assets, $253,786,437.66.”
Converting this into sterling, at $4.87 to the £, it amounts'to
£52,112,225 7s. !Oc3L
AND EVERY PENNY of this MAGNIFICENT ACCUMULATION BELONGS to its POLICY-HOLDERS.
Any person desirous of becoming a partner in this very lfve and coiner concern is t„riw „„ . . ...
Manager at either of its Branches in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth o? Hobart COmraumcate Wlfch the
—*• ,h “ " llh “r »‘ h “ 0«w o. msB&Lk. name bnt
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia
Conmariy'g Building, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & Co.,
Agents, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, 4c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ Sporting Life.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Gondoliers ”
Lyceum “MvJack.”
Tivoli Rickards Co.
Palace Dante, the Conjuror.
Alhambra Wilson and St. John’s Varieti' Co.
Town Hall Shilling Pops.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess.. “ Under the Red Robe.”
Theatre Royal “Sons of the Sea.”
Bijou “ T| le Bohemian Girl.”
Opera House Rickards Variety Co.
Town Hall Popular Concerts.
Dante, a man of many wonders, made a
successful debut at the Palace Theatre, Syd-
ney. The Palace is just about the size for a
one-man show, and Dante fits it admirably. He
is a bright, clever performer who does a lot of the
old magic much more smartly than it has often
been done before (or else he patters in a fashion
that covers the joints in the performance better
than the patter that the usual patterer patters
with). Also, he throws in sundry items that are
not the old magic by any means. The lady whom
he sets on fire and reduces to one grinning skull
and a puff of fine ashes is probably the best
illusion in the list. It isn’t so wonderful as some
of the items, but the most wonderful items go
rather heavily by comparison ; there is so much
tying up and bagging and boxing of the victim
that the most astonishing freak on the bill strikes
one at last like an iron safe that has fallen on him
by appointment. When the big Jap. is bagged,
and put in a trunk, and locked and corded in, and
then that trunk is piled into another trunk and it
is laboriously locked and corded, and afterwards,
in exactly eight seconds, it happens quite unac-
countably that the big Jap. is outside, and, when
the trunks are unpacked, the small Jap.—who was
outside all the time the packing was done-—proves
to be inside, it is wildly amazing in a laborious
way, like dragging six tons of wonderful coals up-
hill. But the burnt lady is a quick, off-hand de-
lusion—just a woman and a blaze and a skull and
a shock ; and it goes better than all the rest.
* * » *
The present Professor gives a tremendous
amount for the money. His mesmeric show would
have made the fortune of Kennedy if that bulky
horror could have done anything like it ; and he
doesn’t jump on the stomach of his patient or
otherwise render himself disagreeable and un-
gentlemanly. His vanishing womah —which isn’t
the same as his burnt woman—is a pleasing little
fiction which takes well, and though there is a
certain streak of weariness about any magician’s
show when he is doing his 126th impossibility
about 11.5 p.m., still the capability of
the showman is beyond all question, and
Dante ought to burn his lady assistant profit-
ably through a long season. The illusionist him-
self is a slender young man, who does most of his
miracles with bare arms, as a guarantee that the
six large, indignant, live ducks are not concealed
up his sleeves j and he has a large friendly smile,
which makes the audience feel acquainted with
him at once. But, then, all illusionists have that
smile. His assistant, Mdlle. Edmunda, is a grave-
looking young lady, who is burnt in a reticent sort
of way, and she only smiles when she is riding
head-downwards, with her inverted bicycle on top
of her.
The present comic opera season at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) closes at the end of next week.
The last episode will be a brief revival of the
“Gondoliers.” That double-barrelled king, who
proved not to be loaded after all, will start reign-
ing on Wednesday (19th), and will dry up again
at the usual late hour on Saturday night. After
which the Firm’s dramatic co. will be about due.
** * *
Bland Holt leaves Sydney at the end of
next week, bound southward to the great carnival,
where all Australia is gathered together to see a
horse in a hurry for three minutes. Miss Pattie
Browne, provided she recovers soon enough (Miss
8., at time of writing, was a fair and interesting
invalid in Melbourne), will succeed him at the
Royal for a two weeks’ season, under Rickards’
management, and then Pattie also passes on, and
becomes only a remembrance.
** # *
The present Lyceum programme will last
till Friday, and “My Jack ” will follow on Satur'
day night. The Bulletin has already recoin"
mended the “ Flight for Life,” in a moderate sort
of way, despite the frantic adventures in the in-
terior of Africa, and the recommendation still holds
good in a moderate sort of way. For this sinful
paper is very weary and disgusted over the hero
who, being unjustly suspected of the manufacture
of dead bodies, says that he will stay and clear his
character, and that Providence will demonstrate
his innocence. As it happens, Providence never
does go out of its way to demonstrate anything.
And the hero who runs for his life, and leaves
Providence to telegraph to him when it is quite
done clearing his character)'is a sensible, flesh-and-
blood person whom it is a pleasure to meet. As it
happens, Providence neglects its business so
shamefully that he has to come back in the end
and attend to the clearance himself, but the moral
holds good all the same.
** * *
This paper was a notable prophet when it
foretold, in last week’s issue, that the days of the
dramatic co. at Sydney Criterion would be few
and gone at the knees. The regrettable show has
already pegged out, and no one threw the friendly
old boot of remembrance after it as it left. Miss
Inez Bensusan did a vast amount in a bright and
capable fashion to lift the “ Dangers of London ”
into some kind of respectability ; while Cosgrove
and Johnson Weir and the burglarious father also
gave it a vigorous hoist in places ; but the drama
and the stage management and the utter hope-
lessness of the heroine were three things that
couldn’t be lifted, except by dynamite. As for
the Phonograph, which had a hollow voice like
one weeping bitterly in a bottle, it was a shriek
of burlesque all through. The profession gave
Cosgrove a benefit on Saturday, and then the
Criterion put up its shutters, pending the arrival
of Alfred Dampier and his new co. on the 22nd.
Dampier has come back with a new stock of plays,
and The Bulletin hereby bespeaks him a good
welcome.
*» * *
Friends at a distance, also remote enemies
and other people, will please accept this intimation
that the Tivoli is much as usual. Ada Reeve
leaves next week after a benefit, and Ugo Biondi
takes his departure a few days later. Some other
people will kindly soften the blow by remaining a
while longer, but it is a serious blow none the
less.
** * *
A few weeks ago alleged mesmerist Ken-
nedy stepped quietly on board the San Francisco
mail boat and left his loathsome show behind. The
loathsome show paid very badly in its latter days,
which was probably the reason of the exit. There
appears to have been no formal settling up ; the
candle-eater was unpaid, and the kerosene-drinker
was left lamenting, and the person who catalepted on
two chairs while the big man bounded on his sto-
mach didn’t get his money—at least, they all say so,
and it looks at least possible. These people have
since started explaining, and their explanation is
mainly to the effect that the alleged professor
didn t mesmerise them—that he couldn’t mes-
merise worth a cent; and that they merely ate the
disgusting candle and drank the foul kerosene for
a small salary. The reason they looked happy
when doing it was simply that they dare not
look otherwise for fear of not being paid,
and why they postponed being unspeakably
sick till the show was over was because any
man who dared to be sick on the spot would have
lost his billet. The men who had pins stuck in
them and the other sons of misery allege that they
had to practise the misery in private till they could
look as if they enjoyed it. The Bulletin doesn’t
profess to know whether the candle-eaters and
kerosene-drinkers are telling the whole truth or
not. Its own idea is that the Professor was some-
thing of a mesmerist once, and a very coarse and
brutal one at that, and that the Australians
who crowded his show in his prosperous days
were just as coarse and brutal as himself.
Also _ the Respectable Press, which spoke
of him as rather an amusing entertainment,
was ditto. _ In those days Kennedy certainly did
leave a trail of used-up subjects behind him, and
they were apparently nervous wrecks—not simply
digestive wrecks. Latterly it was commonly re-
ported the Professor’s own nerves began to give
out, and possibly as time went on he became less
and less of a mesmerist, and grew at last to be a
mere hirer of enslaved candle-eaters. Anyhow, it
is a sad reflection that many Australians paid
their money to see their fellow-countrymen publicly
drinking oil for the baggy alien who is gone, and
if they aren’t ashamed of themselves they ought
to be.
*m » *
Rickards has had cruel luck with his
dramatic companies. In Sydney the Cartwright
season was put out of gear by the accident to
Edith Morley. Lesly Thomson, the little Scotch-
man who was imported to realise “The Little
Minister,” couldn’t come up to the scratch, and
Cecil Ward was called upon to play the part in a
different key. It may be said that Ward was a
more effective actor, but, on the other hand, it is
certain that the piece didn’t get a fair chance
to run on the author’s simple Scotch lines. And
last week’s revival of “The Minister” at Melb.
Bijou was upset by Pattie Brown’s illness.
** * *
As a natural consequence of Pattie Browne’s
illness, “The Dove-Cote” didn’t appear on Satur-
day as intended. The new comedy was then an-
nounced to take the stage on Wednesday of this
week if the course of Miss Pattie’s convalescence
ran smooth, but instead that charming lady’s re-
covery bumped dreadfully, and the end of it all
was the Bijou’s sudden closure. If there is
any balm left in Gilead the “ Dove-Cote ” may
yet get a chance to catch on in Sydney.
When Pattie retired from the bill, Miss Noni
Rickards who had shaped promisingly as boy
Micah Dow, took up the part of Babbie and
scored a respectable success. In a general
way, the young understudy gave an intelli-
gent imitation of the Babbie she had seen. Some-
times she introduced new bits of feeling with good
effect, and the performance, considering all things,
was an astounding improvement on the Miss
Rickards, who tried to act ingenue parts when the
Cartwright co. came to Melbourne eight months
back. The closing scene of “The Little Minis-
ter’ as interpreted by Lesly Thomson, Miss R.,
and Warner Gregory, had an air of reality which
was not there when the three characters of Gavin,
Babbie, and Lord Rintoul were in more ex-
perienced hands.
** * *
“ Under the Red Robe ” seems to be pro-
ceeding comfortably at the Princess’s, and Car-
dinal Richelieu, who is a beautiful old gentleman
of about eight and twenty, will continue to outwit
his invisible enemies for another week or two
Kobody can get the hang of the plot which
Richelieu circumvents, but the audience goes home
happy in the belief that His Eminence holds a
trump-card, or something’, up his large red sleeve
and will make things warm for his unknown rivals
after the non-apparent King has granted him an
audience. “ Under the Red Robe ”is full of scope
for the imagination.
** * *
At the Royal, a persevering management
produces “Sons of the Sea ” seven times a week,
the Wednesday matinee being thrown in to ac-
commodate clergymen and young children, per-
haps. Familiarity breeds gentle toleration for
“Sons of the Sea.” It contains, for one thing,
a solemn warning to ship-captains who whop
their crews, inasmuch as the stern, unyielding
skipper gets left on a cold Patagonian coast
owing to his “cat’’-like policy. Unfortunately,
the abandoned tar doesn’t die. If he were to
perish rapidly all would be forgiven, but he lives
on and suffers at great length in the last act until
his relatives come and take him aboard a yacht.
That’s where the drama makes a sad mistake. If
The Bulletin had a voice in the arrangements
the dreary castaway would be buried with musical
honors, and the neatly-appointed ballet would
dance on his place of interment.
* * s# *
Business at the Opera House is as brisk as
usual, or even more so. The new ladies who burst
upon the scene last Saturday were not an unmixed
blessing, but Peggy Pryde is always a consolation
m time of weariness, and the Poluskis amount to a
handsome apology for some of the other people.
By the way, the Poluskis are returning ’Ome by
the next steamer and Ajax the Boneless will writhe
in the vacant space,
** * *
On Saturday (15th) the Yic. Operatic
Society will open a bold attack on “ The Bo-
hemian Girl ”in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital. A
while ago the V.O.S. made poor old “Maritana ”
fairly hum for a week, and the equally ancient
but less weather-beaten “Girl ’ is expected to go
one better than the previous show. It should be
a well-warbled battle, in any case. A double cast
is available for the three leading parts, and the six
voices will work in shifts whilst the basso, and the
second tenor, and a chorus 50 strong turn up every
evening until further notice. Hanstein and
George Leopold are directing the operations, and
business-manager Kennedy states that scenery and
costumes will be quite gorgeous. Also, an ama-
teur ballet will assist the good cause in the first
and second acts ! At this point the writer is
naturally tempted to beat the floor with one hind
leg and make guttural noises expressive of his feel-
ings re the joy in store.
** * *
A variety co. has broken out on a fairly
large scale at St. George’s Hall. Likewise, C. j.
Frank has leased the Town Hall for a series of
Saturday “Pops,’’and will unfold an attractive
shilling programme on Saturday night.
** * *
Olga Nethersole has been explaining to a lady
interviewer her theory of stage-dressing. She
“ feels intensely in colors ” and suits her costumes
to the emotions of the character. Red is the
emblem of passionate love, hatred, vengeance, and
anything else of a violent nature. Pink means
tenderness, whereas grey indicates neutral feeling,
or a condition ,of “ hovering on the unknown ex-
panses of life ” with a tendency to sadness. Re-
cently the conscientious Olga was playing a tem-
pestuous wife, and she dressed the part “first in a
flowing gown of tomato-red, ” but when the lady’s
passion had cooled off she put her into yellow,
which reminds one of the naughty anecdote re the
Scotch spinster who decided that the amber satin
lining to her coffin ought to include “a wee bit
lavender ev-ery here and there ” —but no matter.—
We have it from the poet-sage,
The dictum, “ All the world’s a stage,”
And women (bless their hearts !)
Appearing in a round of parts
Should ever dress to suit each r6le,
The same as Olga Nethersole.
A damsel, innocent and young,
Unspoiled as yet by flat'ring tongue,
Whose moods are rather grave than gay,
Must sport a gown of dovey grey.
But when her mood begins to change,
And, stirred by feelings new and strange,
The darling cannot sleep a wink,
She needs a pale, expressive pink,
Which, as she sentimental grows,
Should deepen into blushy rose.
Anon the stern decree of Pate
Compels the girl to love or hate.
The hot blood surges co her head,
Then must she wear tomato red,
Except when passion’s baser hue
Demands a “harmony in blue.”
Love passes, with its joy and pain,
Like fickle moons that wax and wane;
A woman wearies of a fellow
In many pretty shades of yellow.
He travels ; ordered change of scene ;
Grass-widowed then, she flirts in green.
The years roll on, and all her gowns
Are studies in autumnal browns,
Till, left alone to mourn, alack !
We find her looking nice in black.
At Poverty Point.
At the recent Shoalhaven district show was an Italian
hurdy-gurdy man with a monkey. A local milkweed,
taking the turn-out to be some new-fangled kind of game,
dropped a shilling into the plate held out by the monkey.’
The money was placed in a receptacle on the organ.
After a time Hayseed put down another shilling, with
same result; but after this had happened a third time
Hayseed got Giacomo by the scruff, and roared “ What
the (&e.) sort of a game do you call this, where the blanky
monkey wins every time ?’’
“ Thought I had met Actor Titheradge last Sunday,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ but con-
versation realised only a modest gentleman who, coaxed
and invited by the Royal Horticultural Society, is shortly
about to expose the doings of the Daffodils in Australia.
Oh, yes, his name was George, and when not daffodilly-
ing he had simulated a Silver King, an Abb6, two or three
officers, and several ‘ walking gentlemen ' for the enter-
tainment of the public, but his intentions here did not
run at all in that direction. An engagement as the Daffo-
dill King with Regent’s Park as a realm might detain him
in a land where summer days are chilly and celebrated
musicians never slept, but—for a time only.”
The husband of a beauteous actress much admired in
Australia and elsewhere is giving her heaps of trouble
in London. He is on the warpath for divorce evidence,
and his detective-spies haunt the lady’s house and foot-
steps, and bribe the maids and the watch-dog, and dis-
cover—nothing. The lady scorns hubby’s offer of terms
to simply-the unlinking, but takes an interest in what
her servants are making in handsome tips from the enemy
and soars on to the ‘ show ’ of her life.”
A Hobart correspondent to The Bulletin: “I hardly
think your ‘ Poverty Point’ bottle-dealer comes up to our
Hobart cunning-man. Bottles are here sold for Is. 3d.
per dozen, and, on Saturday afternoons, this man goes to
the Domain, where he has his roundabout, and all the
nippers in. the place there assemble and take gallops at a
bottle a ride ; any kind of bottle. At this rate, he makes
about 255. on a fine afternoon. More pay for less trouble
than your man, don’t you think ?"
To a certain popular concert, a music-loving mother
brought her small child, and, for the first half-hour, the.
little treasure howled at random. The chief artists came
on to sing a duet. Suddenly, the round eyes were
rivetted on the performers, and a clear baby-voice was
heard, full of disapproval, “ Mammy ! lady’s dot her dwess
off.” The generous display of madatue's voluminous
charms had attracted her attention.
“ On Sept. 24, Nellie Stewart,” says The Bulletin's Lon-
don correspondent, “opens at the Royalty, in Albert
Chevalier’s ‘ Land of the Nod ’ —a musical, mystical play,
with the ‘ coster comedian ’ as a weird professor, and
Nellie as Nadoure, an evolution ' from space.’ There is a
strong cast, with Harry Brett, Herbert Linwood, and
others, and much speculation as to what the result of
Albert’s ambition will be.”
“ G. 8.” : Re statement by “ flaresfoot ” that Jaffray,
Age reporter, wrote “ The Gladiator.” Not so. It was a
translation from the German made by Jaffray, for (I
thinkl a Miss Gladstone. I had a small share in it, inas-
much as I fagged “ dictionary ” for Jaffray, at Medi.
Public Library, and stood up manfully to have the lines
read at me, on Sunday afternoons. Jaffray was a well,
educated man, and a right stood fellow. But l don’t
think he could ever have written an original drama of
any strength. Certainly he could not have done anything
“out of his own head ” as good as “The Gladiator.”
Nor could he have approached Finnamore’s “ Carpio,”
which “ Ilaresfoot ” jusily places at the “ highest Austra-
lian water-mark.”
Can physiologists tell us what is the connection between
the lungs and the violoncello ? It is a significant-looking
coincidence that the three prominent ’cellists at present
in Sydney are suffering more-or-less from lung-trouble.
Does ’cello-playing affect the lungs, or does a weak chest
cause one to yearn to play the ’cello ?
Maud Jeffries, the beauteous star of the Wilson Barrett
co., “has retired from the stage,” according to latest
announcement. Not even the temporary excuse of mar-
riage has been offered. Mary Anderson and her Aus-
tralian understudy, Essie Jenyns, are the only two well-
known actresses up to date who have retired from the
stage into private life in the days of their youth, and
stayed there, so her admirers naturally cherish hopes of
Maud being drawn back very soon to the footlights. At
present, Lillah M’Carthy takes her place.
Bateman and Maurice, of Melb, Royal, were success-
fully sued for £56 last week by a young man who had
been engaged to play the part of a “calm, cool, phlegma-
tic Englishman,” but didn’t come up to the managerial
conception of the character. There was some uninten-
tional humor in the evidence for the defence. Maurice
(lately a masseur in Melb.) stated that the young man
shaped at rehearsal like a—vat you call an am-a-teur •
whilst Bateman (lately a dentist) also testified to the
plaintiff’s “incompetence.” Bateman, who finds the
cash, and plenty of it, for the Royal enterprises, described
himself as “a theatrical manager at present."
Get thee to London, young man, and write for the
stage. We read that Henry Arthur Jones has expressed
his approval of the lady (Miss Mary Moore) who plays the
heroine in his latest comedy, “ The Liars,” by presenting
her with “a magnificent set of inscribed gold fruit-
dishes.” Playwrights are the only sort of literary men
who scatter gold fruit-dishes around for birthday pre-
“ Stroller”: What passes for dramatic criticism is
mostly literary. The journalist is concerned with ab-
surdities of plot, characterisation, quality of dialogue •
but the actor in front- cares little for these things " He
views the show with another sense. His ear is tuned to a
finer appreciation of intonations, his eye to faults in
“ business,” and his emotions to that nice cultivation of
climaxes on which the interest of spoken dialogue de-
pends. He looks for theatrical consistency, which is
different from literary. It matters not to him whether
Hamlet talks of “ siege ” or “ sea ”of trouble. The vital
point is, does he get Hamlet’s drear, weird weariness into
his voice, face and attitude—either word will do, provided
that emotion be there. Talking with most journalists
about drama is like asking a deaf man’s opinion
of a song. They have the picture sense, the literary
sense and a broader view of life and art than most actors
but they are generally stone-deaf to those fine shades of
speech which at once tell the actor whether the player is
really thinking and feeling the words he pretends he is.
Haresfoot : “Under the Red Robe” impressed me
as rather heavy going, whereas it requires to be run
through as recklessly as “ Jane,” with no more oppor-
tunity for people to think. The Gil de Berault- should be
as gallant as George Rignold 20 years ago, or, at all
events, Charles Warner. Miss Ferrar’s elocution is too
gaspy, and Mervale’s aged Cardinal is a youthful masher
Gordon s Sunrise on the Pyrenees is far and away the
most artistic thing in the show. J
t Saw the Firm’s second “ Harbour
Lights Co. in Adelaide, and was ashamed of my
fellow Austra ian actors. Almost all sedulously copied
the imported originals even to defective ‘manner-
isms. The monotonous intonation of one, the lisp of
another, were reproduced with ape-like exactness. How
can we complain of the public preferring second-rate im-
portations when all we offer is bad imitations of their
badness ?— Stroller,
Ed. Bulletin.—lf Biondi gets £l5O per week then
Harry Lee, of late Palace imported co., was worth £2OO
per week. But he only received £5O, and was well paid.
Explanation, if required. Also—according to a "PP”
par , the fascinating Peggy Pryde has evidently not suc-
ceeded in markedly impressing Melb. audiences, who
apparently seem astonished at her having filled Sydney
v«y, v t fot i ls '? eeks ' “ S -S-” goes to some pains to endea-
vour to class her with medium-grade artists in the same
line. Well, we in Sydney are not selfish, and we will—
y*s < we r i| even . svva P their favorite Biondi for her.— J. T.
M C [To which Tiie Bulletin’s Melb. correspondent •
Peggy is a success in Melbourne, but not a boom. In
America she wasn’t reckoned a comet, and in her native
London she ranks-well, she is a rather clever little
woman where there are so many very clever women, and
W Vh'" 11 !, H i U ! dau ? hter - To anyone whoremem-
’t> he Sydney fulore over pp - see >ns rather
absurd. Peggy, compared with her mother, is “as
moonlight unto sunlight, and as water unto wine ” As
regards Biondi and Lee, “J. T. Mac.’s” barracking for
the slow-change artist suggests that his letter is inspired
by a previous barracker for the same dreary Yank The
feature of Lee’s performance was the costli-
ness of his costumes. He married a wealthy woman and
can afford the expense. Also, he can afford to feed his
sycophants and friends. “J. T. Mac.” must have been
one of his friends, or he wouldn’t speak of him as
hjokedit Henry on the Programme—and he
“ Hilda Spong goes to America under engagement to
Frohmann at £3O a week,” writes Tiie Bulletin’s London
correspondent. “There is a guarantee for three months,
return passage, and her dresses for ‘ Trelawney of the
fnthir,tp h? Toung actress resides with her mother and
father at Primrose Mansions, Battersea Park.”
«i 3' D n L The kA. UStr 5 lian T reverenc es neither God nor
Bland Holt. Other day I noticed Bland, wife, and
' h ,e r ,My embarking for a river spin at National Park
(N.S. W.). The y were also observed by a boatload of
youths, who at once assailed the popular mummer with
shouts of “ Bland ’Olt,” “ What, ho ! Bland,” &" In no
country save Australia would any celebrity have to
undergo this kind of ordeal. J
Tommy Hudson’s latest shipment to Calcutta includes
Miss Onslow Mackav, pretty Daisy Holly, Ivy Scott,
juggler Altro, Harry Shine, Gus. Gregory, and the two
(Continued on page 28.)


BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge, _
3QIMVAO
GUARANTEED
9B/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining' Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Hv- Markv/ald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., AdeL ; Querni-st., Brisb
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilatin',:, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydne v .
A. E. (jOLPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
“Tb€ R€ALMACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch. Whisky.
' IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors,
JJ
To Pruit Growers, Orchard' sts, and
Amateur Gardeners.
The DISCOVERY of the NINETEENTH CENTURY is
jjeresford’s
CAUSTIC
SP3.AYIETG
SOLTUION.
Guaranteed to Destroy and Eradicate all Parasites, Apliis,
and Scale in Fruit. Trees and Hoses.
The Inventors of BERESFORD’S CAUSTIC SPR-WTXG
SOLUTION have, after years of practical experiments,
produced this most effective solution for Spraying Fruit
and Other Trees, by which Professional and Aniat- nr
Gardeners may save themselves thousands of pounds by
having clean Orchards and Gardens at a small outlay.
Descriptive Pamphlets free from E. ATKIN, Eulalia
Nursery, 399 and 401 George Street, Queen Victoria
Markets, and Ermington, Agent for New South Wales.
Sole Agent for Australasia, E. A. DAWBARN and CO.,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Maori land Government proposes to add an
Accident Department to its State Life Insurance office.
It looks a promising idea. Maoriland’s one big accident
co. started in 1879 with £5OOO paid-up capital. It pays
15 per cent, dividends regularly and has accumulated
about £30,000 of reserves. The State, with no 15 per cent,
dividends to pay and a far strop er capital, should lie able
to do the business at 30 per cent, lower premiums and
still make a respectable profit out of it.
• * • *
The Victorian Government starts its new public
works hoom by putting on the Melbourne market a loan
of 1250,000 at 3 per cent. This is the first half of the pro-
posed local loan of £500,000, and if it is a success it is just
possible that the idea of floating the other million in
London will be abandoned. In one notable respect, at
all events, the new loan is a conspicuous piece of mis-
management. It falls due at a fixed date, in 1917, instead
of being redeemable in 1917 or at any time thereafter at
the notion of the Government. Some day or other the
loan which falls due at a fixed date will land Australia in
an incredible hole. For instance, in 1921 and 1923 Vic-
toria has £10,000,000 of 3J per cent, stock to redeem.
Supposing these loans had been floated on the under-
standing that thev could be redeemed then or at any
Irt’-r dote, the difference would he just this: If the
value of money, in 1921-23, is 3J4 per cent, then the old
loan could simply be allowed to go on till further notice,
and something like £200,000 in new flotation expenses
would be saved. If there is a huge convulsion on just
then, and the biggest war on record is blazing in Europe,
and some of the provinces have gone insolvent—well,
Australia’s credit may be back at 7 or 8 per cent., and it
may be necessary to renew these loans at £350,000 or
£400,000 a vear more interest than they now cost; whereas
on the “interminable” plan the 3)4 per cent, loan would
simplv run on till it could be redeemed at a profit, and
both the flotation expenses and the £350,000 a year would
be saved. Such a disaster is perfectly possible ; the
Napoleonic wars brought Britain’s credit down with quite
as bad a crash as this ; and if another such war breaks
out,. Australia may, when its big loans fall due and have
to be met on a fixed date, require to do a fresh borrow at
even more than 7 per cent.—or else default. And
when it has floated its new loan at 5 or 6 or 7 per cent,
and consented to fix it for 10 or 20 years at the dictation
of the lenders, and then peace is re-established and in-
terest goes down to 2J per cent.—well, there will be noth-
ing for this country to do except tear its hair, and pay.
So far the foolishness of the present system
has attracted little notice. One reason is that in-
terest has been falling almost constantly since Australia
started borrowing, and, in almost every case where a loan
fell due, the country wanted to redeem it so as to save in-
terest. Therefore the compulsory redemption was no
hardship. But interest can’t keep failing for ever ; some
day Australia will find itself compelled to renew its bor-
rowings in a market where rates are going up “ some-
thing" terrible,” and then it will begin to understand
where it has got to. Another reason why the matter has
attracted little attention is that only a few loans, com-
paratively speaking, have yet fallen due ; but now there
is a big renewal operation to be done every year till
1920, and almost every year till 1947. Sometime in
that period the fixed-loan idea will probably land Aus-
tralia into a stupendous disaster.
Tasmania also proposes to float a local loan
(£lOO,OOO at 3 per cent.) with a fixed date of repayment.
The troub’e—which must needs ensue some day—is
always 10 or 20 or 30 years ahead when the loan is floated,
and no Australian Government looks that distance into
the future in its financial dealings.
Turner’s other great .mistake, in The Bulle-
tin’s opinion, lies in offering his loan by tender. The
most successful local loans in Australia have been those
of N.S.W., which were simply put on sale at a fixed price
at the Treasury, and traded off as the money came in.
That method reaches the small investor, who doesn’t
understand the mysteries of the tender system. Any old
woman who knows how to buy her own groceries can buy
Government stock on the N.S.W. system, but the tender
method is beyond her comprehension. And, even if she
does understand it, she can’t fill up the tender form
because she has mislaid her spectacles.
* * • *
The Victorian Government hopes that its pen-
sion list has at last reached the maximum, and will
steadily decline, hereafter. The pension curse is a legacy
from the old roaring days of the Duffys and M’Cullochs
and O’Shannassys. It was cheerfully enacted in th at
remote time that every civil servant should be entitled to
a pension from the public revenue. About ’B3 the country
began to waken to a knowledge of the situation, and it
was enacted that no future appointees to the Service
should have pension - rights, but the old pensioners
had still to be worked off, and they are a hard
lot and very slow to die. There are about 2400
actual pensioners and 1900 civil servants appointed
under the old Act and still in harness will fall due for
pensions by and by. Last year the bill was £347,000 —the
largest figure on record for one year since the trouble
began, and six times as much as the pension outlay for
N.S.W., Queensland, S.A., and Tasmania all put together.
The pension bill may be fairly set down as the whole
cause of Victoria’s financial difficulties, and the load must
he carried for at least another 30 years. Turner reckons,
however, that a lot of the very aged burdens must die
soon, and by rigorously keeping every remaining public
servant of the old brigade out of his pension till the last
possible moment he calculates on making a steady and
continuous reduction in the bill.
Some 36 years ago Nathaniel Levi nearly passed
a Bill providing that every Minister who had held office
for five 3'ears in all should have a substantial life-pension,
and this scheme fell through only by being crowded out
at the end of a busy session. If Levi’s Bill had passed, the
accumulated results would have made Victoria sit up.
* * * *
The Colonial Finance, Mortgage, Investment
and Guarantee Corporation (Sydney) publishes a balance-
sheet which is sickled o’er with the pale cast of deficit.
The loss on the ordinary operations of the year is £6BBO
(net income, £760; outgoings, £7640). _ Office expenses
and rent (£1386) are nearly twice the net income ; interest
on borrowed money (£3323) is over four times the net in-
come ; so the case of the Colonial Finance Corporation
looks only a shade less hopeless than that of the famous
Standard Bank. The balance-sheet boils down to the fol-
lowing propositions:
Liabilities. Assets.
Owing to Share- Visible assets of
holders .. .. £127,912 various kinds .. £64,226
Owing to Deposi- Accumulated
tors and other Losses .. .. 131,198
Creditors .. 67,512
£195,424 | _ £195,424
This represents that the paid-up capital is more than all
lost, and that the saleable assets are quite insufficient to
pay even the depositors and outside creditors. And the
coid breath of suspicion is upon these saleable assets also,
for there is no definite statement that they have been
written down to bed-rock value, and the fact that they
only yield an apparent net revenue of £1 4s. per cent, per
annum raises a doubt if they would fetch anything like
half their alleged value in case of immediate realisation.
The Colonial Finance Corporation reconstructed
In ’94, and agreed to pay off its liabilities by instalments
6pread over seven years wilh interest at the astonishing
rate of six per cent. Since then it has made calls with
energy worthy of a better cause (£72,000 is being called
up now, and the Board hopes to get a good deal of it any-
how), and the deposits are now down to £26,000. In the
process of repayment the bank overdrafts have got up to
£33,000. Apparently by hard ca.i-making the creditors
may be paid in full some day (at least a strong effort is
being made in that direction, though the prospects look
none too good at present) and then the shareholders will
go and die with a clear conscience and with very little else.
They seem to be a rather unusual lot of shareholders and
deserving of better luck. Of late the results of all
their toil have been very limited. Four years ago
the shareholders’ funds were £94,899, and other direct
liabilities, £67,265, so after much toil, and the calling up
of £32,000 capital the liabilities appear to have increased
by over £2OO. The Bulletin thinks a lot more of the
energy of the shareholders who put £32,000 into such a
dismal show than it does of their prospects.
* » * *
That eminently prosperous concern, the Civil
Service Co-operative Society (Sydney), shows a half-year s
net profit of £4456 and a steadily improving business.
Shareholders get a 10 per cent. div. and a bonus of 2s. in
the £ on the amount of their purchases during the half-
year, and there is a balance of £l9B to carry forward.
Gross profits are nearly £2OOO more than in the corres-
ponding period of last year, and though there is an in-
crease of expenses owing to the removal into the society s
new palatial building the prospects look remarkably good.
* • » *
The big Svdney calico firm of \V. and A.
M'Arthilr, of which ex-Treas. M’Millan is a member, is
being floated into an absentee corporation in London.
The M’Arthur concern has been mostly a British absentee
all its life (like a very large proportion of the Sydney
warehouses), so the change makes little difference. The
prospectus sets forth that the annual profits of the con-
cern are £19,326, and the sellers fix the purchase-money
at £300,000 (one-half shares and one-half cash). After
the complicated fashion of the British financier, the co.
starts by issuing £75,000 worth of 5i per cent, preference
shares, and £75,000 U per cent, debentures. The most
interesting* features in the prospectus are that a business
yielding £19,326 is put down as worth £300,000 m all.
From which it would appear that the Calico-Jimmy trade
is only expected to yield 6J per cent, per annum nowadays.
* * * *
The Vic. Mining Accident Relief Fund (nee
the Creswick Disaster Relief Fund) is another grisly
spectre of Smellbourne’s land-boomed past. In 1888 the
treasurer of the Fund had £20,000 to deal with, and the in-
evitable manner of dealing with coin at that time was to
use it directly or indirectly for the inflation of land-
values. The treasurer was the Smellbournian Mayor, old
friend Bingey-Benjy, and to that woolly-headed potentate
Jacobs, Hart and Co. offered a “ desirable investment” in
the form of a mortgage on their new, uncompleted ware-
house in Queen-street. Cornelius Job Ham, M.L.G., ran
his boomsome eye over the property and valued it at
£26,000 — i.e., £i6,600 for the land and £lO,OOO for the
warehouse when finished as per contract, not reckoning
another £2OOO for the proposed fittings thereof. On the
Ham valuation the £20,000 of trust moneys were
advanced. Things seem to have gone wrong with mor-
tao-or Jacobs. Anyhow, the trustees of the M.A.R.F. are
disposed to release him from the mortgage and take over
the property which is now estimated to be worth £9OOO.
A Parliamentary select committee Is enquiring into this
little matter of the £lO,OOO warehouse erected on the
£16,600 block of land, and the mining world will be glad
to know how the difference between Ham’s valuation and
the present estimate.is accounted for. Also, it will be
glad to know why £20,000 was loaned when apparently
onlv £16,000 was asked for.
* • * *
One outcome of the Mining Accident Fund
rumpus last week was Mayor M‘Eacharn’s remark that,
although he didn’t say the Vic. Minister of Mines was
unfit to hold his billet, he (M’Eacharn) “ may have
thought it.” Disrespect for Miuister Foster seems to be
in the air of late.
* * * *
Late O. H. James, of Melbourne, was probably
an unparalleled bankrupt. For years the straight-bearded
ex-grocer and boomster wj-ls understood to be di awing a
comfortable income from financial bustedness. He re-
mained outwardly solvent owing to his liabilities being so
big that “ the banks ” were afraid to wind him up. It
seemed better to pay him a salary to manage his own
private insolvency and wind himself up. What an ex-
ample for the younger generation of Victorians was the
late C. H. James ! After living in great style on the ruin
of his land-boom dupes he proceeded to live on the ruin
of C.H.J. For the man who doesn’t borrow from other
people, but from the custodians of other people’s cash,
there is no easier profession than insolvency provided that
he borrows on a sufficiently large scale.
Mclb. Arbus says of C. H. James: “In the
height of the land-bcom, had it been possible for him to
have realised his assets, and had he so desired, he would
have been a millionaire.” Rats ! Had James, or Mat-
thew Davies, or Fink tried to turn his vast paper posses-
sions into money at any period of the boom—morning,
noon, or night—the bubble would have burst im-
mediately. The boomsters never quite knew what they
were doino-, hut they knew they were bound to keep on
doing it. The only gambler to get away with any con-
siderable profit was G. W. Taylor, who sneaked off Ome
under cover of a promise to give £50,000 to the Baptist
Church. His example perhaps tended to prove that one
moderate-sized boomer could realise and get out without
wrecking the show. But if two of them, or one big
boomer, had put their or his load of paper on the market
it would have burst. The writer personally held up a
small boom once, and speaks feelingly. He owned 2800
shares in a 5000 share mine ; the rest were held in small
lots. The shares were worth 14s. He started to unload
as gently as the soft-footed Indian after a scalp, and
before he was through the price was down to 2s.
* * * .
As onr silver coinage is really, owing to depre-
ciation of silver, only a token-coinage, why could not the
Australasian provinces have a nickel currency, and return
John Bull his silver ? It would mean a big profit.
» * * *
The mining dummy is pretty prevalent in Van
Dobson’s Land. Total area of land applied for and held
under mineral lease, 110,000 acres; miners employed,
6223 New South Wales figures show 75,000 acres, em-
ploying 39,000 men. Tas. Minister for Mines is now
known amongst working miners as “ Suspension Pillin-
ger,” owing to his readiness to suspend labor conditions
“ for the encouragement of capital.”
* * *
There is a N.S.W. lady—receiving £1 a week
from her legally-separated husband—for whom the Crown
has been graciously acting as receiving and paying agent
for the past three years. She has a standing account in
the G.P.O. Savings Bank; amount to her credit, Is.
She leaves her pass-book at certain place on hubby’s pay-
day, and he banks £1 to her credit and return? book to
where he got it. Following Monday, wife calls for book,
gives notice, and draws the £1 hanked on previous
Friday. And so on, every week, till the book has been
filled with deposit and withdrawal entries, and a good-
natured State has given her a new one free. Yet, if a
bona-fide depositor loses his book, he is charged Is. for a
new one. Interesting to calculate loss of time to receiv-
ing-clerk, teller and ledger-keeper, and cost of stationery,
due to this domestic situation.
Vi-. Full Court has ordered rehearing of case
(dismissed by a suburban bench) in which a grocer had
sold ci r c-aeifl-flavored wa er as ffinejuice. Court held
th it the purchaser was pr. ju liced, as Ihe label did not
sec out the nature of the m xi ure. Their Honors are ap-
parently very properly throwing overboard the legal
maxim, “ Lei, the buyer beware.”
*’» * *
Lansell s I'ffi mine (3310 ft.) is no longer the
deepest on Ben ligo; New Chinn Consolidated having
reached 3572 lyet and Lazarus 3447. Several others are
well over the 3000, though there has been nothing so far
(except in one case) to repay such deep sinking. The
managements are sanguine, as the geological conditions
at 3000 feet repeat those under which (at 300) gold-bear-
ing reefs were struck.
A Man on the Spot : Tired of the Mount
Deddick boomers’ agitation for a railway. I would under-
take to remove all the good metalliferous ore they can find
off the field in a week with a wheelbarrow.
* • « •
A sign of the times is that the business brains of
the Great Cobar tribute is allegedly about to become a
director of the Overflow.
* * * *
Kershaw’s Copper Mining Co. (prospectus in
this issue) proposes to take over four blocks of 50 acres
each in the North Pieman district, 26 miles from Mount
Bischoff and 22 from Zeehan (Tas.). The Emu Bay rail-
way will, before the end of the year, run close to the pro-
perty, which has been well cleared and tracked.
Exploration work to date shows big possibilities, and the
vendors’ terms are satisfactory enough. 1200 shares to
be retained in full payment for the property, 1200 are
offered to the public ; £2 10s. on application, £2 10s. on
allotment. No further liability. The £5OOO subscription
goes to the credit of the co., the vendors paj'ing all pre-
liminary expenses.
* a * *
The chief Tas. battery returns for Sept.:—Tas-
mania, 3460 tons for 34090z.—£12,785 ; New Golden Gate,
1550 tons for 17180z.—£6888 ; New Pinafore, cyanide,
1900z.—£760; Ringarooma, 152 tons for 1780z.—£712.
Recent Tas. dividends : New Golden Gate (gold), 2s. 6d.
per share—£4ooo ; Mount Bischoff (tin), ss. per share
£3000; Mount Lyell, Tasmania, and Western, £32,000
among them. Total, £39,000.
* • * *
Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgists,
and technical chemists ; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
* * * *
On aW. A. gold-mine. Visiting London direc-
tor (quite the expert) to amalgamator, who is freshening
the plates with quicksilver : “ Ah ! Galvanising, I see . ”
Banks at Kalgoorlie charge 10s. 6d. before tak-
ing in a current account of less than £lOO. Excuse : Bad
business.
* » * *
Excerpts from a Kalgoorlie letter : “It is quite
common to see stacks of machinery on ‘ cat ’ leases in
this district, standing still unpacked after a .year or so,
waiting for a reef to come along with some gold in it. . .
There have been many fires in and about lately—a sure
indication of a heavy slump. . . . Unemployed all over
the shop in bundles. Shipping co.s bring you here from
the Yarra for 305., but charge £3 10s. to take you hack
a<rain. The extra £2 has kept hundreds on this end
stranded and hungry. . . . One mine in Kalgoorlie is
worked almost entirely by Afghans. There is usually a
push of blaspheming whites to watch them go below. .
The only really prosperous men I can discover hereabouts
are the Japanese girls.”
* » • •
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
assay ores, and treat samples up to 5 tons, by chlorina-
tion, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet or dry crushed.
Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp Batteries, Roast-
ing and Smelting Furnaces, and General Mining
Machinery.*
* * * *
Croydon it 'ms Late crushings : Harp of Erin
P C., 37 tons, 1540 z. lldwts. ; Jolly Tar, No. 1 South, 5£
tons 13oz. ; Golden Gate 5 and 6 North, 143 tons, 805 oz. ;
Golden Gate 5 South, 175 tons, 7210 z. Latter result of
little over five weeks’ work, giving profit of £l6BO. —-
Rumored purchase of No. 1 North Golden Gate by Eng-
lish syndicate, of which the Finch Hattons are reported
principals, confirmed. H. F. Morgan, through whose
agency the No. 1 was sold, has returned to Croydon and
assumed superintendence of Waratah Co., a Bull con-
cern. At latest advices Golden Gate No. 7 North was
putting through a 600-ton crushing for an estimated Boz.
return. Golden Gate Consols, when mail leaving, re-
ported to have 2ft. of stone in sink, but seeking exemption
owing to water-influx. Cabled that the Highland Mary,
limited, has been sold in England, giving Croydon yet
another Bull co. Croydon Consols have contracted
with Walkers, Limited, for supply of pumping plant to
cost £3ooo—the largest ever imported to Croydon.
Deepest shaft in mine now down 450 ft. vertical with soft
formation in bottom, but water too heavy for present
o-ear. Winding plant to sink to 2000 ft. also ordered from
London. Elmslie, Ltd., evidently means business for
Bull in the Croydon Consols. Govt. Geologist Jack re-
ported against proposed Govt, vote to prospect Ophir
Block, Croydon. At latest advices local men reckoned
they had “'partly disproved” Jack’s contention by strik-
ing the slide with formation on it going down. Latest
indication that reef will make again, and boom Croydon.
» * * *
Charters Towers’ mining returns for Sept, show
that 72,003 tons of stone yielded 40,4050 z., including 16,800
tons of stone from the mills treated for 18,4000 z. Divs.
were £41,000 ; calls, £7lOO. Nine months’ yield from
503,290 tons of stone was 317,4000 z. gold, made up thus—
Mills, 158,233 tons for 171,0770 z.; cyanide, 341,260 tons for
141 6200 z. • chlorination, 3747 tons for 43420 z. Increase on
same period last year, 80,000 oz. Value of gold won in
last nine months, £830,000. Dividends for same period,
£234,000.
* * » »
Gympie for Sept, gave 10,199nz. from 10,337
tons ; in addition evanide gave an extra 191 oz. from 336
tons. Divs., £15,404 ; calls, £14,169. Month shows an
increase of 3993 tons or 25280 z. on same period of
last vear. Div. and call list are each double what they
were in Sept., ’97—a suggestive fact. For nine months of
this year total output was 79,8740 z. from 73,878 tons —
over'an ounce to the ton. Divs. for same period amounted
to £121,921, against £89,554 of called-up capital—a profit
of £32,367.
• * * *
The new battery of 40 stamps lately started at
the Galleymont gold-mines is one of the finest gold mill-
plants at work in N.S.W., and is well worth inspection by
parties contemplating erection of similar machinery. The
ore is fed automatically through rockbreakers and feeders
without shovelling, and the whole is most substantially
built. The engines are a fine pair of horizontal compound
type, driving the battery with ropes. Mr. M. Eissler,
the managing engineer, speaks in the highest terms of
the construction and design of the plant, which was built
by the Austral Otis Engineering Company, of South
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mt. Morgan output for Sept, was 13,7460 z.
from 18,619 tons, as against 13,9340 z. in Sept., ’97. Croy-
don gave 68360 z. from 5421 tons. Clermont’s alluvial pro-
duced 25390 z. against 20490 z. for same month of last
year. The Etheridge forges steadily ahead with a total
of 1564 oz. —more than double the amount for September,
1897.
Eor the month of Sept, total Q. gold output was
81,4660 z. against 66,7420 z. for Sept., ’97- F° r
months ending Sept, the yield was 660, 0H0z. against
553,1000 z. for corresponding period of 97—an increase o
112,9170 z.
* * * *
“Shellback”: In Bulletin, 20/8/’9B, it is
stated that people journeying to Klondyke should go per
Chilcoot Pass. But it was on that pass that the great
snow-slide destroj ed so many lives, and a friend of mine,
who has got through to the diggings, writes that the best
way is per White Pass, and that a better way still is not
to come at all. He and his mate packed their loads on a
bullock to Taggish Lake, where they killed him and sold
him for Is. per lb.—£42 10s. Further, says he has heard
more fuss on Klondyke over a Joz. nugget than would be
made in Australia about a 50oz. slug.
Snuffle and Life Assurance.
Someone leaves at this office monthly a paper
called the Bible Echo, published in Melbourne,
and sold for the good of the poor, or heathen,
or something. The Bulletin does not know
whether the heathen derive much benefit from
the monthly organ, but it has certainly derived
many pen’orths of amusement from the Bible
Echo. This sage sheet devotes almost the whole
of one issue (Sep. 5) to a violent condemnation
of the theory and practice of life-assurance.
Extracts :
Life insurance leaves God out of the reckoning. It
leads men to trust in riches instead of in God ; to lay up
treasures on earth instead of in heaven ; to provide for a
contingency which may not occur —the death of the per-
son insured before the death of the beneficiaries —and for
those who may never be in need at all, to the neglect of
those who are now in actual want. The whole philosophy
of life insurance, therefore, is contrary to the teachings
of Christ, and to the principles of Christianity. . . .
Considered only from a worldly standpoint, life insurance
is a poor speculation on the part of policy-holders. On
the whole, they do not get out of it as much as they put
into it, the loss of the use of the money, of course, in-
cluded ; for if they did, life insurance societies would soon
cease to exist. . . . Suppose a young man . . . should
insure his life for, say, £lOOO, and should soon afterwards
die. Who would pay the £1000? The young man, him-
self had paid into the insurance company, in premiums,
only a few pounds. Who would make up the rest / Evi-
dently the very men who advised him to insure his life
so that they would not have to care for his family when
he died. The only difference from a monetary stand-
point would be, that instead of doing it in a Christian
and truly philanthropic way, they would do it by having
paid their money into the insurance company from
purely selfish motives —with a view simply of caring for
their own.
Now, what ought to be done with people who
write-such stuff as this? Truly the civilised
parson and the aboriginal medicine-man are
twin brethren.
“ Artificial” Fatherhood.
“ A Democratic lawyer ” to The Bulletin :
The late Vic. maintenance case, with which Constable
White was prominently associated, tends to make one
scratch one’s head and agree with Bumble. By the com-
bined operation of the Marriage Act and the Neglected
Children’s Act, White is adjudicated to be not the
natural but the “ artificial ” (to use the quaint language
of one of the Full Court Judges) father of a certain waif
(he having:, in the opinion of the justices, recognised the
child as his own by writing letters in which he referred
to “the youngster,” and by forwarding money to the
mother). As the natural father of the child, he would
have had to pay (sav) 7s. 6d. per week to its
mother for its keep; as the “artificial” father he
has to pay (say) 7s. 6d. to the Neglected Child-
ren’s Department for its keep. All which may
be good law, but to the ordinary person it looks sus-
piciously like trying a man twice for an offence of which
he has been by a competent court adjudged innocent.
And the more one looks into tbe case the more unsatis-
factory it seems. The final decision appears to turn on a
hair-splitting distinction between “parent” in one Act
of Parliament and “ parent "in another Act. The dis-
tinction is such a fine one that one feels bold enough to
surmise that it would never have been thought of at all
by the Judges had they not been confronted with the
alternative of deciding that a decision of justices in a
maintenance case was binding against the world unless
appealed against in due time. The possibility of having
to arrive at such a conclusion was too much for the Vic.
Judges, to whom the versatility of Vic. J.P.-dom is only
too well-known. They avoided the possibility by doing a
little comic opera on their own account, and by
enriching legal terminology with the “ artificial father.”
Perhaps the consequences of the decision, except to Con-
stable White, will not be nearly as serious as if, following
the old legal doctrine that “decisions in questions of
status are good against the world,” they had given a
dangerous finality to magi/iterial adjudications of pater-
nity. The decision has other lessons. It calls pointed
attention to the dangerous propensity of latter-day legis-
lators to allow elastic definitions to secrete themselves in
statutes dealing with private law, without adequate or
any discussion. It will come as a surprise to many people
who have adopted children out of kindness of heart when
times were good, to find that they are the “artificial”
parents of such children, and will be bound to support
them as though they were their own if, through change
of circumstances, they have been compelled to hand them
back to the State. And very many people will get *
startling shock some day when they find that they are
compelled to support for long years lunatic relatives to
whom they owe little or no duty, on account of a sweep-
ing and practically undiscussed definition in the Vic.
Lunacy Act.
A Scotch member of the N.S.W. Legisla-
ture, recently touring South, reached a hotel a
little ahead of the reporters. It was bitterly cold,
and, when they arrived, he met them with:
“ Well, boys, you’re wet and cold. They have
some splendid rum here—take my advice, and
have some, hot.” The point of this story is that
the statesman never offered to pay for that rum.
The politician who invites the press to drink at
its own expense is Doomed.
Certain vulgar-iiiinded Radicals have made
disloyal comments on the little matter of Private
Purvis and our Gracious Queen. Purvis, it seems,
did something very heroic for Hingland in an
engagement with the Dervishes, wherefore the
Queen commanded him to call upon her, at
Osborne, to receive a decoration from her own
fair hands. When he arrived at Osborne, with
fourpence or so in his pocket, he found nobody to
receive him, and the night was dark, and he didn’t
know his way about, and he wouldn’t have cared
to go and knock the Queen up at that late how,
anyhow. So he sat in the park all night, in the
soaking rain, and felt truly sorry that the Queen
had taken such an interest in him.


n
c.
CLOTHING
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOE
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits 40 s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay -"X- all Parcels to. any Railway Station or Sea-
ooarct m the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID
JONES & COMPANY
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS *
SYDNEY.
/ Opposite \
G.P.O. /
WATSON’S WHISKY.
photographic process (|Jork.
ZINCO, COPPER,
LINE and HALE-TONE.
Harrington# Co. [td.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Carry a Stock of all Process Requisites, and are
Experts IN THE LINE.
Estimates given for Complete Up-to-Date Equip-
ments, and, if necessary, including instruction.
Advice Free. Correspondence Invited.
Melbourne Agents—Messrs. Craven & Co., 179 Collins*
street. Brisbane Branch—64 Queen-street.
PHOTOGRAPHIC NOVELTIES see our advt
[3
SOCIETY
Bishop Montgomery, in his capacity as
spiritual adviser of lasniania and its dependencies
pays regular visits to the Straits Islands to christen
and marry and otherwise bless the dusky colonists
(descendants of Tasmanian aborigines) whodio-for
mutton-birds in those weird regions. On
t - he , blsh °P baptised 21 mixed-blood children
married one couple, and confirmed four candi-
ates. the opportunity of being married by a
bishop is eagerly seized by the islanders and
of e how a m y a 'y\ Ct T equ ™ Ce > the serious problem
of how to get tucker is climbing into unpleasant
of°“liird n e C rs’”S e ;FUn - ,eaUX S
ot tinders having increased far beyond the
i.riand V (oLan ( 'p tton ' blr i- d^i 0n - he most accessible
island (Chapel), a most Christian-like rush for the
spoil is yearly occurring. Barring a statute limit-
ing the number of birders on Chapel Island and
natirai y in f l P °t liCe <? bSI SSe, the
” ldu stry of the Group is likely to be
. knocked endways. Govt, regulation of the
ofliSS 'T t d h ?iVe 6Very retailer at least a chance
ot living as things are many of them have not
even Buckley’s show. Yet the bishop continues
to encourage matrimony, christen and bless and
i the ! lumber of islanders. What
of muteon-birdi. P Wh ° Can increase the Ilumber
* * * *
the“S h r/i air S P rinklin g of girls,” said
the Turkish - bath proprietress, “but we don’t
expect to see them more than the once. They
come a day or so before they set
married. Our only regular customers,
on fair-sex ’ days, are a few very fat
slab 1 ” 11 Wh ° lo ° k si,nply awful on the
THE WAITER AND HE WHO WAITS.
THOMAS : Sorry to keep you. waiting so long, sir.”
ANGRY TEUTON : “ Next time I comehere ve don't vait for one anoder like dis. I vait for myself."
“ Neoro" : Bulletin has ridiculed the
idea of a N.S.W. bush State-school teacher at-
tempting to instruct four classes at once. But
Westralia goes one better, and insists on a single
teacher splitting his school of from 20 to 30 pupils
into eight and nine classes. Writer has painful
recollections of attempting to teach under this
difficulty, and of the repeated snubbings he got
for pointing out the absurdity of the regulation
Some kind friend sends The Bulletin a
copy of the Way College Boomerang— a school
magazine published in the beauty of Wesleyan
holiness down inS.A., and this immoral rag reads
with edification how
All true religious growth and all spiritual advancement
and progression must be the legitimate outcome of a close
union with Christ,
and how, at the meeting of the Way College
Christian Union—
Mr. Sallmon gave a brief account of different branches
which he had visited in various parts of Australasia, and
explained that by joining the Christian Union we become
oiiejof a band of students who have united themselves
Ind oollVes h ® P °” CaUSe ° f Christ in their schools
F hen in the midst of its tearful resolutions for re-
form, thus misguided paper turned the leaf and
tell with a, cold shock into these cheerful examples
ot true religious growth and spiritual progression—
Fishy is after Brom’s sausages.
Where are your winkers, Peter ?
I knew that loafer wouldn’t pass.
Who couldn’t breathe through his nose ?
Fishy Emily always late for breakfast.
The little Wallaby took silly Peter down.
What will the bobbie do with his scarfpin ?
Who are the three champion snorers in No. 5 ?
T.rue religious growth and Brom’s sausages !
Jf ishy and union for the Cause. The Bulletin
hereby swears off religious school-magazines for a
fortnight—they are too beastly sudden.
* * * •
Benevolent ladies sometimes get unex-
pected shocks in the pursuit of philanthropic
pabulum. At Ballarat (Vic.) reformatory recently.
V? a y Vl sit°r (to rather handsome boy, rising 16) :
And what were you sent here for, my boy?”
Adonis (laconically): “Rape, mum.” Fact.
* * * »
At recent Melb. Christian Endeavor out-
break a sainted bootmaker gravely related that
when, in the course of his business, he met with
an obdurate piece of sole-leather, he always asked
the Almighty to intercede with the recalcitrant
bullock-hide, with the result that it at once
became amenable to manipulation. He quite
omitted to state why he didn’t ask Heaven to
make the boots for him right out, and be done
with it!
* * * •
The Argus discusses “ Stagnation in the
.Pulpit,” and the clergy answer
that “ the service is as good as
the pay.” But as people are
always ready enough to pay for
what they want, it’s obvious that
the holy men are not supplying
what is wanted. Depreciation
of ecclesiastical
wares progresses
steadily with the
growth of know-
ledge.
Pro bono visitors to Swlnn m,
Melbournites recently put up a/*
lame SvdnPv 7 P • P 4 a certain
of of them °f ** m S ht
from ontsidp tb * la their boots stolen
their bedroom doors. Thev left, and
of Bta fl? °?’ - had > next da Y, his
py!!; !?• “i u watch, chain, and cash. An
room door locks were simdlrf that 4h ® bed '
HIS NEW ADDRESS.
PARSON : “Do not grieve, madam, your husband said he would
meet you in Heaven. ”
W IDOW: “Are you sure of that? Only the day before he died he
said he would see me in the other place.”
The “ new-chum ” Jap. isn’t, as a rule, a
hard drinker, but at Thursday Island the habit is
growing', Ins favorite swill being “ long colonials.”
Ihe httle man “ passes ” English because he gets
less for his 6d. Further south, the coast climate
being more humid and thirst-provoking than
the insular his diffidence in the presence of
ardent liquor disappears with great sudden-
?i5 SS -«r, ihe c,r ' n^s ’ n gangs, often on
the trerman tambaroora” system—sixpence
in. Common in Townsville on Saturday even-
ings to see about a dozen neatly-dressed Japs,
swarm round the cedar and polish off, with
intense solemnity, about seven stiff gins or
whiskies as fast as their little innards will accom-
modate the stuff. Then the party purchases
several square gin-bottles of “colonial” for the
lady Japs.—and the procession leaves with as
much order and decorum as if the fluid had been
ginger-beer.
It was edifying to hear a certain chief of
police curse a political adversary t’other day
within the sacred precincts of Parliament House.
Though ’tis a duty of this gilded official to see
that the casual boozer, the user of obscene lan-
guage, the breach-of-the-peace man, is consigned
to durance vile without delay, Const. O’Pafferty
was not in evidence on this occasion.
* » * *
Naval officers seem to be unlucky up North.
A while back, when a lieutenant of H.M.S.
Mohawk, at anchorage near Cairns, was hurrying
(in plain clothes) to the wharf to catch last ship’s
boat, two policemen grabbed him and ran him in.
A burglary had been committed in Cairns that
mght, and the lieutenant’s hurry was suspicious.
His declaration that he was a naval officer was
received with, “We’ve heard that before, voung
man; come along.” Also, a few days ago, at
Cooktown, when an officer from H.M.S. Gold-
finch was en route to a ball, the local fire-brigade
happened to be practising, and one bold brigadier
turned his hose on the navy man, and drenched
mm from head to foot. The only excuse the fire-
man made was that he had taken the officer for a
local shipping-agent, to whom he had long meant
to give a ducking.” Cooktown seems a nice
place -to be shipping-agent in.
* * * *
Volunteers for the new Scotch regiment
in Melbourne must be sft. 6in. high and measure
33m. round the chest. Not sft. 6in. round the
chest and 33m. round the calf, as was generally
supposed. A sad reflection this upon the present
degeneration of braw Scots.
* * * *
Sydney artists and pressmen are going
ahead with their idea of a Bohemian Club, and
the future is to be discussed at a dinner this week.
Years ago most of the pressmen were driven out
of their only resort by a big influx of auctioneers
and other Philistines, and the new club will be
founded upon a strong determination to keep the
aliens out of Bohemia.
* * * •
The other day there was a conference
between the Tasmanian Council and Assembly
and business was suspended in both Houses while
it was on. In the Assembly, auctioneer ITartnoll,
M.. 1., of .Launceston, got into the chair and con-
ducted a free-and-easy, to the delight of the press-
gallery and the few strangers present. He gave a
dramatic recitation himself— addressed to Treas
Fysh who looked “as if he couldn’t help it’’—
and then called on Orosby Grilmore, who 6 6 favored
with another recitation.”' Hartnoll himself gave a
song and called on the clerk of the House for a
Scotch reel, but that well-behaved official cour-
teously declined. Then enormous sums of money,
as compensation and so forth, were passed to
members present—Reibey getting half-a-million or
so for some horses distrained on for rates ’’—and
the show ended with Hartnell's appointment as
third judge of the Supreme Court.
' A Vic. bookseller has been
utilising the contents of his
wife’s visiting-card basket for
price-tickets. It is good to be
economical, but it looks odd
when a card drops from the
back of a copy of Robt.
Buchanan’s novel, “ Love me
for ever,” inscribed “ Mrs. and
the Misses Smithson-Jones —
cheap, 2s. 9d. ; oi’iginal price,
3s. 6d.” It is hard on Mrs. and
the Misses Smithson-Jones,
“ C.M.Gr.” : It is my belief
that the next millionaire to
knock Home “sassiety” end-
ways will be the genius who
hits upon the real hair-restorer ;
the simple restorer that will
really restore. Just now lam
in the early thirties, and very
much balder than my father who
is in the early sixties. A couple
of years back the latter was the
balder of the two, in fact he had
no hair worth mentioning up
top ; but at about that time he
went into the back parts of
Gippsland to conduct a mining
scheme, and presently his hair
began to flourish like the green
bay tree. In six months he had
his hair all on again. A short
stay in Melbourne induces a
perceptible thinning, but the
loss is soon made up after re-
turning to his Gippsland fast-
nesses. He credits the local
water. What price a Baden in
Gippsland, a resort for the bald-
headed ? Am thinking of peg-
ging-out the district and selling
the new idea to J. Bull for two
millions and a half. By the
way, how about that Carangara
black oxide of copper, which
used to have the credit of beautifully thatching
all the bald-headed miners ?
* * * *
Why not make the medical drug-trade a
Govt, monopoly, so that the dispenser shall have
no interest in the profits ? By this means, with
supervision of an expert - inspector, standard
strength and purity could be assured. In Eng-
land, out of a large number of bottles of medi-
cine recently analysed, 23 per cent, would have
failed of the effect intended by the prescriber.
And if this is the state of things in such a densely
populated country, how much more rampant must
the evil be in sparsely-settled and warmer Aus-
tralia ?
AT THE SHAKESPEAREAN BALL.
RUDE BOY (as Romeo passes): “Hey, Bill! come
an look at the bloke without the pants what’s
goin' as the Scottish Regiment.”
Premier Kingston’s enemies accuse him of
being under the heel of the W.C.T.U., and even
riends fear that he is rapidly becoming pious.
His Govt, recently introduced a Bill raising the
age of consent to 17, and also prohibiting children
under the age of 13 years from being in a public
place after 8 p.m.—a peculiar piece of restriction,
considering the oppressive conditions prevailing in
summer the measure (prompted by the State
childrens council, a “mixed” body) stands no
chance of passing.
* * • *
jae that cable about Sister Theresa Grego-
lim, captured by dervishes, tortured by them, and
forced to become the wife of a dervish and
the mother of five dervishes! There is no
TO A CERTAIN TYPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What wonders will oncoming Time reveal—
What change in morals, destinies and living?
Ah, would that one could from the Future steal
Those unborn secrets which it grudges giving 1
Once was I numbered with the orthodox,
Who dream of manhood’s love—what theme so stirring ?
Then came zoology’s last paradox,
A woman stroking and a poodle puTving !
Q.N.


wmhA
noA 3AV
£l, P
=H
m -i
*
- m
n
Some 20 third-grade Vic. State school-
teachers have charge of second and first-class
schools, without higher pay. The Turner Govt.’s
retrenchment game—move a man into a superior,
and what should be a higher-paid, position, call
him “acting ’’ so-and-so, and keep him at the sub-
ordinate rate of pay.
How do these things get in the papers %
Here is the Illustrated London News, reporting
Col. Hutton’s appointment to the command of
the Canadian military forces, saying that the
colonel “has been recently employed in command
of the military forces of N.S.W., where lie was
instrumental in bringing forward the question of
the federation of Australia.” “ Instrumental ”is
good. One suspects that the handwriting of the
“copy” of that paragraph would be at once recog-
nised, say, by G. Republican Dibbs.
Canon Godby lately quoted the woman
Jukes to the Neglected Children’s Society in Mel-
bourne. Jukes was an American criminal whose
descendants, to the number of 800, have figured
on the crime records of N. Y. State. Mr. Godby
moralised that if Jukes had been caught young
by a Neglected Children’s Society all that crime
might have been prevented. Unfortunately, Jtikes
was “saved” by such an organisation, and the
case is quoted by Herbert Spencer as an illustra-
tion to prove that kindness to the individual may
prove seriously harmful to the race. It must be
painful for the Canon to have the moral thus
knocked out of Jukes, who has been a stock illus-
tration and chestnut for many years.
THE BEST IS THE CHEAPEST.
Drink the best only, no matter how expensive.
“D.C.L.” Whisky is the best product of Scotland
and bottled in Scotland under the supervision of
Her Majesty’s excise officers.*
The Australian Mutual Provident Society
intimates in another colomn that with the close of
the present year the Society will terminate its
first half century of existence. Starting in the
year 1849 on the mutual principle without capital
or other recommendation, it is now, at the ter-
mination of nearly 50 years, the largest monetary
institution in the colonies. The invested funds
reach the enormous total of .£14,479,578 while the
annual income amounts to .£2,094,706. The cash
surplus divided among the members during the 49
years ending 1897 aggregate £7,726,170 while
the cash bonus distributed for the single
year 1897 amounted to =€445,235. This sum,
we understand, is- a larger amount of profit
than has ever been divided for a single year
by any other life-office in the British Empire.
The next division of the profits will be made as at
31st December next, when all policies issued prior
to that date will share in the bonus to be then dis-
tributed amongst the participating policyholders.
In order that the new business of the Society for
this year may be a record one in the history of the
institution, the directors of the Society invite the
assistance of the members to bring about the de-
sired result by taking out additional policies them-
selves and by inducing their friends who are not
already assured to become members.*
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
SULPHUR PILLS
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
I SOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
55 Eltfin-st., MELBOURNE.
SHIRTS.
Tfor Station and Out-door work our Silk Strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
SSI- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
E. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
ROSIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-st., Melbourne
11 Pitt-street, Sydney;
68 Currie-sfc., Adelaide; Queen-sfc., frßisuxsnsr
proof that Sister Theresa reduced the heathen
by a single convert, but here is solid fact thatsne
added to said heathen by five. Clearly the modern
missionariess requires a fewlessons in mathematics.
About ten centuries ago, Spanish ballad literature
tells us, a certain fair Ximena blew up
Roderick and his nobles on the subject ot the
damsel-tribute paid.yeariv to the Moors, affirming
that the sacrifice was very absurd anyhow, as
“ from every maid there spring some five or six
strong soldiers to serve the Moorish Ring:.
Nowadays it is the damsels that want to be
sacrificed, and the legislators that would rather
they didn’t.
* * * *
Yic. Attorney-General Isaacs stated in the
House the other day that an old woman, im-
prisoned for non-payment of Industrial behoof
maintenance, remained in gaol for years abso-
lutely forgotten. As a remedy, a list of prisoners
with non-terminating sentences is novv furnished
to the Solicitor-General monthly for review.
* * * *
That unbelieving old man, the late Coroner
Foul, must have turned in his grave the other
day. His successor, Coroner Candler, sitting on
the drowned body of a Melb. mining-agent,
directed the jury to find deceased of unsound
mind because, in a farewell letter to his family, he
had said—“l dare not ask forgiveness from God,
if there is a God.” Mr. Candler appears to think
that doubt as to the existence of a personal
Almighty is certain evidence of brain-disease in
the doubter. What a change from the humorous
agnosticism of the departed Youl, who would
have argued that the poor fellow’s suicide proved
his insanity at the time, in spite of his intelligent
unbelief! Youl held that this life is the only
thing worth living for.
In S.A. Assembly, during a labor-regula-
tion discussion, ex-Wesleyan Minister Foster,
M.P., indignantly remarked that some local bar-
maids were kept up till 3 a.m. “ Ah,” retorted
Glynn, “I have never been up till then.” Then
the House laughed.
* * * 9
“F.C.”: One
bad habit of the
Vic. penal au-
t h orities
should be stop-
ped at once.
A prisoner is
allowed to
write to his
friends once a
quarter, on a
sheet of Govt,
paper, folded
over so as to
form envelope
and letter in
one, with the
address on the
back. This is
0. H. M. S.,
and is frank-
stamped, of
course; but
there is no
earthly neces-
sity to label it
“Penal Dept.,
Vic.,” thereby
informing the
postman, and,
indirectly, all
the neighbors,
that an unfor-
tunate family
possesses a re-
lative “ doing
time. ”
Archbishop Carr lately told a Total
Abstinence Society at Armagh that, during his
12 years residence in Melbourne, he has “never
seen a drunken man or woman.” Which is not so
astounding, after all. The Bulletin has never
heard of a drunken man or woman running against
an Archbishop. Even the average sober citizen
might move about Melb. for a dozen years with-
out crossing a high church dignitary’s line of
vision. These holy personages can’t be said to
live in the common or worldly sense of the word ;
they divide their time between prayer and respect-
ability, doing their duty in that sphere of exist-
ence where nobody turns up under the influence
of liquor.
» * * *
Adelaide’s biggest draper threatens, if the
Early Closing Bill is passed, to stop the three
weeks’ holiday now annually given to employes,
and also to make the assistants pay for the days
on which they are absent through illness. The
Bill, which is through the Assembly, provides that
shops shall shut at 6 p.m. on four days, 9 p.m. on
Fridays, and 1 p.m. on Saturdays.
Why should Sydney D.T’s London corres-
pondent rage so furiously in the chestnut-grove ?
Saturday week’s London notes gave to a wonder-
ing Sydney world a fine old yarn about how a
Miss Balfour took a bath at a Johannesburg hotel,
and was asked not to use soap, else the cook would
be short of water for the soup. And then, un-
satisfied with the re-hash, the D.T. man lets it
loose again as having happened to a Miss Bond at
Okayama, Japan. Which, considering the water-
supply and bathing facilities at that pleasant spot,
is tommyrot. And, moreover, the yarn was told
25 years ago in Queensland of old Judge “Pat-
o’-butter” Blake, when that eccentric judicial
luminary was on circuit in the arid west of Leper-
land.
* • * *
On Friday Island Q. keeps 13 lepers,
nearly all South Sea Islanders. These poor devils
seem to have no protector or care-taker ; they wait
on one another; cook for one another; when
rendered incapable by the progress of disease they
are entirely dependent on the kindness of their
fellow sufferers. Apparently they receive no regu-
lar medical attendance —the health officer of
Thursday Island pays them a visit occasionally.
Above interesting and scandalous facts are gleaned
from a report of Dr. Tilston, medical officer afore-
said.
* # * *
According to an old Act of Charles ll.
who should surely be an authority on the subject—
damsels who may have had a misfortune should
have no difficulty in getting maintenance for their
offspring. Lawyer Eagleson unearthed and quoted
the musty old law in a recent Melb. appeal case.
Said enactment provides that, “if one be ordered
to keep an illegitimate child, and this, upon
appeal to the sessions, is revoked, that person is
absolutely discharged, and, unless a father can be
found, the court said that the justices of the peace
must keep it themselves.” They evidently kuew
their J’sP. well in those old days ; but, were the
Act considered binding to-day, there would be a
great hiatus in the list of honorarium magistrates
—especially at North Melbourne. The statute
BETTER THAN NO EXCUSE AT ALL.
MOTHER ( entering suddenly): “ Oh, lam shocked!
Whatever is the meaning of this! The most
disgraceful conduct ”
DAUGHTER : “Be calm, mother. We are only
discussing the gymnasium at the Ladies"
College, and Reginald’s teaching me the new
Spanish-American grip.”
should have been entitled “An Act for the Better
Restraining of J’sP.”
* * * *
“ H.” This incredible-looking narration,
is vouched for in two books, the just-published
“Reminiscences of Mrs. Simpson,” daughter of
Senior, the economist, and Hare’s “Story of My
Life.” A servant-girl went to India, and married
a soldier. They were shipwrecked. The wife was
saved by an officer, and it was thought these two
alone survived. The officer had her educated and
married her. He left her a widow in London,
well off. Her first husband found her by accident
—he came courting her servant. She took him
back, and he wasted all her money.
“Tas. ”: An old
player, whose death you
lately mentioned, was for
many years shepherd for
one of the Field family.
He was an old V.D.L.
“ lag,” and, though tra-
vellers were always sure
of a night’s shelter at his
hut, he never mixed up
with them much. Asked
him why once, and, said
he : “ Had enough of my
‘ fellow-man ’ when I wore
the irons, sonny; don’t
want any more ! ” Apro-
pos, there are at present
several old Impe-
rial “lags”inFre-
mantle (W.A.)
gaol, who, though
their time has long
expired, live on
there. They give
as their reason
that all the people
they knew in the
old country must
be long since dead,
so they prefer to re-
main where so much
of their life has been
spent. The old fel-
lows are allowed to
go into town, but
must be back in
time for lock-?up.
Provision is made
on the Parliament-
ary estimates for
their support.
* *
Dear Bulletin.
—Can any of your
tame philosophers
explain why drunks
on the last subur-
ban trains are al-
ways provided with
a eray-fish to be de-
voured en route ? Saw
one recently place a refrac-
tory claw so as to be
jammed when the porter
closed the carriage-door,
and then wait patiently till opening of door at
next station enabled him to get at the meat.
Cherub.
* * * *
“A Maoriland Girl”—solemn fact! to
The Bulletin :
Compulsory monogamy is the most absurd institution
that has never been advocated by Christianity. How
everyone contrives to associate it with Christianity is a
mystery. Polygamy was rife in early Christian days, yet
there isn’t a word in the New Testament condemning it.
The injunction that the bishop should be the husband ot
one wife seems to infer that other men might have more.
At the most, monogamy is hinted at as being the more
ideal union; but that may be classed with bt. Paul s
“ better remain single.” The mind-tendency of this age
is towards a limited and respectable polygamy. A cer-
tain old writer quaintly remarks : “ After all, a woman
means very little in a man’s life ; she is only a side-issue,
as it were, like Eve.” Some day women also will dis-
cover that men are not the pivot round which their whole
lives turn ; at the same time the desire for a certain
amount of husband will increase. There is a good deal
of nonsense talked about the “ companionship between
man and wife. The Orientals are wiser. Providence
never meant men and women for ; companionship ; it
meant them for marriage. For friendship, your own
sex. They'll do more for you in the long run. The
boasted soul-union of husband and wife —it occurs in one
of a hundred marriages—would be just the same, or
more, if he were Bill and she were Jim. Married people
are “ chummy” in spite of their sex, not because of it ,
and, after all, it is just as well to keep your “ chummi-
ness ” for another woman ; less bother ; no misconcep-
tions.
* * • *
A Bulletin correspondent:
Given that Brown has proposed to Miss X. and been
accepted by her, what word should I use to describe
Miss X. in her relation to Brown? “The girl Brown is
engaged to ” is the commonest phrase, a very clumsy one.
Shall I say “ fiancee ? ” Not if an English word can be
found. “Bride-elect,” then? It reminds one of the
Mikado’s “daughter-in-law elect.” “ Affianced ” and
“ betrothed” belong to the language of romance. Shall
I, wearing an apologetic grin, say “ Brown’s ladylove,
or his “ well-beloved ” ? It is correct to say that Brown
is her lover, but can Miss X. be called “ Brown’s love .
Must I, alas, call her his “best girl?” If the parties
concerned were rustics, the good old word “ sweethearts
might be employed. On a certain social level we find
“ Brown’s young lady,” and just below is “ Brown’s young-
woman,” who marries him and becomes ipso facto his “old
woman.” In “push society” such terms as “donah
and “tart” might meet the case. Bub an ordinary
middle-class engaged girl is in the curious position of
being indescribable in any satisfactory way.
* * * *
“P.A.” asks a question and makes rude
remarks :
Are editors, as a rule, henpecked ? It isn’t to their dis-
credit if they are, since bookmakers, footballers, pugi-
lists, actors, musicians, and followers of other pursuits
not requiring brains, frequently bully and sometimes
bash the “ missus.” The man is more manly in submit-
ting meekly to the virago’s tongue than he would be in
“ stoushing ” her. All honor, then, to the henpecked
brigade !—the “mute, inglorious heroes” of the’appy
’oine ! The average woman has no respect for brains.
Milton or Shakespeare, toiling under the lamp for death-
less fame, would stand no chance with the posturing
mummer or the shallow-pated swashbuckler. The AAV.
most respects the man of loud words and hard knocks.
She Worships Power and Noise. Outside the London
Pavilion last year the gaudy poster of Sandow, meaty
body and legs, was continually surrounded by crowds of
women. In their turn Buffalo Bill and John L. Sullivan
were the idols of London society women, and even Capt.
•Duncan Boss had his conquests in the “ highest circles.”
A brain-worker makes no noise, wears no livery, doesn’t
carry a drum or a spear —hence the A.W. has no use for
him except to marry him and live at his expense. Her
hero is the aggressive idiot who repays her worship with
• “stoush.” lie gets the champagne and oysters, while
hubby must put up with the thick cup and the cold pie.
• * * •
“Hermes”: Be “The Breaker” and his
caramel nurses. What always breaks me up about
a nurse is her feet. The hospital-uniform does not
display to advantage even a pretty ankle and foot;
and when one watches the average nurse splash
down the ward, felt-shod, it kills all the romance
of her face and figure.
* * * *
Malvern, near Caulfield’ racecourse, is a
stronghold of temperance folk (land-boomers and
otherwise), and a teetotal president of the muni-
cipality has just been elected. Not only is he
temperance, but he is actively engaged in the Sal-
vation Army propaganda, and may be seen any
SWELLED HEAD.
“ What have you done with that tutor you got for the
kids? ”
" Oh, I had to sack him; he got too blessed flash to
feed the pigs.”
night in Glenferrie-road, robed in a red shirt (and
other garments, of course), playing a cornet.
Playing a cornet! He gets a mayoral allowance
of <£loo a year—and what about whisky for the
councillors out of this same allowance ? Just here
the temperance folk get a great shock. There is
to be no change made in the existing practice,
which is to keep a liberal stock of Strong Drink
and extras on the premises for council use. Pre-
sident Alway, grocer, Salvationist, cricketer, and
—teetotaller—is a great disappointment to ex-
Premier James Munro, who is one of his subjects.
* * * »
“ Q.” : Be temperance reform. Met a
prisoner in Pentridge, who solemnly assured me
that he deliberately committed a crime because he
found himself drifting into the drink-habit, and
recognised that a spell in gaol was the only effec-
tive cure for him. He simply used Pentridge as
an inebriate asylum.
IN SHADOWLAND.
The breezes come, the breezes blow,
In Shadowland.
A peopled past flits to and fro,
The voices of “ Lang Syne ” speak low,
And, mingling with the phantom band,
I clasp once more a snow-white hand,
I see a face of long ago,
In Shadowland.
But shadows pale and pass at dawn
To Shadowland,
When footsteps of a dainty morn
Tread softly up the eastern bourn ;
And so once more from out my hand
The phantom slips, the phantom band
By day-dawn’s light is gently borne
To Shadowland.
CARINI.
QUO VADIS?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Where are you going to, my pretty maid ?”
(Wide blue eyes and a wisp of hair)—
“ Up to the Mount for a change of air ?
Down to the sea and the gold-sands’ glare V ”
(Drooping lids and a tinge of pink)—
“Now, where should I travel to? Can’t you think?”
“ Haven’t a notion, O bush-bred maid ! ”
“ I’m goin’ to Sydney, Jim,” she said.
“ Where are you going to, tny pretty maid ? ”
(Half-closed eyes and a burning cheek)
Bust of woman and limbs of a Greek —
Tongue that was glib—not afraid to speak?
(Glare of the arc, and the thick, black night).
What has become of the glances bright!
Where is the laugh of my myall maid ?
“ I’m goin’ to blazes. Cornin’ ? ” she said.
J.H.M.A.


A Difference
A
Big
Difference
in the shape and finish.
in the quality of leather
are
the distinctive characteristics
that single out
Callaghan Boots.
If you have not worn Callaphan Boots,
we shall be pleased if you will call
and see them. Every pair is warranted.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George-street, Sydney.
Victor Daley writes “ I have been
glancing through an advance copy of Ogilvie’s
volume, “Fair Girls and Gray Horses.” In my
opinion it will be the most charming book of Aus-
tralian verse that has yet appeared. For Ogilvie
can not only write ringing rhymes that make the
blood spin through the veins ; he can also sing
dainty and delicate songs which remind me at
times of the cavalier songs written between a
battle and a banquet. There is much of the
cavalier and, as becomes his name, not a little of
the moss-trooper in Ogilvie. He writes with a
galloping heart. But, above all, there is the
passionate bloom of youth in his verses. He looks
out upon the world around him and finds it fair
and young, and makes it so for his readers by the
magic of his rhyme. Sadness is not his metier.
If I were asked to name the source of his literary
inspiration I would say—the old Scottish ballads.
He is essentially lyrical in his manner. His songs
need no musical setting. They provide their own
music.”
After all, isn’t truth (Sydney Truth)
far stranger than fiction ? Weren’t the proceedings
in the Sydney eowhide-and-pistol journalist-politi-
cian (Norton and Meagher) vendetta a lot more
lurid and almost as funny as any mythical occur-
rence ever set out in the columns of the Arizona
Kicker? And, after all, what could the presiding
magistrate do except what he ultimately did—
i.e., clear the court ? He couldn’t punish the
eloquent pair by adjourning the hearing and
refusing* them bail, because Meagher wasn’t “be-
fore the Court”—Norton only being then accused.
But perhaps he might have had them charged
W1 * 1 i insulting behaviour.” Something will
surely have to be done to prevent such outrageous
jamborees and the magistrate who does that some-
thing may depend on getting the sympathy of the
Supreme Court, which as an institution has one
conspicuous merit—that of making every body who
enters its precincts behave himself to some extent
while he is there.
The World s Racing Carnival—Melbourne Cup
season.—Visitors to Melbourne during the Cup Carnival
who desire to seek originality in dress—a weakness, by
the way, with all ladies—would be wisely directed to the
establishment of Messrs Stainer & Co.,'of Swanston-st.,
in that city. This firm is, of course, widely recognised'
? 8 V le .-der par excellence tor freshness and novelty
in fashion, and there is distinctive “ chicness” and
smartness about all its productions that rank them
easily first as vendors of high-class novelties. For this
Cup season they have excelled themselves in the simple
beauty of their millinery, the richness and uniqueness of
their mantles, costumes, and blouses ; the delicate and
varied novelties in their lace jabots, scarves, and blouse
fronts ; the combination of taste and elaborateness in
their Cup parasols ; and the delightful tints in their
French gloves. Most pleasing of all, the prices through-
out are well within the range of moderation.*
The Bulletin has undertaken to act as
special agent in Australasia for San Francisco
Argonaut, the most readable of all American
newspapers— the paper which for years and years
has been scissored right and left “by certain sec-
tions of the Australian press without acknowledg-
ment. The man or woman who once reads the
Argonaut never leaves it off. Single copies of
the Argonaut may be obtained at The Bulletin
office after arrival of the American mail, price
(id. ; posted, 7d. The paper will be mailed to any
Australasian address for per annum and
4s. 4d. postage.
All Drapers Everywhere.
CUiE TEIS have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My Dear Mere- Syd ” y ’ 0otob “ lm
~ A ,y. * he . gnarly old sceptics’ theoretical bogies and
the little indisputable facts of tortures and murders
&c., cannot allay the Australian maidens’ fever for
Chinese mission fields. Ten more have just had a
send-off meeting in a sister province, and funds
come in without asking. Forty Australian girls
are there already, and between times, when Ah
Goo and Kong Ki are having a rest from “Who
was the first man ? ” these forty virgins write long
and highly-colored letters to their friends, telling
how warmly the real lady Chows receive them, and
what a fuss is made over them in upper Chow
circles, and how dearly beloved they are by the
lower classes, and so on. One lady missionary
wrote to her mother lately: “Our will is law.
W e have only to look at a thing to get it, and the
women pay us just as many compliments as the
men. We could go to parties every day in the
rp 6 fi ’ aIK / are * n g rea t request in society here.”
talk of Rougemont! As long as women have
the chance of sending long, unlimited epistles
from a strange land, other imaginations may just
give up the struggle.
The latest method of wiling summer hours away
in mountain boarding places has its points. There
must be statues in the garden to begin with:
then the summer boarders dress them up in imita-
tion of real live men with coats, hats, sticks and
even cigars. At a holiday resort called Sylvania,
Bacchus was converted into a very presentable
leading Georgie Porgie, but all the ingenuity of
the fair workers couldn’t make a statue look very
like George Reid.
People rolled up to Gaddy Hallewell’s concert
who never hear any music now but the hurdy-
gurdy at the office door, and the eldest daughter
carolling “Good-bye for ever” in the front draw-
ing room. Half the house had taken a quarter or
80 of do-ra-me’s from Gaddy at one period or
other of its life, and a family beam spread itself
over the audience when those famous toes
trotted on to the platform. Gaddy had an
untimely cold, but was as broad in his effects
as though his 17 years in Sydney were but a
day. Simon the Cellarer and Hallewell have
been to so many concerts together that it’s
a trouble sometimes to disentangle them, and
Saturday’s concert showed that they still shared
that genuine fat laugh between them, even if
Gaddy doesn’t double up as easily over his ha-ha-
ha’s as of yore. It was good, too, to hear the big
voice rolling out its “ Nazareth ” once again. The
rest of the programme included a pretty girl, in
white satin, who, in response to an encore for her
warble about the Past, bade “ Goodbye to Hope ”
with the usual fortitude of young things in white
satin. Arthur Geane brought along the best
voice he has exhibited since his return, and sang,
as he always sings, with a sort of overblown mean-
ing. and manner, but with fine vocal effect. Miss
Edith King’s big, brilliant organ, that never gets
any warmer, yet always suggests possibilities,
showed off m the only operatic selection on the
programme, and the Pleyel quartette made some
fine Schubert music—high up over the people’s
heads.
A large party from Govt. House sat out the
programme quietly, but Hon. Captain Brand, in
white revers, betrayed that his training in local
concerts hasn’t been carried to his father’s fine
pitch of excellence. He moved about restlessly,
and changed his seat often, and one time there
was a whisper, which I wouldn’t like to corrobo-
rate, that he had gone right out of the house to
see a dog. The man m the street who says
potentates don’t work for their money should
just follow the local vice-regal set round one
season’s concert-going. After that, I believe even
the man-in-the-street would own he didn’t know
what work was rather than go over that search
for proofs again. Think of it! Think of sitting
in the front seat year after year, and coming early
and staying late, and listening to every suburban
vocalist, fiddler, pianist, and smilinr/1 For Govt.
House quite understands that all the rest counts
as nothing without the smile.
The great fresh air and strawberry party of the
week brought nearly 4000 to Govt. House gardens.
Of course with 4000 people you don’t expect every
one to take either fresh air or strawberries in the
same way. A marked estrangement with ventila-
tion showed itself in many people’s faces ; and, as
for strawberries, I saw one large lady lift the
whole dish from the table, and set to work with
her fingers to demolish ’em, not even turning her
back on respectable eitizenesses who fed on the
orthodox number of berries on the orthodox plate.
The frocking was more varied than any seen in
Sydney for a long time. I noticed several ladies
carrying little brown bags on their arms a la tea
meeting. But the most exquisite toilet was that
of a little brown man in a long brown coat to the
heels of pale brown boots, with brown rnoustachioes
running well out on either side, then curled
into two perfect Q’s. Back view showed a brown
O suspended from each end of a skewer, as it were.
A little actress in garden green and a white flop hat
Was voted disappointing without her make-up.
Ope tires a,t always chronicling the frocks of the
best-dressed woman in Sydney, but this time her
gown was a repetition of race-week, so I leave it
alone. Lady Hampden with that delicate, mater-
nal smile that lifts her up alongside of popular
Lady Carington, greeted her four thousand guests
m black grenadine cooled down with a white silk
lining. The charge of the four thousand through
the narrow gate, that let them in to the front
garden and the vice-regal recognition, would be a
better soporific than the good old sheep-getting-
through-the-rail dodge. “Such a gittin’ through
the gate” cried out for Thackeray to come and use
it up.
Foster-mothers and stolen heirs sound like a
relict of Udolpho days, when a novel without
either or each of these two romantic commodities
was an impossible undertaking. Then they died
out, except in penny fiction, where everything that
dies out of other literature flourishes as greenly as
if there were no such tense as past. Little Louis
Poussard and the nurse who has reared him from
before his teeth give the newest adaptation of the
archaic theme. Poor old Poussard’s will left his
son (which was all the old musician had to leave
but debts) to his god-parents. Whereupon the
foster-mother settled things quite simply by run-
ning away with the boy. But, after all, she only
w ith her charge as far as Melbourne, to con-
sult M. Poussard’s oldest friend.
The story of that nurse is, I am told, a very sad
one. She tended the boy devotedly, and, when
his old father died, was shocked to find that she
was to lose her protege, to whom she had become
greatly attached. Also, poor woman, she found
that, M. Poussard having left not a solitary sou,
she would be unable to recover a penny of the (to
*}? r ) vast sum, .£3OO or so, in which her employer
died indebted to her for long years of service.
That scientific and enthusiastic professor who
courageously ran Sydney University into a few
thousands for scientific appliances, where only tens
had been understood by the Senate, is going to
leave this part of the world soon, and make for a
permanent stay in Cambridge. Mr. Pollock, a
local lecturer, may possibly fill the gap, if the
Senate’s craving for new blood doesn’t get the
better of it. But, as advts. exposing the vacancy
are already going the round of English papers, it
seems that the Senate, like smaller and unworthier
bodies, is going to yield to its thirst.
Speaking of this same ailment, stage fright in a
mild way took hold of some of the actors in one of
the mother city’s melodramas, the other night. It
was the kind of stage fright that gets under the
tongue, and pushes it about until it misses words,
and begins at the end of a sentence and then goes
u&ck to the beginning and finishes up in the
middle. One paroxysm forced the hero to the
singular confession “ I suffer from a craving for
thirst. ” The house was nearly all gods that night,
and nobody thought of laughing. The gods took
it seriously, knowing that a craving for thirst was
just as feasible as a craving for drink.
. To go back to Prof. Threlfall, his beautiful and
intellectual wife, who has just eonie back from a
trip abroad, doesn’t profess to be sorry either that
then; stay in Sydney is over. Her poems, most
of which originally appeared in these columns, and
which were published in book-form years ago, lift
her a long way above the line of Sydney society
women. At the Women’s College “At Home, ” the
other night, this slender, aesthetic-looking poetess
attracted more attention than anyone else, in
shapeless white satin and diamonds, supposed to
be an iniitation of Trilby as dressed by her sister,
the Trilby of the English stage. Remarkable
women, all the three ex-Miss Bairds.
The “at home” was intended as a welcome to
the University bride, Mrs. Wilson, but the spirit
fizzled out when it was known the death of the
bride s brother-in-law, Mr. G-. H. C. Simpson,
caused the absence of the bridal pair. Great sym-
pathy is felt for Mr. Justice G. B. Simpson and
Mrs. Simpson, who have thus lost their only child ;
their daughter died years ago, on the verge of
womanhood.
Country districts are very proud of their local
squads of “ Australian Horse,” and are showing it
at present by providing the provender, &c., for
local camps. Men of large appetite are “the real
Mackays.” One camp was held at Mudgee
recently and this month the warriors of Gundagai
and surrounding districts assemble to defeat the
local enemy with great slaughter.
He was what Mark Twain would call a theolo°i-
cal engineer, and he. had taken his celestial degree
and his marriage lines almost together. A Natural
History Society had sent him on a scientific expe-
dition to the wilds of Gippsland. With him went
many others, male and female. They all
carried cameras, and consistently took each other
singly and in groups. The Little Minister alone
would never be photographed. It would pain his
absent bride, he said, to see him pictured among
strangers as if he were enjoying himself away from
her, and he carefully sat apart when the cameras
were abroad. One afternoon a pretty, artful
maiden found her hammock pillows not too com-
fortable, and innocently appealed to him to shake
them up. He complied, bending over her with
care and thoroughness. And so he was snap-
shotted in various poses of the pretty work and
the pictures went off next post. And next day
came a wire which caused the little Naturalist to
leave suddenly for home.
Strange, sad stories go about concerning the
high-class marriages of Australian belles and
moneyed Englishmen. A very smart Aus-
tralienne, who made much splash and dazzle at
her wedding ceremony some years back, is said to
u u without ”in the lodge cottage of her
husband s ancestral dominions. There she cooks
his potatoes, and isn t received in the county be-
cause the parents-in-law have always refused to
smile on the match. Another “catch” turned
out to be a still greater swindle. Arriving in Eng-
land, the bride discovered that there wasn’t even a
lodge cottage, as there were no ancestral domains.
Ihe money was apparently there, but instead of
balls and presentations and an atmosphere of
strawberry-leaves she was taken to live in dull ex-
pensive lodgings never introduced to a soul, and
soon found that her husband was merely an insig-
mficant unit unknown outside his office. A bank-
account isn’t the magic key in London that it is
here.
And yet they will do it. “ Going to marry such
a rich Englishman ! ” is still the pet delusion of —
say, from seventeen to thirty. After thirty, some-
thing more definite is required, and so the old
belles marry slangy local merchants and
squatters, and settle down to far better times than
the youthful butterflies who have fluttered into
chilly English air. Moral—always marry in your
own country, a man of your own country who
means to live in his own country.
Somebody asked a different kind of' young
married woman lately if she preferred her present
mode of existence to her recent slavey life. ‘ ‘ Well,
yer know,” she replied, “it’s no great chop; ’e
beats me every Saturday evenin’, but it’s a more
comfortabler life than at Mrs. ’s. That
woman! Why, she’d ’and me a couple uv slices
of bread n-dnppin and two stinkers (matches),
say in’, ‘ There y’are, Sarah—one for yer candle,
one for yer mornin’s fire; and if yer want any
more bread’n-drippin, come’n arsk fur it.’ ”
Speaking of Chinamen, a Chinese cook lately
left his situation m a highly elevated Sydney
family to become sub-editor of a Chinese journal
in this city. Four days later he came back and
asked to be taken on again. “No good paper*
editor send away his cook day after I go,” was his
explanation.
Apropos the discount-coupon mania, a country
cousin with a string of assorted dogs, called on
au j er £ Pett y Sessions at Parramatta, the
Other day, to register his pets, a rather lengthy
transaction. On being handed his receipt, he
seemed loth to depart, and the official, anxious to
be rid of the mongrels, rather sharply told their
?™ I hat’s all. ” Then came the question :
Why don t you give coupons?” A similar
person blocked the turnstile at Manly ferry wharf
for nearly five minutes the other day. He had
paid for his ticket, but no coupon was forthcoming
and he threatened to wreck the place if it wasn°t
handed over instanter.
Last Saturday, for the first time in the case of a
large fire, the Hospital nurses turned out to show
their usefulness. The firemen found their atten-
tions of great value, as the nurses deftly removed
grit from their eyes at critical moments, and one
womanly creature had the nous to bring a hot cup
ot tea to an exhausted and over-grateful fireman.
Some classes of the community are by no means
partial to nurses, but henceforth the Sydney fire-
men will swear by them.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Toorak has always been famed as the land of
ropiance, no less than of wealth ; but last week it
eclipsed all previous efforts by the experience of
one of its charming daughters—a wealthy and
beautiful girl of 19, who fell violently in love with
a middy of 20. After two days’ acquaintanceship
the pair became engaged, and within the week
they were married, just before the bridegroom
sailed away en route to distant ports, whence he
will probably not return for at least three years.
Loth are good-looking and otherwise attractive.
A genuine love-affair, but—a week—three years *
Oh, the pity of it, lago ! The bridegroom is at
present with his ship in Sydney ; the lady remains
with her brothers and aunt at Toorak.
“ the engagement of Miss Daisy Madden to
Mr. Harry Osborne; the bride-elect’s Pa, ’tis said
is delighted that his eldest daughter—the best of
the bunch, lie thinks—won’t be called upon to act
bridesmaid to any more younger sisters. As a bud
the future Mrs. Osborne gave alarming promise of
developing into a very large lady indeed, but the
worst was averted, and she is now merely a sub-
stantial damsel, even better liked, though perhaps
less pretty, than her sisters, and in some aspects
more matronly-looking than Mamma.
“ Local scribes are announcing for the seventy-
seventh time the engagement of Mount Morganaire
Wesley Hall, to his deceased’s wife sister, Miss
Daisy Dempster. The young lady in question
was m London with Mrs. Hall, when the latter
died, and has since, with the assistance of a married
sister, kept house for her brother-in-law, at Toorak
and taken care of his three pretty little girls!
Ihe widower of to-day was generally set down as
a confirmed old bachelor until his victrix, after-
wards his wife, went to Brisbane, saw and con-
quered him. They were married at Williamstown
(V ic.), and as the happy pair walked up the aisle,
rude small boys, so’tis said, shouted ‘Walk like
mamma,’ m reference to the widely-quoted com-
mand laid by the bride’s careful mother on her five
daughters whenever she led them forth for a long-
shore constitutional. °
“ 'Ph, these men ! ’ which brings me to the
marriage of a certain patriarchal pillar of the
Anglican Cathedral. This doctor’s son, in Lon-
don, sent a fair invalid out to Melb. for her health
vvith letters of introduction to medico’s pa and
sisters. A few short months and wedding-bells
were_ ringing in honor of the old man’s marriage to
sonnies patient.
“ The pale, plump bride and her devoted Val-
lange did the rounds of the damp ‘Birdcage,’ at
Caulheld, on Saturday—she in a tailor-made blue
serge, fitting none too well at the waist, and he
wearing a proud, proprietorial smile, which made
him look more than ever like an actor. Talking
of pale women and dark actors, Mrs. Maesmore
Morns and Gaston Mervale sat together in the
grand-stand the most part of the afternoon, but, if
it hadn t been for the presence of her escort, very
few people would have noticed that Mrs. M. was
there.. So thin, and so tired, and her complexion
alas ! is going the way of all theatrical flesh. The
gipsy-kmgish Gaston is calculated to attract more
attention in any crowd.
A novelty at the marriage feast of that elderly
Westralian Major who ran over from the gold-fields
t other day and chose a pretty young majoress
hereabouts, was the drive longshore indulged in
after the ceremony by the happy pair and their
mends. Apart from its digestive value, the
weddmg-dnve has few recommendations. For one
thing, revelry demoralises the most capable of
whips, and for a bridegroom to take the reins, is
sheer madness. Recently a Melb. girl, after an
up-country wedding, found herself driving home
with a party of new acquaintances. The squatter
m charge, the only he on board, tooling along in
great style, soon began to boast and show off to
the town visitor: ‘ see him clear this tree and
shave the other stump.’ His better-half from her
back-seat coaxed, scojded, commanded in vain and
openly taxed the vainglorious Jehu with a glass
too many. Other passengers cajoled and nagged
with no better success. The culprit grew more
and more reckless. At last when the horses were
ready to bolt and the ladies, who had been hysteri-
cal from the start, were all in tears, Mrs. What’s-
her-name announced bitterly that as ‘ Pa ’ seemed
to have eyes and ears only for his neighbor, the
latter had better persuade him to give up the
ribbons. The town girl was crying too, by this
time, partly through being bumped and jolted
nearly out of her skin, but she did what she could,
and, throwing her arms round the driver so as not
to fall out, pleaded broken-windedly, ‘ Kind, good,
dear Mr. J., please give me the reins.’ Mr. J.
tumbled asleep on her shoulder just then, and his
rightful owner, standing up at the back, soon
reduced the gee-gees to order, got the party home
and ‘ himself ’ to bed.
“There is in a Melb. architect’s office at pre-
sent, ‘ serving articles, ’ a young and pretty damsel
who aspires to become the pioneer woman-architect
of Australia. How the lady purposes inspecting
the different buildings under her charge has not
yet been revealed ; but probably she will don a pair
of Ada Reeve’s brown knickerbockers, and in them
wander over the joists and rafters. If rational
costume is not to be an attribute of the female
house-designer, the spilling of a couple of bags of
lime in an unfrequented street will probably suffice
to draw as many baldheads as the latest ballet.
. *‘ ‘Zack, ’ authoress of the book of stories, ‘Life
is Life, ’ which has been much praised by some
English critics, is the niece of a member of Melb.
Stock Exchange. Her name is Gwendoline Keats,
but she avers that she wrote under a pen-name
because of her ‘ veneration for a name which I felt
belonged in literature to the poet alone.’ ‘ Zack ’
has many Melbourne friends. She would have
done well to have had a map at hand when writing
her Australian stories. When she writes (in ‘The
Failure of Elipperty’): ‘The great Australian
liner steamed west, and Port Melbourne lay a
bluer streak on the blue horizon,’ she had for-
gotten her geography. Steaming west would have
beached her liner at Williamstowu.
ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SMOKE
THREE CASTLES
s«^-n
.
THRtE CASTVfcS
CIGARETTES.
JUST A MINUTE PLEASE !
Tired men, whether suffering from physical or
mental fatigue, delicate women, growing girls and
little children find Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa a unique
beverage of inestimable benefit. The nauseous
drugs,and disagreeable medicines associated with
ill-health are, in Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cocoa, replaced
by something which is. pleasant and nice, with a
distinctive flavoring of its own which will appeal
to the fastidious and over-nice palate of the in-
valid, and its soothing effect renders it an ideal
“Pick-me-up.”
Dr. Tibbies’Vi-Cocoa, by taking the place of
stimulants of an ardent nature, has made happy
many a home which otherwise to-day would have
been wretched, and the ultimate effects of which
it is impossible to foresee. For breakfast, dinner,
supper—indeed, at any hour of the twenty-four—
Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cocoa will be found light and
refreshing ; it leads the way among all beverages,
and nothing can equal it.
The unique vitalising and restorative powers of
Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cocoa are being recognised to an
extent, hitherto unknown in the history of any
preparation. Merit, and merit alone, is what is
claimed for Dr. Tibbie’s Vi-Cocoa, and the pro-
prietors are prepared to send to any reader who
names The Bulletin (a post-card will do) a dainty
sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa free and post-
paid
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 2G9 George-street, Sydney.*
“I*lie Famous French.
Chocolate.
ClflCOmT-iriEIIIER
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
JF. M. Cameron & Co.,
249 George-at., Sydney
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Out of 32 Judges of N S.W. Supreme
Court but six have died in office.
Sunday at home. Mr. B. Backhouse,
M.L.C., reading John Norton’s Truth.
Of the 17 examiners in medicine in con-
nection with Sydney University not one figures
with an Irish degree.
Four practising Q.C’s. have been offered
and have declined within the last three years seats
on N.S.W. Supreme Bourt Bench.
Victorian police - court item : —George
Washington. charge —cutting timber without a
license. Thus doth history repeat itself.
Robert Roberts, founder of
the Christadelphian sect, just
dead in ’Frisco, whence he had
gone from Melbourne, having
been domiciled in the latter city
some years, was a Birmingham
man. In his native city he-
launched his harmless, heresy, as
about the 401st bird on the Pro-
testant tree. The theory is that
the wicked are all snuffed out,
Dr. Bromby’s idea, while the just
keep in a sort of Kennedy trance
till Gabriel blows his horn.
Roberts was a nice, fat patriarch,
not wholly unlike Parkes, and
came to church in a natty wag-
gonette, with a flock of chubby
little children, after the style of
most heterodox preachers. His
worry was that he could never
get anybody in Melb. to de-
nounce him, though equally ob-
noxious to Archbishop Carr,
Bishop Goe, Renton], and -Tos.
Symes. His divagation was from
the Plymouth Brethren, the sect
to which Varley belongs.
A customer once said to
blind John Dunn, founder of
Hobart Commercial Bank:
“ With your affliction, Mr. Dunn,
you must find it very difficult
to manage the affairs of the bank:.” “Not
a bit of it, sir,” answered Dunn; “I can smell
a bad bill, feel a bad coin, and tell by a man’s
voice if he’s a rogue I—which1 —which reminds me—what
about your overdrawn account ? ”
Bishop Camidge, of Bathurst, is the senior
Anglican bishop of N.S.W. ; Bishop Thornton, of
Ballarat, is senior of Australia ; and Primate
Co win, of Auckland, senior of Australasia.
J. R. Dickson, Queensland’s new Premier,
was fined in Brisbane Police-court a couple of
years ago for employing kanakas about his house-
hold in occupations interdicted by law.
In the Te Kooti time, the Colonial Office,
with incredible folly, wanted to send Chinese
Gordon to Maoriland, as Dictator. This was only
choked off by a consultation with Grey in London.
The death is cabled of J. J. Coleman, the
mustard double-millionaire. He who said: “I
made my fortune not so much out of the mustard
that people ate as out of what they left on the
plates. ”
One of the .Sydney “bankers,” who has
had his bit of trouble and done his bit of time, has
lately- started in business as a medical specialist,
and, judging by his advts., must be coining
money.
“You cannot all rise to be Ministers of
the Crown, my children, but one thing you can
do ; you can all be heroes and heroesses.”—Aus-
tralian Minister of Education to audience of State-
school pupils.
The present is Chief Justice Way’s 22nd
term of office as Acting-Governor of South Aus-
tralia, the first having been in 1877 on the retire-
ment of Governor Musgrove and prior to the
arrival of Governor Cairns.
Alderman Kippax, who retires from Cook
Ward, of Sydney City Council, has held the posi-
tion of Alderman for that ward for the past 35
years—a municipal record. Nine or ten candi-
dates are in the field for the seat.
Detective “ Mick ” Sexton, who cleared
up the “ Bendigo murder mystery ” by knocking
out the murder theory after three weeks’ fossick-
ing, got his taste for detective work by police-
reporting on Bendigo Independent.
Recent Medical Board registration in
N.S.W.—Ghandy Rastamji Dinshaji, L.S.A.,
London, 1881, and a Licentiate of Glasgow in
Medicine and Surgery, 1882. Most likely some
of the first fruits of the Rauji boom.
Barrister Simpson, who died the other day,
in Sydney, at the early age of 34, never held a
brief in any court over which his father, Justice
G. B. Simpson, presided. This agreement was
entered into by father and son when the former
was elevated to the Supreme Court Bench.
Thomas Gardner, one of the pioneers of
the Gulf country, and the rtian who cut the first
road to Gayndab (Q.j, died the other day in
Maryborough. His life of adventures closed
tamely in the billet of secretary to a school-of-arts.
A friend of Prof. Marshall-Hall’s is re-
sponsible for the following epigram:—
You've heard that the devil’s the father of lies;
I’ll mention his favorite son :
He edits the rag with a hundred eyes
And a squint in every one.
G. H. Reid was the first to dub in print
N.S.W., “ the mother colony of the Australias.”
He published a book with that sub-title away
back in his salad days, and is more than proud of
his sketchy trifle still—particularly of the sub-
title.
David Syme is taking care that when his
sons succeed to the Age property they will know
something of the business. At present one of his
boys is manager ; one oil the reporting staff; and
one behind the counter receiving advts. Scotch
training.
Premier Turner’s punctuality as a borough
councillor of St. Kilda is as mysterious as a saus-
age. It is presumably on the principle of Fantee,
developed by Kipling in a yarn. This means a
man trying to get out of himself, & la Haroun
Alraschid. When Councillor Muggins cheeks the
Premier, over the Public Wurrux Coimnytee, it is
as great a treat to Turner as to Muggins.
Ed. Bulletin. —You were lately talking
of Chief Justice Madden’s goodnature. Well, I
can depose to that. I’ve “ been there.” Once I
wanted to get away to a billet in an Australian
province, and to enable me to do so Dr. Madden
cheerfully stumped up a fiver. I haven't paid
him yet, but am saving up to do so, in the sure
and certain hope that when I offer it to His Ex.
he won’t take it. — Pressman.
JUST THE THING.—WHEN THE TRAMS ARE
NOT BUNING .
Melb. Anglican bishop, addressing the
Church Assembly, enumerated the “ many lay
members and friends of the C. of E. who had died
since Assembly’s last meeting.” But not a poor
man on the list 1 The Church doesn’t know
Lazarus 1
The late Q. Premier Byrnes had one noble
and noteworthy characteristic-loyalty and affec-
tion for his mother and sisters. As everybody
knows, Byrnes was born poor. As he climbed the
ladder he was proud to take his relatives on his
shoulders.
Mr. G. H. Reid taking of “ silk ” makes
eight Q.C.’s at N.S.W.- Bar. Mr. B. R.
Wise is now the only ex-Attorney-General wear-
ing “stuff,” and Mr. Justice Cohen is the only
member of N.S.W. Supreme Court who has not
taken “ silk.”
Down South there’s a doctor who, when he
visits a patient with an infectious disease, stands
afar off in the passage and yells, “ put out your
tongue,” “how’s your appetite ?” and so forth,
but couldn’t be induced to go in for any fee you
could think of.
It is more than likely that Major-General
French’s term of office, as N.S.W. Commandant,
will be extended beyond the date originally fixed.
By the way, the Major-General is having a bad
time at the hands of certain grossly insubordinate
amateur warriors who dabble in politics.
Dr. Malcolm Morris, brother of Prof.
Morris, of Melb. University, takes a leading part
in the scheme for putting Koch’s germ theory into
practice for the prevention and cure of tuberculo-
sis in England. The enthusiastic Morris reckons
that consumption 50 years hence will be only an
occasional disease, and rarely fatal.
Charles Graham Wilson, the new member
for Armidale (N.S. W.), was council-clerk for the
borough of Armidale over 20 years ago. As a
lightning-change artist in the borough council
line he can take a front place. He resigned the
clerkship one day, was elected alderman the next
day, and two days later was elected Mayor.
One of Australia’s ablest hangmen went on
strike for increased salary a couple of weeks ago.
He had somewhere picked up the rates of pay
which man-butchers get in other countries (in
France the executioner gets <£3oo a year), and he
protested against playing the blackleg longer. He
was persuasively talked over, however, and the
strike is off.
“Melb.” : One cannot be satiric on the
desire of C. H. James, the boss land merchant, to
get a certificate in Insolvency before be dies. Yet
this salve to the conscience of our whilom leading
Wesleyan (while he was gilded) is an odd idea of
his. Such worldlings as Walter Scott and Mark
Twain wanted to work it off. They wouldn’t take
a certificate.
Judge Boucaut finished his 20hh year on
S.A. Supreme Court bench, Sept. 2\ Premier
Kingston, his thong ts probably running on the
persistent rumours of B.’s retirement, referred to
the matter, and hoped that ’sonab would be long
spared to do what the people of S.A. desired-
grace the bench, &c. But the old hand was not
to be caught.
Henniker Heaton, Stead’s newly-proposed
life-peer, has begun to agitate that the State
(meaning the British Govt.) should take over all
the cables connecting Britain with her colonies
and dependencies, thus compulsorily expropriat-
ing private capitalists. Heaton among the
Socialists 1
Newspaper war in progression between the
Vials and the McMahons of Sydney as to which
has the better claim to having saved the life of
the Duke of Edinburgh at Clontarf (N.S. W.) in
March, 18C8. As a matter of fact, honors are
equally divided. McMahon stood between the
prince and O’Farrell, while Vial seized the would-
be assassin from behind.
H. H. Champion is again leader-writer on
the Age, by ilavid Syme’s invitation. Consider-
ing his biting, scornfully-true character-sketch of
David, published in The Champion, this action
shows either magnanimity on the old man’s part,
or that the Age was hard-up for the sort of literary
ability and ideafulness which Champion possesses.
Perhaps a little of both.
Judge Docker, whose erratic proceedings
on N.S.W. District Court Bench have provoked
several Parliamentary debates, and who has, as a
consequence, been remonstrated with by more
than one Premier for speeches “in bad taste,”
was the prize verse-maker in Sydney University
in his early days. He also won the Wentworth
medal for chaste English prose.
Speaker Mason (Vic.) was asked whether
the Leg. Assembly would not take notice of Fat-
man Campbell’s remark that “ the unfortunates of
the city” had control over M.’sP., and would
have more in the event of women’s suffrage being
passed. “Oh, dear no,” neatly replied Mason,
“ Mr. Campbell was, of course, only referring to
M.’sP. in the Legislative Council.”
Poor, solid old Baron von Mueller's grave
in St. Kilda (Vic.) cemetery is still without its
headstone ; and the secretaries to the fund plain-
tively appeal again to a public that so soon forgets
—that mostly has, in fact, after only 12 months,
got so far as to ask what the unselfish botanist
was and did. Only about half the necessary
amount has been laboriously raked in.
M‘Kenzie, the blind member of Vic. Par-
liament, delivered a two-hours’ speech on Minister
Best’s new Land Bill, crammed full of figures,
which he gave with absolute correctness entirely
from memory. M'Kenzie and ex-Premier . Sbiels
were schoolfellows. The blind man is by far the
abler of the two, and might have been Opposition
leader before Duncan Gillies was appointed had
he wished.
Prof. Marshall Hall withdraws his resigna-
tion ; says he didn’t know it was loaded, or words
to. that effect. This looks like a smart bit of
generalship. The scare is dead, the Argus
could not revive it if it howled itself hoarse, and a
committee that might have fired him out on his
musical ear when the unco’ gude were all flapping
their wings may now have the temerity to. give the
young man one chance more, on condition that he
abandons the pursuit of Poetry—a female who
gets further ahead in the race every minute.
BALM IN GILEAD:
VAG. (just convicted, to Beak): “ I'm a loafer, am, I? Perhaps I am;
Melbourne's full of ’em—but, thank ’eaven, most on ’em's in the
perlice!"—(Three months extra.)
“ We get drowned, or worry to death, or
finish up in a pub.—and do the finishing up
quickly, as a rule.’’ Thus recently Capt. T. W.
Loekyer, about the best-known and most popular
of Australian coastal skippers. In his ease it was
the worry-kill ; he died in Adelaide on Sept. 23.
One of the oldest masters on the coast, his troubles
began when he put a passenger in irons between
Adelaide and Melbourne, and found the man dead
five minutes after ; that was between three and
four years ago. After that he got on to banks
and into collisions, and struck bad weather and
had bad times before Marine Boards, and wound
up by bringing the Adelaide over from the West
in a disabled condition through terrible weather.
That passage was the last straw : he went ashore
and died—“ finished up in a pub.,” but hardly in
the way he meant.
Rev. Steele, Moderator, at a recent
gathering of Melb. Presbyterian Association,
told a good Scotch joke of his own. He was
present when two shearers disputed over the ques-
tion of the immortality of the soul. The reverend
was appealed to by the unbeliever. “Well,” he
answered, “if you will be a beast, I have no
objection.” The assembly was delighted, but
Rev. Steele only dodged the issue. Writer heard
the matter put better by a commonplace agri-
culturist, near Smeaton (Vic.). His reverence
was rating Clarke for giving too much thought to
his horse, The Dawn, a nice little animal, that
had won a race or two. “Annywan wud be
thinkin’ it was a good Christian ye were pattin’
an’ pettin’, an’ fadin’ an’ clanin’ all day long.
Sartin it is, yer horse won’t get into heaven wid
yez,memahn. Fwad’s that! fwad ’re ye ehum-
merin’ about”? “Sure,” said Matty, “I was
on’y sayin’ that, maybe, he loud get in. Up
there, they’ll be bether judges av a horse than yer
'riverance, I’m thinkin ” !
Nick the Second’s, last escape from the
Nihilists 5 was a narrow one. He was, during
November, to have consecrated a chapel which a
rich wool merchant had built at Tsarkoe Selo,
where the Emperor often resides. But an artist
employed to paint the interior found a suspicious
wire which turned out on investigation to lead
down to a carefully-prepared mine in the founda-
tion. Wire and mine must have been put in place
at an early stage of the work, and no outsider
could well have accomplished such a business
without being observed by the workmen.
Agent-General Cockburn, writing to a
S.A. journalist, relates how he is fascinated by
the wilderness of books in the big smoke, and is
tempted to buy by thearmful. Which illustrates the
difference between Cockburn and bis predecessor,
Playford. The latter bad no soul for anything
but produce and profits, but Cockburn is, and
always was, a dreamer, a student of the “isms.”
Lets his hair grow long and his clothes grow
shabby. Cockburn could lecture for an hour on
the history and qualities of a potato; Playford
would simply sell it as a common “spud ”at top
price.
A prominent Victorienne, when travelling
recently in England, much amused a “ noble
Marquis ” by her outspoken* criticism “of whatever
she saw. “Well, now, Lady Blank,” he re-
marked on one occasion, “ What do you think of
our English beauties?” “Beauties? ’Aggard, I
call them,” remarked the Australian lady. “But
take Lady Londonderry, she is conceded on
all sides to be one of the most beautiful women
in all Europe. Do you not admire her?” Lady
Blank sniffingly surveyed her from top to toe, and
at last contemptuously observed : “ Take off her
clothes, and what is she? ”
Miss Helen Hart, the stern, unbending
lecturess and fighter for woman’s rights, has issued
the following in the Yic. country towns where she
is touring :- L
NOTICE—The public are cautioned against men and
woriien circulating unfounded reports against my char-
acter. Sometimes it is said that lam an immoral woman.
This is false. At other times that my expenses are not
paid ; this is also false, as I carry my receipt-book and
can produce it. These reports are circulated and set
going by unknown enemies who are jealous of my success
and the honorable name I have made for myself hv my
platform talent. I offer £5 REWARD to any persons
who will give truthful information which will enable me
to trace such disgraceful traducers of the character of a
respectable and noble woman.
It was the late J. T. M‘Mahon, of Sydney
G.P.0., who on behalf of the Crown identified
O’Farrell in Darlinghurst Gaol on the day after
the latter’s attempt on the life of the Duke of
Edinburgh at Cloptarf. M‘Mahon was the first to
lend a hand to_the Prince, who had fallen to the
ground. William Vial was engaged capturing.the
would-be assassin. The late Sir William Manning
thought it was lie who was shot, and accordingly
laid himself out on the grass and didn’t get up
until the danger was over. The second bullet hit
George Thorn, of Queensland, in the heel, and
that burly politician carried the scare as well as
the scar for years. Most of that old crowd are
now dead, but the Duke is yet to the fore—heavy
and hearty.
“ G. 8.” : There
were some very old men
among- old-time Tas-
manian convicts. Writ-
er remembers one, as-
signed servant who had
taken part in the 1780
Gordon riots. Used to
smack his withered old
lips over the liquor that
-flowed in the kennels on
that occasion, and was
proud of being one of
those who set fire to
Lord Mansfield’s house.
Altogether an irre-
claiin a bl e old sea mp.
When he lay -dying in
his hut he heard that a
pig was to ' be killed,
and implored the men
to take him to see the
deed done. They did.
He witnessed the exe-
cution, was carried back
to bed, folded his hands,
muttered some inarticu-
late words, and died—
aged 94.
Cfipt. Mori arty,
R.N., Port-officer at
Hobart in old days, was
a sailor of the Benbow
type. When in mufti
he, went about in gar-
ments so dilapidated
thqt newly - arrived
young Arthur, son of
the then Governor,
hailed the captain to
hold his horse, ‘“Haw!”
said Arthur, when to
his astonishment, he
met Moriarty that even-
ing at the Governor’s
table. “I— er beg
your pardon, but —haw ! didn’t you hold—er—
my horse this morning?’ “Yes, I did,” an-
swered the old salt, “and damme if the three-
penny bit you gave me wasn’t a bad one. Haw;! ”
A potent factor in Premier Byrnes’ fatal
illness was that he had a rooted objection to muscu-
lar exercise of any kind. A journey of 800 yards
was covered by a cab-drive. When at Brisbane
Grammar School, Byrnes could not be persuaded
to join any kind of athletic club, but hurried
home to study. Add to this the nervous strain of
keeping his cantankerous team in hand and a
weakness for good living, the result of any marked
illness was bound to be serious.
Demise: R. Ford. One of the cleverest
men of affairs—built for biz, like Tramway Sprigg.
After broking on Ballarat, and making a repute
as one of the lions of the Corner, Ford took the
Town Clerkship of Ballarat West, and achieved
success in that line. This procured him the secre-
taryship of Melb. Harbor Trust, whence he
bounded into the position of Assistant Commis-
sioner to Speight, at the railways. Here he was
again so thoroughly at home that dismissal broke
the mainspring of his life.


m
WOLFE’S
£chicdafli < ?toititit&
■jnrnra
A SUPfRIJuIVI
TON iC.OiURETIt. ANTID
INVIGORATING COW
;
<BTnr^
*
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
is a
PURE
and
WHOLESOME
SPIRIT.
It is
Vastly Superior
to the
Liquors
of
Everyday Use.
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
Look out for
Imitations. Ask
for and see you get
Wolfe's.
FRAFZ JOSEF
PILSENER LAGER BIER.
Aboriginalities.
A queer bush picture :
Travelling north through Mutooroo run (S.A.), in '9s—
station broke S.A. record that year with 2900 hales
l:° Ol f’‘ h °^ rh - t d , roUght * ierr ible—best dams in the pro"
“ fenced with netting; water elevated to circular
stone-tanks by horse-whim, between tank and dam
horsesand l° USrhS b ", nn 7 ’• dead sheep, sometimes
111 aronfn« d ka " garoo s> and thousands of rabbits—a dream
dn n hhit, w,°? e - d , ai f’ ™ here Poisoned water had run
wi ? d tned to jump netting into dam; fallen
J.nr ,1, d i d weakness in such heaps that others
climbed over and got to water. Reached Cockburn ;
,w ' V K y ' n,en ev i morning shovelling mutilated bunnies
barrows off the line. Children and dogs playing
i h scores in mam streets ; dogs sick of ’em —wouldn’t
ite. Across the line, and in a man’s back-yard, was a
sneep-aog rounding-up two or three hundred into corners,
j , e day, at back of railway-sheds, school-children shoo-
ng tour or five thousand away from drain at rate of a
mile an hour. The rabbits even invaded the houses.
Woman tying in bed helpless, with basin of gruel along-
stde ; bunny sneaks in, and, despite continual “shoos,”
helped himself to the lot. Fortnight afterwards, not a
rabbit in the place. Cause, four inches rain. Just across
border same rain washed one dam completely out of
sight; most of engine-house found half-mile below its
proper site.
• * * *
“C-F.”: Re the cruelty of branding.
About fiv® years ago a Bornean planter was fined
20d0dol -. for branding his Chinese coolies with a
red-hot iron. Evidence showed that there was no
senous objection on the part of the subjects till
JNo. 38 complained on the score that XXXVIII.
took longer to complete than the marking of No.
« W j j a ■k’ ®i s . sense °f equal justice was
offended. In our district we were more merciful,
contenting ourselves with marking our men, on
arrival in port, with dilute nitric acid, in which
a ten-cent piece had been dissolved. Some fellows
saw humor in the situation when the “ Chinkies”
essayed to wash away the tingling sensation,
thereby, of course, intensifying the blackness of
the mark. In a month the blackened skin would
peel off, leaving a pink scar, which in turn faded
to brown; but by then John was on the estate,
and absconding meant death from starvation in
the jungle, or from fever, dysentery or beri-beri
i er l 8 ca P ture a . nd return. Sheep to the
slaughter were nothing for mildness compared
with the Singkehs under this treatment, and white
men in those parts had scarcely the right to talk
about cruelty to the Tanil, who, with a hot iron,
draws caricatures of the moon and other things on
the rump and flank of his pet cow and favorite
waggon-bnllock, finishing off the former with a
lace-frmge pattern just where a lace-fringe pattern
should be.
• * • *
“Russ”: “ Bauhinia ” is correct in
stating that bower-birds “cough.” I have often
heard them, but I pity “ B.” if he had a cough
anything like the bird’s ; last stage of phthisis is
nothing to it. When b.b. is angry the noise he
makes resembles nothing more than an empty
kerosene-tin dragged over uneven ground.
“ Bogan ” . “ Banjo’s ”
“Saltbush Bill” “got there
{‘ust the same,” only easier.
Ringing in “ stores ” from the
Never-Never, no grass ; water
—“in places.” Four
days without a drink,
when strikes tank, and
makes eagerly for it
with perishing sheep.
Three jackeroos appear
stockwhips —dogs—
bar the way. Bill re-
flects. Fight, out of
question—try strategy.
Whispers his men, and
rides up to blockading party.
Entreaties, threats, all in vain.
“Can’t water.” “Had their
orders.” Drover turns away—
suddenly reels in saddle, and
falls to ground. Alarmed,
jackeroos gather round him.
One despatched to homestead
for “ brandy, rum, anything”!
Two others work hard on pa-
tient’s rigid limbs. Jumbucks,
meanwhile, hustled along to-
wards tank, unnoticed. An
hour later, messenger returns.
Brandy restores consciousness.
Profuse thanks. Sudden con-
sternation of station trio, and
hurried rush at sheep. No
trouble now to get them away
from water. Real “ fats. ’
Bill joins jackeroos in abuse
of his own men’s carelessness.
Cordial leave-taking, and re-
petition of thanks. “My
word, I tell yer, though,” Bill
says to his grinning mates, as
the good Samaritans disap-
pear in the scrub, “it’s ’ard
graft act’n the stiff ’un for a
whole blessed hour.”
* • *
“ W.” : “Guam's” yarn-
let re that baccy-boozing swag-
gie reminds me. Old “Both-
ered Bill,” shepherd at Yalla-
roi, would amble annually to a
not-distant pub. and stay there
until he had put himself outside of a “ case ” of—
sarsaparilla, , neat! Further, Mr. Publichouse
always laid in a stock of this particular tipple for
Bill’s especial benefit.
“Boleg Much interested in “ Yar-
rumi’s ” rabbit. Have never seen him south of
the Murray, but know the southern bunny well.
He rarely finds himself in a place where he can’t
turn. In nine cases out of ten he can turn easily
in a hollow opening, and in the odd case he
scuffles out so suddenly that “ Yarrumi ” might
easily be deceived as to the end first
appearing. Further, when he takes shelter
in a standing hollow tree (going up by means
of back and legs) he never turns to come
down. Have never known a rabbit die in a log
(if blocked in) without a long struggle, evidenced
by scratehmarks , and, broadly speaking, where-
ever a breeze can go bunny can follow. Also,
cover up the openings to his burrow, and the same
bunny will strike daylight at the nearest point.
*•* * •
‘ ‘ Lynx ” ; Pigs are not strychnia-proof.
Knew a man who was troubled with neighbor’s
P Prepared banquet of strychnine and pol-
lard. Result: Much defunct pork within an hour
after feast.
* • * *
The ferocious humor of Q. administrators.
Western Queensland is notorious for its sharp
winters with their biting Western blasts. Govt,
therefore very considerately sent out (at the end
of August!) to the Boulia blacks a pile of blankets
to shield their emaciated forms. Probably the
poor nigs, will get a supply of flannels and com-
forters about the middle of December.
• • * •
Birdsville (Q.) police, out with camels after
man wanted for issuing valueless cheque. Passing
Annandale- „orgina River, camel slipped and
put out its right thigh ; constable left black-boy
m charge of camel, went into Birdsville to report,
and was sent back by the sergeant with a flea in
his ear for “ leaving valuable Govt, property in
charge of nigger.” Constable to sergeant, first
report: “12 a.m.—Went down and see (sic) the
camel. _ He is 132 ft. from the bed of the creek;
he’s within high water-mark. Later.—See the
camel agin ; he is now 2ft. higher up the bank ;
he is making for the shade, but he’ll niver reach
it, ’tis up-hill.” The camel was allowed to remain
there for months, and got quite fat feeding on
green boughs, till at last orders came from head-
quarters to shoot the animal and forward the skin
to Blackall.
* * » •
“Inna”: The mathematical deficiencies
of Australian blacks is “ C.R.’s ” text. I would
like to drag in a yarn about the accountancy of
Australian miners. In the days of the Palmer
three diggers sold their gold at the bank—,£947.
They wanted to equally share the cash, but
couldn’t arrive at an agreement as to the amount
of a one-third share. The manager offered to help
them—after they had wrangled for half-an-hour
at the counter. They wouldn’t trust him. They
drew the amount in £1 notes, and one of the
diggers commenced to deal, as if it were a card
game. But there were 947 cards in the pack, and
quarrels soon arose as to whether two notes had
STRUCK IT.
MINING EXPERT : “ Where is your reef—ei —minah !”
MINAG: “ Why, yer sittin' on it!”
not been dealt to the dealer, and whether the
other man had not been missed. After each dis-
pute, the notes were gathered up again, and the
dealing ’ started afresh. In about three hours
the counting was done—and in three weeks the
cash was done.
• * • *
“ F.F.O’D.” : Once more. When the ’roo
is hopping along at leisure he often strikes the
ground with his tail, but, as he increases his
speed, he lowers his head until, when he has it
all on his nose is as near to the ground as his
tail. He sees hardly further than a hop ahead of
him, and landing in one spot, has his eyes on
next landing-place. With a wallaby it is differ-
ent. Hundreds of times have I chased him but
never saw him tail the ground.
• • * •
“Zulu”: Be ’possum-cats. There is a
lady in Terang who owns a female cat which used
to take periodical trips rabbiting. On one occa-
sion she stayed away longer than usual, and on her
return presented her mistress with two stranee-
looking kittens. These kittens are now about 18
months old a,nd are hybrids. The form is after
that of the ordinary cat, but the fur is decidedly
possum, whde the paws and tail show a little of
each, they eat meat and occasionally grass, and
would make excellent domestic felines were it not
for the objectionable ’possum-odour. Saw them
t other day, and one is about to have a litter— of
oats or possums ?
• * * «
Who laughs last! About the “nearest”
and cutest of Riverina squatters is also agent for a
EQUAL RIGHTS IN MAORILAND.
GO-TO-SUNDAY-SCHOOL LADY : “ Take off your hat, boy , and siny
‘God Save the Queen'."
THE BOY : “Take yer own ’at off, missus, and sing it yerself !”
mortgage and land biz. Buying some rams from
an old Scot he charged 10 instead of 5 per cent,
com. Seller, protesting, was told that only the
usual 5 had been charged, i.e., 5 for the co. and 5
for the agent. So he paid and looked happy.
From same man his nearest squatting neighbor
wanted to buy a stallion, so a well-worn veteran
was sent over and £2OO put on him. Of course the
other refused to part, but agreed to buy the horse
at price which a valuator might fix. Having got
on so well with the Scot in the ram-deal, the ven-
dor thought Sandy would make a pretty com-
plaisant valuator, and accordingly, named him.
Verdict: “ Eicht punds—if he survives the opera-
tion of being * added to the list ’ ! ”
* * * *
A novel feline fact, and an interesting
variation on the pig-mendacity business. A Bris-
bane publican possesses a cat which is a splendid
ratter. T’other day, she slew a particularly tine
specimen, and Boniface routed out a rat’s nest
and, for curiosity’s sake, put the young rodents
(only a few days old) in among pussy’s kittens.
To everyone’s surprise, madame, in place of
slaughtering the intruders, took kindly to them,
and set to work feeding them and bringing them
up with her own family. . . . Would be interest-
ing to follow up the experiment.
* * * *
A Windsor MAGAziNE-writer declares that,
when the young of the duckbill platypus are
hatched out, they are quite blind and naked, and
their bills are very short; but whether they are
reared in pouches or not is still doubtful, as,
although the marsupial (or pouch) bones are pre-
sent in the skeletons of the platypus, it is not
known for certain whether the young ones are
actually carried in them or not. This statement
ought to arouse The Bulletin aboriginals.
* * * *
“ Buzzy ” : lie, the great pyjama-question.
Coming home from a dance up Monaro way, self
and friend roused up the (new) local boniface,
who, unlocking the door, led the way into the bar
attired only in his night-shirt. “ Hullo, Bill ” I
said, ‘ £ where’s your pyjamas ? ” He turned to his
shelves, and, after searching among his bottles
for half-a-minute, he replied, “ Well, boss, you
see I am t got into the run of this place yet, an’ I
don t see no pajamas,’ but I can give you some
first-rate three-star.”
* * * m
“Scotty ” : “ W.S.T.” is not the only one
who has a sort of proof of his bunyip theory. I
am at present camped where last year there was a
well-known old-man Murray cod. He was seen
by everyone near this, and his back was like a
swine s. He started about the mouth of a creek
opposite, visited every snag, and worked up two
or three hundred yards, frightening big fish into
jumping two feet out of the river. One man fired
at him two or three times ; once he jumped a
toot out of the water and fell on his side. If
Oeorge had given him the second barrel he could
n , im : There was no use fishing as soon
as Ihe Bake began his prowl. Again, at Quat
yuatta (Johnny Wallace’s), there is a cod that, I
Pj! 6 .’ weighs 2001bs. The fisherman there has
had mm on more than once, always losing his
hook. Therefore, having heard the splashing of
smaller fish (a bad sign for fishing), I am of the
same opinion as “ W.5.T.,” namely, that the bun-
yip is a Murray cod, and, possibly—beer.
* * * »
Jim had just drawn his cheque, and, after
investing in a pair of badly-needed new boots
* iJ 1 C w . ear so °ks), he got beatifically hallucinated
at the pub., and, stagi-ering out into the middle
ol the road, lay down and fell asleep. A couple of
swagmen coming along relieved him of the new
boots, as the only valuable asset he had about him,
and presently the coach rattled up. “Take yer
ugly feet out of the way,” yelled jehu. “ I was
just near cutting over’em.” Jim sleepily raised
f ll .® T eac) ’. and, casually surveying the pair of
u'Jri S by the setting sun, observed:
•them amt my feet—mine’s got boots on ” —and
went to sleep again.
“ Waipiri”: Though
we in Maoriland are free
from noxious reptiles, we
have been priding our-
selves on the exclusive
possession of a peculiarly
venomous spider the
katipo. But I fancy I
remember in Australia a
little black, red-spotted
spider of much the same
kind, which wasabundant
in mor tice - holes and
amongst loose stones or
timber. Is our monopoly
a myth ? [Yes; the spider
is the same —Latrodectus
scelio. —Ed. B.]
* * *
“A. F.D.”: The
“stone-brokers” between
Brisbane and the Tweed
have a bad time in cross-
ing ferries unless they
can hand up a new silk
pocket - handkerchief in
lieu of the Id., 2d. or 3d.
(ferry fares vary). The
ferry proprietors are
nearly all from theVater-
land and are, on the
whole, a stolidly remorse-
less lot.
* » *
At , a way-back pub.
recently writer sat at
table with the champion
spitter of the Maranoa.
He spat out the gas three
times running; he spat
at a big kangaroo-dog in
the corner until the brute
got up and “cleared.”
Then the champion sat
back, breathed heavily
and spat the fire into
oblivion. Given a good
chew of tobacco, he said,
and he’d blind a mob
of cattle. To-morrow he
was going down to Syd-
ney to spit over the
G.P.O. and G. H. Reid.
Then he arose, threw out
his chest and spat his
initials on the tin looking-
glass. Asked him if there was anyone in Austra-
lia who could beat him at the game. He answered
that nothing but an old-man drought could dry
him, up.
• • • *
“ J. Jingle” seizes Henry Lawson by the
throat and hair and ear and the slack of his
habiliments:—
Dear Bulletin.— Re Lawson’s “Dry Country,” how
much more of this drivelling pessimism are we going to
get? The sensible bushman only laughs at the partly
incomprehensible, partly untrue, jangle, the reading
aloud of which is like the smiting of a kerosene-tin ; but
there is a class to whom this sort of stuff can do infinite
harm. Surely Lawson doesn’t want to do infinite harm I
The man who, in the Far West, or anywhere else, lias
shrivelled leather" and “ brittle reins ”is a man who s
too lazy to look after his gear, and wants “ rounding on,”
not pitying or extolling as a martyr to the “unknown
absentee” and “ dressmakers in Paris,” whatever the3'’ve
got to do with it. Also, if he’s too dirty to keep his hair
cut short when travelling, he deserves to have jt rot off,
though I can’t strike anybody among western travellers
about here that has ever heard of this result from camp-
ing out on the “ashes" (he means dust, I suppose, but
couldn’t get it into that line) of the Dry Countree. A
townsman, reading the second verse of this gruesome
incongruity, would imagine the West to be pretty well
paved with corpses. What with the “ bleaching whitely,”
the “ rather recent,” and the implied other stages of
decomposition, why, the trenches outside Santiago are
not a circumstance to Lawson's West. Worse nonsense
never saw the light of print. Why, more people have
died in London and Paris from sunstroke in the last
two or three months than ever lived on the western
tracks that Lawson has travelled. They’ve got to die,
everywhere 1 Also, the cattle are amusing. 20,000 of
wu Peking up the dust of the rags from the corpse-army!
Why, two thousand head almost always travel in two
mobs of 1000 each with separate gangs of men, and I
doubt if anybody ever saw 20,000 head in a mob anywhere
in Australia. I have seen between two and three thousand
on the main camp of a big Northern cattle station.
Twenty thousand head feeding across a flat plain would
more than reach the horizon ! Then the blacks : first,
you needn’t fear them ; afterwards, you’d better carry a
revolver; what for? Perhaps to shoot yourself if the
water turns out to be a mirage; surely the unpleasant
insect with the proverbially small heart is beaten in that
respect by Lawson’s imaginary westerner. But he is not
like that. His heart is as big as that organ will run to,
and it’s very few of him that feels at all like the miser-
able object Lawson makes him out. The bushman’s row
is hard hoeing enough without a slab of this jangling
misery being thrown at him once a week by the paper
whose next issue he is looking forward to as soon as the
last is finished. In six months any man having work can
save enough to go to almost any part of the globe, and
yet they don’t leave that awful west with its corpse-paved
desert, its rotting hair and change of hells —ugh ! “ Goes
an unprotected maiden ’cross the clearing carrion laden.’’
What’s it all about? “No limb for saddle-strapping.”
Again, what is it all about ? We can’t make anything of
it up here, and some of us really do, or ought to, know
something about the bush.
* * » *
It was in ’52 that one Dave Devine had
about .£9OO worth of gold to take from Ballarat to
Geelong, and two or three of his “friends” re-
solved to save him the trouble. As it happened,
however, the visit of a bank gold-buyer enabled
Dave to convert the gold into notes, and, with 18
fifties in the lining of his old-fashioned belltopper,
he got beyond Buninyong before he was bailed-up
and ordered to strip. Knowing the men well, he
affected great indignation, and, dashing his hat on
the ground, offered to fight them one after another.
They made him strip, however, and searched his
clothes, cart, and harness—even ripping open the
saddle and collar —but never (as they didn't know
the gold had been converted into notes) thought of
examining the hat lying on the ground, and were
fain to depart cursing. When they found out
afterwards that the money had been under their
noses all the time they were fit to cut their throats.
» * * *
“A. A.": Met a bullocky, the other day,
who told me he was one of the first to do the Syd-
ney-Bourke trip. No roads then. Merely station
to station, as best they could, from information
received. Would often have to cut siding down
banks of watercourses, and, yoking two teams to
each waggon, drag them slowly down, and up the
other side. Coming to a black-soil 'plain once just
after a heavy rain, they were compelled to camp
for ten days until things hardened. Another time
lost six days looking for bullocks that had got
away with some wild scrub cattle. With such


THE “F x AND R" WATCH,
0
CD
©
©
0
0
25/6
25/0
“THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY WATCH OF THE
AGE.”
The movements are on the Lever principle, have
Brequet Hair-Springs, are jewelled -iri 10 holes; have
expansion balances, are Keyless, In SOLID SILVER
CASES, which SCREW together, thus making- them
dust-proof and practically watertight.
42 -
The same Watch in Oxydised Metal Case, 25 6
THESE WATCHES ARE GUARANTEED FOR 15
YEARS, AND KEPT IN ORDER (BREAKAGES
EXCEPTED) FOR 2 YEARS.
They go with profound accuracy, and stand hard
riding and knocking about.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
25 Hunter Street, Sydney .(only).
The Impure Drug Question.
“ Crotonis Oleum,” to The Bulletin :
Dear Bulletin.— As a qualified pharmacist of 14 years’
standing-, I quite concur with “ Phyyaka” (8., 24/9/’9B) as
to necessity for official drug inspection, as a check on
adulteration. I have had personal experience of the
admirable working, in this respect, of the Continental
system ; but let me point out that, if such should be in-
troduced here, the State will have, sooner or later, to go
further, and enact that only pharmacists may legally dis-
pense prescriptions. Medical men should not be allowed
to compound their own prescriptions, because there is no
check upon blundering, which is something more than
possible with men who have had, at most, only six
months’ training in pharmacy. A much longer period is
required to make a man a reliable compounder. And,
even in places where there is no pharmacist, the physi-
cian should procure his medicines compounded in such a
way that he has only to write directions. The compound
to be labelled with names of constituents, which label
will also serve as a prescription—making the subscribing
pharmacist responsible. And, as regards the medico in
practice large enough to employ a “dispenser” of his
own, you now and then see an advt.
-pvOCTOR’S GROOM wanted. Must be able to dis-
pense!
The State would also have to fix a standard price for a
standard drug, so that prescriptions might be uniform,
not only in quality, but in cost; price of each ingredient
to be marked sepau.tely in margin. Prices also should
be so fixed as to give a fair remuneration for professional
skill in compounding, and not lumped together as at
present at from 4s. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per Boz. bottle of medi-
cine-regardless of how much water or other ingredient
it may contain.
Another difficulty. Water in the B.P. is understood as
distilled, and to get this fresh and pure there is required
a still, to use which in these provinces a license must be
obtained. Few will take the trouble to do this; and,
though one may chance to get distilled water in one or
two establishments, even then it may be only “ engine-
water." . ,
I would restrict the professional part of dispensing en-
tirely to “Doctors” or “Masters” of Pharmacy, who,
for such degree, should have undergone a post-graduate
two-years’ course, and have been at least four years in
practice.
For public information, also, the State, as in Germany,
should have patent medicines analysed ;'and the sale-of-
poisons law should be made less of a dead letter as regards
preparations at present practically shielded by the word
“ patent.”
The laws relating to poisonous drugs, in fact, are, in
any case, only a farce, inasmuch as not only do many
pharmacists neglect the statutory precautions, but most
storekeepers will sell to a regular customer any kind or
quantity of poison without witness, signature, or question
as to use. One fatal result of this laxity, within my own
knowledge, was penalised with a fine of—£l!
“ Bargo ” : Recently heard a “ geebung ”
relating his experience with a palmist and phren-
ologist. “ The bloke asked me if I’d had any
accidents, an’ I said two ; an’ blow me if he
didn’t show me where this gutter round my thumb
—‘life-line,’ he called it—was broken twice.
When I got home I washed my hand and found
three places, an’ then I remembered the fall I
had off old Barclay’s mare ; this ’ere middle line
he called the ‘Fennis line,’ and it joined this one
he called ‘the money gutter.’ Well, I married
old Sam Taylor’s daughter, and he give me a
tenner for a weddin’-present. Everything that
cove said was right.”
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FRED BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
£. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
There is a peculiar appropriateness- in the
selection of the “ Divine William ” by the Roman
Catholics of Germany as “ Protector of the Holy
Places in the East.’’ It is some years now since
William the Sore-eared announced his acceptance
of the Deity as a junior partner in the manage-
ment of the universe, and impressed upon his own
subjects the claim of the Supreme Ordainer of
Things to their obedience in all matters outside
the sphere of Imperial Germanic influence. Logic-
ally, the boss-ship of all Holy Places on the earth,
in the East and elsewhere, should be instantly
handed over to the senior influence in the affairs
of men.
incidents to break the monotony, the whole jour-
ney, up with merchandise and down with wool,
took exactly eight months. “ But, you see,” my
informant added, regretfully, “ we got £2O a ton
both ways. And we were paid in sovereigns ; no
cutting-out in those times.”
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin. —Writer has seen scores of
rabbits in western Vic. coming out of logs, hollow
trees and burrows, “ mid the tail in front,’ as
“ Yarrumi ” says. In fact, they can “back-
pedal ” along a hollow log as well as for’ard.
* * • *
Dear Bulletin.— Can any of your bush-
men explain how the young brush-turkey or talle-
galla escapes from the mass of vegetable matter
it is hatched by ?—sometimes 4ft. high by dia-
meter of 10ft., with eggs at centre of base ?—S.H.
* * • »
“ Steele Rudd ” : Used to wonder at
number of dead lambs strewn round a solitary
tree on a Q. station plain. One day watched a
native bear descend said tree and pounce upon a
sleeping lamb, which he killed. Joyfully in-
formed boss, and was called a fool to the delight
of a raw-boned, blind boundary-rider.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —See nothing to laugh at
in “ Flong’s ” par., 14/9/’9B, re bottle of milk car-
ried in right hand taking him astray on a dark
night. Bill and Jim were at a selectors’ ball once
and started home early along a bridle-track. Bill
had a girl on left arm; Jim another or 'ht.
Bill deviated half-mile to left ; got lost. Jim
strayed a mile right ; lost also.— Steele Rudd.
[Something wrong with this yarn. The girl who
had Bill on her right arm wandered to the left.
Girl with Jim on her left arm wandered to the
right.]
• * • *
The agent and interpreter for the batch
of 100 Japs, lately imported to Mossman, N.Q.,
is having a lovely time. Hardly a day passes but
a mob of Japs, strike and arrive where he lives,
followed presently by furious canegrowers de-
manding that he shall knock sense in or out of his
countrymen. One farmer threatened to “stiffen”
the agent because, said he, “ The brown devils
came up to my house this morning without a stitch
of clothes on them and frightened the wits out of
my wife and family ! ” On another plantation the
Japs, packed up one morning and cleared without
a word, but returned next day with the following
note to their. employer from the agent : —“ To
Mr. James Reynolds, Esqr.—Kindly let the
bearers have some flesh of a female fowl.” Ye
Gods ! the “ flesh of-a female fowl ” ! It takes a
white man all his time to raise three johnnie-
cakes a day.
• • » *
J. G. Reuthner, a Lutheran missionary in
mid-Australia, has for years been patiently putting
the New Testament into the dialect of the Dieri
natives ; and the print of it has just been issued
in S.A. —it was a two-years’ job for a little Ger-
man printing-office in the country. This is given
as a sample of what the Dieris put up with :
Ja Uakana Mardatandrakampanietja Wokarana Wonti
Multibanila Manila, Ja Nunkangu Jatani Wonti“ Ngu-
jangujara Jinkinietjajai Mina Ngaiani Ngankananto 1 ”
The foregoing means : “ Then came also publicans
to be baptised, and said unto Him, ‘ Master, what
shall we do ?’ ” But the Dieri-man won’t have
any doubt about what he would have the only
publican that he is likely to have ever heard of do.
A N.S.W country-town
shopkeeper, noted for his zoo-
logical proclivities, once placed
a large live carpet-snake in his
window as an attraction, and
as the snake took matters
quietly, a large rat was shut in
with him for company. Wagers
were made that the rat would
be swallowed inside three hours,
but second day found him
alive and very hungry ; and on
the third day the rat had killed
and eaten part of the snake !
* * *
“F.”: The natives of the
Musgrove and McDonnell
ranges in Central Australia
possess foot - coverings. They
are different from those said
to be worn by the natives of
the N.W. sand-ridge country.
The upper part is woven of
human hair. The soles are
thick, made of dry grass mixed
with gum and blood. On the
surface of the sole is stuck a
coating of emu-feathers which
renders them noiseless. Their
use has not been quite deter-
mined. There is a paper in the
records of the Linnean Society
of N.S.W. about them. There
is a pair in the Australian
Museum, Sydney, and several
were brought back by the
“Horne ” party which went on
a scientific quest to the McDon-
nell ranges. The native name
is “kaditcha,” or “ kadisha.”
Favenc has a book based on
them: “ The Mocassins of Si-
lence.”
* • •
“ Buck ” : In response to
“W.”( Bulletin, 3/8/98) “ Wok-
ka atchie ” (correctly “Wokka,
or Wogera, atchie”) means a crow. I presume
that the blacks, seeing explorer Kennedy boiling
his billy on their graveyard, mistook him for a
new species of corvus searching for carrion, and
named him accordingly. The blacks of western
N.S.W. and Queensland have a habit of bestow-
ing aboriginal names on white people marked by
any peculiarity. A few instances: “Kumera,”
left-handed ; “ Kurroo,” grey-haired ; “ Koopaa,”
white-haired.
The next horror Australia will have to
keep its eye open for is the chico —the “jigger ” of
travelled Americans : the horrible little flea-like
insect, talked and written of by New Australians,
which lays its ulcerating eggs in the human feet.
From South America, the abomination has
reached the blacks of Central Africa, and will, it
is expected, be soon brought down by “ boys ” to
Natal and the Rand. Then, having been ac-
climatised, it will be ready for introduction to
Australia.
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin.—So the “ steady, saving,
servile individual ” is beneath the blatant, blear-
eyed, besotted, beautiful boozer of the bush ?
Well, God help him ! and help this continent also,
if its free sons and true sons are the yahoos who
periodically stumble into a shanty to talk “ scab ”
and “ scrap,” and roar for rum, and fall down and
lie in the sun with their shirts off and their mouths
dripping, until the shanty-keeper straightens them
up and kicks them and their filthy bundles out on
to the track. The “ independent spirit of a free
and purely Australian nation ” ! — Steele Rudd.
* * * *
. TThe arid Tasmanian now asks in a husky,
chipped voice for a “ Boag ” (Boag is a prosperous
brewer) when his opportunity comes to “moisten.”
The term is unquestionably accepted all over the
island as signifying a long beer, and the irrespon-
sible drunk is no longer boozed but “Boaged.”
Interesting to watch how far it will spread.
* * * *
Ancient Chow (anything from 65 to 125
years, absolutely toothless, and with usual Chinese
custom of emphasising sentences as if abusing
listener), riding along track, after heavy rain, and
looking to his dog-traps, meets manager of an ad-
joining run. “ Day, .1 immy ! ” “ Goo’day, Mitter
Barker. You dam foo’” (undue emphasis on the
noun). “ Hullo, Jimmy ! —what for ?” “ No, no !
you no savee—you dam foo’! ” hurled at the other
this time. Barker gets wild and grabs .Jimmy by
the tail. “ Why, you yellow old ” Jimmy,
with a tremendous effort: “ No, no, Mitter
Barker ! Big lain come alonga here, fillem tanks
and dlains, an’ makee you dam foo' ? ” Then
“Mitter Barker” tumbled, and apologised to
Jimmy’s pigtail.
• * * •
“E.S.S.”: A few years ago there was
a mob of about 80 tame pelicans at Thurlingra
Station, Q. The kitchen stands within a few feet
of a big waterhole, down the bank of which was
thrown all refuse—upon which the pelicans came
regularly to feed. And, being unmolested, they
ventured awhile to the door of the kitchen, and at
last would sit about the place like tame geese,
taking no notice whatever of passers-by.
• » * •
“ Werrimee ’ : On a station near Bourke
there used to be a five-legged steer ; the fifth leg
grew out near the wither. Have seen a chicken
with three legs, a snake with two tails ; and a
sheep with three horns, the third being an osseous
prolongation of the nose. This kind of horn fre-
quently crops out from ear-points. On Boolarwell
Station, near Goondiwindi, there were several
four or five-horned sheep.
• » * *
“ Yang ” : Any of your readers ever
try to kill a crocodile? At six one morning
two of us began on a 14-footer. I took out his
heart and laid it in a billy of warm water ; some-
one had fooled me that it would beat for an hour
or two. At eight we went to breakfast, and at
THE APPROACH OF SUMMER.
8.30 turned-to again, and found the subject ap-
parently very well satisfied with himself. Went
to see if the heart was beating. It was gone !
By 10 o’clock we’d done our duty by the beast,
and were prepared to swear he was dead. My
friend hung the hide out to dry, while I had
another look for that heart. I found it—in the
brute’s stomach; but he hadn’t been able to
manage the billy, which had lodged in his throat
and probably choked him. Otherwise he might be
Miss ADA REEVE.
Photo., The Alba Studios.
alive still. [P.S. —What was the ’dile doing while
his heart was being cut out and put in the billy ?
If he was loose, so that he could get at it and
swallow it afterwards, why didn’t he remon-
strate?—Ed. B.]
* * * *
“ S.R.” : Ran the mail once from Clifton
to Picton (South Q.), and an odd character shep-
herding on the plains for Headington Hill used
regularly waylay me to ask the time and talk
about dead sheep. He had a long-tailed chestnut
mare, pig fat, which he always led after the flock
or wherever he went. Asked him his reason, but
he never obliged. Got off one day to yarn with
him and my horse pulled away. He wouldn’t go
after him on the mare, so I jumped on her and
was immediately fired off on to the broad of my
back. Found out after that the brute hadn’t been
mounted for four years !
“P.”: The poor farmer in
S. A., though he scuffles along 18 hours
or so a day, has just as much of the
tired feeling as most people. A
valuator who went North lately was,
therefore, not surprised to find half-
a-dozen reaping-machines in a circle
in the middle of a paddock; but when
the poor farmer explained that he
had “ drored ’em up that way to pro-
tect one agin the other,” the hustler
felt tired too. On the same farm a
new binding-machine (one of the most
expensive parts of a farm’s equip-
ment) was stuffing up a hole in a
fence. No wonder “ farmin’s played
eout.”
Dear Bulletin. —The rancor of
Gladstone’s clean-shirt misprint in
the Times lies in the fact that the
Irish used to wear saffron-colored
shirts, to save washing. In fact, a law
was passed compelling them to wash
them three times a year, and this was
when Tara’s Hall (built of wood)
held learned monks, or something,
who were in scientific Continental cor-
respondence about eclipses and sich. I
have often been half-eaten, like Brock-
man by the man-eating lion, for dar-
ing to state this, and my authority
was thrown into the fire at Merungle
by an enraged man from Connemara ;
but I give you the name of the
book, “ Larry Lynch.” I wrote to
all the new and second-hand book-
sellers in Sydney and Melbourne for
a copy, but failed to procure one. It
was written by an army-officer, who
was in Ireland in some rebellion or
another (I’m not up in history), and
he quoted Hollinshed, giving page
and chapter. Of course it is a libel,
and another injustice. But, consider-
ing the dirty state of the Saxon in that
period, and the fact that his Govern-
ment wasn’t clean enough to order
him to wash his shirt at all —let
alone three times a year—l don’t know
why the Connemara man got so
angry.— Scotty the Wbinkler.
In the old Longford (Tas.) days
there was an ancient autocrat named
Walker who had a curious habit of
fixing his eye-glass and scanning each
passer-by. A beastly native on a
horse returned the compliment by twigging old
money-bags through one of his stirrup-irons.
He was summoned for insulting behavior, and
got seven days in the logs.
The wife of a former nigh Westralian
official was recently requested by the P.O. autho-
rities to call for a parcel which had arrived from
England, contents not specified. She called.
“ Oh, Mr. B.” (to parcels-post official), “ can't you
give me the parcel without my naming the con-
tents ? ” “ Very sorry, madam, but you must tell
me what is in it.” “Oh, but, really I—er—is
there no lady here to whom I can tell it?” Mr.
B. : “ Oh, yes ; there’s Miss , at the stamp-
counter.” Information accordingly confided to
Miss that there are “ night-dresses ” in the
parcel —“and you know I couldn’t tell the man.
Would you mind doing it?” Miss ——, however,
pretends great horror at the suggestion, and the
hyperdelicate lady is compelled to commit the
dreadful word to paper before she can receive her
lingerie.
“ K.K.” :Be cats and rabbits. Knew an
old woman’s cat in England that would often kill
and bring home rabbits big enough for the family
to make a meal of. Now, what was that cat's
idea in bringing them home? Preference for
cooked meat; love of approbation ; payment for
board-and-lodging ; or simply the same cheerful
folly that induces the worker all the world over to
hand over the swag to the idler in return for a
small percentage of same ?
NOT BUILT THAT WAY.
FLO : “That's the new nurse; pa’s just engaged
her."
CLAUDE : “ Her! She can’t nurse—coz why, she
hadn't any lap!”
Rental of one large room and one tiny
ditto, used as a Sydney branch P. 0., is .£4OO
a year! No wonder the State is beloved as a
tenant.


DIVIDED ATTENTION.
FITZGIBBON : “ Lucky for us he doesn’t know which to go for.”


Kaiser William 11. intends “doing” the Holy Land.
He is here seen weeping over the hitherto neglected grave
of an ancestor.
IN
Lov/iNG,
'REMEI1DRANCE
Adam the
FIRST MAN
Erected By
Wilhelm %
$EC0NJ)
The Kaiser: “Of course, you cannot
expect me to ‘ look pleasant ’ under these
circumstances ! ”
\ ' K U,r ‘> C °u r 'T Photographer: “On the con-
trary, my Kaiser, if you could manage td throw a little more grief into that left
leg!”
Something has gone wrong with that eyeglass lately. Premier
Reid has been seeing double.
jl MM
I WIM
ky Jm
JmmL
“I am going on with Jb'ederatmu now. withonr,
turther delay !” Yes-No Reid.
AFTER THE DIVISION.
Fbderatiosist r “ So you consider that your party has a working majority t ”
Yes-Noite : “Oh ! decidedly J ”
F'ed. . ‘ Well, it will have to be a yery hard * working * majority. ®
.Old Salt LYIJD (who has just handed over the 'wheel to thfe new shipper?
Barton) * “My word ! I wish yer -joy -of vgur new billet, I do. I’in goin’
,below to get dry.”
CABTOONLETS.


Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
’o'/o on] y- To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
iCSs ft
Do you want a pleasant
evening- at home, or to
give an exhibition? The
Craphophone
a most marvellous instru-
ment; reproduces the
music of great military
bands, famous opera
singers, and celebrated
comedians in laughter-
provoking monologues
produced upon the stages
of the great cities of the
world.
Simple to operate.
Will not get out of
Write or Call for Catalogues or any information. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UNITED IMPORTING COMPANY
117 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TO THE
Wool Growers of New South Wales
and Queensland.
The undersigned members of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association wish to announce that,
m order to arrive at a uniform system of charges, they have decided to fall into line, and to adopt the
following Scale of Charges on all Wools sold by them in the Sydney market, viz., a
consolidated charge to the grower of 3 per cent. Commission only
on all lots, large and small.
_ To make the position clear, we intend to adhere to the system of charging the buyer for storage,
delivery, repacking, insurance after sale, etc., |d. per lb. on all wools realising 3fd. per lb. and over,'
and Is. 6d. per bale on all sold under that figure.
It will be observed that this is, in two important particulars, a modified system as compared with
that formerly existing. In the first place the commission charge will for the future be uniform to large
and small growers alike, instead of two separate rates of 3 and 3J per cent.; and in the next the delivery
charge to buyers on wools realising under 3fd. is reduced to a fixed rate of Is. 6d. per bale.
It may be pointed out here that in order to facilitate buyers’ arrangements in making shipping
engagements and securing the best terms for freight, we agree to allow them 14 days in which to pay
for and take delivery of their purchases. But in all cases, whether the wool be paid for or not we pay
over proceeds to owners within seven days from date of sale. ’
Australasian Mortgage & Agency Co., T.iwitgfl
John Bridge & Co., Limited.
Dalgety & Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones, & Devlin, Limited.
Hill, Clark & Co.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co., Limited.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son, & Badgery, Limited.
Winchcombe, Carson, & Co.
Wyly, Trenchard, & Co.
J. C. Young & Co.
Sypney, September 30, 1898
NOTE—Our ONLY Australian Address — 90 KING STREET SYDNEY.
New Rustic Bar, Ivy and Gold Pearl Set
BIRD BROOCH, 13s 6d.
SL
m .
i Mill liillllllll
Ha
GOLD 3-BAR PEARL BROOCH,
Do., 155.; 15c., 22s 6d.
Gold HEART and CHAIN BROOCH, 08 6d.
G
O
L
D
P
I
N
&
C
H
A
I
N
P
E
N
D
A
N
T
S
G
O
X.
I>i
I
?!
»i
&
I
C!
Hj
i
N ■
P;
E
N 1
D
A
N
T
S
With Lucky Bean, 7/6 Smaller size, 6/6
„ Lucky Bell, 7/6 „ „ 4/6
M Heart, 7/6 „ „ 6/6
~ Cross, 8/- Larger size, 10/6
Lucky Bells with Chain, 3/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-
CURB CHAIN RING.
9c., 15s, 20s.
15c., 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 27s 6d, 355.
18c. HALF-HOOP.
6 fine Diamonds, £7 10s.
JSrnallerstones, £4,£5,£6.
2 fine'D'iaii>ond9( With 3 ,
Sapphires, Rubies, Opals'
or Pearls, £3, £4, £5.
5 lovely Opals, 455, 50s,
60s.
18c. MARQUISE.
Set with 14 Diamonds i
and 1 Ruby or
Sapphire, Emerald, I
or Turquoise centre,
£4 4s.
PLAIN BAND RING
, 9c., 10/-, 12/6,16/-, 20/-
1 15c., 20/-, 22,6, 27/6
18c., 21/-, 25/-, 30/.
With any Name or
Motto, Is extra.
Lucky 4 - Leaf
SHAMROCK
PENDANT,
Solid Gold Mount,
8/6 & 10/- each.
REAL AMETHYST HEART PENDANTS, 2s 6d EACH.
REAL AMETHYST BUTTON HOOKS, 2s 6d EACH.
■
SOLID GOLD
Faith, Hope, and
Charity
PENDANT, 5s ea.
With Pin and
Chain, 8/6.
Please send for our Illus-
trated Slips of Novelties.
All Goods Post Free. '
NEW GOLD HORSE
AND STIRRUP
PENDANT, 13s 6d,
piiiiipi
© —^
GOLD BELL AND CHAIN BROOCH,
12s 6d.
i'M|^g7jll[i; ! i l :iniii;!iiiiNmi!ii'!iiii.ii;iiiiiiii[i
GOLD 2-BAR BROOCH, Set with Red and
Blue Stones, 12s.
IP
REAL RUBY or SAPPHIRE BROOCH,
15c., 18s 6d ; 9c. 13s 6d.
ENGLISH HALL - MARKED
ALBERTS.
90. Gold Single, 50s, 60s, 70s.
15c. „ „ 955, 110 s, 130 s.
Silver ~ 7s 6d, 10s, 13s 6d.
9c. Gold Double, 60s, 755, 85s.
15c. „ „ 110 s, 130 s, 150 s.
Silver ~ 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
EXPANDING AND SELF-CLOSING
BRACELETS—SOLID GOLD,
Full Size, 50s, 555, 60s, 70s.
Children’s, 27s 6d, 30s.
SIX DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Answers to Correspondents.
V b Zr Uk i communications insufficiently
■F a J ne a7 j d address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and m no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
TyP e = Wl ?at on earth is “ direful belation ? ”...
Gilbert W. : On consideration-not enough force and
interest .Coowee : Declined Fred V.: Unusable
Vlm > P-E.W. : Sad little lost-pup
kind of thing W.G.H. :“ Skane ” for use; verse not
up C.L.B. (Kurnalpi): Copy sent for seven stamps
T.J.H. : Thanks .....Erica: No good T. Duff: Send
ni / 0U lke ’ its good we’ll soon let you know.
It bad, sooner L.C. : Case remains precisely as stated.
Readers are supposed to understand the meaning of tra-
? ltlon Jack Shay : In “ Music ” you don’t make mean-
ing clear and strong ; will use part slang Duo: Write
it 100 times as a penalty for writing it once. Then you’ll
be as tired of it as a stranger is Albin : Possibly some
definitions ; verse no strength or novelty Met: Verse
fiat A.P. : “Plato” bit thin for B. Pickles: Not
bright enough Douglas A.: Hopeless drivel Gay R.:
Worthless Hal. V.: “Young Blood " jingles well, but
is dull and undistinguished W.H.D. : “Mazzini” and
“ Woman ” uninteresting Perce : “ Meditation ” too
long and slow'. If you can’t put anything else into your
work, put life in H.M.T. : How many more cud-chew-
ing, funeral-pacing bards? Bogan Boy: Only comic-
song merit, and that s nine fathoms below perdition..
P.G. : Name a, winner that has gone outun-baeked on the
tote. And if it did, tote would return all money invested
less its 10 per cent. Fancy the bookie-fiend returning any-
thing ! S.S. : A mistake. Par. in question afterwards
struck us as being a bit of taffy given by one journalist
to another. There are a lot of these mutual-admiration
items about Melbourne: A malicious lie ; although
the statement that the two actresses were on affectionate
terms is equally absurd. ..Novocastrian : Already treated ;
also, not of much general interest E.A. : Isn’t the
whole world full of musicians who work “at lower
rates ””? Dubbo: Not much good going to Natal, ex-
cept as some kind of boss. Boom which is apparently on
will probably end in slump ; and labor is cheapened by
imported Indian coolies Mul^a: Nothing specially
funny about that R.W.N. : Too slight E.R. (S.A.) :
MS. received. (2) To comply with local requirements
about medical advts Tassy : Pars, to hand. “ When
a Fellow,” &c., is by S. W. Foss, an American writer
Namoi : To hand. Others probably not yet dealt with .....
Kiwi : Dull Ula : Declined .. .Goolyan : Can’t use. If
We make it specific, it’s libel ; if vague, it has no interest.
Drama: British copyright lasts for 42 years, or
until seven years after author’s death, whichever
period may be the longer, and you can’t dramatise
a man’s w 7 ork without his permission in British
possessions during that time A.Peccavi: Worth-
ier. Carini : “Curlew's” weak R.J.C. : Don’t
Prose Z. : Sorry unsuitable F.W.M. : Sentiment
too weak and flat Allardyce :No use whatever
F. Ben. : You can’t draw much—and there is nothing in
a bald tip. Crawford V. :We don’t read microscopi-
cally-written articles Disgusted : Well, if the Pro-
fessor is what you say, he will get jumped upon later.
Meantime, where is your evidence that you are not
biassed? Send newspaper cuttings in support of your
case Leslie N. : Don’t remember it Ben Sun : You
are an excellent rhymer. Will print “ Cocky.” H.G. :
“Why is it that a man claiming to be a reputable member
of society will, in his capacity of landlord, sell B.’s goods
(being on his premises) to pay A.’s rent-debt ? ” And why
is it that a barbarous law allows him to do it ? Reekie :
Noted that he is a Scottish, not English, ped.
E.A.VV..: Don’t want such long, painful and ponderous
disquisitions on bush notes-and-queries items. H.M.T. :
To hand C. Seymour : So much matter on hand that
it may not appear for a while. You see, it is an item
which won’t spoil. D.A.M. : Very funny, but .
A. Eland : The Bulletin sticks to Australian subjects as
far as it can. Bet : A negro bab.y is white at birth, and
' akes 15 days to reach chocolate tint—so it’s not possible
to know color of father right off. Fred Rorke : Send
address Edward M‘Donnell : We go four verses in the
interests of Australian ethnology:—
R-F- : Lovely item Constant Reader (Perth):
Thanks .A.H.L. (Carnarvon): Quite wrong. Tas-
mania’s de-Fysh-ieney isn’t nearly so big or so regular as
that of some of its neighbors W.A.T. : Do you
actually think that “disarmament,” as it is called, would
mean the abolition of war? Just read up the gay old
times of Israel and the Philistines. There was no stand-
ing army at all on either side, and the way they used to
batter each other at places with names like Ramoth-
Gilead and Kirjath-jearim was something awful
Leventeen : You propose that the workers should “ arise
and abolish the rule of Competition.” Quite so, but
when you have arose how do you propose beginning to
abolish competition? A.W. : “Retribution” hardly
retributive enough. In fact, it doesn’t retribute to any
visible extent .E.R. (S.A.) : “ Dimp” very well
written, but plot ineffective. Try again Pel. : “Bill-
P.” fails to reach our soul. Would need genius to make
out of the incident anything more than a par
Onlys : “ A Good Woman ” is neither good nor actively
bad. Only a very ordinary “bit of skirt.”
C. Chisholm : Neither subjects nor drawing suitable.
Sao : The old doctors don’t oppose the lady medicos
so much as do the young, with whom they come most in
competition. The old have their grooves Bal : Yarn
not lurid, after others. L.E.D. : May use one as illus-
tration-idea Soleil: Glad to have more Bindya :
Another more direct communication on subject.
Melchior : As to Lipton’s gift of £100,000 to provide
cheap dinners for workers, the man whose dinners used
to cost him 3s. a week, and who will now be able to dine
for, say, Is. 6d., per aid of Lipton, will be able (and most
likely forced) to do with Is. 6d. less wage, as the result
of competition. Benevolence doesn’t always hit the
bull’s-eye any more than advertising-for-a-title does
F.W. (Moree) : Three weak hymns. Of no use to any live
paper Baron : Alleged sex-problem is having a rest
just now... 6 x 8 : The row about the demerits of the
thrifty bushy, and the merits of the manly bushy who has
snakes in his hoots, is interminable Rover : Good,
plain slab of heroism Bildad: Henry George was
reared in the U.S., where land monopoly and Protection
existed, so he decided that they were brothers, and
damned them both. If he had had his draggings-up in
England, where land monopoly (in a still worse form) and
Freetrade prevail, he would doubtless have decided that
they were kindred evils, and cursed with a different curse
altogether Alley Bord : “Luck or Providence” de-
clined. Wants a bigger motive to make the baby-murder
look reasonable H. Martin : Every paper has its
chronic crank correspondent. You are our C.C.O
Vanguard : Declined enthusiastically R.S. : Don’t
care for “ Grinn.” J.M.L. : Handling not up E.P. :
The trifles you to3s off, we toss off too Harvey’s Mate :
Too close to doggerel E.J.B. : End better than the
beginning M.T. (Q.): Don’t write letters ; affix stamps
to MS., and write name and address on MS. L.R.M. :
Sonnet stiff ; par. dull J.B.C. : Flat as Yarra-water.
A. (Coonamble): Another babe-and-suckling bard 1
At least, wait till you cut your teeth Nix : Rather
less Alone : One line good—the last M.H. (Brisb.) :
Will consider. H.V.P. : Don’t like tender morals—or
tough ones Les. O. : “Heather” dull comment on
bright verses J.D. (Syd.): Long maunder—do cut
your maunders short P.M. : Perhaps one par. : verse
reads like imitation of Marshall-Hall F. : The Kipling
verse in Windsor Magazine is reprinted from “Depart-
mental Ditties.”
The Norton-Meagher case in Sydney Police
Courtis a new departure in the administration of
justice. Most of the time the intelligent Court
sn’t even professing to investigate the whip
and pistol charges, but sits helplessly by, doubled
up in its chair, while the two defendants Billings-
gate each other, and tell fish-yarns about each
other. Some samples, reported in Norton’s own
paper, Truth
Mr. Norton : He said here in open court that an order
was made against me in an affiliation-case, and he called
out the name of the girl. Now I have Mr. Levien here to
prove that Meagher is a deliberate liar.
Mr. Meagher : I never said an order was made.
Norton : You’re a damnable liar, you did, and it ap-
peared in the newspaper reports, too.
Meagher : I did not say an ord e.f was made.
Norton : You Dean perjurer and liar, you did say so.
It can be proved by everyone who was in court. All the
reporters heard you say so, and you repeated it over and
over again.
Meagher : You’re a liar too.
Norton : I have Mr. Levien here to prove that you are a
liar in this matter, and also to prove that I was not the
sinner against the girl, but, on the contrary, I was the
man who stood by the girl in her trouble, t hough I was
wrongfully accused.
Meagher : I will deal with you presently ; I have some-
thing here (waving a sheet of foolscap), I’il show you up
you hound.
Norton : You skunk ! you show me up.
Meagher : You’re a skunk ; you’re just as diseased in
body as you are in mind.
Norton : Here’s Mr. Levien ready to state the truth and
bowl you out in more damnable lies, you triple-tongued
Mr. Meagher: I’ve something here (holding up the
foolscap) for you, you skunk, you scaly, scrofulous bit of
carrion ; you can’t grow eyebrows, you diseased creature.
Norton : .Ha 1 ha ! ! ha !! ! Look at the Dean perjurer
and assassin, the triple-tongued liar ; look at his re-
treating forehead—the champion criminal.
Meagher (inaudible).
Norton: Look at his prognathous jaw, his criminal
lower lip, his retreating chin and gorilla mouth—ha, ha,
ha! ’
Meagher : You ! a thing like you attracting people
Norton : Meagher the beauty ! Look at the cultured
young Australian; the refined young Richard Denis
Meagher.
Meagher; If you read the depositions in-
Norton : You damnable liar to swear here last week
that an order was made ; now you deny having made it,
you perjurer and Dean assassin.
Meagher : Mr. Hill said
Norton : Mr. Hill got up and denied your statement to
your face that an order was made against me.
Meagher : What about the case at Newtown ? I have
it here ; the girl’s name is
Norton : You vile perjurer, you can’t bluff me.
Meagher : And you can’t bluff me, you syphilitic bit of
carrion.
Mr. Edwards : Clear the court.
Norton : You kept assassin 1
Meagher : You syphilitic hound; you ought to be
made to crawl out of the court on your hands and knees.
Norton : I never got my living in a .
Meagher : I would crawl out on my stomach, if 1 were
you.
Norton : Look at the champion criminal and liar of the
continent.
Meagher : On the 10th of September
Norton : Publish your own false declarations, you per-
jurer.
Meagher : You can’t quieten me.
Norton : You can’t bawl me down. Publish your own
false declarations, you damnable Dean conspirator.
Meagher : On two occasions you
Norton : Look at the Dean perjurer and assassin.
Meagher : You can’t bluff me.
Norton : The Dean assassin !
Meagher : You can’t bluff me.
Norton : The cultured voung Australian ; the chosen of
The Tweed ! Ha, ha, ha’!
Meagher : Your laughing won’t bluff me.
Norton: I never got my living in a I
Meagher : I can prove you offered £5O to
Norton : I never got my living in a , you Dean
conspirator!
Meagher : You did, and Mr. Dacey can prove it 1
Norton : Do you w’ant to make Mr. Dacey another Dean
perjurer, liar, and conspirator?
Meagher: You blackmailed Dacey for £25 and he is
ready to prove it.
Norton : You damnable liar ; I never got my living in a
Meagher : That is where you get it now.
Norton : I never got my l'iving in a .
Meagher : Yes, you did, and Mr. Dacey can prove it.
Norton : Damnable liar and Dean assassin.
Meagher : You scaly, scurvy, contemptible viper.
Norton : I never kept the door of a , or pulled
the corks, and got my living in a .
Meagher : Dacey can prove what I say.
Norton : Mr. Dacey knows nothing of me ; if he says I
ever lived in a brothel he is as black and damnable a liar
as you are, you co-conspirator of a slow poisoner.
[All this time a small army of policemen in uniform
and plain clothes were struggling frantically to clear the
court as ordered by his Worship],
Norton : I never perjured myself in a court; I never
made a false declaration, and I never got my living in a
. [Great excitement in court ; police still en-
deavoring to force the people through the doors].
Meagher : I can prove you offered £5O
Norton : Here is Mr. Levien to prove that you are a
deliberate liar and perjurer.
Meagher: I never said an order was made.
Norton : You did ; do you mean to say that all the re-
porters are liars, and that the deposition-clerk is a liar,
like you tried to prove Mrs. Dean, whom you basely
branded as a prostitute.
Meagher : (Inaudible.)
Norton: You’re a precious beauty to come here and
bawl out the names, in open court, of unfortunate girls,
to serve your vile ends.
Meagher: You gloated and chuckled over the girl’s
misfortune.
Norton : You filthy, foul-mouthed liar. Where is that
distant clime you were going to after your Dean perjuries?
It must be very warm—in Hell, probably.
After quite 10 minutes’ struggling with the excited
crowd, the police succeeded in clearing the court.
I was quite new on the station,.
Active, young and fair,
With a fair man’s fatal weakness
For women with ebon hair.
I tried this kind—well, in dozens.
As men will often do,
Then I struck a half-caste native
The station-hands called Loo.
Her sire was a pure-bred darkie,
Tall and fleet and slim ;
Her dam was an Irish “ lady,”
Rightly annexed to him.
The girl was the strangest mixture
That ever a white man knew,
This black-haired, lithesome native
The Darling lads called Loo.
One day I had met her standing
Out from the western town,
Well-dressed in the plainest fashion,
Her black hair trailing down ;
Then I was gone in an instant,
Her black eyes pierced me through,
And a fair man’s fatal weakness
Had drawn me unto Loo.
There’s a neat small hut now standing
Just on the river’s bend,
And the quiet, handsome native
Is mother, wife and friend,
And the man who speaks of “ niggers’*
I’ll riddle him fairly through,
For a woman’s heart beats under
The clear dark skin of Loo.


A T■ h ■■■ i■■ l~E^»
- - FEOM A MELBOUENE CITIZEN - -
THAT SPEAKS IN HIGH PRAISE
- - OF - -
Bile Beans for Biliousness
Proof Positive.
We present herewith an exact fac-simile of a
letter recently received from a Melbourne resi-
dent, in which he acknowledges, with a deep sense
of gratitude, the cure that Bile Beans have
wrought in his case. We have published hundreds
of testimonials received from grateful people, and
here is another that no one can doubt, as it is in
the handwriting of the one cured. Bile Beans are
a thoroughly genuine remedy that effects genuine
cures. The letter we publish herewith is the best
possible proof that can be given of this fact, and
if there are any who doubt the genuineness of this
we ask them to personally investigate this or any
other cure that we publish, and see for themselves.
*
Story of a Doctor’s Daughter.
A SUFFERER FOR FIVE YEARS.
FOUR DOCTORS FAIL TO CURE HER.
VICTORY FOR BILE BEANS.
Cases come before the notice of the public nearly
every day, wherein doctors are at an entire loss to
afford relief to some poor sufferer. So frequent
have such oases become that a great number of
X
m
people have
altogether
lost faith in
the medical
profession.
Miss Mary
Mure, of 345
Liverpool-
street, Dar-
linghurst,
Sydney, has a
story to tell
i that aptly
illustrates the
above asser-
tion. T h is
young lady is
the daughter
of the late Dr.
Alexander
Mure, of Wel-
lington, N.Z.,
a man who
was highly
esteemed, both personally and professionally.
Miss Mure has lived in Sydney about 11 months,
having come here from New Zealand. It was in
the land of the Maori, her birthplace, that her
sufferings first commenced. “Five years ago,”
began Miss Mure, on being asked to give an ac-
count of her illness, “ I commenced to suffer se-
verely from that tired feeling we hear so much
about. I would always feel languid, and did not
seem to have any energy or ambition. About
the same time I was assailed by severe head-
aches that were most distressing, causing
me great annoyance and inconvenience, and
intense suffering. In fact, I had never known
before that a headache could be so severe.
Although I felt very ill indeed I concluded that
the attack was only a temporary affair, and would
soon be over. I saw a doctor, who said I had
liver complaint. Far, however, from getting over
it in a short time, as I expected, I continued to
get worse and worse; my appetite disappeared
completely ; I wasn’t able to eat anything except
rice water and rolled oats. In the morning when
I got up I could not partake of any breakfast at
all. My sleep, too, was very poor and unrefresh-
ing. I would toss about the greater part of the
night, and arise in the morning unrefreshed, and
heavy headed. A feeling of despondency took
possession of me, and I was always in a great
state of discontent, nervous anxiety and suspicion
of all my surroundings. I continued to grow worse
and worse ; my sight became affected, and I could
not read ordinary newspaper type; in fact,
I could hardly use my eyes at all. I now became
quite alarmed at my condition, and consulted
another doctor. Since that time I have consulted
no less than four doctors, all in New Zealand, by
the way, and they have prescribed for me many
different medicines, all of which, however, abso-
lutely failed to give me any relief. I got very
white in the
£
vm?/,
v
face,(and I had
no color what-
ever, and the
smell of any-
on e smoking
near me would
nauseate me
exceedingly,
and cause vio-
lent retching.
N ow,” con-
tinued Miss
Mure, after a
short pause,
“ I have never
had much faith
in patent
medicines,
nevertheless I
didat this time
try several
much-advertised nostrums, but they, like the doc-
tors’ prescriptions, did me no good. I may also
tell you that I had plenty of change dur-
ing that time, as I lived in four dif-
ferent parts of New Zealand, and spent some
little time in Fiji, therefore you can see that
change of air that doctors so often recommend for
cases such as mine did not benefit me at all. Well,
about 11 months ago X came to Sydney, still in a
very frail state, as I had lost a lot of weight and
was quite thin. I had almost despaired of ever
getting well again, so bad had my condition be-
come. I was now a martyr to constipation in ad.
/£dfciu** s '//f/f£
't&Obm ».
iv# — f)he.esC, t
O mVm &6~*r2&Z~*n*x46 Q.
{&&»&
y'Vu 4
£ tm
' o sU~*nJ%, m ~d£*t?tr '-d<rvSt tm ~ <&+>**. -** 'ty&fdf?*
.tJ&Zq <o-e/dJ*y '^y
■ «*"-
^ j
<Z~ jf <33t/e 6&<2*~v* t <*£) C <*~ «**«*<■
&{&*£" ~6/i&\, *~y*xeAA#v~ Z?L*>e. -C** **° *^-y
->We* w<?ui.J~ ~t£*&~<Z***,
G#%n : y^C l ~y
.<fXy
. <st^~
hrCrfrJfa ww >r . •
•**■*• *—' '
[y^ob^^^D.
dition to my other numerous ills. Early in last
February a lady friend recommended Bile Beans
and I tried them, without believing they would do
me any good. I thought they were like nearly
everything else, good only for minor attacks of
small complaints, and utterly useless in cases of
such long standing as mine. Well, really, I was
never more surprised in my life. After the first box
there was a noticeable improvement, the headaches
became less severe, and the constipation did not
trouble me so much. Of course, I continued taking
them, following the directions, and after three or
four boxes I found I had entirely regained my nor-
mal health. I slept well at night, in fact, I never
slept better than I do now, and my appetite is
most satisfactory, really exceptionally good. I
have regained my colour, and am now healthy in
every respect. (She certainly looked it.) My
friends are surprised and delighted at my re-
covery. There is no doubt at all,” concluded Miss
Mure, in answer to a query, “ that Bile Beans
alone effected the cure in my case, and I’m glad
to let the facts be published in the interest of
other sufferers.” The above are the facts as Miss
Mure gave them, not exaggerated in any way,
only put together in a readable form. The reader
is specially asked to investigate this case if they
have any doubt of its genuineness, and the young
lady states she will be glad to answer any in-
quiries by post.
Constipation.
Everyone suffers at some time or other from this
most distressing and rather dangerous ailment. It
is an irregular and weak action of the bowels, and
in extreme cases the bowels may not act for weeks.
In a case of this sort, the complaint is very dan-
gerous, and a proper remedy should be applied
immediately. Women suffer more from it than
men, and the frequent headaches suffered by this
sex can nearly always trace their origin to consti-
pation. It is caused in most cases by carelessness
and neglect, but in some cases it is brought about
by a disordered condition of the liver. It is,
nevertheless, a fact that, where regularity of habit
is practised, constipation is seldom found. The
effects of constipation on the system are many and
varied, among the most common of which may be
mentioned piles, sick-headaehes, debility, sour
stomach, humors, and intermittent fevers. Regu-
larity is the main thing to be observed in cases of
constipation, and, in conjunction with a short
course of Bile Beans, will prove very effective.
The early morning, immediately after breakfast,
is the best time to make a trial, which, if unsuc-
cessful, should nevertheless be persevered iff the
next day, and so on, until the case is cured.
Bile Beans for Biliousness act on the liver, en-
abling that organ to furnish the natural cathartic
for the bowels. They are gentle in their action,,
thus avoiding the very harmful results brought,
about by most laxative remedies of to-day, which
act in a violent manner.
The soundest stomach, lungs, and heart will,
falter in their work the moment the liver goes;
wrong.
♦
The Most Valuable Discovery
of the Age.
Millions of people use Bile Beans annually.
Now, there must be some good reason for this,,
and one has not far to look for that reason. Un-
equalled excellence is the secret. Great strides
have been made during the last century in all
branches of science. Especially is this true of
medical science. Bile Beans for Biliousness are
the direct result of deep and lengthy research on
the part of an American medical man. Their
chief ingredient is a vegetable substance which,,
when properly compounded, has identically the
same effect on the digestive organism as the bile
of mother Nature. With this specific within easy
reach of all, the old methods of starving and
purging, and the use of pepsin and bismuth, sink
into utter insignificance. Being a purely vegetable
preparation, the action can in no way be harmful
to 'the system. Here they differ materially front
the great bulk of laxative remedies sold to-day.
This remedy acts on the bowels in a gentle, natural
way, and the patient is not weakened in any man-
ner by the process. The enormous success of this
preparation the world over is the best possible
proof of its great worth. Millions use Bile
Beans annually, and 'the reason for this is to be
found in the absolute genuineness of a specific so
aptly termed “A Medicine for the People at a
Popular Price.” Bile Beans are not a cure-all, but
they are an undoubted specific for Biliousness,
Influenza, Sick and Nervous Headache, Indiges-
tion, Constipation, Piles, Pemale Weakness, Pale-
faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples,
Blotches, Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney Troubles,
Dyspepsia, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and
Side, Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical lone,
Heartburn, and That Tired Feeling. They are
manufactured in one of the best-fitted and equipped
laboratories in the world, at Detroit, Michigan,
U.S.A., and they have been used throughout that
country by the best physicians for years. For
sale at all chemists. Australian Depot, 39 Pitt-
street, Sydney ; Victorian agents, Rocke, Tomp-
sitt and Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne ; S.A.
agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., King William-
st., Adelaide ; W.A. agents, F. H. Faulding and
Co., Perth ; Queensland agents, S. Hoffnung and
Co., Brisbane.
4.
Yours for the Asking.
A beautiful two shilling piece of music, entitled
the “ Bile Bean March, together with a cookbook
and pamphlet of popular superstitions, will be
sent free on receipt of your name and address and
a penny stamp to pay postage. The only condi-
tion is that you mention this paper when writing.
The march is an excellent piece of music that has
been very popular in America. Both books are
also well worth having. Remember, however,
that you must mention this paper when writing.
Address the Bile Bean Manufacturing Company,
39 Pitt-street, Sydney.


Nues Pepery!
“CHRONICLES” of the “TIMES.”
Ours are not
Teas of the “AGE.”
It needs no “ARGUS” eye to find that out.
But Billy Tea, Goldenia and Lota in Teas.
GRANUMA, EODAH and HOMAH
in delicious Porridge Foods, and WHITE
HEATHER in Whiskies,
are Best Values, Highest Qualities, and
absolutely First of their class.
“HERALD” it! “TELEGRAPH” it!!
It’s good “NEWS.” A “STAR” of hope, and
these brands are the “ STAND ARDS ” of excel-
lence to all “ DAILY OBSERVERS.”
JAS. INGLIS & CO.,
Sole Proprietors and Agents. Wholesale Only.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Boom?, 324 Georg? Street, Sydney,
, Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, 'Electro-
plate,'and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Hehl at the Auction /tooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Humored in Q. that Chief Justice Griffith,
who was one of the first to “congratulate” Dick-
son on his rise to the Premiership, is burning to
doff the ermine and plunge into polities.
Westralian civil-servants are being sacked
wholesale. Forrest, a week or two ago, called for
the seniority-list, drew a blue pencil through the
wTh^”) names ’ anc * u^ase d: “discharge theseforth-
Vic. Women’s Political and Social Cru-
sade, a Democratic body meeting at Melb. Trades
Hall, resolved last week to urge the Assembly
to tack the Woman’s Suffrage Bill on to the
Appropriation Bill. . '' '
“ Stickit Minister” : Why not name the
Federal capital after the just-deceased great Pro-
consul, “Greyburgh”? “Greytown” wouldn’t do;
one already in Natal, and another in Maoriland.
Perhaps “Grey” might be best.
Mr. Francis Clarke’s role of being the
most important mani in N.S. Wales has been
usurped by Mr. Justice Owen, on whose nod (as
commissioner re Minister Young’s interference in
the Macleay-Hastings election) hangs the life of a
Ministry.
( The blowing up of the Malldi’s tomb by .
Gordon’s pup—a mean-spirited act of vandalism—
passed quite unrebuked by the loyal press of
England.' The man who insults the dust- of a
dead enemy, and a brave one at that, is a toler-
ably low-down species of hog.
W. B. Dailey, Fane de Salis,- and John
Haynes have each made serious attempts by Par-
liamentary Bills to abolish capital punishment in
N.S.W. Dailey gave up in despair, de Salis was
jockeyed on to a side-track and never returned,
but John hopefully pushes on, and is likely to-at
least reduce the number of capital offences. .
Several N.S W. Oppositionists were down
with measles when the censure vote drew near,
and the Govt, refused to pair. After many un-
successful attempts to secure a pair for Col.
Mackay, the Opposition was giving up hope
when “ Majah ” Neild came to the rescue,.
Despite Govt, entreaties, the gallant warrior re-
fused to see a brother “officah” left out, paired
with him, and went home to bed.
“P.”: What’s the matter with labor
covenants for pastoral leases? Well, it has
been discussed often. But some of the least-
improved and, from a national point of view,
least valuable squattages employ most men—
at any rate, more than well-improved runs
which shear far more sheep. The improve-
ments save direct lalxw, but furnish vastly
more indirect labor.
Gov. Macgregor, lately, interviewed .
at Brisbane, said .he “ took, the entire
responsibility” of the Papuan grab,
by which all the good land, aurif-
erous or otherwise, that.,is likely to
be available ' for 20 or 30 years is
handed over to a British syndicate
at 2s. an acre. Which is very good
of Mac.—and also very cheap, as
he well knows he can’t be made
responsible in any way that will
do this deceived and swindled '<■
country any good. It is a
purely moral responsibility,
not worth ,2d. If a Papuan
stuck his rusty spear into
Macgregor and The Bulletin
stated that .it . took the full
responsibility of that, how
much better would Mac. feel ?
It wouldn’t be worth any-
thing in damages. As a fair
equivalent for Macgregor’s kind-
ness this paper will take the full
responsibility of the death of
Shein, Ham and Japhet, if he likes.
Pursey Chirnside, the dandy
squatter, says in Vic. Leg. Assembly
that he weally cannot perceive—ah—
that Labah membahs are of any use
whatevah.
Wrixon’s motion to reform Vic. Council,
the Immovable Object, “was negatived on the
voices ”:—
He held a gleaming blade toward
The man of fat and pelf,
And said, “ Here, take the whetted sword,
And straight reform thyself..”
But Fat declined—we knew he would—
To perish for his country’s good.
The 14 Echuca (Vic.) Bungs who, in claim-
ing compensation for closure, gave such a brilliant
account of their profits that the Court felt curious,
and hunted up their income-tax returns, are not
the only crowd who put both bluchers into it.
Lately a Tasmanian deputation, endeavoring to
make out a strong case for improvements at Mac-
quarie Harbor, succeeded in so thoroughly con-
vincing Fysh that the lands of the district were
worth .£820,000 that that long-bearded patriarch
now makes them pay .£lOOO a year more land-tax
than heretofore. And that deputation is kicking
itself bitterly for being so conclusive.
James Howlin Graves, M.L.A. (Howlin is
a splendid name for a politician), the broguey
man of Delatite (Vic.) : “ We are all completely
at sea, like sheep without a shepherd, clinging on
to this man’s coat-tails.” Howlin Graves, again :
“ Whenever we see a ray of light why should we
pour cold water on it ? ”
Adversity makes strange bedfellows. But
who could have foretold that Sydney D.T., which,
in ’92, gleefully recorded the fact that the ruler
with which bank-manager Cotton assailed Sleath
was on view at the Hill, mounted in silver, would,
in ’9B, be straining its reporters’ ears to catch and
print every inane interjection of that extremely
dull person !
Estimated that in Sept. Westralia lost
967 people by excess of emigration over immigra-
tion, and that the population decreased between
GOO and 700. As a rule, even in these bad times,
the W.A. population has kept on growing, bub
the movement westward now is only the feeble
tail-end of the rush that used to be, and even the
tail is fast disappearing.
S.A. Police Commissioner’s report reveals
the fact that the Northern Territory, of 523,0005 q.
miles, is kept in order by 16 white policemen. At
two stations two officers live together, but at the
other 12 the lone policeman goes slowly mad with
the solitude “ all on his own,” and sees visions in
his spare time. A partially-looney policeman
with a beat of 30,0005 q. miles must be a fearsome
person to be run in by.
J. R. Dickson makes the third Premier
Queensland has seen this year. An acting-Premier
also has left the scene of his labors, and port-
folios generally are in a state of flux. Unfortunate
Q. Govt. ! It hasn’t any programme ;it hasn’t
any principles; it can’t keep its promises, its
pledges, or its Premiers —it can only keep its eye
anxiously on the ’99 elections and howl frantically,
“ Beware of Socialism in our time ! ”
,Wrixon’s hazy scheme for ‘ ‘ reforming ”
Vic. Leg. Council proved to be based on his
anxiety to secure justice to minorities by means of
a proportional voting system, and he would like to
enlarge the “basis and scope” of the Council
upon proportional voting lines. Rats ! The
House of Vic. Landlords is .an ..unequalled palace
of justice for minorities. It represents as much
minority to the square yard as any parliamentary
institution on earth, and Wrixon,- by his ovvn
showing, ought to be quite satisfied with it.
Hence the honest scorn of the other fellows when
Henry W. came along with his suggestion.
Item from the West Australian .
Let the Premier announce to-morrow that the Coolgar-
die Water Scheme is finally abandoned, and those who
care to remain in Western Australia will have a good
chance of sounding the depths to which it is possible for
our colony to sink.
Quite true. It isn’t so much a question of the
workableness or unworkableness of the scheme, but
Westralia must borrow furiously to keep even a
semblance of its big boom going. And it must
have some scheme on hand—even if it is only a
scheme lor tying pink paper-frills round all the
jarrah-trees in W.A. and branding and registering
the emus for future identification—to furnish an
excuse for borrowing the cash that keeps the boom
going.
LAY TO YOUR BOOK.
BARNE Y: “What’s the trouble, Mossy; have
they struck yer on a double? ”
MOSSY : “No, but the bloke in the shop has
just beat me for half-a-quid. He sells me a
blooming, great book on ‘ The Races of Aus-
tralia,’ and blime if there’s a word about
Ranwick or Corfield in it from end to end.”
The Melbourne papers are full to the brim
just now with curse-letters about the muddlement
of the Vie. postal department. If one-quarter of
them are true (and most of them give full particu-
lars and dates, and are verified by the names and
addresses of complainants), P.-M.-G. Duffy must
be the most utterly incapable ass of the seven
governments of Australasia. Yet though nobody
ever takes Duffy seriously, or regards him as
having any administrative ability, or as any-
thing else than an amusing kind of Handy Andy,
his capacityfor getting into Ministries is incredible.
He was Service’s Minister of Lands in 1880 ;
P.-M.-G. under Munro in ’OO-’92 ; Attorney-
General and P.-M.-G. under Shiels , and P.-M.-G.
again under Turner. Trenwith ought to fill the
billet admirably, but the legend that a job must
be found for Duffy stands in the way.
Several of the British West Indies are
now agitating for annexation by the U.S. They
want free admission for their sugar to the States
and Protection against the outside world, both of
which annexation would give them. As part of
the British empire their sugar is shut out of the
U.S. by the tariff, and though it has free access to
Britain there is no money in that. The French
and German beet kills the nigger-grown cane pro-
duct, and the West Indies are fast going back to
jungle and savagery.
MADE ON THE PREMISES.
SHANTY KEEPER: “That’s the stuff ter make yer
darnce, Bosun."
BOSUN (’tween gasps): “My wud; got him corro-
boree inside—Highland Fling outside!”
No less than four N.S.W. Opposition
members are having their seats challenged before
the Elections and Qualifications Committee by the
bowled-out Government candidates, generally on
vague charges that the member’s committee
“shouted” for a dry-elector. But the wildest
joke of the lot is the case of the man who is charged
with intimidation before and after election. In-
timidation after the election presumably means
threats of the damage the member wouid have
done if he hadn’t got in, which is about as rele-
vant as the black eye that he wishes he had given
the other fellow in’ a previous state of existence.
The most graceful act of Lyne’s career as
leader of N. S. VV. Opposition, was his surrender of
the billet last week ,to Barton. As a Federal
leader Barton is more earnest than all the others
put together, though as a purely party boss he
will probably be a disappointment. Efe doesn’t
reach out after “hoffis” with sufficient fury.
When he came into the House he was apparently
quite -Cvilling to drop all personal and party ques-
tions. and get along with the Federal resolutions.
And though he is leader, and though the griev-
ance re Potato Young’s doings at Hastings-and-
Macleay' election, was all along pre-eminently
Barton’s own grievance, yet he wasn’t sufficiently
interested to take the motion of censure out of
Lyne’s hands and tackle it himself.
The confident announcement made by Pre-
mier Reid that Barton couldn’t sit in N.S.W.
Assembly because of his position as arbitrator in
the M‘Sharry case, has dropped so verv dead that
nobody has even met its skull rolling down the
street. Did Premier Reid deliberately, and with-
out protest, allow a disqualified man to take his
illegal seat, and even to lead the Opposition ? Or
has he found—since he became a Q.C.—that his
law was cronk and his precedents were ignorance?
Or did he know all along that Barton 'wasn’t dis-
qualified, and did he say what he knew was
not the truth in order to try and keep the
most vigorous Federationist of the lot out of the
Parliament which was summoned especially to
deal with Federation ? These are the only three
alternatives The Bulletin knows of,-and they all
leave Premier -Reid looking a tolerably mean
politician.
They have a strange way of doing things
in the Land of Lots of Sleep. Aikenhead, the
Govt, supporter from Devonport, was lately un-
seated on a question of “ corrupt practices ” on the
petition of defeated candidate M‘Call. Ac-
cording to law he can’t stand there again for two
years. But the Govt, member for the adjoining
electorate of E. Devon resigns his seat to fight
M‘Call at the new election. If he gets in for
Devonport then the gentleman just fired out is to
have a run for his seat at E. Devon ; in fact, the
two are to exchange electorates. And if the new
Govt, candidate doesn’t get in, the slipshod Elec-
toral Act is so constructed that he can then with-
draw his resignation of his present seat and stay
where he is. Meanwhile, “leading citizens’’ are
raising an enthusiastic subscription and much
whitewash for the man unseated in a painful mat-
ter of “ corrupt practices.”
Victorian Police-pension list is in striking
contrast to that of N.S.W. It includes 4 inspect-
ing superintendents at £390 each, 17 superin-
tendents at =6275, 3 inspectors at =6240 and about
315 sergeants, senior constables and constables at
amounts ranging from .£l5O to =650 eac-h. The
cost is <£40,000 a year, towards which the police
contribute .£5500, made up of a 21, per cent-
deduction from their pay. The oldest pensioner
is ex-Paymaster Colonel’Mair, who is 97, has been
drawing a pension of =6400 for 37 years, and is
still going strong. Among the special pensions
are a first-class sergeant’s full pay (=6191125. 6d.)
to the widow of Sergt. Kennedy, shot by the
Kellys; =652 to ex-Const. MTntyre, whose health
was shattered by exposure in pursuit of the gang ;
.£52 to a civilian injured at Glenrowan ; =6150 to
ex-Const. Bracken, injured at Glenrowan; and
.£lOO a year to ex-Const. Vizard, injured by
larrikins.
The way in which Q. Labor candidates are
selected hardly justifies their constantly-asserted
claim to precedence over independent Democrats.
A case in point: Worker Higgs and Frank Mac-
donald, M.L. A., were last week “ unanimously "
chosen .to contest the Valley electorate in the
Labor interest. The meeting of the Workers’
Political Organisation, giving them their passport,
consisted of six persons. Yet Higgs and Mac-
donald would probably stigmatise any independent
anti-Govt. candidate as an interloper.
The Bill abolishing the creditor’s
power to attach his debtor’s wages was
rejected, as a matter of course, by Vic-
toria’s House of Rich Landlords. Only
one man spoke—old Frederick Sheppard
Grimwade—and he said two things. One
was that he had “never heard of gar-
nishee orders except in connection with
the civil service,” which suggests a truly
pitiable state of ignorance on Mr. Grim-
wade’s part. The other was that the idea
of abolishing garnishee orders came from
Maoriland, and that the House of Rich
Landlords shouldn’t be a servile copy of
any other country’s legislation—it should
be bright and sparkling and original, and
stand on its own gouty feet. So the
House proceeded to be a servile copy of
N.S.W., Queensland, Tasmania, Wes-
traha, certain of the United States and
other places, by sticking to the old sys-
tern. The spectacle of Victoria’s House
of 48 Dodderers trying to be original is very
impressive.
In getting Neild to move for the Com-
mission to enquire into the charges against “ Cul-
vert Young the Reid Govt, just saved its flabby
bacon, as several members of the party would have
at least been found missing on the censure vote had
they not been provided with an excuse in the
shape of said Commission. As it was. they were
mostly satisfied to give a silent vote, “Sammy”
Moore being about the only one to “ wag his jaw,”
which he did in true yes-no fashion by talking in
favor of the motion and then voting against it.
The selection of J. R. Dickson as deceased
Byrnes’ successor has filled Q. Oppositionists with
a great gladness. Dickson, who is old, dull and
feeble, and devoid bf inspiration, is the very aiiti-
thesis of his predecessor. Byrnes was full of
intellectual resource, his speech was emphatic and
hopeful, he could illuminate a subject with humor,
epigram, historical analogy ; he gave the impres-
sion of a strong man full of possibilities. Dick-
son is funereal and threadbare at all times. When
he tries to joke you think someone is rubbing a
piece of ice up and down your spine. He was
born to sell Bibles to cannibal tribes and preach
statistics to the cheerful raven. What he intends
to do as Premier is not apparent, but as he was
the Treasurer who floated thecelebrated £10,000,000
loan, and believes in immigration of all sorts, a
vigorous policy of borrowing, boom arid reckless
expenditure may be looked 'for. Opposition-leader
Glassey could hardly have wished tor a better
antagonist.
The untimely and lamentable ' death .of
Q. Premier Byrnes is a terrible blow to the R.C.
community in the North. Byrnes, before every-
thing else, was a “good ’" Roman. Since Macros-
san s decease lie has watched over the interests of
the faithful with a zeal that was often blind and
always sleepless. A small coterie' of lawyer co-
religionists will miss him more than anyone.
Barristers of pronounced ; anti - Govt, opinions
hadn’t Buckley’s show of getting a crumb from
the Crown Law Office table. And the partiality
of the ex-Attorney-General led’ to a similar boy-
cott among leading solicitor firms} who are more
or less related to the Govt. The severity of this
ostracism drcve barrister Powers from' Brisbane
bar to a third-rate bush township, and Drake’s
chambers are merely the rendezvous for political
sympathisers. There being now no strong man
in Q. to lead and inspire the R.C. faction, that
party, as a united political factor, may be said to
have been interred with Byrnes.
The Dickson regime in Queensland is only
a few days old and it lias already numbered some
queer experiences. Firstly, some 14 members of
the old Govt, party signed a round robin to the
effect that they wouldn’t recognise the oleaginous
J.R.D. as Premier on any account. No sooner
were they partly pacified' than the Labor-party
started a rumpus, calling for a dissolution
and instant appeal to the Country, defying the
Speaker, who was contemptuously called to
his face “a dirty little nigger-driver”—and resist-
ing ihe officers of the House, who were called
upon to expel the recalcitrants. (It was a most
touching sight to behold the dignified Sergeant-
at-Arms and his satellite trying vainly to expel
a small legislator, upon whom a burly fellow-
Dexnocrat was sitting, by way of showing his
sympathy.) . . . The Governmental rats are
getting ready to desert the sinking ship; the
murmurs of the discontented are heard all around,
and the famous coalition bids fair to collapse like
a house of cards.
“ Queenslander’’ to The Bulletin :
Why do you say “ Jackson violates Q. Labor-platform
by voting for private railway hills’’-and not mention
that Hoolan and Sim voted with Jackson on the Ch illagoe
bill ? Also, do you know that in ’94 the whole of the Q.
Labor members, elected under the same platform as the
present party in the Assembly, allowed a private railway
to go through Parliament wit hout a word of protest ? The
Swanbank railway and the Chillagoe are very different in
detail no doubt, but. the resemblance is sufficient to show
that the Labor-party in ’94 did not draw a hard and fast
line in regard to its plank—“ State ownership and con-
struction of all railways.” Since the recent Labor Con-
vention in Brisbane, the “ railway plank” has been
defined to mean that no imaginable private railway can
be supported by the party ; therefore, in the future, any
member voting for a private line can justly be charged
with violating his programme. The “railway plank" in
the old programme was inserted mainly as a protest
against land-grant, railways; and as the Chillagoe line
could not be regarded in any fair sense as a land-grant
railway, Iloolan, Sim and Jackson considered, after the
’94 precedent, that they were not violating any election
pledges. Also, the Labor-party never carried any resolu-
tion making the vote on the Chillagoe line w party-
question, though the matter was brought up in caucus.


Kershaui’s Copper-mining Jo. |)o liability
CAPITAL s
£12,000, in 2400 Shares of £5 each, FULLY PAID.
♦
1200 Shares are retained by the Vendors in full payment for the property, and 1200 Shares
are offered for public subscription, payable fc!2 10s. on application and £2 10s. on
allotment. £5OOO net placed to credit of company, vendors paying all flotation
expenses, advertising, &c.
DIRECTORS:
H. B. MANDER, of Mander Bros., varnish manufacturers, London.
W. T. LYLE, of J. Lyle and Co., carpet manufacturers, Glasgow.
W. E. FIELD, Melbourne.
P. W. FRASER, Melbourne.
BANKERS :
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Melbourne.
LEGAL MANAGER :
DAVID CARSON, Empire Buildings, Collins-street, Melbourne.
BROKERS :
THOS. LUXTON, Equitable-buildings, Melbourne.
W. C. BURY, Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
J. JACK, Stock Exchange, Melbourne.
TASMANIAN AGENT :
J. W. HUDSON, Zeehan.
This company is formed to acquire four blocks of 50 acres each, numbered 3199, 3200, 3201, and 3202 over 93M,
situated in the North Pieman district, West Coast of Tasmania. The property is distant 26 miles from Mt, Bischoff,
and 22 miles from Zeehan, 15 miles of which is covered b.y rail. The Emu Bay Railway, now under course of construc-
tion, runs at the foot of the hill. The last progress report furnished by the secretary of the company states that the
bulk of the formation will be completed through to some point beyond the 25 peg about the end of next month, to
which point the rails will be quickly laid. It is obvious, therefore, that there will be direct railway communication
with Emu Bay before the end of the year ; in the meantime it is connected by track with the Pieman crossing, thence
to the township of Rosebery, and so on to the terminus of the Government light railway at Zeehan.
The sections in question rise abruptly from the bed of the Pieman River, and are surmounted by two well-marked
peaks, the higher peak being 1175 ft. above the level of the river. The crown of both peaks is composed of a silicious
mineralised formation, outcropping very boldly, and impregnated throughout by iron pyrites and iron oxide, the
matrix being a quartzose schist, and on the ridge or saddle connecting the peaks, wherever the superficial debris has
been cleared away, the same mineralised formation is exposed.
A considerable amount of work has been carried on, the ground being well cleared and suitable tracks cut. Ex-
ploration work to date may be summarised as follows About 150 ft. below the crown of the lesser peak referred to a
trench has been cut across the capping for 200 ft. in length without defining its limits, the ore underfoot showing con-
sistent improvement throughout, although copper, visible to the eye, only appears towards the end of the trench —
the crosscut, which terminates in a breast of ore some 6ft. or 7ft. high, has evidently not nearly yet traversed the
whole width of the formation - the cropping still continues, and about 100 ft. ahead of the trench a prospecting adit
has been begun and advanced 12ft., the face being in solid pyrites. Still further ahead, about 130 ft., trenching on the
lode capping shows pyrites, though not so freely as before. Adding, therefore, these distances together, the several
points being approximately on line with each other, and, as nearly as can be judged, at right angles to the trend of
the formation, A TOTAL WIDTH OF 430 FT. IS SHOWN WITHOUT DISCLOSING CONTACT WITH STRATA ON
EITHER SIDE—THE WHOLE WIDTH OF THE CAPPING APPEARING ON THE SURFACE AMOUNTING TO
ABOUT 860 FT.
To prove the formation exposed in the trenches at a depth, a tunnel has been started about 200 ft. below the
crown of the second peak referred to, and after passing 60ft. through mineralised country rock, quartzose schist
was encountered, impregnated with iron pyrites, and showing here and there splashes of copper pyrites, through
which it has been advanced 34ft. to date, the rock becoming harder, denser, and more mineralised with every foot
driven. It is expected that the main body of the formation will be encountered, as far as can be judged, within the
next 50ft.
Considering the tremendous mass of pyritic ore affected, it is obvious that only a very low percentage of valuable
metallic contents will represent enormous wealth, more especially considering the unusually great natural advan-
tages commanded for economical mining and transit of ore. An adequate water supply and pressure can probably
be obtained from some of the numerous rapid flowing tributaries of the Pieman to provide all the mechanical power
required.
Fancy assays from picked samples are not given, as any deduction based thereon is almost invariably erroneous
and misleading. Suffice it to sa.v, that rich copper ore can be obtained on the surface, and that a sample of iron
pyrites, taken at haphazard in the tunnel, and showing no trace of copper, contained 7dwt. gold.
A considerable sum of money bas already been expended on the property; four substantial wooden huts, a
blacksmith’s smithy, and a charcoal house are erected ; the mine is fully equipped with tools, etc. ; and there are
nearly one hundred bags of charcoal available.
Tales of the Convict System.
Price la.; per Post Xa. 3d.
NOT A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.
First Bf.ar : “ What’s your hurry, Jim ? ”
Second Bear : “ There’s a couple of men coming,
over there! ”
First Bear : “ Have they got guns?"
Second Bear : “No ! Kodaks !"
Australian Depots
—FOB—
KODAKS.
Catalogues and Instructions Free.
BAKER AROUS6
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
375 George St., Sydney;
AND AT
260 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE;
65 BUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE ;
81 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
THE UNIVERSAL VERDICT OF ALL HOTELKEEPERS is:
IT IS INDISFENSIBLE! IT IS INVALUABLE!
THE HXTo. 1
The Hotelkeepers’ Special Bar Cash Register.
This Register
HAS BEEN
SPECIALLY . . .
MAN UFACTURED
TO SUPPLY THE
. . NECESSARY . .
REQUIREMENTS
—POR —
HOTEL BAR
BUSINESS.
Mr. W. C. Wilson, pro-
prietor of Scott’s Hotel,
Melbourne, writes:
“ I have much pleasure in
testifying to the efficacy and
convenience of the Registers,
which answer the purpose for
which they are intended most
completely, andl canstrongly
recommend them to any one
conducting a business in
which much cash is handled."
1
Wi
Ms?
It is Supplied..
with :
1. A Special Arrange-
ment of Keys suited to
the purchaser’s class of
business.
2. A large-sized Cash-
Till with wide base.
3. A Customer Coun-
ter, a Lid Counter, and
Adding Mechanism that
can be reset to Zero.
Full Particulars on appli-
cation to
The National
Cash Register
Company’s
HEAD OFFICE FOR
AUSTRALASIA:
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
or to 361 COLLINS STREET (Melbourne Office).
A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
ft
S\
m
<?<?
99
n
W
rl
mam
*
***
*
*
*
Vv'v.V.W
ft
v. *W
ft
hhi
re
6
»
t’.'.i
i\Vi
i N B WA ft
ms
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-9).
WOOL.
Sales held EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series.
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
- Monday
- Tuesday
- Tuesday
- Wednesday
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - Friday
Tallow - Friday
Hides - Friday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited. . ••
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co. ■
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchoombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
[adies
need
have
no
fear
when
w
m
m
\
Dunlo,p Tyres
are fitted to their Cycles,
they being safe to ride under
all conditions—
and are also
Easy to Detach
and
Simple to Repair.
ENGLISH AND AUSTRALIAN MADE DUNLOPS—
GUARANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd.,
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Ranking, Public Companies, &c.
D.SJ. UN de piete
B. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
*7dL CASTLEREAGH ST., Hy
SYDNEY / TE
(BETWEEN KING- AND MARKET
STREETS).
Pfnenbrohhuj JBraneh :
£1 Lent for 4d.
DER MOKrXH.
EOR LARGE AMOUNTS, v
AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
Bmih of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
.. 1,950,000 0 0
-. 1,200,000 0 0
... 1,950,000 0 0
Total
.. 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas Walker, Esq., President.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L C
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
11 illiam Alfred Cotter, Esq.
Sir James Reading Fairfax.
Reginald Jamjss Black, Esq.
Auditors :
l ( . W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Offica-Old Broad Street.
11 ith Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
tlie ( niled, States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
nn Tt T 1 f lv " e, 1 K ? of PuWio companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities m the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular
banking business 8 a “ d C ° ndUcts all customa T
« 9 T, h ® ?;} so issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
or ffiS^^^° ntinents f Eur °P e and America,
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
vac
........ head OFF| Cc .
Intersection Hohter;Blich and
vastlereagh
* . 'SSYDNey .
Vf£ y* T . A * USM , SD -1879.
GffjcE in Austraua-
UAL iNCOME and IN VESTED
Funds ExceedJ[2oo,oooßerlin *
Scottish Metropolitan
LIFE & ACCIDENT
Assurance Company.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland •
Corner Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
Directors :
•TAMES BURNS, Esq. ; ADAM FORSYTH Fsn •
JOHN MACPHERSON, Esq. ’ ’
Noticfi is hereby given that the management of
the company has been transferred to Mr. E N
1 arkek, vvho vvill in future conduct all business
in connection therewith at the above address.
DANVERS, Manager.
INDENT and . .
COMMISSION
MERCHANTS..
7 Sprint/ Street, SYDNEY.
General Agents in Australia for—
i IiuiXNER, Mond & Co., Ltd., Northwich, Eng Chemicals
On as. Heidsieck, Reims—Champagne.
conzalez, Byass & Co., Oporto—Port.
Maciionociiik Bros., London—Preserves, etc.
■Somerville & Co., Ltd., Leith—Glendour Whisky.
jtdison electric parlor
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
Talkiog Depot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4
Berliner Gramophones from £3. Latest Spring Motor
Gramophone, £7 10s. RECORDS, 3s.
Needles, Is. 6d. ALL GENUINE GOODS. No fakes.
Records, Blanks, and all Accessories in Stock.
Repairs. Send for Catalogue.
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
TV TrOstecs, CxecCitorS,
f AND
Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED ... £l5O 000
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... ... ... £6O 000
RESERVE LIABILITY ... ... ... £l5O 000
Amount; at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ... £6,073,603
trustee >e P ar *' Mr. R I. Barker registered
F. R- GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2 000 000
Preference Share's subscribed for by New ’ ’
Zealand Government .. .. 500 000
Amoun tof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital
Paid-dp ..
£4,800,000
£2,974,801 10s.
. rr T Directors :
Currie TT ®? p Ioe * x , M I ; L - C - Chairman; Archibald
Lmrrie, Esq., J.p. ; Robert Harper Esu ML A •
mlc? 1 '" 8 ’ ESq -’ C ’ M - G - J - P ‘ ! Hon. N^Tlmrnlty.’
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner JP
Inspectors: ffm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron and Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE-
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
anager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
■London Office: 1 liishopsr/ate Street Within
c.. (corner of keadenhall Street, E CO
ankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
ev.™i.v NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY . 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager; John Bartholomew.
, Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
arket ’ Gostonl (with aeeney at Wyong), New-
Australia w‘! '“i thr °u*hout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
OD ' ■cM r R M , T C n ainn c n: Hon - C - J- Roberts,
0.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Eoss.Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued,. 76,748 assuring £23,860,490
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928 645
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible
ir^ re i l r IUmS T ™ ode , rate al| d without restriction as to
travelling-. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office ;
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. o£ hondon.
Guarantees. Knap. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
e; P ” A - W.IEs.J.P., Directors.'
bourne!) clvlf'- P R E^ C “ KY > L V A - Director. Mel-
Farquhar °j ’ i ß ‘i S r b f t.'m LF' Hassall : Perth, A. W.
Write for P,± ", ALLEN > for Australia,
w-nte fot Pi ospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver Lead and
s'S'.psr/r™ —r.v*«. t
GEO. V. S. DTTNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street;
MAN AGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
National trustees !
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY " COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED !
DIRECTORS : Hon. N. FITZGERALD M T n /nu ■
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P ; M'DM‘Eachai„ (1
M. O Slianassy, Esq .1 P • Hon vv r ur 1 i .1- >
M.L.C. ; and Walter Maddl' L Wlate '- I ™°S. |
Executors, Trustees, and Agents- for Absentees.
TSeßaßkofflorthnaoenslaml
limited.
Sydney Office i 6 Bridge Street.
WMC SMITH director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
nw. c. oMIiH. (Messrs. Burns, Philo & Go r id\
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ’ P £7 „n nn«
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO *700,00®
Reserve Liability of Share-
h ° l<k ' ra ■■■ 250,000 ... £350,000
Code-ilou™ & wSSeta <f Ea,
—— Adelaide.
Clarfce & co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne), 1 '1
SHAREBROKERS
ADELAIDE,
—AND— "
kalgoorlib. ;
Agents vn London and, throughout the Golome su
avafi r abSe UlarS ° f WeSter " Auatrali “ Stocks always
fr^‘S2 RS GUIDE ” -valuable to 1,,^.
INVESTORS’ GUIDE
forwarder! ZttXZy a'ddS oa
EDWIN ELLIOTT & rn
SHAREBROKERS r
m COLLINS STKKEX mISWw* I
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
-(
Tyrian, Friday, October 14, 5 p.m.
-Gabo, Saturday, Oct. 15, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat’day, Oct. 22,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Tyrian, Friday, Oct. 14, 5 p.m.
Gabo, Saturday, Oct. 15,12 Noon.
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Saturday, Oct. 15,12 Noon.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leni-a, Saturday, Oct. 15, 2 p.m.
-Konoowarra, Tuesday, Oct. 18, 5p.:
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 22, 2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT t
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 15, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 22, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST CIiKKUVr FARES TO ALL PORTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
[ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
Tne steamers of this line are appointed to leave Svdney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Pram
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
xionees are available until used, and Saloon
I assengers can break their ;om ney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
0f , Lt<l " Equitable Buildings, George Street
ne xt G.PCO. Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide , 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
AND
-VIA-
QUEENSLAND' PORTS and, PORT DARWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TVESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
V 'STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
■at regular intervals for above ports
AIRLIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing- and full information apply
Gibbs, bright & co., managing agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY •
or to GIBBS BRIGHT & 00., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Business Announcements.
Wideaded.
&9leti) WideoOery
"*£igmo{{iene.
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURB
ECZEMA in all its forms, Superficial or Chronic
Disease m the Skin, Allays Instantaneously All
Irritation and Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OE SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOC I'OBS SAY
Woolloston-house, Castlemaine,
n/r •, ~ November 30th, 1897.
My dear Mr. Malyon, —
I have used your ointment. Ligmolliene with distinct
success in my own case, but, with greater as an emollient
unguent for the face of a young lady suffering from
‘ A ? n . e ’. very common during puberty, and you should
push it in that direction. Kindly send me another box
of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D. WOOLEY, M.D.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY
_, r , Doveton-street, Bal larat,
My dear Mr. Malyon,— August 21st, 1898.
With great, pleasure I now sit down to record pro-
gress with regard to my old enemy “ Eczema Capitas,”
from which 1 suffered, notwithstanding constant treat-
ment for some years under the prescriptions of Pro-
fessor M Call Anderson and other eminent derma-
tologmts, with only partial and temporary relief
When I met you I commenced somewhat sceptically
your ointment Ligmolliene, and after about two months’
1 say my enemy is defeated,
and lam perfectly well. I will only add that since 1
commenced the treatment of myself I have prescribed it
toothers, and am still doing so with brilliant results.
Please accept nay hearty thanks, and remain yours sin-
cerely, THOS. LE GAY HOLTHOUSE, M.RiC.s"? L.
by the Proprietor,
William Henry Malyon,
MANUFACTURING CHEMIST, Ballarat.
All Chemists. ss. and 7s. 6d. per box.
AGENTS ”
M«SSri. ELLIOTT BROS.,
Wholesule Druggists,
~tt .. -N SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE'
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Bullarra, Friday, October 21.
ALBANY,
PREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to
VASSE, DONGARRA,
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports.
S.S. Bullarra, Friday,
October 21.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Saturday,
October 15.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company at all ports.
Gl- b. Y LULL and 00., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching- at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Britannia
Oceana ...
Victoria ..
India
Australia
Commander.
6525 T. S. Angus
6603 E. Stewart
6527 E. Crewe ...
8000 W. Worcester
69011. Beeves .J
o u rnencerorwara every alternate week. Rates of
TO I rnr'S : LONDON, Return Tickets, £65 to £llO.
TO COEOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
favnifw ustral,a - Passage-money can be paid here on
TRPT A m v m . S fol ' passages from England. EDWARD
IRELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, parker g go's [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
TAinp ?r°D e i'^ (;al,ir 'g afc MELBOURNE, ADE-
wni S^Z - and PORT said,
uooirea to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
tt . SPOKEN ON BOARD,
the ™L a , rnVal f at T Marseilles English interpreters meet
fnnHin t,re !i S *° r 0 " a , nd glve them evel T assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through tl.e Customs,
mnit a Dv CC a, ny theni t 0 Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
mihvraith, ffl'Eacharn ft Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and Prom
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M ilwraith, M'Eacharn 2s Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
~ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
STeTmerT are ..carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
hitAlylLßS according to the requirements of the Mer-
aktwi.’p u P ?J,,™ T b °- f 1894 t 0 SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLOMBO
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA.’
rassage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S.'America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO.,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. N. C
OY.
• TD.
I!.\K AM) COOIvTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
Mdne.i, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
«*"• 1 "" "sviile, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TILE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
lie. patch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
M EI.BO URXE
via
Bowel
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCK HAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN Fortnightly, via Brisbane,
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton. ’
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI-Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA —Weekly. VYi^'L
J>assen</er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cmsine ‘unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton
BRISBANE-British, India and Queensland Agenoj
Coy. Ltd.) Managing 1 Agents. ~


FEPERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL.
ISSSS3
~2L
MELBOURNE.
Conveniently situated close to Station, Steamers and
centre of city.
ROOMS 2s. to 10s.
MEALS Is. and 2s. 6d.
BOARDERS 30s. to £3 3s.
A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR !- 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
| T*E T*M * F* R E*E*Y*Q*y"l
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to vVear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your, answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we tnay inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
The Manager English Watch Co.—Miss Shellerg
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and chain re-
ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
them, All Saints College, Bathurst, 19th July, 1897.”
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Co-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
-A- SolidL Silver Watch.
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY!
Can you read this :
I W*A * S [| T* E || T*M * |
We undertake and guarantee to give away one of our
£2 10s, Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
tions : —That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Chains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address-THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney.
SECOND-HAND
AND
JJEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
imm.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Sets of 15 Japan, 6d ; 45 Japan, 2s: 12
Mexico, Is : 9 Borneo, Is 6d ; 21 Heligo-
land, Is 6d; 12 Russia, 6d ; 12 Roumania,
6d ; 12 Cuba, 9d; 12 Turkey, 6d ; 6 Costa
Rica, 6d; 10 Mauritius, Is 3d ;50 Spain,
2s. Packets : 30 different, 6d ; 50, Is ;
100, 2s 6d; 150, ss; postage, 2d. Remit
P. 0.0., P.N., or stamps. Price Lists,
Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. ACKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
“BUILT LIKE A WATCH.”
STERLING CYCLES.
Fitted with MORSE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
TEIMIS
A. H. MOORE & CO.,
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYDNEY.
A. H. Moore’s . . .
“PERFECT” Racquet
at 20s.
Is for Workmanship and Wear the only
perfect racquet at the price on the Aus-
tralian market.
The “Perfect” Eaequet
is of Excellent Balance, Frame and
Gut.
Miss P. HOWITT,
Champion of Australia, says: “No
matter how good a plainer one may
be, one will be placed at a dis-
advantage if the racquet used is of
the inferior qualities now being
imported into the colonies.”
TROPICAL HELMUT, with Special Air
Space ; in Grey, Drab and Beaver Felt, and
Pure White Drill. Prices, from 10/6.
c. H- Smith & Son,
Hat Manufacturers and Importers,
302 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
David graham $ Jo.,
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS-
—IMPORTERS OP —
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Fancy Vestings
LADIES’
AT REFORM
PRICES
AT REFORM
PRICES !
TAILORING
Special Novelties for Ladies’ Costumes.
Sole Agents for Cel l ular Clothing :
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
ON€ NONCST MAN.
I \EAR SlR,—Please inform your readers that, if
U written to confidentially, I will post in a sealed
letter the plan pursued by which I was permanently
RESTORED TO HEALTH and Manly Vigor after years
of suffering from Nervous Weakness and Debility. I
have nothing to sell, but, being now well, vigorous and
strong, I am anxious to make this certain means of cure
known to all. Address—
E.H., Box 166, SYDNEY.
Croup, \ \ Cuts,
\\ Burns,
ache, \ \ Bruises.
A Sure, Safe, Quick Cure for these
troubles is
'Pain-Killer
(PEEEY DAVIS’.)
W. J. MOX HAW! & CO.,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
N. S. WALES, SYDNEY.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
feet. It has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient’s knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation l 1 ree and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.G.S., Eng.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
ZRO-^ID
Locomotives
FOE
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
m
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES.
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives,
and
Trucks of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &c., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd.
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street , SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for the “THISTLE” OIL ENGINE.
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
RONISCH
PIANOS.
The most successful of all Pianos.
PIANOS.
Wonderful reputation throughout Australia.
PIANOS.
Remarkable for standing in tune.
PIANOS.
Five different Models, and at Prices within reach of all
classes.
PIANOS.
Low Prices for CASH or on TIME-PAYMENT.
SOLE
AGENTS :
NICHOLSOjV &
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CO.
VELTEN LASER BEER.
An Ideal Summer Drink. Refreshing, Wholesome, and Perfectly Pure.
ASK ALSO FOR PELICAN STOUT.
The Best in the Market. '
GOODALL’S
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & M- each,
CUSTARD POWDER.
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE
Delicious to Plum Pudding.
Delicious to everything.
Delicious to Stewed Rice.
Delicious to Jam Tarts.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit,
Delicious alone.
Unequalled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed. The proprietors entertain the greatest confidence iu the aiticle, and caurecom-
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent in the preparation ofa good Cits’ard. Giveita trial.
Proprietors: GOODALL. BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS. ENG.
Sole Agents fqr New South Wales ; TILLOCK & CO„ KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY
Dr. TARRANT,
E.R.C.S.E., L.K/.C.P.E, L.H.0.5.1., L.M.KG.P.E,
Bil
£
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
iledical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other.deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injur3' to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from any cause arising', whether hereditary or
acquired, was.gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Hr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
JSTo Man or Woman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is vour intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT’S exhaustive work,
“FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price, Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
orisrin, traced deadly, sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication. •
Dr. TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to he over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so well-known and
universally respected as- Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus mistreated, by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult Dr. TARRANT if
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eyes ; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad Feet, Oozing of Saliva
from the mouth during sleep, Neuralgia, Hacking Cough, Giddiness. Fear of Insanity or Suicide, Inclination
to Throw Yourself Down when over water. Inability to keep your Thoughts off Impure Subjects, Dreams,
Twitching of the Eyelids, Numbness, or Prickly Sensation, Timidity, Fear of Impending Danger, &c. Dr.
TARRANT makes
Absolutely 3STo Charge
for Consultation ; but as One Pound, is all that is necessary to send for the treatment of almost any com-
plaint, including Special Complaints, Skin Diseases, Liver Troubles, Gravel, Scrofula, Throat, Eye and Ear
Complaints, Fistula, Piles, Paralysis, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Dengue Fever, Diseases of Women, Constipa-
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs,
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in your first letter, thus proving bona flies, and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to you.
Patients, male or female, living at a distance may, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr. TARRANT'S Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If you are ill, be you young or old, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence to Dr.
TARRANT, who will give your case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMiVIUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED—
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney *, or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, G.F.0., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.


SoftCapVaS Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free SO- per !4-(lozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
Ve -7j^ on ?.' S ? ft > Porous and Unshrinkable. SDeciallv-
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height chest
measure & size of collar worn. I>IKE liltOl'HElf t
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole aimntffor the
Genuine Oawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk “
Genuine Greener
G
UNS and
RIFj-.ES
Can now be obtained through all respectable Australian
dealers and bear the W. W. GREENER name and marks
fXT/n M'' 6 ? f ual ‘fy “d Workmanship. l4e B
trom 10 to 80 guineas. Special attention to individual
requuenients. Address your enquiries to—
C v®’ }> 0X 320 G ' P0 > S . vdne y i°r to
Melbourne 1 P " 16 Cun ' al road > Astern-
The artist who illustrates de Rougernont’s
second instalment of far Northern experiences is a
bit of a wag. He arms Mr. Grein with a long bow.
The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
trNtment is fully d. scribed in the pamphlet,
Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Imrp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
Sydney * Dy th ® dep6t > 257
<<
)t£- '&£-
■b f ~~
RED BIRD ” CYCLES
ARE CYCLES WfTH A PAST.
O^years 1 ! 6 We do FINEST BICYCLE for the past twenty
We are directly interested in ONE MAKE nf p™i~ f and anot her to-morrow, as dealers do.
to our own interest to make that eveie the best That^wesi'? 'uanufftelure, sell, ami *wm, 'ee; therefore, it is
i v - - u “—
“RED BIRD SPECIAL,” “RED BIRD No. 1,” and
- • - “ BLACK BIRD ” CYCLES - - -
TJSZSi aSSnti„ f „„r,ow,., ,e. . k„,m
The Goold Bicycle Company, Limited.
AUSTRALASIAN BRANCHES:
64 KING ST., S
221 RUNDLE SI
YDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES
ADELAIDE, S.A.
245 COLLINS
VICTORIA ST.,
ST., MELBOURNE,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
VICTORIA.
Rp . OTmi)n „ EDWARD ST., BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Factories- BhANFFORD, Canada.
>C-
VC.
VC-
Ayents i'i
Town and Country.
TTSZEJ TZEUZE]
New Sunlight ”
Suniig-ixt in Your Homes.
Incandescent Burner.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times th> power of Ordinnrj Jlarnert
Complete, (is. (id.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Accepting the Caulfield Stakes as an honest
race, which it probably was, this season’s three-year-olds
are a poor lot. George Frederick and Picture were
backed, but neither of them made a ghost of a show
against The Chief and Battalion. For that matter, the
‘ representative" youngsters never got near to
Wait-a-Bit, who led the field from the start to the dis-
tance-post. The Ballarat horse is the same old YVait-a-
Bit as of yore, seemingly galloping like a good one until
he is collared and then shutting up like a coward. He
ought to win the Caulfield Cup if started, but in the pre-
sent writer s opinion he hasn’t the grit to do it. Such
cocktail steeds are mere vanity and vexation of soul.
, -Bobadil won the Caulfield Guineas all the way,
the time being slow and the victory not of a Carbineio
character. Nothing “ Bobbie ’’-dazzling about it. He’s
a generous little horse—a good eater, sleeper and goer—
and he s pretty sure to win the Derby if he doesn’t get
wilfully damaged during the race. All the same, Bobbie
is only a “flier” by comparison. His opponents on
Saturday were in the three-year-old front rank, but they
*?,? k U P t 0 much, wherefore this scribe adviseth
YV. K. Wilson to pit his Bobadil against the shabby push
as often as possible that the little fellow may earn a .big
name and find an English purchaser at a big price.
The ‘ leviathan ” bookmakers, as horse-reporters
call them, must be very short of capital and pluck, these
times. George Gray approached aselectcommitteeof “levi-
athans with a proposal to lay £3OOO to £lOOO on Bobadil,
tor the Guineas, last Saturday, and they couldn’t see their
way to accepting the wager. A divided risk of £lOOO, in
the case of a “ dead-bird,” was too large an order for the
blessed betting-ring to tackle. So Gray missed the re-
freshing plunge,
Iho writer mentioned only two horses for the
Toorak Handicap, and I he fact that they happened to run
first and second in a field of 22 is an excuse for trying to
pick the Caulfield Cup winner from a lot of likely goers—
say The Chief, The Grafter, Clarion, Reka, Thunder
Queen, Acton, Rosebery, Bun.van, and Massinissa.
Massinissa, judging from last Saturday’s performance,
is bound to be in front at one point or other of the
lj-nnie race, but he may not stay the distance. Acton
is another doubtful stayer. There is some sort of reason
why every individual animal in the race should fail to
beat the field, and it is even doubtful whether either
of the 11 horses aforesaid will get a place. The writer
Twenty-two starters in the Toorak Handicap
and backers for nearly all of them at prices ranging from
aJhWt 01 ? T h . e ,“ hooks” grow facetious on the
subject of their sinful odds. A punter enquired of a
well-known ringman as to whether he had any 20-to-l
chances on this race, and the answer was, “Mv dear
you ruin us ? Lots of 10-to-l chances, but no
twenties in a field of 22. Be reasonable, dear boy ; for
what s the odds as long as you back a loser 1 ” Then the
droll speculator winked and resumed his roaring—
Fi-ei-ve to one on the field ! ” 8
* * * •
The Sporting Judge, a cheerful little Mel-
sav v ™ okmak >n? sympathies, has something to
say re Bobadil s chance of getting fouled in the V R C
Derby: He will probably encounter a fairly large field!
and with the possibility of a jealous or incompetent
tiwh-’L 0 !’ \ W ° m tlle race be may encounter sufficient
hindrance to prevent his success, like his whilom stable-
companion, Aurora. The dread of some such even-
tuality may be one of the reasons which deter our
backers from dashing the long odds on good things
habitually laid in England, where only tried and com-
petent jockeys figure by any chance in important w f a
u tJLL l l '; T[N ' doesn’t expect Bobadil to lose’the
Derby through an accident,” all the same. The jockeys
of any horses which start without a reasonable chance of
success will be carefully watched this time. A fairly large
field would mean a fairly large proportion of professional
doubt rS ab r out n, fhat n M °’ S iDfcereBtS - Let there be 110
* * * *
Now that Bobadil is 4 to 1 “on ” for V t> n
l !ke t ?, have a in a bet of i 506
to £250 that animal for said race taken months a«-o by a
certain sporting N.S.YV. legislator. ° y a
• * * .
M °st of th® betting at Rosehill last Saturday
Me b ’ races > and although backers picked Cauf-
field winners well, they failed to spot ’em at their own
course. After many failures, Toxtet.h did his party a
turn by winning Rosehill Handicap, starting at 16 to 1
Uchfel fijy 6rS raUe W6nt t 0 Jea,,ette ’ a
* » * «
, . Th f e V -A.T.C. committee is an influential anti-
tote force. Some of the powers that be at Caulfield
ar ® heavy gamblers who generally get the “cream of the
Pi-nmuM '’. lew the tote innovation with alarm.
Probably the socialistic machine would not hurt them
but it might. They’d prefer not to risk it ’
*** ' .
The present Victorian Govt, is not likelv to fol-
low the N.S.YV. lead as regards a Totalisator Commission
George Turner mm ca are to ° much in sympathy with
Ikey Mo and his natural allies. Premier Turner’s
legal partner (now hopelessly ill, poor fellow i) is Sam
Lyons. Minister Best works with Theo. Fink who
loomed large at Ikey Mo’s smoke-night, t’other’ week
the Vic Attorney-Gerleral is Isaac Isaacs. The
Cabinet members may not be violently opposed to the
SMSSK!. “ e *» b ~ k *>»»-
• • *
The effect of the Tote on the Maoriland turf is
seen in the fact that G. G. Stead has ceased to send his
ihc er J f r °!i d - The Australasian’ remarks: “Now that
the states there are so good , Mr. Stead, as a non-betting
owner prefers to race at home rather than risk the voyage
to Australia with his Lochiels, Maxims, and Le Loiips!”
YVhat a satire on the anti-tote doctrines which Frank
Madden preaches in the Vic. Assembly, where he gets
considerable credit for being a “ sound ” authority! 4,
cording to Madden, the tote reduces the value of stakes :
also it is impossible to keep high-class horses goino- win/
out the aid of the bookmaker, &e., &c. Here is the case
of a non-betting M.L owner who one-time had to journey
to Australia in search of big slakes, but now thanks to
the abolition of Ikey Mo, is able to pick upTat pri Z e S n
his own country. Frank Madden is a sound authority
indeed ! All sound and no sense. authority,
> * * » »
’Murka is taking up the tote. The Spirit of
the Times of Aug. 20th, said Bookmakers are to
give place to the machine at Latonia and Newport The
mutual plan has been a big success out in Montana, and
IV s , supp< ? s ’f d . fco have advantage of eliminating
dead ones, doing away with the undertaker.” 8
* • • •
Now that the A.J.C. shows that it is inclined!
to move ahead, it might, to protect the public against the
wily horseovvner and racecourse thug, appointa strong
bim?« nd u n - n i! an as , stlpendi ary steward, and support,
hun lojallj in his work. The appointment of such a man
Urin tn 6 (,13f l ua,lticatlons that would follow, would be cer-
tain to cool the courage of the blackguards who now null
and ramp with utter impunity, at suburban race-niee”:
there U “ der the P rotectlon ol thoir friends in power
‘Timothy”: “Tattersall” notifies that, as an
experiment, he has decided to open a special consultation
on the Melbourne Cup, to be drawn at 10 a.m. on the day
ot the race. As an experiment for a comparison with
the ordinary ss. consultation, to be drawn before the
race, the special is handicapped out of it. In my own
case, I applied for and received two tickets in the special,
but I have been allotted four tickets in the ordinary in
of m other consultations, for which I, apparently,
was too late ; and my experience is the same as that of
fhenrVtii! a L OV f, rH ,? w or to °- late applications go into
fitter 3 Melbourne Cup, small wonder that the
latter is considerably ahead of the special. The advant-
Snmf:!] 1 !, to owners, of the special over the ordinary
scarcely necessary ex » eriment " 011 fai ' terms, was
* • • *
What a race Rogers and Rowley, the respec-
the ";:rt r l° i the P rofesBi °n al and amateur 100 yards at
ivrir Wn f n Sydr Sports ’, should have put up had the
pair been allowed to meet! Both men are 22 years of age.
Rogers stands sft. 9in. and weighs 12 stone in condition ;
as against Rowley s sft. 9£in. and 11 stone.
/a N ;T7, T 1 485 attributed (in Bulle-
* * • •
Wh .jtridge, chairman of the Cricket
Y" nci ,V 13 anxious to secure the managership of next
Australian Eleven, but if there is a compromise between
f‘ h ,L»n L i" r:1 i .? nC ‘ the , M 0 - C - Wardill will probably be a
tifit h,. b1ld ‘ i- WhltrK %e, who only lost the position last
a casting vote, is an old interproviucial cricketer
H d ;lT a °| t r a 1 y lna u-mrated district cricket in Adelaide.
•s puhhshcr of S.A. Register, and although 45 years
oici, is still an active player.
* * * •
A lady who not long since went north by sea
complains bitterly of the brutality of a party of foot-
ballers travelling per same steamer. The near presence
°,J ac ‘ es waB no check upon their disgraceful language ;
and though, when some of them made themselves noisy
and offensive at table, one man suggested their removal,
f^, e ff' ei ' a ‘ feeling of the male company appeared to be
that if the ladies didn’t like it they could lump it.”
«? s f, er ty a4e quite spoilt the second day of
W -. lio wmg Association regatta, held on the Par-
S tta Rwer last Saturday. Lambert, of Leich-
Rowing Club, won the Amateur Championship
.L bu t> as of fche ,our competitors swamped and
the other rowed in a waterlogged boat, the contest was
° nteno ” of the rowing abilities of the quartette.
uiebeß.O. won the Champion Fours from Sydney R.C.,
r*®, a ,p® r - rowin ff under the disadvantage of a strange
~° at ’ This necessitated an alteration in the placing of the
men U A. Smith having to change from No. 3to stroke.
Young Messenger won the All-Comers’ Handicap. The
handicap vvas hadly adjusted ; such men as Neiisen and
Pearce, being placed on impossible marks, naturally de-
clined to pull a hard race with no show of winning. The
races should not have been held, and the officials showed
an utter disregard for the men and the property of the
clubs in not postponing.
• * • *
The Tut Ryan—Peter Felix fight for the Aus-
tralian championship last Saturday- night in Melbourne
was a sorry show. The darkey, towering 4in. over his
opponent, was in perfect form, and darted about the ring
with his lanky figure glistening in away that made the
r.u £®, S 1 i ve, 'r. to think of be ing chased along the banks
of the Nile by Peter Felix with a shovel-headed spear.
His inordinately long arms swayed in front of him, an
impenetrable barrier, and his left hand shot backwards
and forwards all over the place like a snake’s head poised
for striking. Altogether, Peter was a very awkward cus-
tomer for Ryan, who had a thick flap of flesh hanging
over his belt, and had no muscles apparent under his
copious avoirdupois. Nevertheless, he got home re-
peatedly on the nigger’s skull, but with as little
effect as he would have had on a stone wall.
During the fight, Ryan s hits must have been about seven
or eight to Felix s one. The darkie is a splendid defender,
but he hits seldom, only with, his leit, and with no force.
Ryan in condition, and with the acumen to go for his
body and leave his head alone, would out him in euriit
rounds. As it was, Felix finished as fresh as paint, while
the white was completely done up; and, taking every-
thing into consideration, the referee’s decision of a draw
was as good as could be found.
The fight of the evening or of the year was over
before the champions entered the ring. It vvas an unob-
trusive, unadvertised scrap between two voum>- fellows
named Chappie Williams and Clark. They are li.-hfc-
weights, and unknown at that, but they provided "the
best null that Melb. has seen for a long time. It was
“ willing ’ from start to finish, and, after seven rounds of
real, ding-dong, blood-and-fire slashing, Clark had to
throw in the towel through bad hands, on the advice of
surgeon O Hara, the massive medico, vvhp was picking ud
points for his next go with Purves, and Billy Maloney
W ;RA., vyho was getting a wrinkle to deal satisfactorily
with the lengthy Deakin. J
• * * •
The Argus, touchingly describes the accidental
death of a plasterer’s apprentice, and heads the item • “ A
Terrible Fall. Sad Death of a Fitzroy Football Sup-
porter,” and concludes with the following slab of pal hos •
The youni: man had, apparently, intended to be ore-
sent at the match on the St. Kilda ground that afternoon
but he met his death just three hours and a quarter
before the play began ” Talk about adding a new horror
to death—death would have no sting were it not for miss-
ing the next big match !
*** . . .
The London Daily Telegraph Cup, won bv
Sergt Ross at Bisley, is a delicately bijou affair, about a
yard high and with the girth of an alderman, it throws
into insignificance the miserable Kolapore Cup of a rear
ago. The Brobdingnagian mug is on exhibition in Collins-
street, Melb., and crowds of dead-beats gather round to
like' d that W / iere 13 the Paradise in which th e long beers are
* * *' .
Joe Donnelly is just putting the finishing
touches on an 18-footer, for the crack boat-sailer Mr Geo
Fletcher. She looks every inch. a. flyer. She is on dif-
ferent lines forward to Donnelly’s last-Mr. Hordern’s
22-footer being longer and finer;in the entrance: but
Donnelly makes no mistakes, and, in Fletcher’s hands
she is sure to show well. '
* * * ,
‘‘Johnny ” Molloy the old.-time Circular Quay
{Sydney) waterman, holds the record for the hardest Aus-
tralian pull. Molloy rowed a passenger down to Watson’s
Bay to catch a vessel bound for Melbourne, but arrived
m time to see her running out between the Heads Thev
rowed on, in the hopes of cutting her off, but it was no
go, and, the passenger having some special reason for not
returning to Sydney, Molloy offered, for a consideration
to pull to Melbourne. A call was made into Botanv to
pick up some tucker and water, and Johnny making
ports of cal on the way, rowed every foot of the way to
Melbourne ! Letters contradicting this story will be
promptly inserted in the waste-paper basket
• * . .
‘‘Zoo”: A hardened liar once told me how he
and a friend nearly made their day’s raoin«--expenses o„f
of a “ three-card man.” After watching mugs
down with regularity, they agreed (privately) that the
art of “spotting” the right card consisted in resisting
the impulse to feel that it was spotted. So they con-
federated that each should select the card which he most
felt was not the nyht one. The “ system n worked nd
mirably at first, and, by carefully disregarding the anm-
rent card m favor of a rank outsider, one or other of
them “ got onto the jack each time. The “ professor ”
wus riled and then things altered. Both partners guessed
wrongly (and Doth invariably chose different cards) six
times running, and another “ system ” earned revilement
They tumbled to it afterwards. It was very simple. The
manipulator, finding he was «-ettin«- spotted too often,
sleeved the Jack each time, and it never was on the
ooard at all! All these men are ciever conjurors.
Two Chinese lottery “banks” in Lillybucle-
stleet put the shutters up t’other day. There is now pre-
vailinjf one of the infrequent and extraordinary waves of
uck in fa v ° r of the backer which recur every few years :
and in the multitude of nine and eight marks which have
een lately struck two of the most honored financial in-
stitutions in the thoroughfare have had to go under.
1 here is an irresistible backwash to this wave, however,
and milybuck is now nightly thronged with crowds which
s\ amp over the lottery-shops and out into the roadway
fancy'*' frantlc e,ltteavoM t 0 dab the tickets with their
* * * *
Maoriland s art-union law is a wondrous speci-
men of legislative drollery. In some centres proceedings
n,i„o, l e m a " a r?u t proll ! olei ' s who of fer bikes on which are
„ d fl;es ’ P u hlnese dragons, &c., to make them “ works
.in others they raffle without let or hindrance.
wntfh\,i. fearsorae oleographs as piizes, with £5O
'!°‘A b "i n nu ?^ ets thrown ill. “AS the law now
stands, said Premier Seddon, the other day, “we find
work n S f U ° ex ilbite<l at an agricultural show is a
work of art, and can be raffled.”
• * * *
Phe “ draughts champion of the world,”
“ ainmlt-nn "‘I Career . l ' l Melbourne by playing 22 games
Jordan ? as lfc ' vas called. Which meant that
°‘ , a \ ent ‘ fron } board to board, looking at the last
move made by each of his opponents and making his own
move in reply. The end of the weary pifgrima- e was
victory for Jordan in 15 cases, the
being drawn. Blackburn, the English
dovcn S pr " ne Blt bjmdfolded with his back turned to a
dozen, or even 20, reasonably strong opponents and
check-mate every one of them? ° opponents and
* * • *
«Wo, ® ULrj ® rIN correspondent writes that the
whoiwt rU ff ' va ? , n °b the invention of the “whaler”
who can t afford a blanket. Years ago, when Wa«'a Cup
was one of Australia’s richest events, it cold
just before one meeting that extra wraps were needed for
the horses, and, as the supply of rugs ran out, an inven-
so V wcn'Jh US f- S rh UCk - the “, bla " ba " ” idea - which answered
so VV ell that there is probably now no Australian raciug
stable without its “ Wagga rug” for every horse
* * * *
The son of an old time Sydney fighter was re-
thotiyibr ° U K ht Up before a Sydney bench. Accused, from
c^h tneSS ’ b °i X, , waB called upon to support the eulogium
before v” ln “ r nh ra ? t ,® r - l . “ Had he ever been charged
akin to nriu ha h- tfed he . responded, with something
ak n to pride in his expression, “ Yes, charged with kill-
ing a man. But, continued he, addressing the Bench in
elovea COnfid w Ula L and a P olo £ etio tone, “ it was with the
gloves, your Worship.”
„ * * *
aJin T u. ti «”i Want s o!d , dO-tonner, the Miranda, is
Enuu-ess Sj \r neJ w at f e S’ tb's time under the name of the
E! p ess. Mr. Want started aquatics as a youngster with
1 raduaP y worked up the ladder until tie
f SBeWr of . a Writer recollects
1 nnn,i °" 6 d ? y ,n ffoidsworth’s old shed, Wool-
fiver n? ti ’ ha . . h . e reckoned the 24-footer stood him in a
over at the outside. ‘I started,” said John, “ with the
dingey which I sold at a profit and bought something
lnnum’ 80 ” , a C a ' n at a pl ' ofit - a dozen or so transactions
landing me in the 24-footer without any further outlay.”
* * »' »
Irom Perth (W. A.) Morning Herald “ A
ovMivt' .Juf r%°! M “"' A ' , E - Davies, the well-known
c\(list, gave birth to a triplet to-day. They are all
daughters, and are living.” y
* * * *
Tas. attempts to legislate stringently against
s±*n-ed bshing for salmon. Yet a smart lawyer dis-
covered the other day that the Act, though providing the
h „r^ fol 7 SS r* Hcenses t 0 augers, doesn’t make
fishing without a license an offence !
* * * •
In Bedfordshire (Eng.) foxes have become so
BCar -, tbe hunting squires have taken to importing
[“? ul)8 trom Germany, and as the German foxes are
much more savage than English o les, the poor farmers
are complaining bitterly of their losses.
* ’ * *
. cyclist lately ran into a swarm of
bees, winch settled on his head, buzzed round his face
crawled over his hands, hung on his eyelids, and wouldn’t
be dislodged till his efforts to shift them resulted in a
nasty spill, when they left him—without a sting.
The Laundryinen’s Association of Sydney
lately handed in this ungrammatical slab* of
bitter truth to the local Water and Sewerage
Board : k
The giving of water free to so-called charitable institu-
tions was condemned, as being most unjust to legitimate
laundries, burdened by the operation of some of the
clauses of the Factory Act, rent, taxes, wages, and pay-
intf for all the water they use, and now met by the grow-
ing- competition of Chinese, and what is falsely named
charitable laundries. The latter is run on free subscribed
capital, free labor, and many other free perquisites,
water being one ; employing canvass rs who appeal to
the bigotry, charity, and cupidity of the public for work.
Many of these establishments are fully-equipped steam
laundries, having all the most modern machinery in use,
and employing a very large number of hands (unpaid)’
and are not interfered with by the Factory Act (as if the
machine that could injure a worker in an ordinary laun-
dry would be powerless to do the same to a worker
in a charitable laundry). The St. Magdalene steam
laundry at Temps is in every way a fully-
equipped mercantile establishment. It puts in ten-
ders for all kinds of work, and for various reasons
obtains the work; one reason especially, because the
price is lower than what any legitimate ‘laundry payiiv
its way could do the work for.' It might not he out of
place to state here that if those charitable institutions
progress at the same rate for the next few years as they
have done in the past, in competing and taking away the
opportunity to earn a living by respectable women it
follows that those women will of necessity gravitate
towards such places where they are converted into slaves
for the benefit of the managers of those institutions and
some of the public who expect a shilling invested in such
charity will return 25 per cent, in low price. Water and
washmg are closely connected-so is water and beer.
What would past and present brewers think if a charitable
institution commenced to brew tanglefoot and obtain
water free, so as to enable them to sell at a cheap rate?
They would soon stop their subscription.
It might be further added that the hardfaced
canvasser gets a good commission out of the
subscriptions in aid of “charity” laundries.
There is money in the business for a thick-
skinned female who must either he paid to leave
or be thrown out (as a rule, females are em-
ployed because there is more reluctance about
throwing them out than about shooting the
male person down the front step, and, besides,
they have hysterics outside afterwards which
the male doesn’t). Also, there must be
money iu the business for a good many people
besides the canvasser. When one considers the
free water supply, the immensely long hours
exacteci, the free labor (the forgiven Flossie
who perishes over the wash-tub merely gets
food and soul-repairs), and the subscriptions
even the very low prices at which the work is
done must leave a good margin for somebody.
Alfred Deakin’s proposal to introduce “ele-
mentary unsectarian religious instruction ” into
Vic. State Schools claims to he “simply
Christian. It is based on the theory that u it
is possible to get passages of Scripture for
reading, which would suit all creeds with the
minor exception of the Jews, avoiding doctrinal
difficulties in the choice of the passages.” Now,
as a matter of fact, the most popular Biblical
recitation in the so-called Christian world or
the Protestant portion of it at any rate—suits
the Jews down to the ground. “ The Lord is
my shepherd,” &c., &c.” But the “ Lord ”in
that case lias no Jewish connection with the
author of “ The Lord’s Prayer.” Where does
Scripture, as Deakin understands the word be-
gin and end, and how much of the Scripture
that isn t strictly Jewish could be instilled into
the infant Protestant mind with the full ap-
proval of Roman Catholicism ? In any State
edueationa dealings with Scripture which is
not the Bible, the Virgin Mary difficulty must
inevitably crop up. The Jewish religion ig-
nores Christ, the various brands of Protestant
religion worship Christ “ on His own ” (not to
speak irreverently), while the R.C. religion
associates Him with His mother. Seeing that
the Lord of David is the only Lord as to whose
spiritual standing they are all of one mind, the
selection of Scripture passages to suit all creeds
might very well be left to a special Jewish
committee.


Surveyor Russell, who actually laid out
and after whom Russell-street is named,
languishes as a very necessitous nonagenarian, in
Richmond suburb. Hoddle, who was to Russell
as Vespucci to Columbus, died rich, and there was
a Monahan row over his leavings. The same mis-
take as over Russell and Hoddle is made with
regard to Fawknerand Batman, in calling 1 >atman
the founder of Melb. Fawkner built the first
house.
Owing to a technicality, Premier Kingston,
Q.C., who is counsel for Harrold Bros, in the big
S.A. insolvency case, will probably get no fees
whatever for nearly two years’ work. Through a
flaw in the insolvency law, there is no provision
for the payment of an insolvent’s counsel’s fees,
although such payments have always been made
in the past. Although the Judges, on appeal,
have decided that he is entitled to nothing, King-
ston says that he will stick to his clients to the
bitter end.
Line upon line. A common remark on entering
a well-stocked ironmongery store is—“ What a number
of lines you keep.” This is true, but the art in keeping
a stock is just to keep the very line your customer wants
at the price he wants. In McLEAN BROS. & RIGG
LTD. Melbourne and Sydney warehouses you will find
the very article you are looking for. Implements for the
farm, ironmongery for the house, guns for the sportsman,
fishing tackle for the fisherman at, eye-opener prices. If
3’OU can’t inspect write for quotations.*
Some gems of thought and fancy from the
debate in Victoria’s House of Rich Landlords, on
Wrixon’s proposed reform scheme :
“ He did not think any objection could be taken to the
personnel of the Council, nor could the desire of the hon.
members to do their duty to their constituents he called
into question.”—Henry Wrixon.
“ In the constitutional struggles of the past the Council
had had the confidence and support of the great majority
of the people. In no case had the Council rejected pro-
posals, except under a sense of justice and right, and of
responsibility to the great majority of the people.”— Nick
Fitzgerald.
“The main body of the people are satisfied.”—Dr.
Embling.
“ What the Council wants is more power.” —Dowling.
Old Nicholas Fitzgerald is the most beautiful
specimen in the above menagerie. A man who
can get on his hind legs and deliberately assert
that the 48 Rich Landlords are all perfect charac-
ters (for that is what it amounts to), and never
used their power from any motive that wasn’t ab-
solutely pure, requires to be instantly poleaxed.
If he believes what he says he is such a pure
though foolish saint that he shouldn’t remain on
this earth any longer to be contaminated whereby
his front seat in Paradise may be endangered.^
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
There were sniffs from the Tory Murray
Smith rump of Vic. Opposition when laborist
Hancock brought up the question of passing a
resolution regretting the death of Hori Grey.
Premier Turner said it was only usual to pass such
resolutions in re crowned heads. “ But Grey was
worth a dozen crowned beads,” said little Dr.
Maloney, whereupon the Tory rump groaned and
frowned at him. But Hancock stuck to the point
and the motion was passed, though the graceless
way in which Turner took it up spoiled the doing
of it.
W. H. T. Brown, of Tas. Assembly, some
years ago, did the neatest thing on record in the
way of political vengeance. He was Inspector of
Forests, and the Dobson-Henry Govt, decided to
abolish the office and out Brown adrift. As an
old skipper, he wasn't to be thrown overboard
without a struggle with the mutineers. Just then
there was a bye-election for Campbelltown,
Brown shook the Govt, dust from his feet, hied
himself to the midland town, and lodged his
nomination-paper. He was returned, went and
took his seat. There was a row in the House at
the time, and the fate of the Govt, trembled in
the balance. In the decisive division the. Govt,
was beaten by a majority of one. Brown’s vote
squelched them ! They resigned, and Braddon
came in, with Brown sitting right behind.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
WHAT’S YOUR
NECK WORTH?
Would you sell it for £1<5 : O s O
Or £18:0:0? Of course you
would not! But there are lots of
people who are doing: so; they are
riding the £15:0 :0 and £18 :0:0 kind
of bicycles which is practically the
same thing. They are risking their
necks and courting repair bills to
save the £7:0:0 or £10:0:0 that
would purchase a trustworthy, easy
running Massey- Harris.
It’s not the cheapest in price, but
the cheapest in the end.
Are you an economist of that sort?
If so, we will be glad to show you
at any of our depots or agencies the
difference between Massey-Harris
Bicycles and the break-neck kind.
Even if you do not purchase you
will learn something interesting
about High - bred Cycle
Construction.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd.,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Head Quarters : William Street, Melbourne
BRANCHES : J'unedin—Sydney—Brisbane .
Adelaide—Hobart—Northam. f
Depots and Agencies almost everywhere.
N.S..W Branch:
385 George-st., Sydney
(opp. Strand Arcade).
A Sydney whisky-iinporter ukases that hi*
drummers shall all wear the same-shaped bell
toppers and the same-colored ties. “Good ad. ! ’
says he. Whenever you see that shaped toppei
and that colored tie you’ll think of 'f
whisky.”
Gilfillan and McCreery,
MINING ENGINEERS - - -
METALLURGISTS and ASSAYERS,
434 cdllins-st. Melbourne.
Reports on Mines, Prepares Plans and Specific-
tions for ALL KINDS of MINING PLANT.
Complete Plant for Bulk Tests.
“ DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
‘ ‘ Imperial * ’ Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND)-
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J. F. McDermott,
Terms on General Agent for Australasia,
Application. 37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
w
DEAF
13P” “ Common Sense Ear
Drums ” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Auraij
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Recommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Airent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
rpniS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS, Minister for Lands; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,200,000 Annual Income exceeds £211,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus. 1 GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
I7IOR the person who is not a millionaire, there ar ■
1 ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CItEM'ENT,” situated 63!
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and the Other is
“Ell'tt’ KiiiS'Strcet Coffee I’aliice,” situated 5)
KING STREET, and near the General Post Olfiee.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS
Here To-day!
Yesterday!
and To-in orrow !
YA/E are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
v ’ We know a good wheel when we see itj and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT &. BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
itST Agent for “Naumann” and “ Clyde” Cycles ; Con
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
BARGAINS IN BICYCLES.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
UJolf American High Hrt Cycles
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Gent’s
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. Everything fancy but the price.
English 4* American Bicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-clias Makers.
SANSPAREIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWELL
{}
MACK LIN
HENLEY
GRJMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
203 CLARENCE STREET, SIDNEY.
Jk.Jtfacdona£<l tf/io surde, ftcm
(JfyyUr Qcvcu/vrv e. 9&cC&£ouicCcs
i*t/ cCautf-d -~<ms ou
G? Wife
m
. RS9B£ . J
PUT DMlllll
TO
EIEHUE
2050 MILES
FROM
SEA to SEA
Traversed by A. Macdonald in
28 Days Hours.
Previous Time, 63 Days.
4
A. MACDONALD’S
MOUNT was a No. 1
ROAD RACER
fitted with Dunlop Tyres.
Solo
Agents
THE AUSTEAL CYCLE A GENCY LTD
391 George Street, Sydney .


BRITISH COLUMBlA.—Advertiser leaving
next month, offers from accessible mining
districts, reliable descriptive letters to Traders
and prospectors, subscribing 3to 5 guineas. Ad-
dress, Kootenay, c/o. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
Fremantle, W.A.
D.S .MAI R
Hi
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring-, 2/6 ; Cleaning, 2/6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
26 ; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D S. M AIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address:6B4 George-
Street, Sydney.
ST. PAULI
TRADE MIS MARK '
GIRL U BRAND
Lager Beer.
ABSOLUTELY
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/8 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
2t)in. long, S/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worlted up, ye per oz.
\Ve are the cheapeiitin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigzgll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps (or full Prioe Met).
Prompt attention'given to Country Order*
CRAIG & AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites Hairworking.
Agents for the “ ROYAL LOUNGE ”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE 4-ADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/- each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Scalpets, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
ASSISTANTS Engaged for the Country.
H Gold (Hatch for Cadies Free.
WHAT WORDS ARE THESE:
T*E N*W W*M*N.
In order to advertise our business, we will Present to
Every Person Solving the above Puzzle one of our hand-
some Ladies’ Solid Gold Watches (Open Face or
Hunter). Jewelled Movements, and are Reliable Time-
keepers. List Price, £5 10s. Send your answer at once,
with a stamped addressed envelope, to know if you have
won the PRIZE. If so, and you purchase one of our
Real Gold Ladies’ Chains to wear with the PRIZE
WATCH, they will be sent securely packed, free by
registered Post. Address—
THE MANAGER,
The Globe Watch Company, Ltd.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Dear Bulletin. —The pill-advertiser is
leaving us no poetry in life —except, of course,
pill verses. From a page of pill advt. in your
valuable paper, I learn that the first duty of a
lovely girl who has made a triumphant debut in
sassiety is to “keep her entire system in a thorough
state of cleanliness ” by means of somebody’s
patent Peaceful Purgers, two to be taken occa-
sionally. The next things will be Liver Lozenges
t°r Lovers, followed by a Honeymoon Aperient,
or Bonnie Pips for Bridal Pairs.—Cold Shivers.
Literature doesn’t exactly flourish in Aus-
tralia, but it isn’t quite what it might be in the
old country. Walter Besant told lately in a
magazine article how a clever girl was employed
by a well-known London firm to write cheap
novelettes. For a story of 30,000 words she re-
ceived 50s. —a penny for every 50 words. Was
not allowed to put a signature to the story “lest
your price might go up.” Some years ago, Mrs.
Besant, of theosophical fame, wrote a scathing
exposure of London literary sweating. Chief
in this respect (listen, ye orthodox) was
the Society for the Propagation of Christian
Knowledge.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhe re. *
Melb. ’Erald quotes from a letter written
by a member of the Vic. rifle-team a while ago :
“ There is really no London evening paper pub-
lished that comes up to the Herald, and all the
members of our team are of the same opinion.”
Which reminds The Bulletin of an old story
about an Australian Eleven young man (a Mel-
bournian) who refused to see anything worth men-
tioning outside of his native city. He travelled
around Hingland in a chronic state of contemp-
tuous criticism until at last the other members
of the team laid themselves out to get at least one
note of admiration from the snorter. They never
succeeded. He broke them up with his criticism
on Reynolds, the famous cornet-player, when they
went in a body to a promenade concert at Covent
Garden Theatre. After Reynolds had played a
simple air in exquisite style, the other boys im-
plored their scornful mate to admit that there was
no one in Melbourne to equal Reynolds as a brass
instrumentalist. To equal him! ” roared the
patriot, “why, there’s a chap plays the cornet at
the corner of Bourke and Russell-streets who
could blow his head off.”
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE'S
CHLOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOUCHITIS,
DIAKRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
't'
d>
OLD
HNs
aUNBU,
FINg
r*i
CHA
€P
DS
'V
6&C
O/Sfr
s
H
Y
Ask for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.
At MICK SIMMONS’.
A NEW
DEPARTURE.
CASH TRADE ONLY.
Cut Prices to the Trade. No Travellers Tmployed.
NO CREDIT. NO RISK. RESULT : BOTTOM PRICES.
- \
Cherrywood Pipes. Briar Pipes. Silver-Mounted Pipes.
Cherry wood Pipes. Briar Pipes. Silver-Mounted Pipes.
Cherrywood Pipes. Briar Pipes. Silver-Mounted Pipes.
THE TRADE are advised of Large Shipments of the above, which are JUST OPENED. The
same being quoted at UNHEARD-OE PRICES, and would recommend Tobacconists and
Storekeepers in the Country to send for Sample Orders. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
CI6ARS. Special Value to the Trade. CIGARS.
La Parold, box of 100 10s Od
High Life, box of 100 13s Od
No. 1 MANILA, box of 100 11s 9d
No. 1 MANILA Heavy Weight, box 100 13s 9d
FLOR-DE-S ANTI AGO, box of 100 ... 15s Od
NIMROD, box of 100 13s Od
TRABACO, packets of B—per 100 ... 8s Od
LA HOF A MEXICAN, box of 100 ... 20s Od
LA HI.IA DE CUBA, box of 100 ... 20s Od
MADONNA ROTHSCHILDS, 25 in
box—per 100 24s Od
FLOR-DE-HENRY NEYARRE, Heavy-Weights, Havana, box of 100 33s Od
~ ~ Bouquet „ „ 33s Od
EL MUNDO, Heavy-Weights, box of 100 24s Od
FLOR-DE-TORELLA, box of 25-per 100 33s Od
The Trade Supplied Cheaper and Better than any other Wholesale
Establishment in the Colony.
PURCHASE your Goods direct from our Warehouse, and save TRAVELLERS’ EXPENSES
being added to the prices of your Merchandise. ALL LETTERS ADDRESS to
(Dick Simmons,
Tobacco Merchant
. . . and Importer,
HEaymarlset, Sydney.
T>OOK OF NATURE
* —AND —
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK TOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them ; everything is fully laid hare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding hack of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
FREE ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by Dr. Foote, new '
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by De Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is 6d.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is ; by
post Is 3d. The Woman of Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
Piping Hot ; Abbe Mouret’s Sin ; The Soil ; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels, posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s 6d.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s 6d, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
3d; post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is 6d.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s; post 2s 6d. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s 6d. Pauline Clarendon, 2s 6d.
Heptameron, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of Philosophy, Besant-Bradlaugh prosecuted
book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is 3d.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, 3s 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Maupin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post. 1
Beauty’s Secrets, post free Is ; Dr. Carver’s
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is ; post 1/3.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed pages, 2/6; post 3/-
How to become a Ventriloquist, post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Maria Monk, post Is 9d.
Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free Bd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is 6d post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations by Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
The Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private book, Is 6d. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexual Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is 6d post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cliea-p Book Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
33Y ROYAL WARRAOTT OF APFOIKrTMBKTT TO “ THE QXJEEN.”
Ask for
Wbi&ky aod
‘Scb^cppe
SCHWEPPES
SODAWATER, &c.
Ask for
Braody ai)d
‘ScbW€pp€’
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Smelting Co. or Australia
(LIMITED),
DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), near SYD3XTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
$
*
&
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP.
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.


More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Files, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
~A~ Few of Them.
— %
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen. —Dear
Sir,—l think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolg'ardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars.—l am, yours
respectfully, Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
aiid stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
ttiedicines. When 1 came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of your
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
„ JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —It affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a wreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved me from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks.—Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I inform you that
I am a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. . I have been working in Queensland while tak-
i n ST your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks.—l am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at tbe Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. G. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PR€SS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing’
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas.—“ Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S.A. Register, Adelaide, S.A. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland.—“ Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth.—” Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “ It may not he out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen lias now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
{jannot express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &c.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
(Ijission in the Herbal ||]orld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite 'sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seen at the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING ••
Patrons of Herr Pass-
Herbs anywhere.
ras
r
Herr tiassmussen, TJp-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform, his
patrons that his
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMTTSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ THE NATURAL DOCTOR,” which contains
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COMPLAINTS,
and a large nurober of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmUSSeXI,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmuSSCII,
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
I-I S 3 T
OP THE
ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEFS
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affectioi s
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Fills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, consumption, Pronehitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6-.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder—Boxes, 6a.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender. Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking Herr Rassmussen’s A T.~F A Tr.Tivr-Fi •\7•X"^A_:L.X , T''X■ PILLS (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUILDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening + He
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmnsseu’s Head Office:
547 George Street, Sydney
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel)


A BaDy Lion I
Did yon ever see one ? It is as playful and
harmless as a kitten. You might have one
with you for weeks and not suspect danger.
But, beware! Some day it will surely
spring, and the fight for life is at hand.
It is just so with a cough. You may carry
one with you for weeks and not think of
danger. But the danger is there. Some day
the fight will be on, and it is a question which
will win, Consumption or You.
Ayer's
Cherry
Pectoral
promptly cures all baby coughs: but it can-
not always cure the full grown coughs of the
most advanced stages of disease. Yet even
here it will bring comfort and ease. Then
use it early for acute colds, coughs, bron-
chitis and all pulmonary troubles.
Beware of cheap imitations. See that the
name, Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, is blown in the
glass of each bottle. Put up in large and small
bottles. .
A CAPITAL IDEA ! and
Something QUITE NEW!
W. H. GLEN & CO.
The
HOME
BINDER.
The
HOME
BINDER.
The
HOME
BINDER.
Call the attention of the MUSICAL
PUBLIC to their
P«rfectioi> . . .
MUSIC BINDER,
which enables you to BIND YOUR MUSIC
AT HOME Cheaper and Better than in
the Ordinary Way.
A CHILD CAN USE IT.
Old Music Can be Removed and New
Pieces Inserted Without Any Trouble.
Testimonials from all the Leading
Musicians.
COMPLETE OUTFIT (including
MUSIC FOLIO), Price
Postage, Sixpence Extra.
2/6
W. H. GLEN & CO.,
Sole
Proprietors,
272 and 274 COLLINS-ST., MELBOURNE ;
AND AT
359 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
• ( •
Songs
that Everyone
.. Like.
PRICE 2/- EACH.
LULU. Sung by Ada Reeve.
IN the CATHEDRAL. —PhiIip
Newbury’s Greatest Success.
THE SONG THAT WILL LIVE
FOR EVER.
LITTTLE DOLLY DAY DREAM.
SOLDIERS of the QUEEN.
I HAPPENED to be THERE.
THE TIN GEE-GEE.
I WANT YER, MA HONEY.
. All the Above
Successful and Popular
. SONGS ..
ARB PUBLISHED BY
W. H. GLEN & CO.,
MELBOURNE
and
SYDNEY.
MRS. macclurcainps
Cookery Book.
REVISED AND ENLARGED.
Containing nearly 1000 Practical Recipes.
Price 3s. 6d.
To be obtained from TURNER & HENDERSON, and
all other Booksellers.
Business Announcements.
BRAIXTDT’S .
PHTEDT ICE-PIfIKER
. . . roR HOUSEHOLD USE.
MAKES ICE
IN
TEN MINUTES!
EVERY WIFE
HER OWN
ICE-MAKER.
Price, 50s.
Delivered in any Port or
Railway Station in Aus-
BRANDT BROS., Manufacturers,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
and 422 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
THE LAST OF "SIX.
PRICE I*.;
«! 4 « A
per Post Is. 3d.
Amusements.
QPifIKA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
. the World.
Poluski Bros.
Miss Peggy Pryde
Miss ETHEL YORKE.
Mr. GEO. BEAUCHAMP.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN,
E3T“ PRICES AS USUAL.
Mr- G-- H- Wood
SYDNEY DEANE.
Miss NELLIE WILSON.
WALLACE KING.
Plan at Allan’s.
"DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
FAREWELL SEASON OF
3VEiss Jfc-'attie Brown©.
LAST THREE NIGHTS of the SEASON.
Last Three Nights of the Bright and Original Comedy,
TH€ POV€-COT€.
m^?o ed o fr 0 1? the French by Chas. H. Brookfield.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Box flan at Allan’s.
JOHN C. LEETE, General Manager.
HEATRE ROYAL, MEL BO URN E.
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Bateman and Maurice.
„„„ . 3 ™ d WEEK > CONTINUED TRIUMPH !
GREAT SUCCESS 1 of GREAT SUCCESS I
SONS OF TN€ SCR.
The most Thrilling, Sensational and Picturesque Plav
ever produced. Full strength of Brilliant Company.
Mr. CHAS. MAURICE as PAGANEL.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES —3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and SIXPENCE.
X&RINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Mcsqrove.
TniS and EVERY EVENING, at 8 p.m.
And Wednesday Matinees, at 2 p.m.
UNPER THE REP ROBE.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as GIL DE BERAULT.
Miss ADA FERRAR as RENEE.
Box Plan at ALLAN’S and MENZIES’.
JJXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM!
THE MUSEUM!
THE FERNERY!
THE OYCLORAMA OF OLD MELBOURNE.
A THOUSAND ATTRACTIONS.
OPEN 10-5 DAILY.
Admission—ONE SHILLING; Children, SIXPENCE.
■jyrELBOURNE TOWN HALL. ~
‘ -,w * Lessee :
The Popular Concert Proprietary Registered.
SbilliQg Popular CoQcert.
Every Saturday Night.
Commencing 15tii OCTOBER.
A SERIES OF REFINED ENTERTAINMENTS.
Absolutely the Best Concerts ever given in Melbourne for
ONE SHILLING.
0. J. FRANK, Manager, 31 Queen Street.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Alusgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Last Nights of the Opera Season, and Farewell
Performances of the Royal Comic Opera Company.
THIS EVENING, at 8.
| “La POU P € 6.”
Comic Opera in 2 Acts and 4 Tableaux.
Plan, Nicholson’s. I3F” PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL, S YDNEYT
EIGHT FAREWELL PERFORMANCES
BLAND HOLT’S
Popular Dramatic ~ Organisation, and EIGHT flna]
Representations of the Great Melodramatic Novelty
Sporting Life. Sporting Life.
PRICES—3s., 25., and One Shilling. Plan at Elvy’s.
ITIOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Director ... Philip Newbury.
Saturday Next., at 8 o’clock.
Saturday SHILLING Pops.
Special Engagement of Miss ROSE MUSGROVE, Mr.
M'NICOL TURNER, and Air. RODDA PERRY, the
Marvellous Alale Alto.
GIGANTIC PROGRAMME.
Admission—ONE SHILLING. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Alanager, ARCHIBALD NEWBURY.
ALACE THEATI«eT SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING'
AIATINEES EVERY SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
gantc, f he fuggling feniud.
A New, Novel, 19th Century Up-to-date Entertainment
Astounding Illusions, Mystery after Mystery.
DANTE IS THE GREATEST MAGICIAN LIVING.
He begins where others leave off. The things j’ou
know can’t happen do happen, and though you don’t
believe them, you see them.
PRICES—3s., 25.,' Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
LHAMHRA, SYDNEY. ~
Lessees ... St. John and W. J. Wilson.
CONTINUED PHENOAIENAL SUCCESS!
Every Evening, at 8 p.m., Air.
JT call ix Coleman
AND OUR COLOSSAL COMBINATION OF STARS.
Popular Prices—2s, Is, and 6d. Alatinee every Saturday.
Saturday Next, Oct. 15, First Appearance of Alias
EMMIE SMITH, Serio-Comic, and
Charles— THE KEENANS— Harry
Ttyoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Alanager, Air. Harry Rickards.
LAST NIGHTS OF
JVTiss A.clel IReeve.
Signor TJgo Biondi.
Continued Success of JULEENE’S ELECTRIC ORGAN
FOREMAN and FANNAN, BELLAIAN and AIOORE*
SISTERS TERRY, ALICE SIAIMONS, FANING and
DEVOE, and our Grand Double Company.
THURSDAY, October 13th, Miss ADA REEVE’S
BENEFIT.
W/JLTH/tM
XwatchV
Xe«y2Sr
; '• Sjgg&j
American UJaltham (Hatch Comp. (Hatches
Are the most Perfect Timekeepers it is possible to make. To increase thei
Sale of WALTHAM WA TV If KS, and also give the Australian people!
at the same time a PERFECT WATCIi for the same money they have been
paying for a poor make, we have decided to sell to the Australian Public
DIRECT AT OUR WHOLESALE PRICES
We send Goods Post-paid to any Colony on receipt of
Money Order or Draft.
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 5 years £2 7 6
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar.loyears 3 0 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, syr. guarantee 089
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 15years 3 15 0
Gold-Plated Watches (Ladies’or Gents’, with the "America” movement 10 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, lOyr. guarantee .. 0 15 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Albert, Syr. guarantee .. .. ... .. 08 9
When ordering Watches, please mention if Plain or Fancy Case is wanted.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH DEPOT,
Imperial Arcade, Sydney. J.. Landes, Manager.
The Summer is upon us, watch your Children’s EYES ;
No house should be without a bottle of the greatest of all Australian remedies.
RoSq’S Celebrated Eye Lotiofy.
The onJy practical and effective preparation of the century for all EYE
PLAINTS arising from Sandy Blight, Sun Glare, Inflammation,
Granulation of the Eyelids, Stings of Insects, Weak Eyes, Overwork, etc.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
SOLIE PEOPEIETOR :
H. A. ROSE, Dispensing Chemist, 531 George-street, Sydney.
List of Testimonials Supplied on Application.
OPEN ALL NIGHT, ALSO SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OE MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
j the most delicious sauce in the woriji.
672,192 BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
MILLIONS OK BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
Sold In Bottles, 6d., x/-, and */- each,
Proprietors: GOOD ALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO,, LEEDS, ENG,
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
TIUOCXC ft CO., KENT and EIVERPOOL STREETS, SVBNEV.
'* ’ * have just come from under the bed, and
would like a word with “ 8.E.” re his wild cry of 8/9/’9B,
if the fit has passed. I never uttered a syllable
against the ‘cleverness,” the “humor,” or "the “eecen-
tricity of Coleman’s dance, so why this great waste of
adjectives? I questioned the originality of the Seare-
oelnan‘ Two or three people have declared
'hey never saw Ashcroft dance the Scarecrow —pos-
sibly The Bulletin has heard from all the people who
never saw him do it, and there the matter stands. I did
something about Peggy Pryde’s excess of confidence,
but that still leaves the little lady a great deal of ability
to go and come on. I did not say Peggy attempted to be
nice in all the characters “ 8.E.” lists'; it is in a few turns
he carefully ignores—decidedly her weakest turns—that
put . 8 °P P a >nt and spreads her feathers. I admire
P.P. heartily in much she does, and credit her with being
a truthful caricaturist most of the time and a regular
volcano in petticoats always, but have never been near
enough to London to justify me in having an opinion
about anything on earth. “8.E.” almost convinces
me he is a poor player himself. It is characteristic
of the theatrical mind to read abuse into every criticism
that does not go the whole hogshead of thick treacle.
Mrs. Langtry has determined to return to the stage,
and, Williamson and Musgrove are, it is said (writes Syd-
ney D.T.’s London correspondent), offering her fine terms
for a short Australian season. If Mrs. Langtry visits the
Antipodes, you may recognise her talents and her still
considerable good looks, and the ladies will marvel at her
jewels. But the exquisite complexion of 20 years ago,
which was the beauty’s choicest possession, and which
was what really set society raving, has departed never to
return.
A theatrical agent, just returned from “ up North,”
throws a calcium light on what they read in the back-
blox. ‘Struck Blankwich.with the co. at a very good
time, and had ‘ Boeeacio ’ well-billed in advance to open
in. Landlord prophesied a poor house because, as he ex-
plained, the folks thereabouts were pretty straight-laced,
and objected to anything ‘ blue.’ I couldn't make it out;
but sure enough the house was three-parts empty', and
even those who were there (all men) seemed to be in a
state of half-fearful expectancy. Waylaid one when it
was over, and asked him how he liked the show. ‘ Oh,
it ivas all right,’ he said, ‘ but it ain’t much like the booh :
that g pretty blue, that is ! ” Then it hit me. They
thought ‘ Boccaeio ’ was jm operatic version of the
Decameron ! ”
The most unconvincing of all mummeries is the stage-
death. Some recent Hispano-Ameriean war pictures
show' the thing as it really happens. Here, a dead soldier
in a sitting posture, as though resting ; there, the corpse
of one who has crawled along on his hands and knees,
till he has fallen with his forehead pressed to the ground.
On the stage, and in most pictures, people die at full
stretch, on the back. Can’t any mummer invent a pic-
turesque and yet correct method of pegging-out?
“ Haresfoot ” : How about an unlucky play' again’
Thomson comes up and Pattie goes down.
E. Mulcahv, member for Hobart in Tas. Assembly, has
built the swagger hotel of the Island at Zeehati, and
°R en l *5 nexfc month - There’s a “ Gaiety , Theatre ”
attached, and it is on the ea.rds that actor O. R. Ireland
will manage the whole concern. The Cosgrove co. opens
the Gaiety. _
A little posthumous glory hovers above the ashes of
poor old Poussard. At the examination', held last week
n ®y> by the visiting Trinity College examiners, one
of his violin pupils, Otto Philip, passed with top-senior
honors ; and another, Maurice Kelleruiann, was the only
successful junior candidate out of 10 who presented them-
selves.
Rignol<l intends to try “Othello” in Sydney
Some bacilli multiply by breaking in half
and the halves growing to the size of the original;
and then dittoing ad infinitum. Anybody can
pick the bacillus of anti-federation in one go. It
has split once, and the halves have grown, so that
t’other is like which. So just you watch it, Toby.
That enterprising man, A. J. Riley, is
responsible for the latest addition to the archi-
tectural beauties of Sydney. The new premises in
Pitt-street, near King-street, are called “The
Mutual Stores, ’ and they have been erected in
the wisdom of 35 years’ extensive experience
Nowhere is this better illustrated than in the
lighting of the new house; this excellence alone
will popularise the establishment with ladies. A.
J. Riley, of course, v ill manage the concern, and*
after his recent business trip to England and the
Continent, he looks good for a new lease of
prosperity.
“Melb.” Martha Perks, widow of the es-
teemed Anglican Pastor Perks, demised this week,
aged 84. Perks only made one mistake in a long
career, when he went to England as Chaplain to
the renowned Jacky Tommy Smith, Melbourne’s
Dick Whittington, seven times Mayor. Smith
was to be the first Melb. knight, but either his
vulgar appearance disgusted Her Gracious, in an
interview, or else she had heard about the shady
character of his pub., next the Queen’s Theatre.
Labor-member Price lately told S. A.
Assembly that “ Dr. Cockburn is the greatest man
who ever put his foot on this soil.” “He is the
greatest thinker Australia has ever seen,” agreed
King O’Malley, “Cockburn saw things coming
years before they arrived, but Kingston is like a
man in a train with his back to the engine. He
doesn’t see anything until he has passed it.”
Certainly most of the progressive legislation of the
Kingston Ministry was suggested by the present
Agent-General. But then Cockburn is a dreamer
without strength or vim enough to live up to his
brains.
This is the season of the fat pig and large
pumpkin show; and in the South Australian
farming districts, where every township consist-
ing of a store, a “chapel,” a pub., and a black-
smith’s shop, has its agricultural society, there
used to be great rivalry between the chapel and
the pub. in the matter of providing “ the lunch ”
—a most important part of the proceedings. But
since women’s franchise came along, the sisters
have won all along the line ; and now “ the ladies
of the Primitive Methodist body provided an ex-
cellent luncheon in Mr. Binks’s barn, kindly lent
for the occasion,” is a common portion of the
secretary-supplied report.
A Sydney cleric to The Bulletin
Re your article op the Marriage Laws, I think it was
the clergy who brought about the sudden and untimely
end of Mr. Parry Long, the N.S.W. Registrar-General.
The deceased was most scrupulous in the discharge of his
duties. Soon after his appointment he im-
proved marriage form, which fairly drove the parsons off
their heads. Every possible detail was crowded into the
small st space. You had to find out the age of the con-
tracting parties—a most difficult matter where the female
was concerned. Her profession or occupation was also a
sof point, especially when she had none. If you
left the space a blank the certificate was returned
to you for completion. If, in a fit of despera-
tion, you wrote that she was a “lady” or living
in her father’s house, it was also returned as being
indefinite. I have known clergymen who seldom have a
marriage to celebrate to spend an hour over one of these
forms, and then to have it returned two or three times
by the local registrar with pencilled comments. The
result was the clerics grew desperate, and sent the docu-
ment back again with all its sins upon it. The wonder
was that it ever reached Parry Long’s office. But the
unkindest cut of all was when they received a further
notice, asking them to inform the local registrar how
many marriages they celebrated during the half-year.
Very likely many of them didn’t get the chance to per’-
form even one, and vet they were expected to say so—and
pay for their own stamps.


MELLINS
FOOD
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
i complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
itvong as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
tuoplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of* all Dealers throughout the
world.
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Peckham, London, England.
efRATHHIh
Choice Old Highland
SCOTCH WHISKY
y.
TRADE
MARK
* Fine 014
SCOTCH WHISKY
Publications, etc.
Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATIONS, depictingher
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Lite,
A d v e n.
tures, and
Confes-
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post free for one stamp.
What is friendship but a name,
A charm that lulls to sleep ;
A shade that follows wealth or tame.
But leaves the wretch to weep.
The poet evidently was not on good terms with himself
when he wrote this, nevertheless it contains some grains of
truth of friendships in general, but cannot apply to The
Woman’s Friend and Private Medical Adviser, as it is afriend
to all, always and that means at the only time a friend is
valuable—when wanted Pangs of maternity' eased, critical
period passed without suffering, healthy offspring, in fact,
‘■•■thing words of comfort for every pain, and clear directions
b \v to be free from it tieut by mail post free, for only 55.,
Mamps 4d. extra. Agents wanted —A. A. Pub. Co., Box 1163
<; "<> v vdnev VS \\ Mention this paper when writing.
BOOKS.
Published Second
Price. Hand.
Science of Life, Sexual Physiology (Fowler) 25/- 16/-
Picturesque Atlas of Australasia, 3vols. comp. £l6 70/-
Manual of Freemasonry, by Carlyle 5/6 3/6
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk ..' 7/6 6/6
Insects Injurious to Fruit and how to destroy 21/- 12/6
Gordon’s Poems, 3/6; Kendall Poems ... 7/6 6/6
The Popular Educator, 6vols. complete ...80/- 15/
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 2s. cloth-bound Novels by the
best Authors for £l. All Books sent Post Free.
Books Books Booka
The Notorious Mrs. Merry vale: Her Adventures and Con-
fessions ; Miss Skittles, the Girl with Six Husbands;
Ovid’s Art of Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very racy,
each post free Is. 6d. The New Receipt Book, aiid How
to command the Love and Admiration of the Opposite
Sex ; The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes—each
post free Is. ; The Lady of the Camellias, bv Dumas, very
racy, post free Is. 6d. R. W. SKINNER, New and
Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Telephone 3043.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdme-
Lenormand’s : celebrated
French Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
LETTERS,
12 of the best
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS, 3s.—
SECRET
Photos,
(2j Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
'Continental Supply Agency,
> Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Married Ladies.
fl3TSend Four Penny
Stamps for our New
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Editiou, “ Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold, 2/6,
post free.
Sweet are the uses of advertising. In
front of a stylish villa being erected in St. Kilda
Road, Melb., is a signboard setting forth that
“ These premises are being erected for Mr. Blank,
of Blank Brothers, sole manufacturers of Blank’s
celebrated Pills.”
The Bulletin’s office-drunk hands in this
valuable suggestion:—
One of these days, when The Bulletin is an old, 1
respectable millionaire, I will show it how to do goon
service by endowing an inebriate asylum on new and
original lines, combining humanity with utilitarianism,
and effecting a lightning solution of the eternal problem
of how to deal with the beer-soaked ruin to whom life is
nothing but one huge long-sleever. The Bulletin Insti-
tute will not be started as a “society” charity; it will
not become a benevolent asylum for useless public ser-
vants and influential incapables desirous of getting easy
billets at the expense of the advertising public ; and it
will not spend the whole of its capital in erecting a huge
Ealace, encrusted with architectural aberrations. It will
e probably a long, weatherboard structure, with a gal-
vamsed-iron roof, and with a big, friendless Scotchman,
of offensive honesty and execrable sobriety, as overseer.
The walls of the building will be fitted with unplaned
shelves, on which bottles of spirit will be eternally avail-
able ; and beneath a wide verandah there will be half-a-
dozen barrels of beer, ready tapped for all-comers.
Capable barmen of Oalvinistic tendencies will be appointed
to attend these departments, and serve out liquor and
prevent waste ; and, in order that inmates already drunk
may not interfere with other inmates getting into the
same desirable condition, a deadhouse shall be erected,
into which all the well and truly intoxicated shall be
towed b3' the Caledonian outcast referred to, each drunk
being locked in a separate compartment. The insti-
tution, if possible, will be situated on an island
free from the turmoil and worry attendant upon
proximity to any community, however small ; and
away from offensive criticism. Only duly-qualified dipso-
maniacs will be admitted as inmates, and they will first
have to submit unquestionable recommendations, signed
by a clergyman, a justice of the peace, or some other re-
putable citizen, to prevent imposition on the part of
moderate drinkers, teetotallers, &c. But once accepted
by the board of directors, the experienced drunkard will
be admitted to full privileges and given every opportunity
to drink himself to death as speedily as possible. All
parties will thus be satisfied. The dipsomaniac himself
will hail the scheme as a sort of millennium. The Govern-
ment of the country will be relieved of a large amount of
expense and inconvenience, the people generally will be
no longer troubled by quantities of offensive and unpic-
turesque drunks, the crime-rate will go down to zero, and
sober and respectable relatives will be permitted to
live out their lives without the constant interference and
misconduct of the battered boozer of the family, who is
always making his appearance at inopportune times. Of
course the drunk won’t be reclaimed and preserved, but
then there are lots of people without him, and you can
buy a better man with less than the cost of reclamation.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDlAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
COLEMANE’S
EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT
Is indeed “MONARCH” of
all the Eucalyptus Extracts
on the market, as it is ONE
QUALITY onIy—FIRST, and
Guaranteed Pure.
For a COLD, a BAD
COUCH, or any CHEST
TROUBLES, there is no-
thing can touch it. It is
Eucalypte pure and simple
Without Adulterants.
Investigate before Purchasing.
WRITE US AND WE WILL SEND YOU ABSOLUTE
PROOF THAT
Is positively the best remedy for RHEUMATISM,
LUMBAGO, ALL ACHES and PAINS, WOUNDS,
BRUISES, etc. For Stable Use, it is the best Embro-
cation in the world. We cannot publish all the testi-
monials we are constantly receiving- from grateful sufferers
who have been cured. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don’t purchase before investigating. Send
your address to
S. COX &. CO.,
PATENTEES AND SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
422 SourJee Street, Melbourne.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d. extra.
The Owl Drug Stores,
Corner Elizabeth Sc Bathtrst Streets,
SYDNEI'S’
BEINGI DIRECT IMPORTERS and CASH
BUYERS, our Drugs and Toilet Requisites
are of the BEST QUALITY and sold at the
LOWEST PRICES. Prescriptions Dispensed
by first-class Registered Chemists, and faithfully
prepared.
ECONOMY, EXCELLENCY, & FIDELITY
—Our Motto. Call and inspect our Store, and
you will be satisfied.
Telephone D- COBCROET, Proprietor.
2636. W. E. ARNOLD, Manager.
Medicines carefully packed and forwarded to
all parts of the Colonies.
IQtIOB
HABIT
Eucrasy will complatsly
■troy the desire ter liquor in any
form, in 2 to 5 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know*
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking.
Pamph!,. on the disease of Drunk-
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed,
EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St.. Sydney.
EASILY
CURED
The [atest Insect ponder.
KILLS A: I. INSECTS.
THE MARVELLOUS INSECT POWDER.
NO VEXATIOUS DISAPPOINTMENTS.
KILLS FLIES, THE CARRIERS OF DISEASE GERMS.
KILLS MOSQUITOES, AND ENSURES A NICHl'i'S REST.
Harmless to .Animal Life.
ALL CHEMIST < A t) n'i OitE KEEPER
“I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine!
Posted (undercover)
to any par tot Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. (id.
Sole Agents:
m
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George- st„ Sydney
Jack : I hear the Yankees are going to
give over using pow. ier and shot
in their war with Spain.
Tom : How are they going to win,
then ?
Jack: With St. Jacobs Oil. It
CONaUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
safe*
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET.
IN LARGE AND SMALL OAKES,
EVERYWHERE.
Remember it’s
mnesia
Which means ,
It'S the pure article
Its the best mild
laxative /CnoWn
recommended by
your family Doctor.
A CART-LOAD OF COLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writes a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re-tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may be had by writ-
ing, posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address —
DB. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy,
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to all
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude an( j make
no charge whatever. Send (stomped) addressed envelope to
Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers, Pitt-st., Sydney
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FUNDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
fSSIS
mm
mm
"■f'iiiiSl
;
• i
il'jiijiiiiiiii
!!!!!|jiiiiiu'
.i
M'uiiiiijii
HMiiiiim,
{jHfijiiiiiii
!
“•I'fiiiiii
|!!!!‘iiiiin
! ' • -i'i
SP.i>ih{!»! H
iiiiii!!!! l '
iiiliiii'!!!!
iiliiiilii'!!!'| ||
iiiiiini|'!!!!i i
ftiniiHi!!!!!! 5
■liiiiinliiH l !!«
0*
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12/6. Dress Suits to Measure, 84/-.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Hiding
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 6000 pieces of Woollens to
select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25,'-. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2/11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13/6. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10/-, trimmings included.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never .cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages,-and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), giving illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
Address *
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPLIANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
The Lowest Prices—
The Highest Testimonials—
The Finest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recom-
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
fQinerva Peptonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, has been reduced to the
public from 2s. 6d. to Is. 9d. The high quality of
the preparation has not been reduced.
Minerva Peptonised Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. large size, and to Is. 9d.
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street, by enclosing with the above
price 6d. extra to cover postage. Sample bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Co,
Manufacturing Chemists 8s Pood Specialist",
LONDON : 15 and 17 Fore-street Avenue, E.C.
NEW YORK : Kemble Building, Whitehall-street.
SYDNEY : 56 Margaret-street.
proved by /oo years use .
DRRQBERTS’;
■£*SSBffl
SO/?
SK//V D/SEASEf
mtm
AtTEWTIVE
AND WOUAJOS
or £. VERY
Descpipt/o/Y'
PILLS
FOR SKIN DISEASES.
And ALL D/ SOP DEBS OF THE
SYOMA CM & L/VER .
or ALL CHEM/STS //// x 2/<JrEACH
BEACH & BARN'ICOTT L° BRIDPQRJ.
MELBOURNE.
WE?
... IMPOST FHEFv^
Watches- Clocks-Jewellery-BirtH day*
weddii\lg z CrißiSTEiJirlc Presents
H NeWMAI\I- 175C177-ELIZABETrf St.
OPPOSITE G:P.Q-
MELBOURNE
fiED
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address — A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


STEWART DAWSON & COS
RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS.
Value Unapproachable.
No. 9. —S.D. & Co.’s f-plate Hunting English-Lever Watch,
full jewelled movement, chronometer expansion balance, sunk
seconds, enamel dial, strong Hall-marked silver cases, best value
pr £4 10s.
No. 6.—S.D. & Co’s “ Derby Double Chrono-
graph, gives an instantaneous record of any event
in minutes and seconds; the movement is f-plate
lever, jewelled in rubies, fine chronometer expansion
balance, Brequet spring. In solid silver cases, open-
face £6 10s., hunting £7 10s.; in 18ct. gold cases,
open-face £2O, hunting £22.
Beware of Imitations.
No. 12.—S.D. & Co’s “ Excelsior ” Keyless English Lever is
unsurpassed by any watch ; it is compact, convenient, and reliable,
dust and damp proof, has very best £-plate movement, full jewelled
in rubies, real chronometer balance, heavy Hall-marked hunting
silver cases, each guaranteed for five years, £6 10s.
No. 4. —S.D. & Co’s Lady’s Hunting
“Defiance” Watch, with f-plate
jewelled movement, engraved solid
silver cases and tinted and enamelled
dial. These beautiful watches surprise
every purchaser, £llos.
No. 11.—S.D. & Co’s Special Value in Wal-
tham Watches, has best finished movement, enamel
dial, gold hands, heavy hunting Hall-marked silver
cases, and is recommended as a reliable timekeeper,
£2 7s. 6d. ; keyless, £3.
No. 7.—S.D. & Co’s Gent’s Keyless Hunting
English Lever, has finely finished movement, ex-
pansion balance, enamel dial, strong keyless wind-
ing, Hall-marked silver cases, £3 10s.
S.D. & Co’s Ladies’ Presentation English
f-plate Gold Lever, in massive 18-carat Hall-
marked cases, movement jewelled in finest
rubies; chronometer balance; Brequet spring;
unsurpassed as a timekeeper, £2O; also in plain
case for monogram. Warranted 10 years.
No. 13. —S.D. & Co’s Lady’s Gold Keyless
Watch, has finely finished and full jewelled move-
ment, strong 18ct. gold hunting cases, richly en-
graved and decorated, a reliable timekeeper, com-
bining the maximum of excellence at the minimum
of cost, £5 10s.; also made a size smaller, £4 10s.
Silver cases, £2 10s.
No. 10.—S.D. & Go’s English Hunting Lever Watches, contain special patented im-
provements ensuring durability, timekeeping, and freedom from accident in wear. The
movements are full capped, dust proof, jewelled in rubies, the cases are strong sterling
silver, Hall-marked, £3 10s., warranted for three years. Special quality, with chronometer
expansion balance, 3 pairs extra jewels, £4 10s. Unequalled value. Beware of worthless
imitations.
No. 14. —S.D. & Co’s Lady’s G-old Keyless
Waltham Lever Watch, with best finished f-plate
movement, patent safety barrel expansion balance,
jewelled, strong solid gold engraved hunting cases,
perfect keyless action, sunk seconds, and enamelled
dial, £6 10s., exceptional value. Silver cases,
£3 ss.
No. 5. —S.D. and Co’s Gent.’s Gold Keyless
Hunting Lever Watch, has fine quality f-plate
lever movement, jewelled in rubies, chronometer
expansion balance, perfect keyless winding, strong
18ct. gold cases, £l5 10s.; in open-face, £l4 10s.
No. 2.—S.D. and Co’s Lady’s
Finest Quality Hunting Keyless
Lever Watch, Jj-plate full jewelled
movement, expansion balance, richly
engraved silver cases, £3 10s.
No._ 3.—S.D. and Go’s Lady’s
Magnificent' Gold Keyless Watch,
has exquisitely finished fine f-plate
jewelled movement, strong 18ct.
gold case, elaborately-engraved, per-
fect keyless action, openface, £6los.
In hunting cases, £7 10s.
No. B.—S.D. and Co’s Magnificent Keyless £-
plate English Gold Lever of the very best make,
with finest finished movement, jewelled in rubies,
real chronometer expansion balance, perfect key-
less action, massive 18ct. gold hunting cases. £22 ;
open-face, £lB 10s.
receipt of Remittance, any of the above Watches will be sent (with guarantee), Securely Packed and Carriage Paid, at our risk, to any part of Australasia.
412 George-st., Sydney,
Melbourne, Auckland, Perth, London.


Sugar, pure Silver-plated, 22s 6d.
With covers, 30s.
A Saunders.
New Bell and Chain Gold Brooch,
Bed, Blue and White Stones, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Entree Dishes, pure Silver-plate, on Hard White Nickel,
57s od (4 pieces). Other houses charge £i 4s same articles.
WE SELL DIRECT FROM THE MAKERS.
A. Saunders.
Sugar Scuttle, Pure Silver-plated,
16s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. Saunders.
Quite New Gold Bird, White Pearls and
Amethyst Heart, 21s. ; 15c., £2.
A. Saunders.
Large-size 3-bar Amethyst, 255.
Isc. Gold „ - , 455.
ST
Pure Silver-mounted Purses,
,7s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
New Style, Loveßird and Chain
Gold, 8s 6d.
A. Saunders.
2-bar Gold Brooch, 3 Pearls, 12s.
15c. Gold, 22s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Gold Secret Brooch, 255.
15c. Gold, £2. Diamonds, £2 los and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Send for Size Card.
18c. Gold Band, Pure
Double Out Dia-
mond, £3; smaller
Diamond, £2, £2 los,
fin. wide.
Send for Price List.
18c. Solid Gold Dia-
mond, 2 Rubies and
Sapphires, £2 ; 15c.
Gold, 20s and 30s.
18c. Gold, Pure Double
Out Diamond, £5 ss;
Larger, £6 6s, £7los,
£8 10s, £lO. £l2 10s.
9c. Solid Gold Dia-
monds, 2 Red or Blue
Stones, 10s 6d.
18c. gold, 3 Sapphires
or Rubies, 4 Dia-
monds, £3; Double-
cut Diamonds, £3los
and £4. Send for
illustrations.
Any .Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 255; 18c.,
255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. Saunders.
Gold Amethyst Bar, 5s 6d.
Highly Recommended.
WATCH
REPAIRS
GUARANTEED.
The 19th Century Watch.
Gold Keyless Waltham, patent filled peases,
£4 4s, 15 years’’ guarantees ditto, 14c.' Gold,
patent cases, £5 ss, 20 years’ guarantee, “ the
same strength as a £3O watch.” Ladies’,
“beautifully ornamented, same price.”
Send for Illustrated Price Book of Watches.
The Utmost Satisfaction.
Old Jewellery
RE-MADE
to any Design.
A. Saunders.
New Design Wish Gold Brooch,
13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. Saunders.
Gold Butterfly Brooch, 10s.
A. Saunders.
Hand-made Wedding Rings and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, ns 6d, 7s 6d, Kls each ; 15c. Gold
15s ; extra heavy, 25s ; 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card.
Quite New.
9c. Gold, Redstone and Pearls, 20s.
15c. Gold, Diamond, and Redstone, 355.
Gold Baby Brooch, with Safety Pin, 5s 6d.
15c. Gold, larger, 12s 6d.
A. Saunders.
Butter, Pure Silver-plate,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
AMV
Any Name or Initial free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra' Strong,
16c. Gold, 15s. ; 18c. Gold, 20s
Silver, 3s 6d.
10s;
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Pure Diamonds, Rubies,
or Sapphires, £2 10s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold Dress Studs, 12s 6d.
Diamond, Ruby, or Sapphires, other styles,
3s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. Saunders.
15c. Gold, Diamond, 4 Rubies and 4 Pearls, £3ss.
5 Diamonds, £A 4s. Very strong brooch.
A. Saunders.
9c. Chased Links, 22s 6d.
15c. Gold, 40s. Silver, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 10/6,12/6,15/-, 20/-
Solid Gold Chain, Single or Double, £2 10s/ £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Send for
Price Illustrated Book.
Send for our Complete Illustrated Price
. Book of Watches, Clocks, Jewellery and
Silver-plate. ■- POST FREE.
Gold Heart
Locket,
Plain, 8s 6d.
Chased, 10s.
Child’s Cups, 10s "6d,
15s 6d, 20s. Pure Silver-
plated. 15s 6d and 20s
A. SAUNDERS
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, 815 George-street (nearly
opp. Railway Station); SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Buonaparte and Bismarck.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[Bismarck was born during the celebrated “ hundred
days” and was about eleven weeks old on the day of
Waterloo.]
Could he whose sword so long made and unmade
Rulers and realms have laid him down to dream
Ere Waterloo his blood-stained hosts dismayed,
With vision helped by some far Heaven-shot beam
Piercing the night mists with a meteor gleam,
He might have seen, far in the northern sky,
A prattling child smile at his “ power supreme”—
A child who would his nation’s arms defy
When he in mouldering dust low in the grave
should lie!
Yes ! for beyond that lowering field of Fate-
Before the day, dawning with crimson flame,
That found him conquering hero, stay of State,
And left him but a nightmare and a name—
Into the world with baby-tread there came
A Teuton boy destined in manhood’s prime,
Playing with kingdoms to win lasting fame
And stamp his impress on his land and time :
Bismarck, a wizard name—statesman and man
sublime.
The day, given up to bloodiest quest of power
Through heat of gore, well nigh its course had
run;
Time’s hand was almost on the fatal hour
When the bleak night of exile had begun ;
And as the soldier saw his sinking sun,
Prophetic vision might have caught the star
Watching that man-child’s morning, just began,
Who for his country’s sake, in times afar,
Crushed the Napoleon line, and flooded France
with war.
This Seer of State behind the nation’s steel
Faithfully watching with an eagle eye
Had one all-guiding thought—his country’s weal —
One sword, one soul, for his lov’d Germany:
And, even so, where’er his bones may lie
They need no shelter in a royal tomb;
For men will bare their heads in passing by,
Hushing his sleep until the Day of Doom,
Through flood and fire and storm and cannon’s
thundering boom.
D. M. MAGILL.
“ Cosmos ” : Mark Twain’s resumd of the
Boer War reminds me that the Majuba affair was
due to deliberate treachery, known only to Colley,
his staff, and the nearest sentry. This fact has
been carefully suppressed in the general indig-
nation at the burst-up of British “invincibility,”
and the consequent desire to throw all blame on
“the man who is dead.” Spurred by the sneers
of the Cape and Natal press, and by the whinings
of those Transvaal residents who had entered a
foreign country with the idea that, being English,
they were tabu from local customs, Colley had no
alternative but to act with what he knew to be a
grossly insufficient force for the purpose. It was
the old game of directing operations from the
security and ignorance of the War Office.
Cackle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Franchise general meeting awaited their Pre- 1
sident. The room was half-full. The few mem-
bers of the lower sex present were in the train of
stout women, and were talked across and thumped
when emphasis required.
The treasurer, an antiquated damsel, volubly
addressed the front row. “ Why for forty years I
remember— thirty— twenty years I mean .”
“You said forty,” a young man ventured,
laughing nervously.
Her friends promptly spread the slip over the
room.
Voice from the rear : “ I dreamt last night there
was a large fire and I went out on the balcony in
my nightdress to see it. And there was an old
gentleman there, and he says to me —‘Anyone can
see, Mrs. Dennis, you don’t wear a crinoline.’”
Above everyone : ‘ ‘ My old man says it is wast-
ing good clothes to put them on me, because I
look nice in anything.”
“The paper to-night,” said a languid voice,
“ will be read by a man who often favors us. He
takes the name of an abstruse subject, chews it
over for three lines, and then settles down to the
‘ Moral Relations Between the Sexes.’ ”
“ I think I know the man. Puts his foot in his
mouth every time he opens it.”
An old maid, there under protest, engaged a
young member on Industrial Homes. “ There
must be these places, my dear. We know by our-
selves that women were intended to tempt men.
Eve ate the apple ”
“ Oh, if you believe that you believe anything ! ”
the girl interrupted, moving away in disgust.
A member spoke from the other side: “So you
think Eve damns women for all time ? ”
“ Most certainly. I know, by my own family,
that women are worse than men.”
“ Not by yourself ? ”
“The Holy Spirit has kept temptation from
me.”
“ What a pity! Virtue, you know, is only
absence of temptation and opportunity.”
“My dear, the Holy Spirit ” but no one
listened.
Near the door: “ Walter Bentley is amusing.
You remember his famous argument in our favor?
A mare had just drawn him gallantly to the fran-
chise meeting. Therefore, by all the gods and
little fishes—— ”
Enter the president, seventeen minutes and a-
half late.
VINEGAR.
“ Inna ” : Being a Barbarian myself, I was
delighted to see in Carlyle Smythe’s article that
Mark Twain has never been able to find a single
line of interest in Thackeray. Once upon a time
I used to curse my stupidity, and once more take
down “ Vanity Fair” from the shelf, to struggle
with its tediousness. It always beat me. My
interest in Dickens never fails—but Thackeray is
either above or below me. Also, Mark Twain
regards the “Vicar of Wakefield ” as an effort in
unconscious humor. (This appears in “ More
Tramps.”) I hope Mark will continue to make
remarks on literature. We Barbarians have
plenty more deficiencies, but we don’t like to con-
fess to them till someone else has done it.
An Alternative.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nellie was a Tasmanian, which accounted for a
complexion that braved even the dust and sun of
Coolgardie. And her nativity of the Arcadian
Isle, it was said, accounted for her unwillingness
. to confo m to the unconventional customs of the
country, which enabled other barmaids without
her physical advantages to amass riches, and
sometimes to become leaders of goldfields society.
But, for whatever reason, Nellie was frozen pro-
priety. Tom Hargreaves, who was “something
on a mine,” exerted all the powers of suggestion
and persuasion of which he was capable, and drank
more than was necessary as an excuse for appear-
ing at Nellie’s shrine —in vain. Nellie would
listen to no suggestions of temporary arrange-
ment ; and so, on the spur of the moment,
after a rebuff which he represented to himself,
from the depth of his n a ure knowledge of
womankind, must be final, Tom made his proposal
absolute instead of provisional, and thus brought
it within the scope of respectabili'y. Yet Nellie
fejected the proffered opening to the upper circles
of Coolgardie society. So Tom walked home that
night to his hessian-and-iron bachelor’s quarters,
thinking deeply, and wondering whether to be more
annoyed at the impulsiveness which had induced
him to actually contemplate matrimony, or at
Nellie for refusing him. Next morning he saw
clearly that Nellie was a good sort, but she wasn’t
quite worth that.
Nellie was likewise annoyed. He was a good
fellow, she thought, but a proposal of marriage
did hot bear a nice flavor when put forward as a
dernier ressort. Her refusal need only be tem-
porary, in accordance with the sport of womankind
since the days of Eve, and the temporising would
do him good. For, of course, he would come
back with apologies for his previous conduct, and
maybe would say that he had been misunderstood.
But he did not come back that week, or the next,
and Nellie began to regret her impulsiveness, and
to believe that for once the exercise of the
cherished privilege of the sex had played her a
sorry trick. It was not till a month afterwards
that he returned, with an air of studied non-
chalance, which was meant to suggest that the
events of the past were disposed of., When the
opportunity came for conversation, it was Nellie
who was forced to take the initiative, and to guide
it into the proper channels.
She said: “I hope you did not think me too
hard on you last time you were here. I was
wondering if I hadn’t been. ”
V “Oh, don’t mention it,” he replied, for want
of something better to say. “Perhaps, after all,
it served me right.”
“I know you didn’t mean all you said,’’ she
pursued; “but we will be better friends in
future.” i
He did not reply, but preserved an inscrutable
countenance.* The situation, unless it could b“
saved, was evidently coming to an end.
“I was too hasty when —when—well, just
before you went away,” she suggested.
He understood, and shivered. Then a way of
retreat flashed into his mind. “Nell,” he said,
“ don’t take any notice of what I said last time.
The fact is I am married already. ”
She looked at him, and was silent for a moment.
Then she smiled. “Did you mean, ,hen, that
you warned to marry me the other night? I
was not taking any particular notice, Well, let
me give you a little advice. Nexi lime you have
a proposition to make to a lady, say exactly what
you mean, so that she will undei stand, and then
she will know what answer to give.”
“ I will,” he replied.
“ Try,” she said.
H J.M.
The beds of the dry lakes in Swan Hill
(Vic.) Shire—have been allowed to fall into culti-
vators] hands. Now that these lakes could be
replenished so as to irrigate a vast area by gravita-
tion, vested interests step in to prevent this.
S.A. Chief-Justice Way, who loves legal
niceties, had a glittering time lately. Somebody
had a pepper-tree, and the roots got into some-
body else’s yard ; and the somebody else, being a
cantankerous person, put salt to the roots, and the
tree died. Now the somebody wanted damages.
There were infinite possibilities- in the situation.
For instance, it was admitted that the cantanke-
rous somebody.else might have chopped the roots
through on his boundary, though, if he had gone
a hair’s-breadth over the line, he would have been
in Shylock’s own mess. On the other hand, could
he use the roots as a conduit for the transmission
of poison to the tree ? The C. J. was apparently
inclined to think that he couldn’t; and the can-
tankerous person began to suggest that, if the
other fellow admitted that the roots had been
used as. a conduit by the other fellow’s tree, he
(that is to say, the cantankerous person) would
probahly proceed against him for the theft of the
salt. To meet that and other difficulties, a botanist
stepped up to say that trees didn’t have a circula-
tion like that at all. The Chief began to look up
precedents, but couldn’t find anything nearer it
than something about a dog. Just at this point,
the parties had a flash of horse-sense, and agreed
to a settlement; and so the mighty problem of
the right of Brown to salt his neighbor Smith’s
pepper-tree roots remains potent to earn many a
dinner more for a pair of hungry lawyers.
He may have been romancing, but
this is how he swore he got the life-saving
medal. “ When I was a fireman, we were called
out one night to a fire at ; two-storey nine-
room house. The squad went through first, but
found no one there. I went upstairs on my own,
opened a door at end of passage, and found an old
lady standing by her bedside) apparently dazed.
Put the blankets around , her, and fixed on the
lifelines. The fire hadn’t then broken out pro-
perly, and we could have walked downstairs
all right, but that didh’t.puit my book, so I dragged
the old girl out into the passage, and waited till
the old place was blazing and the smoke pretty
thick. Then I hauled the old lady on to the
balcony, blew my whistle, and the boys ran the
escape up. There was a big crowd in the street,
and, when they saw the ‘heroic rescue’ (that’s
what the papers called it), they cheered like mad.
Could have drowned myself in beer that night.
Got this gold medal, and the old lady calls me her
saviour, and says that I’ll never want for a pound
as long as she is alive. How did I leave the
brigade? Well, tried the same game at ,
about four years later, and fell in. Got copped
holding a boy in a back room. Had promised him
a ‘ quid ’ to keep quiet, and, in two minutes more,
I’d have been safe for a second medal; but the
captain spotted me, and the game was up.”


“S.C.” : Be lepers. In Sweden, life-
prisoners used to be experimented on with disease
microbes, under pretence of vaccinating them.
One case, vouched for by a high authority to the
writer, was that of a young officer convicted of
murder on circumstantial evidence. His friends
and his fiancee believed him innocent. Years
elapsed before the real murderer’s death-bed con-
fession led to the convict’s release. The faithful
fiancee married him ; children were born ; and all
went well till the husband at last displayed the
hideous leprous taint. He had been experimentally
inoculated in gaol, and the disease had taken years
to mature. Curious, by the .way, that only one
“white” case of leprosy was known to the West
Indies during 30 years, although the disease was
common enough amongst the colored races.
Just a 3 a gentle reminder. Hordern Brothers
are more up-to-date this Springtime than ever. The
choice ranges of the newest designs in gent.’s wear on
hand. The colorings in ties are specially admired, apd
the collection is extremely large. We have paid particu-
lar attention in ordering our Tennis and Fashion Shirts,
and in these lines the most fastidious can be pleased.
Our gent.’s underwear and hosiery are really first-class.
Silk Mixtures, Summer Gauze light weights in great
variety. The prices speak for themselves. N.B.— Be
prepared for the Fly Pest this Summer, and secure for Is.
a pure silk fly veil. 203,205,207,209,211 Pitt-st. Sydney.”
CONSUMPTION CAN B€ CUR€D
Not always : people who claim to cure it always claim what is not true ; but it can be cured if taken in time. If you are threatened by
consumption— if you are bloodless, anaemic, pale, breathless on slight exertion ; if you have a cough or spit blood, you can only avoid
“ " " By tbc FaitbfOl Us* of
one remedy. Thousands of anaemic people, who would have gone into decline and consumption in a little time, have been cured and
made strong men and women by
Pr. Williams’ PiQk Pills for Pale People-
CONSUMPTION CURED IN AUSTRALIA.
A CASE FROM BRISBANE. A GENTLEMAN CURED AFTER DOCTORS HAD
FAILED TO RELIEVE HIM.
The following simple but sincere testimonial emphatically shows how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have
cured consumption in Australia:—
Mr. William Eastwood, of Stanlev-street, South Brisbane, is a well-known compositor in Brisbane,
and was lately employed on the Brisbane Telegraph newspaper.
“Eight years ago,” said Mr. Eastwood to a reporter, “the first symptoms of what afterwards
proved a very serious complaint manifested themselves. My right breast was the first place to warn
me of coming danger. In that region I suffered pains of an acute, darting character, which seemed
to increase when in a recumbent position, particularly when I lay on my right side. Doctors pre-
scribed, but their medicines proved futile. Instead of feeling beneficial effects, the symptoms became
more aggravated. The pain increased to other parts of my body, even my neck being affected, and
the right shoulder. I became so ill that I was incapacitated from performing my daily avocation. I
distinctly remember being ith a cough, and this alarmed me still further, and my worst
fears were realised when the doctor diagnosed my complaint as the primary stages of consumption.
First they told had me I had inflammation of the liver. Being absolutely convinced that the medical
profession, so far as X had dealing’s with them, were entirely ignorant of the real nature of rny com-
plaint, I resolved to hit Nature take her course—to either let the consumption wear off or kill me—
which, indeed, I fully expected it would. Two years passed away, and life was a burden. Now and
again I would take some strengthening medicine which would partially relieve me, but I had no per-
manent relief from my dread ailment. A friend advised me to try Dr. Williams Pink I had
grown morose and hope had died within me. At last I was persuaded to try the pills. Two boxes
was all I had taken when I felt a little relieved. Indeed, so lost in despair was I that I never dreamt
they would cure me; but I continued taking Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Then my appetite was re-
stored, and lat last, after many years, enjoyed a good hearty meal. Slowly but surely the symptoms
of my former complaint began to disappear, and my friends marvelled at my recovery. lam positively
certain that this beneficial change was brought about by taking Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People, and to-day my general good health, and, I flatter myself, my personal atpply
testify to my restoration to sound and perfect health. To anyone suffering the symptoms I experi-
enced and now detail, I strongly recommend to give Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills a trial. Strange as it
may seem, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills certainly saved my life, and naturally I am grateful to them.”
This will be good news for those even now suffering from incipient consumption. Take the right
remedy at the right time —the right time is the present time.
A GOVERNESS CURED OF CONSUMPTION.
Cured from Consumption.
“THIS IS THE GIRL WHO HAS RISEN FROM
THE DEAD.”
Miss Violet Warren, schoolmistress, living with her uncle
and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. Humberstone, at Wrestlingworth,
Bedfordshire, is a bright, highly-educated lady, in perfect
health, but has had a narrow escape from death by con-
sumption.
She said : “ I had a splendid doctor to attend me for three
years, but grew gradually worse. For months I could not go
down stairs. At last the doctor despaired. He said I was in a
consumption, and told my relatives I could not live long. My
sister was sent for from Northumberland, to see me for the last
time. I was persuaded to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. For
the first few days 1 did not seem to make much progress, but
within a week my appetite returned. I sent for a mutton chop,
a thing I had not been able to eat for a very long time. I shan’t
forget the first time I went out into the village. No one
believed it possible that I could be restored to health again.
(Some of my friends greeted me by saying: ‘ This is the girl
who has risen from the dead.’ During my illness I had no less
than five doctors first and last.
“I have to walk two miles to school every morning,” Miss
Warren continued, “ and I have done this for some time. I would not be without Dr. Williams’Pink
Pills for anything. I have recommended them to scores of people, for I believe they saved my life.”
If your daughter is pale, complains of weakness, is “ tired out ” ; if she is troubled with headache
or pain in the side ; if her temper is fitful and her appetite poor, she is a fit subject for the develop-
ment of Consumption. If you notice any of the above symptoms, lose no time in procuring Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. They will assist the patient to develop properly and regularly ; they will enrich
the blood and restore health’s roses to the cheeks ; all dangers of consumption and premature death
will be averted. Wise and prudent mothers will insist upon their daughters taking Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills upon the approach of the period of womanhood, and thus avoid the risks of disease or
early decay.
Dr. Williams Pink Pills do not only cure Consumption. They cure all diseases
arising from a disordered or impoverished blood condition. Sufferers from anaemia,
indigestion, sleeplessness, unstrung nerves, debility, nervo s exhaustion, ladies ailments,
diarrhoea, jaundice, liver and kidney troubles, biliousness, pa. alysis, locomotor ataxia, etc ,
will find themselves permanently benefited if Dr. Williams hint kills are used. Sold by
chemists and storekeepers, and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney. Price, 15/3
for six boxes ; 2/9 for one box (post free). Send stamps or post-order.
FACSIMILE OF - ONLY
GENUINE PACKAGE.
LLIAMS »
D
91
FOR
AL
NHBVE TONIC AND BLOOtt
BUILDER.
The Doubledays.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Doubledat heard voices coming from his wife’s
dressing-room, and was stricken suddenly rigid.
He had thought the theatre deserted. He rarely
came there in the afternoon, but to-day he called
about a forgotten cigar-case.
He stood still a second till he recognised the
masculine tones in the low-laughing duet that had
arrested him, and then strode rapidly across the
stage and struck open the door.
There was a scream and an oath, and he saw
his wife by a sofa, and Clavering, the juvenile
lead—far from her.
Doubleday paused—the moment for righteous
anger went by, and the woman had time to think.
“Didn’t I warn you before?” he said to her,
“ You know what I’ll do.” The woman recog-
nised the self-pity in his voice, and said with easy
certainty, “You won’t . . . you’re too fond of
me, you fool.”
Doubleday, leaning against the door, put his
hands over his eyes as though he would shut out
her contemptuous picture of himself.
“ I know I’m a fool ; but”—turning to Claver-
ing— “ she’ll tire of you as she tires of everything.
She tired of me. ”
Clavering, who had recovered his self-possession,
grew supercilious, glancing at himself in the glass.
Doubleday saw the scorn on the face of his hand-
some rival,-and it brought passion at last to him.
“ Damn you ! ” he cried, “ don’t think I’m afraid
of you because I don’t strangle you. We can’t, go
hurting each other, because of the show.. Your
looks mean cash to me. If I smash your face
I’ve no one to replace you. I can’t hit till I don’t
'• ant you. . . . I don’t know what to do yet,”
- he staggered, with the weight of suppressed feel-
ing, like a drunken man— “ only I shan’t interfere
just yet., You can have a free hand ; in return, I
ask you to cause no scandal—for the sake of the
business. You see, it’s this——” picking up a
society-weekly from the table. “Here it is,”
reading, ‘.‘Mr. and Mrs. Doubleday are a mcdel
of conjugal felicity in a profession where, unfor-
tunately, Happy marriages are the exception.” He
crushed up the paper, the reading of which twisted
the veins in his temples into knots.
“ D'ye hear—both of you—The Doubledays—
happy man aiid wife—that’s what draws our
crowd. 1) ye understand, woman—The Double-
days—we’ve got to. play up to that till . If I
lose that, God help both of you, for there’ll be
no hing to hold me in.”
Then—with a feeling that would be theatrical
in any but an actor—he picked up a nail-scissors
from the table, and, with it, pinned the open
paper to the wall, and passed from the room.
• • * *
Doubleday could not explain how he found him-
self calmly seated at supper with his wife that
evening. There had been a performance, with its
medley of thoughts, emotions, and mechanical ac-
quirements gone through, just the same as usual.
Then the drive home in the cab—also as usual—
with her-who was again faithless to him. He
knew that her infidelity was the gigantic
fact overshadowing every moment, but, luckily for
him, it ad not been strong enough to clog the
wheels of his daily routine. All the evening he
had been wondering why he had not done more.
r .t is very hard for an actor to be natural off the
stage. In drama a like situation would be full
of declamatory passion. He felt uncomfortable
and ashamed of himself because he could not rise
to the heights such a scene would exhibit in a
play.
Meantime the woman sat opposite him with a
plate of oysters liberally cayenned. He wondered
how she could eat— forgetting that he was eating
himself. When the servant was dismissed the
woman rose, her exasperating air of nothing-
ha ving-happened being given its fullest effect, and
made for the bedroom without a word. Double-
day almost felt that he was the sinner, not she.
“Esme I”—she stopped—“what can man do more
for you than I have ? You know what he is ; it’s
only a moment’s amusement to him. But you’re
sure of me.”
“ That’s why,” murmured the woman. Which
he did not hear.
“ I’ve given you everything.”
“ No,” she replied, with an emphasis that would
have made her famous could she command it on
the stage ; “ not everything .”
Doubleday understood, and amazement over-
powered him.
‘ You—but you’ve always said you never would
—never wished— ”
She surveyed his bewilderment with light scorn,
and passed from the room.
• * • •
Doubleday remained in the room with the Devil
and a decanter.
Why he had taken it at first so quietly now be-
came clear to him. She had sinned before, and he
had forgivpn. There had been many episodes be-
sides—which had not gone as far as sin indeed —at
least, he made himself believe so—and these had
gradually bred a tolerance in him. He had be-
come the tame husband who treats these disturb-
ances as inevitable—but temporary.
But now her last words kindled new feelings—
he was no longer resigned. He' was full of active
hate for the man, and a furious love that would
fight. Then his pocket interposed milder councils.
He could not afford an open rupture with Claver-
ing. Clavering was a popular favorite. Clavering
was a draw ; women said he was a tine actor and
had Soul, and got their men to reserve seats to be
stirred by that Soul. They also sent perfumed
notes —for more Soul. Doubleday was artist
enough to know that the other kind of artist like
Clavering was necessary to a show, no .matter what
the brain and talent of the rest of the company
may be.
But the Devil and the decanter drowned con-
sideration ultimately, and he pushed open his
wife’s door. She had not even troubled to latch
it, and the room was in darkness. He could hear
her breathing tranquilly. When he stumbled
against a chair she woke, with a whispered name
on her lips.
“ It’s not Charles,” said Doubleday.
“Oh, it’s you—you’ve woke me; what do you
want?” came from the darkness.
“ Ksme, I only want to ask you if . . . Why,
what’s the matter ? ”
He had lit a match suddenly and saw her sit-
ting up in bed, her face apparently frightfully
contorted.
“Nothing—l wish you’d go,” shesaid pettishly,
burying her head in the pillow again. She had
only been making faces in the dark at this mail
who disturbed her dreams. Then the match
burnt out and he did not light another.
“ I only wanted to ask you ... if it’s only what
you said . . . supposing you . . . would you be
faithful to me ever . . . afterwards.
The woman—profoundly bored by it all—guess*
ing assent would get rid of him, gave it.
Doubleday felt his way out to the sofa.
• • * •
A few months went by. Esme grew more
shameless, but Clavering’s fears lest the intrigue
might fasten unbreakable bonds upon him helped
to restrain scandal within limits. Doubleday was
punctiliously careful, and no open breach occurred.
He was most affable to the man, and asked him
frequently to their house, which gradually took the
form of a triangular establishment. Work kept
Doubleday from feeling the tension, but one day
it grew unbearable—and he gave in. It was the
afternoon of a new piece. He arrived home just
in time for 4 o’clock dinner. There were voices
in his wife’s room—but not laughing this time.
He listened—he felt he had a right to ; they had
taken every other right.
“ It’s a damned noosance,” said the man.
“But I’ll love you more,” said the woman.
Then the pair came into the dining-room and
Clavering’s face was not that of a man who
wanted to be loved any more, while on Esme’s
was the light of a revelation that drove Double-
day mad.
• * • •
He was early down at the theatre that night.
While dressing, the property man brought him
the pistol—an old-fashioned muzzle-loader in
keeping with the date of the piece—that he was
to use in the duel-scene. On top of the charge
Doubleday filled the barrel nearly up to the
muzzle with powder, and then rammed in a plug
of paper as a wad.
• • * •
It was the duel-scene. Clavering, with the eyes
of the house on his handsome profile, raised his
pistol. He was solely absorbed in his part when a
look on Doubleday’s face that he knew Doubleday
could not act warned him of danger. But it was
impossible to break up the scene—he would make
himself too ridiculous. So, nerving himself to
receive the bullet of his anticipated murderer,
he gave the cue.
* * • *
Nobody in front knew there was an accident,
but Clavering had received the charge right in his
eyes, and a doctor called hastily in said the sight
of one was gone and the other badly injured.
Doubleday was profuse in explanations and re-
grets. The pistol was overloaded and kicked,
though, with his usual carefulness, he fired high
in the air. He organised a benefit for “ the finest
juvenile that he ever had,” and the papers spoke
highly of his generosity.
* • * *
Mrs. Doubleday had a child some months later
—but it Was born blind.
THE STROLLER.
“Lazarus”: A Melb. Health Society
lecturer has been denouncing dirt. This is too
sweeping. There is dirt and dirt. Honest dirt
may be unpleasant, but is not unhealthy. Knew
a man who killed himself by over-cleanliness. Sat
tucked up over a steam-bath every morning.
Bathe every day, and then see what the first
Turkish Bath will take put of you. You are
covered with a million dirty creeks. For all that
I don’t believe in Turkish Baths. Perhaps—or
probably —old Parr never took a bath. What
if you have a hundred million pores ; they are
given you on the principle of a codfish spawning a
million that one may be preserved.
A £3O Fish.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Well, I once caught a fish in the Derwent for
which I was paid .£30.”
A rather startling statement, even among fish
stories.
“ Was it a whale or a shark, Cronly ? ”
“Neither—it was just the first Tasmanian
salmon. It happened this way; when the Main
Line Railway was being constructed, I had a bit
of a contract out Bridgewater way, and one
morning, at low tide, I noticed a big fish stranded
in a little creek near the river. I just stepped
into the water and chucked the fish out on to the
bank with me two hands, and when I examined it
I thought it looked remarkably like the salmon
me brother and me used to catch in the Shannon
at home. To make sure, I called a navvy over to
look at the curious fish I had caught, and he im-
mediately said ‘That’s a salmon.’ So, thinks I,
if it resembles both English and Irish salmon,
I’ll claim the reward. I packed up the fish, and
sent it to Morton Allport with a bit of a
note, claiming the £3O that was offered for the
first salmon caught in Tasmania. Next day, up
came Mr. Allport and shakes me by both hands,
‘ Cronly,’ says he, ‘ you’re the most talked-of man
in the warld to-day; do you know that the
news has been sent over the world that salmon
has at last been acclimatised in Tasmania? Now
tell me how you caught him —did he give you
much trouble ? ’ Well, I thought if I told him how
I really caught that fish I might lose the £3O, so
I spun a long yarn about the kind of tackle I used
and how I played him till I wearied him out and
then landed him. Then Mr. Allport says, ‘ Now,
Cronly, I want you to do me a very great favor ;
will you give me the hook with which you caught
the first Tasmanian salmon ? ”
“ What did you do, Cronly ? ”
“ Why, I gave it to him 1”
KURREAJONG.


A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
c
*
PILLS
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY - MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ vV ORTH A
SUING A A BOX. ”
BEECH i M ’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly i emove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stonach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
Ihey act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud oe Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecharn’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM ' St Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, ls and. 2s 9d each.
The WORLD looks on
' and LAUGHS and
drinks its
just the same.
9
K
m
tk
IV
Because it has been pronounced
—by the World’s best judges
GRATEFUL & COMFORTING
not for a day but for a lifetime.
It is the World’s standard of
EXCELLENCE and nothing
can alter it.
Poverty Pointers!
Your Cue is —
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Nhxt (JOLKiII’S EXCELSIOR iIOI'ER
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(OAUtiNt'),
Lli- Queensland..
Jamas Wattors ... Proprietor.
I AMEo tVATIEKS w ill always be pleased to see anv
°f ins West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they wili give him a call at the CLUB HOUSE. The
latest rehablemining information to he obtained from J.VV.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRANP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BRQ"., L+-d.,
O’Connell-Street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd,, Hobart.
tW A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S BILLS ANO OINTMENT.
.. There is not a country in the civilised ivorld where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not oeen
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxfqrd-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they arc
spurious.
R
f
SIGNATURE
IS NOW
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY •ACROSS THE
■
OUTSIDE WRAPPER
M
of every Bottle of the
■•pi Vy
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors, ,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London ; [
and Export Oilmen generally. j
RETAIL everywhere.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN; and DAVID COHEN & CO„ SYDNEY.
FOR
23 Years
Owbridge’S Lung Tonic
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
' a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
' Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
%
Home
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer; more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at 1*. lfd., 2s. 9 d., is. 6d.,
and Its., by all Colonial Chemists, Stores,
and Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
•* . * ‘ , ■ . . ; • ' 'V. - ■;•, ■ •
SOLD BY THE LAYERS MANIJFACTUIUNG CU, 2
.... > ■ -• .. •- , . ■ - *■
d C*clS6i
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price
SIXPENCE.
A AA. A. A A. A
WV ▼▼▼ WWWW
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Don’t Delay.
Stop that Cougli!
• . take . ...
nisi muss
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness, Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating Consti-
pation, .Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids’ Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Box.


■i*
SS THE larger
makers
ESTABLISHED
1847.
HIGH-CLASS
Harvesting
Hay-making
Seeding
Cultivating
MASSEY-HARRIS CO. LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Headq’rl’rs.lflS-iroTi'Hliam-st. Melb.
New Sauth Wales Address i
36 Breedway, George St. West, Sydney
Denote ana Agencies almost everytrhr re.
Illustrated Catalogue tree, on app.icution.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
'electrical ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AXD . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
HOTEL
LUNCH RON, 12.30; 11INNEH, H. 30.
Superior A reomiuoilutioti. Moiierute Chnrff.es,
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
Mammatt’s
&G
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
8
<^HE
or
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wortl)is)gtoi) P6n)pii)g Ei)gii)€ Coropaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SlmpSOll KrOtlierS. (Australasian Branch.)
larence-st.
0. V
: g iC
REGULAR' PATTERN.
WORTHINGTON
TRABK MARKS
Sydney, N.
Agencies s
1
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania : T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND ;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Eo'undry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stock.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
58
:ars dyeing
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O- & GO-,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK sTREE l\ SYI)NHY
(Op|>.' Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by t-o*t iroin all the colonies promptly
attended to.
What is Health?
Tfheumatiam., Sciatica,
l.umbago, &c,,
Completely cured by Mr. C.' F.
FA RKKJt, 145 Victoria Paradb,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
I))
Discovered by Christopher
Mndd, F.L S,. Dotanist to
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure.
ECZEMA
Jars (ooneentd.), 4/6, post 4/l<
Self
Stdnky— M. H. Horwitz, 34 Pitt fit.
Apela [OK-Harris & Kemp, 6 RundleSt.
Melbourne—Fred. J E, Phillips, 317 Collins St,
N.S.W
f
the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the .Creamery Js\ stem of Rutter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
s Com pan v Sells only tlie Very Best Articles.
P PLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
SYDNE’
Milk, Cream, lee, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS (REFRESHMENT)— 92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
ARCADE— fur AFTERNOON TEA. (Note.— Arrangements may be made at either of
cfarse JX.jK.ts for AFTERNOON TEAS for Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ON
THE BEST Tn the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
&
The Roger Rolls.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
60 Clarence Street,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MINING MACHINERY,
Steam Engines and Boilers.
(All Sizes in Stock.)
Patentees of— Ropp Straight-line Furnace, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mill, Frue Concentrator, “ James” Ore
Feeder, Roger Rolls, Dodge Rockbreakers, etc., etc.
Note. —We are now manufacturing in for the Associated
Gold Mines of W.A Ltd., four sets of 36x16 Roger Rolls, weighing
twelve tons each, the largest ever made in the colony.
Batho’s
Powder.
w THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOYLE’S PRINTS »se FAST COLORS
And will not run away on Washing Day.
If our name is stamped on the piece w« guarantee that the color will stand boiling. If you ean show
any Goods bearing our name the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will get for
you from us the price of the material, and
WE WILL PAY THE COST OP MAKIIG UP A NEW DRESS.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SONS.
Summer Bays are coming—You will want a Washing Bress.
H. P. GREGORY &
EN
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74
Clarence st.,
Sydney.
435
Bourse-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Th.e Geo. F. Blake Manfg. 00.,
direct acting steam pumps and pumping MACHINERY'.
W. p. jgc Jolm 00.,
FOOT, HAND, and STEAM POWER MACHINE TOOLS and GENERAL MACHINERY.
B. F. Sturtevant 00.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTA RLE FORGES, "BTC.
Representative in Western Austral JOHNSTON & CO.,
New Zealand—J. BURNS & CO.,
Fremantle.
Auckland.
