

McEWAN’S ALE.
Reid’s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
41 The Standard
of Highest Purity
at present
attainable."
LANCET.
R. <3r* ‘WjgL ß x?K.i:»flrs «ss co»,
107 K.ent Street, Sydney,
Wining anti Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' AMD GENERAL [ RON MON GERY. NEW in SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
PLUMMER LOVE & C?
m
m
SOLE AGENTS 249 GEORGE ST SYDN
modern Timber-cutting Machinery.
BAND OR CIRCULAR MILLS FOR ANY°SIZE OF LOGS.
TJp-to-Date Fl ° ur Milling Machinery, Engines & Boilers. Steel Windmills.
' Mills Erected and Started by our own Engineers. HIGH-GRADE CYLINDER and OTHER OILS.
CATALOGUES
and
SPECIFICATIONS
sent on application
to
William Fleming,
24 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
2 6 8
Prize
Medals.
21,200
Steam
Engines
SEND FOB PRICES AND PARTICULARS.
“**v.
jgOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLB-S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Eilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° 85 put street, SYDNEY
SOLE AGENTS
Ruston, Proctor & Co. t
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES
BOCBKTTRIO TECRASHIKTG
AND .
MA-OBCOffES,
AND PUMPS.
SA.'XKT BEKTC3EIES,
&0-, &0.
Ask for Colonial-made
A-nd see that you
PROOF
k,-/
*
Our Netting is CHEAPER and BETTER than
Imported, and we have
LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND.
The Trade Supplied. Price Lists on application.
Special attention and Quotations given for Large Order*,
Lysaght Bros. & Co., Ltd.
Offices—Bligh Chambers, Bligh-st., Sydney.
Works—Chiswick, Parramatta Sliver.
“COURIER” BUILDINGS, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
24 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
PROOF
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
Toronto Hotel,
Macquarie.
First-Class Accommodation for Families
or Tourists.
Boating, Bathing, and Fishing unsurpassed. Large en-
closed Salt Water Swimming Bath. Fresh Water
Plunge and Shower Baths.
Perfect Climate, especially suited to Invalids.
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
The Toronto Tramway connects with all Trains from
Sydney or the North, stopping at Fassifern, landing pas-
sengers within a few yards of the Hotel, through tickets
being issued at most Railway Stations. Steamer commu-
nication from Toronto to all parts of the Lake. Boats
kept for use of Boarders. Letters or Telegrams will re-
ceive prompt attention if addressed to
THE MANAGER,
Toronto Hotel, Toronto^
HOBART.
Hadley’s Orient fiotel.
i x/£
./ rP
'WVj
ill
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING'
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to any address.
J. C. LUDOWIQI k SON, LTD.,
162 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
VISITORS to CAIRNS, N. QUEENSLAND,
should note that the
» « Imperial ZOCotel
Is unsurpassed for comfort and convenience. Spacious
Bedrooms and Sample Rooms.
G. FOX, Proprietor.
Joshua Brothers’ Australian
omeran
Brandy
Recommended by highest English Medical Authorities
AND
Continental Experts.
A do;'ted by British Parliament, War Office, and London County
Council. Supplied to Australian Hospitals.
3Cigh.est -A.-vwa.x’caLs wherever Sxliir>itGca..
YAMDYCK
, CIGARS
V l «B3EEWiaEa»S!CrS!-
rrs
tik
A vt*r
tLDKFMGRAMr
SMOK£
Milff
®F 8
The Bulletin
Voi 19.— -No. 971.)
[Saturday, September 24, 1898,
Trr s ! ered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newiaoer.


~RY APPOINTMENT TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR.
GEORGE ROBEHTSON AND CO.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
TO ARRIVE PER R.M.S. OROYA.
Gale’s Light Side of Cricket, 2s 6d, post 3s ; Ranjit-
sinliji’s With Stoddart’s Team, Is, post Is 2d; Whitson’s
The Turf, 6s, post 6s 6d ; Clarke’s Russia’s Sea Power,
3s, post 6s 6d ; Newth’s Manual Chemical Analysis,
6s 6d, post 7s ; George’s Falling Prices, ss, post 5s '6d ;
Gunter’s Modern Confectioner, 3s 6d, post 4s ; Fisher and
Stratum's Law of the Press, including Colonial Laws, 15s,
post 16s ; Hat ton’s The Vicar, 2s 6’d and 3s 6d, post 3s and
4s ; Dawe’s Bride of Japan, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and
4s ; Via Lucis, 2s 6d and 3s 6d. post 3s and 4s ; Cox’s
Courtship and Chemicals, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s ;
Fraser’s Looms of Time, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 3s and 4s.
Just received :
1200 MILES ON THE RIVER MURRAY,
By A. S. Murray,
With fae-simile illustration in Colors by the Author.
Oblong gilt edges, cloth 425.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO.’S COLONIAL
LIBRARY.
Or., Wrapper, 2s 6d, post 3s ; Cloth, 3s 6d, post 4s.
ABISHAG THE SHUNAMITE,
A Tale of the Days of Solomon, King of Israel, and
Sesonchis, King of Egypt.
By Francis Myers (“ Teiemachus”).
Just Published :
A HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL CYANIDE
OPERATIONS.
By Wm. H. Gaze, M.D., F.R.S. Or. Bvo. 7s 6d, post Bs.
THE HUIA’S HOMELAND, AND OTHER VERSES,
by Roslyn, ss, post 5s Sd.
Now ready : THE AUSTRALIAN FRUIT GARDEN :
A Practical Manual, by J. S. Heron.
Is, post free, Is 2d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
361 and 363 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The Bulletin publications.
A Golden Shanty (talus and verses by Bulletin
writers), Is. 3d. ; cloth, 2s. 4d.
The Last of Six and Other Stories, by
Ernest Favenc, Is. 3d.
Tales of the Convict System, by ‘ Price
Warung ’, Is. 3d.
Works by Francis Adams (transferred from
the original Publishers)—
Complete Poetical Works, ss. A limited
number of copies remain.
Songs of the Army of the Night, 2s. 6d. A
feiv copies remain.
Australian Essays, 2s. 6d. A few copies
remain.
AG. STEPHENS, LITERARY AGENT,
, George-street North P. 0., Sydney, has applications
from reputable London publishers for Australian novels
and books of short stories. Advice and assistance given.
Fees and estimates (in proportion to services) on applica-
tion. Reference : The Editor, The Bulletin.
“Rupert of Hentzau.”
Sequel to
“THE PRISONER OF ZENDA."
ANTHONY HOPE’S GREAT NOVEL.
THE BOOK OF THE YEAS,
Paper Covers, 35.; Cloth, 4s. Post Free.
“ The Prisoner of Zenda ” has been the success of many
seasons now ; and still it sells. Critics and public were
alike charmed by its free air of adventure, its dashing
fights and tender loves, its fine flavor of romance glow-
ingly, enchantingly pictured. “Rupert of Hentzau”
continues and perpetuates “The Prisoner of Zenda’s ”
charm. It has the same thrill, the same adventurous
atmosphere ; it is a hook to read breathlessly, without a
stop, if ever there was one. Ai dC. D. Gibson’s pictures
emphasise the flying incidents with his own unequalled
art.
W. W. PEARSON, Bookseller, 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
NOTICE TO
Cameo Smokers.
CAMEO CIGARETTES CAN BE OBTAINED AS FOLLOWS:—
In Cardboard Boxes of Ten in a Box.
Flat Tins of Ten in a Tin.
Round Tins ot Fifty.
Ask for Cameo Cigarettes.
THE BED PAGE.
“What is Art?” asks serious Tolstoy, and
answers himself in a 237-page volume where Aus-
tralia isn’t mentioned once. Naturally, there-
fore, the volume falls fruitless on the threshold of
thesubject, and readers must find their main con-
tentment in its answer to the question “ What is
Tolstoy ? ” Tolstoy is a Russian writer of fiction
with a big brain which empties itself all at once
and all o’er, with a mighty uproar—in the way
that the water conies down at Lodore. Clearly,
Art isn’t Tolstoy. Art is a thing of calculated
effort and restraint, of calculated light and
shadow, of calculated basis and climax. Tolstoy
never calculates, never concentrates, never hesi-
tates. He labours and brings forth—a mouse? a
mountain ? an amorphous mass ? Tolstoy has not
the least idea. Whatever it bo, it. was in him, it
is out of him—and the congregation will join in
singing the praises of Cod, and Faith, and the
Remarkable Russian Peasant. Quaint fellow,
Tolstoy.
'*• * *
His book on Art pours itself out just as his
other books have poured themselves out. Good
sense, bad sense ; logic, no logic ; the sanest ideas
mixed with the queerest delusions; forth they
come tumbling in jolly comradeship, without the
least air of knowing what strange bedfellows they
are. But Tolstoy has his suspicions. “ I began
to write this book fifteen years ago, ” he says, but
“it proved that my views on the matter were so
far from dear that I could not arrange them in a
way that satisfied me.” And he “never ceised to
think on the subject ” ; and “ recommenced writ-
ing six or seven times” and si.-i or seven times
failed to satisfy himself ; until, one thinks, be
must have awoke to the fact that if he didn’t pub-
lish something he would presently die with all bis
art-music in him. So he lias publishe 1 the 2 57-
page volume . . . an 1 remains, alas ! so far from
clear, so far from clear,
* * * *
In the beginning Tolstoy discusses the time and
labor spent on “ what is called art,” and asks (1)
is that really art, and (2) if it is, is it worth the
bother of producing it ? That seems an excellent
position for discussion, and all Tolstoy’s positions
are similarly excellent for discussion. The nuis-
ance of him is that he is a thoroughly unscientific
discusser. He generalises from a single instance,
and as often as not he doesn’t state his instance
accurately or justly. For example,
The ballet, in which half-naked women make voluptu-
ous movements, twisting themselves into various sensual
wreathings, is simply a lewd performance.
The comprehensive objection to this is that
“the ballet” (1) is not necessarily performed by
women, (2) who are not necessarily half-naked, (3)
and who do not necessarily make voluptuous move-
ments, (4) or twist themselves, (5) or twist them-
selves into wreathings, (6) or twist themselves into
various sensual wreathings (7) and therefore “the
ballet” is not necessarily “a lewd performance.”
There are very good ballets in which some of the
performers are men ; ballets in which the women
are clothed ; ballets in which the effect is attained
without twisting and without sensual -wreathings.
What Tolstoy should have said is that,
A ballet in which half-naked women make voluptuous
movements, twisting themselves into various sensual
wreathings, is simply a lewd performance.
And even then his statement is debatable. Writes
Pierre Louys—
Aucun spectacle de la nature, ni les flannnes occiden-
tales, ni la temp Ste dans les palmiers, ni la foudre, ni le
mirage, ni les grands soulfevements des eaux ne semblent
dignes d’etonnement a ceux qui ont vu dans leurs bras la
transfiguration de la femme.
This “ transfiguration de la femme ”is simply
Tolstoy’s “half-naked women make their vol-
uptuous movements, twisting themselves into
various sensual wreathings.” But it is not there-
fore a lewd performance.
• » * *
This failure to reason logically vitiates the whole
of Tolstoy’s argument. He does not, like Owen,
re-build the mammoth from a bone; but from the
bone of a mammoth he builds a plesiosaurus or a
pterodactyl—an animal to which the bone never
dreamt of belonging. And some of his facts are
no more trustworthy than some of his opinions.
Referring to the widening of the meaning of “beau-
tiful” to include “good,” he says it is quite natural
in English to say “a beautiful deed” when we
mean ‘‘ a good deed. ” But it is not: the expression
“ a good deed ” has a distinct signification which
is not properly or adequately given by “a
beautiful deed.” And when Tolstoy goes further,
and says that the English language (with others)
“no longer has a suitable word wherewith to
express beauty of form, and has to use a combina-
tion of words such as ‘beautiful to look at’to
convey that idea,” he is clearly misinformed.
Everybody says “a beautiful woman”; nobody
thinks of saying “ a beautiful-to-look-at woman.”
* * * •
So that one has to watch Tolstoy as he comes,
and accept him or reject him sentence by sentence.
Then he is able to do you good. Quite rightly he
rejects the theory that “beauty” is essential to
“ art.” It is true that such a notion hardly needs
slaying, since the conception of “beauty” is
obviously arbitrary—varying from age to age, and
race to race, and individual to individual. In
essence, “beauty” is the result of a physical
harmony with exterior impressions, the harmony
varying in kind and degree. But art may take
root in a physical discord with exterior im-
pressions. There are pictures to shudder at,
stories which nauseate you, yet in causing the
shudder or the nausea they have given proof of
their artistic power. Still, Tolstoy’s data are inte-
resting. He quotes Schelliug as saving that “ the
chief characteristic of works of art is unconscious
infinity’’—-which (barring the “chief” and the
“unconscious”) is precisely the local dogma ap-
plied iu a recent notice of Joseph Conrad’s stories —
The all-human reference, the accurate judgment , place-
ment, of every detail in due proportion and relation to
the widest conceivable synthesis is the secret of imper-
ishable Art, which sees never a flower without the tree,
never a tree without the landscape, never a landscape of
the eye without the illimitable landscape of the creative
imagination.
An English reviewer had the same idea when he
called Conrad’s “ Nigger of the Narcissus ” “epi-
sodic ” —an epithet which aioused Stephen Crane’s
indignation, and partly (it is likely) for the reason
that his own work is “episodic.” His “Pictures
of War ” deal with special incidents, limited fields,
particular individuals. And this is the chief fault
to find with Albert Dorrington’s (“ Alba Dorio.n ”)
stories in The Bulletin —stories technically more
brilliant than Kipling’s ; the most brilliant penned
in Australia. Kipling’s prose, unlike his verse, is
usually subjective in character: he deals less with
figures and landscapes than with ideas and emo-
tions, or uses figures and landscapes chiefly for
conveying ideas and emotions (probably “uncon-
sciously,” as Schelliug has it, because he is built
that wajr). But in Crane’s and Dorrington’s work
(and it may be partly on account of the very
brilliance of the work) the characters seem more
sharply defined, are more detached from humanity,
have more sensibly a frame around the picture.
Maupassant is like Kipling: he doesn’t obtrude
the frame; and the result is you are more in
harmony with _ his work: the “unconscious-
infinity” tendrils bind writer and reader in
a common human sympathy. Personally, I read
Kipling with the greater pleasure, Crane with
the greater admiration ; I think Dorrington by
far the better writer, yet nothing he has written
touches me quite so intimately as Lawson’s “ The
Drover’s Wife.”
* • • *
And, returning to Tolstoy, we hit upon Solger
and Hegel—two other fellows whose merit was in
having Red Page ideas first. Said Solger—
The idea of beauty is the fundamental idea of every-
thing. In the world we see only distortions of the funda-
mental idea, but art, by imagination, may lift itself to
the height of this idea. Art is therefore akin to creation.
If he had said that “Art is Nature raised to the
manth power” he would hardly have expressed
himself more judiciously, as “Compton” (who
now represents in N.S.W. Parliament the consti-
tuency of Art Criticism, having triumphantly
defeated an unsesthetic opponent at the recent
election) will perceive. And when Hegel re-
marked that “Beauty is the shining of the Idea
through matter” he merely stumbled upon the
glorious local truth that “to see is human; to
think is divine.”
• • • •
And again Vischer (1807-87) pointed out that
the highest form of the Idea is personality, and
therefore the highest art is that which has for its
subject-matter the highest personality. And
Herbart (1776-1841) laid just stress upon the sub-
jectivity of the idea of beauty.
There is not, and cannot be, any such thing as beauty
existing in itself. What does exist is only our opinion,
and it is necessary to find the base of this opinion. Such
bases are connected with our impressions. There are
certain relations which we term beautiful, and art con-
sists in finding these relations, which are simultaneous in
painting, the plastic art, and architecture, successive and
simultaneous in music, and purely successive in poetry.
In contradiction to former writers on aesthetics, Herbart
holds that objects are often beautiful which express
nothing at all, as, for instance, the rainbow, which is
beautiful for its lines and colours, and not for its mytho-
logical connection with Iris or Noah’s rainbow.
(Which is an enlightening passage; though the
plain beauty of the rainbow au naturel is not, to the
writer’s mind, as potent as the beauty of the rain-
bow trimmed with mythology, garnished with
memory, sauced with association). Then we come
to Bergmann (1840), who repeats that bea.uty is
only perceived subjectively, and therefore the
problem of aesthetics is to define what pleases
whom. According to Taine (1828-’93), beauty
is the manifestation of the essential characteristic
of any important idea more completely than it is
expressed in reality—once more Nature plus Man.
And Guyau (1854-88) stresses again the univer-
sality-idea—“art lifts man from his personal life
into the universal life, by means, not only of par-
ticipation in the same ideas and beliefs, but also
by means of similarity of feeling. ” And the most
scientific definition of all comes from Veron, whose
book on aesthetics I myself prize especially—
Art is the manifestation of emotion transmitted ex-
ternally by a combination of lines, forms, colours, or by a
succession of movements, sounds, or words subjected to
certain rhythms.
Which, in the local opinion, is as near as anyone
will ever get to defining art. No definition which
has reference to “beauty” is worth a rap, unless
the conception of “beauty” is widened.
* * •*
Tolstoy calmly states, after quoting Veron, that
in spite of the mountains of books written about art,
no exact definition of art has been constructed. And the
reason of this is that the conception of art has been based
on the conception of beauty.
Then he coolly seizes Veron’s definition lock,
stock, and barrel, phrases it less neatly and less
scientifically, and gives it as his own answer to
the question “What is Art?”
Tolstoy’s Definition op Art (After Veron).
To evoke in oneself a feeling one has once experienced,
and having .-voked' it >ll -seif, then, by means of move-
ments, lines, colors, sounds, or forms expressed in words,
so to transmit that feeling that oihers may experience
the same feeling this is the activity of art.
Art is a human activity, consisting in this, that one
man consciously, by means of certain external signs,
hands on to others feelings he has lived through; and that
other people are infected by these feelings, and also ex-
perience them.
And Tolstoy adds a corollary which shows the
teleological twist in his brain —“Artis ... a
means of union among men”—which by-and-by
leads to the discovery that the function of Art is
to promote Tolstoyism, and to inculcate faith in
God and the Remarkable Russian Peasant.
But obviously the essence of Tolstoy’s definition
is the essence of Veron’s—“Artis the transmission
of emotion.” That is the kernel and kingbolt.
You can find emotions so undignified that they
appear unworthy the name of Art; but if there is
emotion, and if it is transmitted, you have rudi-
mentary art, and tree and sapling spring, from the
same seed. It is a nice point whether .Art has
actually to be transmitted before it becomes Art—
does a sun cease to shine because its light does not
reach us ? Tolstoy says where art does not act on
others it is not art; but surely Mozart’s requiem
was Art when only the composer’s ears had heard
it ? And Tolstoy, on his own showing, misrepre-
sents Veron, whose definition insists on the trans-
mission just as much as Tolstoy’s. But T. says
justly—
We are accustomed to understand art to be only what
we hear and see in theatres, concerts, and exhibitions ;
together with buildings, statues, poems, novels . . .
But all this is but the smallest part of the art by which
we communicate with each other in life. All human life
is filled with works of art of every kind—from cradle-
song, Jest, mimicry, the ornamentation of horses, dress
and utensils, up to church services, buildings, monu-
ments, and triumphal processions. It is all artistic
activity. So that by art, in the limited sense of the word,
we do not mean all human activity transmitting feelings,
but only that part which we for some reason select from
it and to which we attach special importance.
This is well put—as Veron well put it before.
• • * *
Then Tolstoy, having established his standard
of art, brings “what is commonly called art ” to
his standard: and the idols fly all around the
market place ! When he comes to ‘ ‘ decadent ”
art lie passes in review some of the French sym-
bolist-poets—much as Nordau does in his “De-
generation”; but in “Degeneration” Nordau
reckoned that Tolstoy and the symbolists were row-
ing in different places on the same rotten boat. Now
Nordau’s Satan is reproving Nordau’s Sin —not, it
must be owned, with the best poetical taste. To
the value of atmosphere and suggestion Tolstoy
seems blind : he wants everything said right out
with a loud voice at mid-day. And he criticises
Wagner as The Bulletin criticises local melo-
drama. He went to a performance of part of “The
Nibelung’s Ring ” at Moscow—
When I arrived, an actor sat on the stage amid decora-
tions intended to represent a cave, and before something
which was meant to represent a stnii.a’s forge. He was
dressed in trico-tights, with a cloak of skins, wore a wig
and an artificial beard, and with white, weak, genteel
hands (his easy movements, and especially the shape of
his stomach and his lack of muscle revealed the actor)
beat an impossible sword with an unnatural hammer in a
way in which no one ever uses a hammer; and at the same
time, opening his mouth in a strange way, lie sang some-
thing incomprehensible. The music of various instru-
ments accompanied the strange sounds which he emitted.
From the libretto one was able to gather that the actor
had to represent a powerful gnome, who lived in the
cave, and who was forging a sword for Siegfried, whom
he had reared. One could tell he was a gnome by the fact
that the actor walked all the time bending the knees of his
trico-covered legs . . . Siegfried was brought up by the
gnome, and therefore, for some reason, hates him, and
always wishes to kill him. . . . Siegfried seizes one of the
pieces of what is meant to represent the broken sword,
saws it up, puts it on what is meant to represent the
forge, melts it, and then forges it and sings: Heiho!
heiho ! heiho ! Ho ! ho! Aha ! oho ! aha ! Heiabo !
heiaho ! heiaho ! Ho 1 ho 1 Hahei 1 hoho ! hahei! and
Act I. finishes.
This is not unamusing reading; and there is a good
deal of justification for the standpoint. Con-
sidered apart from the music, the bulk of Wagner
libretto is ridiculous. You have to disentangle
the cardinal motives from a heap of rubbish; but,
this done, the music gives those motives un-
equalled impetus. For the impression of Wag-
nerian opera on a sympathetic mind read the
description of “Tristan and Isolde” in “The
Triumph of Death.” Tolstoy seems as lacking in
musical sympathy as in poetical.
* • • *
With Wagner go Tolstoy’s own artistic produc-
tions—“l consign them to he category of bad art,
excepting the story ‘God Sees the Truth’ and
‘ The Prisoner of the Caucasus.’ ” With Wagner
tumble “classics ” and “decadents ” alike'.
Every false work extolled by the critics serves as a door
through which the hypocrites of art at once crowd in. It
is solely due to who in our times still praise
rude, sav ige, and, for us, often meaningless works
of the ancient Greeks : Sophocles, Euripides, Aeschylus,
and especially Aristophanes, or, of modern writers, Dante,
Tasso, Milton, Shakespeare ; in painting, ail of Raphael,
all of Michael Angelo, including his absurd “ Last Judg-
ment ; ” in music, the whole of Bach, and the whole of
Beethoven, including his last period ;—thanks only to
them have the Ibsens, Maeterlincks, Verlaines, Mal-
larmes, Puvis de Ohavannes, Klingers, Boklins, Stucks,
Schneiders; in music, the Wajriiei's, Liszts, Berliozes,
Brahms, and Richard Strausses, &e., and all that im-
mense mass of {rood-for-notirin.sr imitators of these imita-
tors, become possible in our (1%.
All swept into the dust-heap of false Art—was
there ever such a besom ! And in the very next
paragraph Tolstoy is sanely and forcibly objecting
to tile glorification of the deaf-period Beethoven.
. magnificent mixture his book, but it is not
Let this notice close with an example
ol lolstoy m his better mood
If Art has been able to convey the sentiment of
reverence for imaires, for the eucharist, and
for the king’s person ; of shame at betraying a comrade,
devotion to a flag, tho necessity of revenge for an insult,
the need to sacrifice one’s labour for the erection and
adornment of churches, duty of defending one's honour
or the glory of one’s native land—then that same art can
also evoke reverence for the dignity of every man and for
the life of every animal ; can make men ashamed of
luxury, of violence, of revenge, or of using for their plea-
sure that of which others are in need ; can compel people
freely, gladly, and without noticing it, to sacrifice them-
selves for the service of man.


RS
■ a
Sydney’s [ending Specialists,
—WARN—
DESPAIRING
YOUNG MEN.
flll
MAN !
Will you allow yourself to fall into
this miserable state of Nervous Debility
when a Cure is at hand ?
•pitts tc A QVfSTfYITCi IVTATTESi —a. man who has lost his will-power, by continually
...,S or abuse that unfit inn..tor nearly »U f tbe watoof
life, should, without delay, consult these eminent Specialist's. No\ , - P . ’ f
overcame the delicate feelings to such an extent that they have open y 11 '
perfect manly state. This is not the mere verbiage of a single man,
which has restored them to a
but it is
20,000 MEN TALKING TO YOU.
Men who have been “Rescued at Last” by the World-Renewned
Specialists, and if they are willing to sacrifice ail mod£ make
toyou that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to make
careful investigation.
READ THE SYMPTOMS,
and, if vou have any of them, you require the remarkabletreatment
which has made both fame and fortune for Drs. l! RKLMAJN
In the Laboratory.
WALLACE.
Failing Manhood.
When your manhood begins
to go you will twitch and show
signs of premature weakness.
Following are some of the symp-
toms :
Do your facil nerves twitch ?
Are you all run down?
Spots before the eyes?
Do the muscles twitch ?
Have you pains in small of back?
Have you pains in head?
Have you shooting pains?
Do you feel fatigued?
Are you weary ?
Does your head swim ?
Do your knees knock?
Does your hand tremble?
Nervous Twitchings.
A nervous man easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitchings. Here are
some of his symptoms: —
Do your eyes twitch ?
Do your hands tremble?
Do you feel shaky?
Can you walk without hailing?
Are you melancholy ?
Do you have ringing in the ears?
Is your blood poor ?
Are your eyes weak?
Are your eyes bleary?
Does your head swim?
N er vousJD ebility-
This affliction destroys ambi-
tion, organic strength, energy,
and hope. Following are some
of the symptoms :
Do you feel weak?
Have you cold feet?
Have you backache ?
Do you shun society ?
Are you losing flesh ?
Do you sleep poorly?
Are you low-spirited?
Are your eyes sunken?
Do you have hot flushes?
Is your memory impaired?
Have you no manly vigor?
Have you no vital energy ?
Do you have sick headaches?
Is there nausea after eating?
Do vour hands or feet sweat.
Has'the brightness left your eyes?
Do you feel unfit to marry?
Correspondence Departments and Medicines by Parcel Post.
J. Cji
All Trams stop at the Door .
Our arrangements keep pace with this progressive
age, thanks to that unique instrument “The Reming-
ton Typewriter.” Country Patients’ Letters are Now
Printed Off at our Dictation, an idea of which is
given in the illustration herein. It would be im-
possible to attend properly to our extensive corres-
pondence without the Typewriter, for speed, legi-
bilitv, and secrecy are obtained by its use. City
people who have not the available time, and those
who, through false modesty, refrain from personal
consultation, should take advantage of treatment by
PARCELS POST SYSTEM,
as all medicines are securely packed and forwarded,
screened from observation.
w
g? 7Vp£. WotQC
Nine Diplomas and Certificates
are open for inspection
of Qualification and Registration
at the Consulting Rooms.
m
Our small MEDICAL PAMPHLET, 48 pages, per-
taining to the above sent Post Free on application.
Reseed at Last,
The LARGEST MEDICAL WORK of its kind
ever published in Australia, containing over 300 pages
letterpress, 75 engravings, 16 colored plates, is now
ready Every Miner, Mariner, Farmer—m tact, all
classes and condition of men— should purchase a copy.
Price, XOs. ;
or including a series of Medicine & Advice, £l,
Drs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,
Corner Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts.,
SYDNEY.
Please 'mention this Paper when writing.] Cobbespondence, P.O. Box 1359.
*
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
„ r , . . ~ i;f . r 1 QT ,J rpe-istpred in London and the Colonies as a Physician
T»T» Who is trebly-qualified an K• " i tl English and Scottish university and
CUBANS, hospitals of Euro,*. He ha. n.ede a HM«*
study o£ peivate nervous & SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their origin ailed success, d .ring
quickest and surest means of thoroughly curing them. 9 Y • ryi var ious diseases
a period of many years, obtained the highest position in h.s profes om Ihe vann. fferi
embraced in his speciality are those which have hitherto caused more misery ana
than any other kind of trouble that affects the human trame.
Young* Men!
and Those
who wish
to Marry!
who, a, the result of early follies, or excesses more ' m»tn«u«e, .offer
the pillow during sleep, palpitation of the heart, unpleasan re n, , * S(mie f},ini? dreadful
to society, a whitish or cloudy sediment in the urine a ter standing fear o son
about to happen, impure blood, spots or pimples on the back, chest, to*. or fa e, h j
hacking cough, falling out of the hair, ft.c., &c„ should consult him, for he is now
quickly and effectually to remove the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps lie will
send (POST FREE)
A Complete Medical Work,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money.
£1
Is sufficient to send for Remedies
necessary for the cure of
DEBILITY,
;ind should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of
tiie symptoms enumerated above, Do Hot
Delay, your ease requires advice, and you can
either call and consult the Doctor personally,
or, if you reside at a distance, you can sit
down quietly, in the privacy of vour own
chamber, and write out a full description of
your case, and send it by post.
dr. gibbons
will then write you a candid and straight-
forward opinion.
If, in writing, you do not feel competent
to fully describe your case, send Gd. m
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you,
post free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated
Work, in which you will find a list of care-
fully-prepared questions that will assist you
in giving a true description of your ailment.
None need despair, as in every case under-
taken by Dr. GIBI ONS
A PERMANENT Cure
is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescrihis Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters
are destroyed by tire immediately they have
been read and answered, and that their cases
and names will remain a secret between the
D. x-tor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly cured Thousands of (Jases
during the extended time he has practised as
a Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
-137 ELIZABETH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Or, if preferred, “The Proprietor,” Box 230 G.P.0., Sydney. CONSULTING WOUR|-PaPv
10 till 5 ; Evenings, 7 till 9. [Mention this paper when writing.] CONbUEI AIJ-UJN tKUt,
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE!
EVERY MAN who would
TRUTHS, the PLAIN FACTS
KNOW THE GRAND
, the OLD SECRETS,
a
and the New Discoveries ot
MEDICAL SCIENCE as applied
to Married Life, who would
atone for past follies and avoid
future pitfalls, should write for
our WONDERFUL LITTLE
BOOK, showing how to attain
COMPLETE MANHOOD. To
any earnest man we will mail
ONE copy EN TI It ELY
FRISE, in plain SEALED
Cover. Address:
TRIUMPH,' P.O. Box 162, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
NERVOUS WEAKNESS
Specially treated by a method which has proved most
successful. Every man desiring VIGOR and an acces-
sion of VITALITY should consult me, either by letter
or personally. Fee, £l— which in most cases is sufficient
for a complete cure. NONE NEED DESPAIR, as I have
testimonials, from all parts of Australia. Every person
requiring treatment for IV 1C A li.N-F.SS, DFIIILILY,
etc., anil those wishing to marry, should correspond with
me. Every miner, farmer —in fact, all classes of men
should have a copy of my book, sent sealed free.
Sufferers not feeling able to describe their case pro-
perly should write to me, when I will assist them by every
means in my power.
Address all communications to
Prof. H. READ,
145 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
THE NEW FRENCH RESVIEDY.
TRADE
THERAPION
MARK.
Tins successiul and highly popular remedy, as
employed hi the Continental Hospitals by Record,
Rostan, Jobert, Velpeau, and others, combines all
the desiderata to besought in a medicine of the
kind and surpasses even thing hitherto employed.
THERAPION No. 1
in a rental kably shot t lime, often a lew days only
removes ail discharges from the urinary organs,
superseding injections, the use of which does irre-
parable harm by laying the foundation of stricture
and other serjous diseases.
THERAPION No. 2
forimpui t u! Hie blood, scuivy, pimples, spots,
blotches, pains and swelling of the joints, secon-
daiy symptoms, and all diseases for which it has
been too much a fashion to employ mercury,
sarsaparilla, Ac., to the destruction of sufferers’
teeth and ruin of health. I'bis preparation purifies
thewhole system through the blood,and thoroughly
eliminates every poisonous matur from the body.
THERAPION No. 3
for nei V'-tta t xmiu.-lioo, waste of vnaiily,harassing
dreams, and all the distressing consi quences of
early error, excess residence in hot, unhealthy
climates, &c. It possesses surprising power in
restoring strength and vigour to the debilitated.
THERAPION
is sold by all
i be principal
Chemists Mini Meivnants throughout the World
Price in England 2/9 & 4/6. In ordering, state
which of the three numhers is required .and üb.-erve
ah ve Trade Mark, which is a tac-simile of word
“ THERAI’ION ” as it appears on the Government
Stamp (in white letters on a red ground) affixed to
every package by order of Her Majesty’s Hon.
Commissioners, and without which it is a forgery.
•FELTON. GB.IMWADE & Co., Melbourne and Sydney.
Agents for Thkhapion—
NERVOUS PEOPLE.
As/
AX
111
=CK
For people on
on the verge of
nervous prostration;
for the overworked,
i the languid, for the
1 run-down system,for
those who have used
up their vitality in
excesses and dissipa-
tions ; for people who
can’t sleep ; for men
and women who need
a true tonic one
that braces, builds
up tissue and cures
permanently. Forall
forms of nerve weakness, the American invention —Dß.
PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT is a G R A N D REMEDY.
It assists Nature by a gentle re-inforcement of vital energy;
by infusing a mild, warming, invigorating current of elec-
tricity into the nerves ; and by supplying the system with
the very essence of nerve vigor and nerve strength.
Worn at night, Dr. PIERCE’S ELECTRIC BELT in-
duces peaceful sleep and cures when medicine fails. It is
as perfect as science and mechanical skill can make it.
Electric Suspensory for weak men. Read all about it in
the little “ Book No. 2,” which will be sent, sealed, in
plain envelope, for 2d. in stamps, or it can be had free at
the office. RUPTURE. —If Ruptured, send also for “ Book
No. 1.” Address : MAGNETIC ELASTIC TItUSS
CO., San Francisco, U.S.A., or
W. H. SOUL & CO., 158 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
FREE
Dr. BUTT’S Favorite
PRESCRIPTIONS
For the Speedy Cure of Nervousness, Debility, Despon
deney, etc., are to be found in the
“ T.i gVi t. artcL Life.”
This valuable Medical Book will be sent Free to Men
sealed) on receipt of Six Penny Stamps.
Address— S. WARD & CO.,
. Sydney Pharmacy, 78 llunter-st., SYDNEY.
ATROPHY in Men
Wasted or shrunken parts of the Human Body
ENLARGED and DEVELOPED to normal size
and vigor by the Electro-Vacuum Process.
Instant benefit. Marital Strength, Vitality, Man-
hood. Losses, Drains cease at once. Send fordes-
criptive book, posted sealed, 6 stamps. Address —
J. , HINTON-WILLIS,
Cor. Bourke & Liverpool Sts , Melbourne.
VARICO CELE -
Every Man
Suffering from Varicocele and allied troubles should
read my Treatise, describing its Causes, Symptoms,
Results, and Speedy and Pa-inless Cure. Sent Sealed,
Free, for Six Stamps. Address —
Wm. LANG-STON, M.E.C.S., Eng.,
121 Collins-Street, Melbourne.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering; injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S Cnjbrocatioi).


TATTERSALLS
• • • Monster Prize List*
registered
ADDRESS.
6 TATTLRSALL,” care Greo. Adams, Hobart.
Caulfield C.
100,coo
TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
October 15.
SUBSCRIBERS at 5.
—— —Shares in the above.
Name
Address ___ ~
MELBOURNE C. November 1.
100,000 Subscribers at S'.
To TATTER SALT:
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
MELBOURNE C. November 1
LOO,OOO Subscribers at 20.
To TATTER S ALt*
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C. 100,000 at 5.
SPECIAL CONSULTATION.
To bs Drawn at 10 a.m. on the Day of the Race
lull ' s " 111 kimll >' ytl "- wlwn applying for tickets.
To TATI'EKSALL.
Please allot me.
-Shares in the above 1 .
Name
Address.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.


Anthony
Hordern’s
Great Price Reducers
‘friends of the family’
-AND-
Up-to-date fflerehants
Send for Patterns and par-
ticulars of anything and every-
thing you want, and if you are
not already supplied, write for
our Illustrated General Catalogue
and our Fashion Portfolio. . .
ANTHONY
HORDERN’S
Universal Providers,
HAYMARKET ONLY, SYOHEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPyNE.
Caution. — Genuine Clilorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., becars on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS DROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
A Phenomenal Novelty!
The Calendar (Hatch.
Tells the correct time of the day, the day of the
week, the day of the month, the month of the
year, and the phases of the moon. Hall-marked,
sterling silver case and dome, extra jewelled
movements, second hand, keyless. Price, 455.
Securely packed. Sent registered post free to any
colony.
Address—THE MANAGER,
The Globe match Go., [ld.,
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
Rapidly Cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its
wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of bron-
chitis, distressing cough, difficulty in breathing, hoarse-
ness, pain or soreness in the chest, experience delightful
and immediate relief, and to those who are subject to
colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete
cure. It is most comforting in allaying tickling and irri-
tation in the throat, and giving strength to the voice, and
it never allows a cough or asthma to become chronic. No
house should he without it, as, taken at the beginning, a
dose is generally sufficient, and a complete cure is certain.
“ Mr. W. G. HEARNE.—Dear Sir, —I had a bad attack
of Bronchitis for six months, with dreadful hacking cough
day and night and great quantity of phlegm. Night
sweats came on and pains in my chest, and I got so weak
that I could not leave my bed. At this stage I was pro-
nounced to be in consumption. I had a lot of medicines
of different kinds, but nothing did me any good until,
reading in the Age of your ‘ Bronchitis Cure,’ I got a
bottle, and after taking two doses I was much improved.
After taking two bottles the cough and night sweats left
me, my appetite returned, and I was able to get up ; and
am now in good health, for which I am truly grateful, and
shall recommend your Medicine to all my friends.—Yours
truly, E. SMITH, Halpin Park, Nhiil, Victoria.”
“ After suffering from asthma until I was 17 years old,
and having been under a great many different treatments,
without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s Medicine
for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine,
I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then, which was
in the beginning of 1883, 14 years ago, I have not had the
slightest return of it. The Medicine quite cure me, and 1
I have much pleasure in recommending it.—ALEX. J.
ANDERSON, Geelong, Victoria.”
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed by
the Rev. John Sinclair, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59
other leading residents.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, W. O'. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small sizes, 2s. fld. ; large, 4s. 6d. Sold by chemists and
medicine vendors. Forwarded by post to any address
when not obtainable locally.
mum
GrO TO HELL-
KiOLANI) for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set. of 14, unused, for Is. C«I.
Illustrated Price I.ist of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
Fred. Hagen
(Late D. A. Vindin & Co.
U ELIZABETH STREET, SIDNEY-
N.S.W.
. _ g ■ k m ± m a I Established 1819-
llOstraliao MCitOal p roVi< j pn t Wietv
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established ' 1 ’
in Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors-—The lion Sir J. P. ABBOTT, K.C.M.0., M.L.A., Chairman ; TIIOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq., Deputy-
Chairman • A. IV. MEEKS, Esq. ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq. ; J. T. WALKER. Esq. ; JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Esq. ;R. J. BLACK, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Annual Income Exceeds Two Millions Sterling.
Accumulated Funds .. Fourteen and a-Half Millions Sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1597 (after making unusually large reserves) amounted to £115,235, yielding
Reversionary Bonuses of about £835,000.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
ROBT. B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Sulkies, £i 155., £6 155.,
£S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s.. £lO 10s.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 135 & 137 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
MICK SIMMONS.
HEW DEPARTURE. CASH TRADE ONLY.
All Sporting Materials at Lowest Cut Prices.
CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS, BOXING GLOVES, CROQUET, BOWLS, SKITTLES,
SANDOWN, &c. &c. The LARGEST and most VARIED STOCK of
Cricketing Goods in Australia.
NEW SHIPMENT JUST LANDED.
BATS.—Special Line Youths’ All-Cane Handle, 4/-, 4/9, 6/6
„ Special line Youths’ Single Cane Handle, 3/9, 4/-, 4 6
„ F. H. Ayres’ Men’s All-Cane Handle 11s 6d
„ F. H. Ayres’ditto (International) 16s 6d
„ Bryant’s Men’s All-Cane Handle (President) 13s Od
„ Bartlett’s Men’s All-Cane Handle 10s 6d
„ Bartlett’s ditto (Repercusive) 14s Cd
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Special) ... 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 9s 6d
„ Clapshaw’s ditto (Extra Spring) 12s Cd
~ Clapshaw’s ditto (Spiral Spring) ISs Od
STUMPS WITH BAlLS.—Brass Ferrule, Iron-
shod (Special) 6s 6d
„ Brass Tops, Steel shod 7s, 7s 6d
~ Brass Tops, Brass-shod 9s 6d, 12s Od
„ Brass Tops, Revolving’, Brass-shod 12s Cd
„ Full Size 4s 6d
TAN LEG GUARDS.—Youths’ 6s, 6s Cd
~ Men’s 6s, 7s 9d, 9s Cd
~ Men’s Skeleton, best gold cape 10s Cd
BALLS.—Duke’s Six-seam, 4s 6d ; ditto Match ... 5s Od
„ Duke’s P.K.D., 5s 6d ; ditto Best 6s 9d
„ Wisden’s Match . 4s Od
CRICKET MATS.—Double wicket, in two pieces,
full size, bound sides, metal eyelets, spikes
complete (this is the best value in Sydney) ... 80s Od
CRICKET NETS.—Complete 10s 6d, 17s Cd, 20s Od
~ With pegs, runners, &c. &c 40s, 50s, 60s Od
BATS.— Cobbett’s All-Cane Handle, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
„ Feltham’s ditto 6s 6d
~ Feltham’s ditto (Special) 10s 6d
~ Lillywhite’s All-Cane Handle 16s 6d
~ Nicholl s ditto (Automatic) 15s 6d
„ Shaw & Shrewsbury’s ditto .. 6 6,9/6,10/6, 12s 6d
„ Wisden’s ditto (Crawford Exceller) 16s 6d
„ Wisden’s ditto (Lord’s Driver) .. ... 16s 6d
„ Dark & Sons’Patent Cork-Cased Handle ... 15s Od
„ Dark & Sons’ All-Cane Handle 8s 6d
GAUNTLETS. —Tan, full size, ventilated, per pair 6s Od
~ Tan ditto ditto (Gold Cape), per pair ... 8s 6d
~ Black Rubber, ventilated (Backs) per pair... 8s 9d
~ Red Rubber, ventilated (Backs), per pair ... 9s 6d
BATTING GLOVES 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Od
~ Surrey Shields .. ... ... 6s Od
ABDOMINAL GUARDS 7s 6d
SCORING BOOKS 6d, Bd, Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d
BALLS. —Wisden’s Special Crown 6s Od
~ Compo.—Nicholson’s, 3s 6d ; Eclipse ... 2s Od
~ ~ Match, s£oz., Is ; Boys’ . 3d, 4d, 5d
CRICKET SETS.—Boys’ Is 6d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d
„ Youths’, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d ; Men’s, 83, 10/6, 12/6
Youths’ Cane-Handle Bat, Compo Ball,
and Stumps 7s 6d
Men’s Cane-llandle Bat, Leather Ball,
Brass-bound Steel-shod Stumps ... 16s Od
A VISIT to OUR NEW AND COMMODIOUS PREMISES will CONVINCE the PUBLIC
THAT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY AND LOWEST PRICES
Mick Simmons Can’t B Beat.
Address: Haymarket. Branches: 410 George-st., 147 Oxford-st.;
311 King-st., Newtown (Sydney).
2-
X
c/2
ATTENTION, PLEASE!
YXJ IIY are the Preparations manufactured by E. HOL-
* ’ LAND, Hair Specialist, superior to and in greater de-
mand than all other Preparations for promoting the growth
and restoring the color to the Hair ? Because they are the
result of a practical knowledge-20 years’ experience—of all
the Diseases of the Hair, and what is necessary to remove
them. Whereas nearly all other preparations are manufac-
tured by quacks, and are nothing but quack nostrums.
A gentleman in writing says : —“ Everywhere I go I hear
people speaking highly of your Preparations for the Hair.”
Another gentleman says :—“ By a mere rhance I have had
a good opportunity of witnessing the good effect of your now
well-known Hair Restorer. A friend of mine since boyhood
9k
&
52
was quite bald on top of head, and, to iny knowledge, tried most things mentioned without, any result. A few months
ago he informed me he was intending to give your Restorer a trial. Of course I laughed, and for which you must for-
give me. I did not see my friend again until a few days ago, and, if you can, judge my surprise on finding my old com-
rade, not with a bald head, hut with a full, thick head of hair.”—P. J. CONNORS, Esq., Tooma, N.S.W. 20 9 97.
PRICE, per Bottle, 35., 45.,55., 10s. 6d, 12s. 6d. Ninepence (small) and Is. extra for postage. Sold byall Chemists.
IS. HOLLAND,
HAIR SPECIALIST,
193 Collins-st., Melb., VICTORIA.
...
.
Telephone, 26 KOGARAH— connected with Sydney
Exchange.
Hotel Brighton,
Distant from Sydney, 30 minutes.
LADY ROBINSON’S BEACH,
On the Banks op Botany Bay.
The Favorite Health Resort. Lofty Bedrooms, and
Luxuriously Furnished Drawing Rooms, Reading
Rooms, Billiard Room, and Bath Rooms.
Banquets, Annual Re-unions, Picnic Parties care-
fully provided for. Wedding Breakfasts and Private
Dinners, etc., a Speciality.
Grand TTall will accommodate 500 persons. Large Swimming Baths; also, Electric and Hot Salt
•Vater Baths (a sure Cure for Rheumatic Complaints) only one minute’s walk from hotel. Fishing and Boating ;
also, splendid Stabling Accommodation. . TERMS MODERATE.
Plum
Pm
THB
‘Plum’
ENTLEMEiN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should give our celebrated Plum Razor a
" H trial. This razor is superior to any other. It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground,
rings like a bell and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, »e know the
exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number
of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
The “ Plum” Razor Strop, specially made for this razor, 7s 6d.
“Razoles ” Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d, cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong leather case, 1 Os. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
(.Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handle® in beautiful case, 30s.
Sole
Agents
Registered and sent Post Free to any part of the icorld.
Please add 6d. exchange on country and Is. on intercolonial cheques.
CRAIG 8t AITK.EN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY".
LOOK A.T OUR PRICES !
We beg to notify customers that by buying from us
direct they will save dealers’ profits, besides getting
better-finished work at 20 p.c. less. We are actual manu-
facturers—not dealers.
Our BENT SHAFT SULKY, with splash boards, £ll.
2 SPRING STICK or SOLID SEAT SULKY, 16 15s.
3 SPRING SOLID or STICK SEAT SULKY, including
silver dash rail, £7 15s.
Our Special Blackboard Buggies, £9los
DOUBLE BUGGIES, including break and lamps, £2l.
ABBOTT TRAY BUGGIES, trimmed in real leather, in-
cluding break and lamps, 120. LADIES’ PARK
PHAETONS, from 121. All descriptions of Saddlery
and Harness at lowest possible prices.
Our Special
No. 2.
Including Splash
boards, Silver Dash Rail
and Lamps.
£818.6.
Vote Our Only Address : N.S.W. Carriago Manufacturing Co., Brownest., NEWTOWN, Sydney
Send, for Our Illuatra,t.od Ca.ta.logue.
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Border Gate.
Dawn gilds the spiders’ bridges;
Morn mocks the shadows’ rout}
A mile back on the ridges
They put the head-lights out;
A red-topped coach from Nor’ward
Comes down with clanking bars:
The waking Day lies forward,
Behind—the drowsy stars 1
A foe no floods can ruin,
A force no droughts abate,
The night-mail from the Tuen
Swings through the Border Gate 1
A still world—faint and swooning
Beneath a fevered sky ;
Before the great wheels’ groaning
Slow bullocks snailing by;
With dusty, cursing drivers,
And roaring fall of whips
Comes rocking from red rivers
The cream of Queensland clips.
“ Gee off, there ! Clown and Drover t n
The brown loads creak and grate.
“Stand over, there ! Stand Over ! ”
She clears the Border Gate !
A sunset-fired horizon
Beyond the dust-wrack dense,
A draft from Jimmy Tyson
Slow-feeding to the fence ;
A rush of long-horned leaders,
A tramp of feet below,
A ripping of red “ bleeders ”
And “ Woh, there! Woh, boys! Woh-h!”
The posts are strong—with reason.
Which stand to such a weight;
The finest stores this season
Crowd through the Border Gate!
The old gay life is over ;
We’ve left the great North Road ;
The red dust wraps the drover,
The gray dust hides the load ;
Though I’ll no more go through you,
Old Gate of Memories mine !
I wave a brown hand to you
From long leagues down the line . . .
Wherever Time shall speed me
Before the winds of Fate,
I know my dreams will lead me
Back to the Border Gate !
W. H. OGILVIE.
“After Thompson’s Party.”
Cornin' 'ome from Thompson’s party,
Me an’ Joe fell out;
Joe an’ me got narked,
Cornin’ ’ome from Thompson’s party.
Mates we’d alius bin since so-’igh ;
I says “ yes ” w’en Joe says “ yo-hai”;
Stuck to one-another ’earty
Till that night of Thompson’s party.
Name the bart as made us quarrel ?
Name the bart yerself 1
Twenty quid yer carn’t!
Share our only pound or fifty ;
Neither one’s bin over-thrifty.
“ My mate says so,” was our moral:
Barts would never make us quarrel!
Drink ! W’y we’ve been drunk together
Time an’ time agen !
Seen each other ’ome ;
Camped in the same bunk together;
Mates w’en sober, an’ good liquor
On’y made our friendship thicker.
Bound for Sheol “ L ” for leather,
Neither one, or both together I
Neither wine nor women done it.
Nor it wasn’t coin :
Joe and me got narked—
It was Joe’s fox-terrier done it.
Joe says my pup set ’is poodle.
I says “ Plank the blanky boodle !
Don’t care w’o the ’ ell begun it;
Let ’em fight! ” An’-—well, we done it t
At it went them dorgs, like blazes 1
Ts’n’ got the grip :
My pup chewed ’s lip :
Chewed an’ yelled an’ fought like blazes !
First the one on top, then t’other !
We was breathin’ like to smother,
Dodgin’ round in twenty places,
Soolin’ of ’em on like blazes 1
Joe says my pup weren’t jonick l
Couldn’t suffer that.
“ ’More ain’t yours ! ” says I.
(’Struth ! to say my pup aint jonick I)
“ Lie ! ” says ’e, an’ I says “ Crawler !”
Biff ! comes Joseph’s gentle mauler.
To we sets, a regular tonic,
’Cos ’e says my pup aint jonick !
Cornin’ ’ome from Thompson’s party,
Me an’ Joe fell out—
Plugged each other blind !
Cornin' ’ome from Thompson’s party.
Beer an’ women couldn’t part us,
But that dorg-fight ’ad to start us
Quick an’ lively, ’ot an’ ’earty,
Coinin’ ’ome from Thompson’s party.
S.A.
NIL.


I)s^
!§■- Suits.
Dyspepncs
_ - s-fi ■ ■ mm* _ .
Washington H.Soulx C°, Pitt St. Sydney.
AND SOLD BY ALL GROCERS & STOREKEEPERS .
%E$ 12/6-
PER
DAY
INCLUSIVE OF ALL MEALS
AND ATTENDANCE
fl. Edwin Moore,
■ manager.
P&B Ruberoid
is called the “BUILDERS’ BOON”
because of use in so many ways. ’Tis
cheap, cool, clean; and its weight
(3-10ths that of iron) shows a saving of 7-10ths in carriage charges on the
railway. Other thicknesses proportionate. Below we show an
IDEAL POULTRY HOUSE.
m
?Z±&i
Pi^Eß-
miv
When purchasing P & B Ruberoid for your residence, get a little extra
for your Stable and Poultry Houses.
Agents: E. ETCH & CO. LTD.. O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Agents: * "
Frank Logan, Eagle-street, Brisbane.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Elizabeth-st., Melb.
A. W. Sandford & Co., Adelaide.
Messrs. Ross and Jack, 10 Custom House
Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
HELIDOF SPA WATER
“ Is universally acknowledged to be a Perfect Table Water.”
TATTERSALL’S HOTEi & CAFE,
SYDNEY.
Specially suited to Families ; Private
Suites of Rooms; Private Drawing and
Sitting Rooms; and all modern appoint-
ments \ attendants throughout day and
night.
OS’ Three Minutes to leading Theatres
and G.P.O.
Telegraph, Office.
Telephone > V^<V.
Electric Liijht.
TARIFF: -
Bs. per Day upwards.
W. J. AI>AMS, Jlanaurr.
LIFCBUOy
DISINFECTANT
SOAP
DESTROYS INFECTION, IS USEFUL and
ECONOMICAL for ALL PURPOSES.
LIFEBUOY SOAP.
A Doctor’s Opinion:
“ We cannot overrate the value of clean-
liness of person, that is, clothes and
body ... to avert sickness and main
tain the body in health, such a soap as
LIFEBUOY SOAP is beyond all
praise ; its softness and purity must
commend it to all.
“ Dr. Gordon Stables, R.N.
LIFEBUOY SOAP
can be Purchased from
ALL GROCERS AND STOREKEEPERS.
WHOLESALE FROM
LEVER BROS., Ltd., Sydney ;
BRABANT & CO., Brisbane;
WALTER REID & CO., Ltd., Rockhampton;
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Townsville.
sO
fIIETO
ILLE
MPA
UNIT!
SBINBUINI
111
Trade
Mark
cotat/
Distillers Company!?:
EDINBURGH. «»*«
teSter'y-uv. • m
a/%>M
’;-> • JT* '',‘u 1* ifc 4*?&,
< Jkl
Take a little Whisky
“for the.stomach’s sake”;
avoid excessive drinking,
and you can then afford
to drink the very best
you can get. “ D.C.L.”
Scotch is the best. One
glass at meals, diluted
either with aerated or
plain water, assists di-
gestion, and is thus
medically recommended
as a safe and absolutely
pure stimulant.
“D.C.L.” stands with-
out a rival.
L/
6
Insist on
Ooolg-ardie
International Mining
and Industrial
Exhibition.
To be OPENED on 21st MARCH, 18SD.
For Schedule and particulars, 'apply Gr. WILLIAMS, Secretary, Coolgardie, W.A.
Sydney Lager and Bock Bier.
BEST
It took FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL at the
last N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society’s Show
against all corners.
CHEAPEST
Costs LESS than any other Lager in the market.
I
is
a Perfect
Winter Lager,
Quality.
Dr. Helms, the well-known Analytical Chemist of Sydney, in
his analysis, proves this Bier to be of prime quality ; contain-
ing a very large percentage of nutriment and a desirably small
percentage of alcohol.
Doctors Recommend It
as a Food and Tonic, and
prescribe it as a strength
producer in the after-cure
or convalescent stage of
patients.
Flavour
Brewed and
Bottled by
Obtainable in draught or bottle at all leading bolds.
Bottled Bock from all Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants.
The N.S.W. Lager Bier Brewing Co. Ld., Moore Park, Sydney.
Manager, Aug. J. Mtetzler. Sec., T. H. Jackson.
«» S 2
ms
IP®
i ■
onv
-m
•rr7
' ■ '/ ■■' '' J
<5
.
RSS
1
*W
mat
emember fa Maine”


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Rost Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 19.—N0. 971.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1898.
Price, 6d.
By the Aorangi a number of Australian miners
ire returning from Klondyke. They giv®
Uscouraging reports of the state of the field,
vhich, in their ©pinion, has been tremendously
)verrated. Many of those who
Australia are now among the great army of
employed in Dawson City and Vancouver. / \
& >£<? fu lie fry hfirf/es /o/50/yf
ou/~ oyce /ye/»c’ Jfe fra-
'ye e>tydy>ep fr'e/iyayy
as a cfross//to yttace
of?r /fast of
fafv
fafr fadoj,'
-/o c,
g'CS'/fc ~A/qic( - lC 's~~^7^yr^ —
Sr/// ctne( &>o/' fif/fCLSCc/pf-. Jusf~f//~
e/o /or ^ou / S 9 *
A BOGGY ACCIDENT.
THE PREMIEB CAPSIZED.
wa» simply marvellous that we escaped unhurt? out
thl h l(i j, S °' l [?!' into 6 hollow just by the side oi
the bank ana I did oot receive the slightest shock
or injury of any kind, it seemed to 010 that I
V*“Pfc rolled over into a sice soft place. " "
‘So// tf'feufae tuT*'/-* '/**“<■
W
' fl l aijeL
r<°?7ct62(? SK'eZc/%
' 2><ct fou r/f?cr , JVr f "
tZat fyas/er /?%' <f- /
/ S.fyouZct Zfi/ift Z oZld ' Zran^ffjT?
d'rtstoy oy£r c(o a if . ZvZiy
cZ/cC y OU- Conp% a,tic( t *
7F*/ac//i?/• _ /fyty Z/jT /act~ /j / /taJ at a.
cZa oo St c e 7ast to ter At aaU syas realty Zoo
ZlrtcZ tZ iTo/- / -
Bo 55 of fli?' Lecfal Sholf in cjtJulb-Ln, a billeT- Sony
fo fell you Wfr are rafhp oiter panned at prcseiif fatter affylyhffT
door l hear fljeu are .
runmn cr short handsel
. , } Tlld’
otfter day wo published 8 letter
in -ttrhicb a man of law wrote an im-
pressive warning to parents and others
about the overcrowding of hifi profes-
sion" in both branches.
At the federal assembly of tile presby-
tenan Church, which closed in Sydney
last week a familiar complaint was heard
r , was * he . lack of young men in & us .
traha offering themselves as ministers
of the Church. „ „ _ ~ r ,
- S /V'/Jzratcl
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians .”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Dra'ts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Hlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C.; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
South Africa. — 11. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown. Also in the Transvaal :—F. H.
Solomon and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Colombo. — W. M. Smith & Co.
Fiji. — Chas. A. Senior, Polynesian Gazette, Levulca.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria. S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except (Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland wilt be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
TTi^^xzlleizvi.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1898.
Ferguson’s Amendment.
Incidentally, in the course of the late cen-
sure debate, the New South Wales Labor-
party, speaking through the mouth of
Ferguson, M.L.A., defined its Federal
attitude At least, Ferguson, M.L.A., pro-
fessed to speak for the party, and the party
didn’t repudiate its professed spokesman,
and, considering Ferguson’s position as one
of the most intellectual men of his crowd, it
seems reasonable to assume that he fairly
represents the Labor section of the New
South Wales Assembly. And, according to
Ferguson’s deliverance, the Labor men’s
idea of Federation is about as parochial as
the ideas of most other parties in New South
Wales and in Australia generally. The fol-
lowing, according to Ferguson, is the party’s
ultimatum :
The Labor-party was the strong Federal party in the
House. They never had said that no Upper Chamber,
placing the railways under Federal control, federating
the debts, or that the capital should be in this colony,
were essentials of Federation—only that they were desir-
able. The mass Referendum they, however, did regard
as essential, and also that a simple majority should pre-
vail at a joint sitting of the two Houses was essential. It
was said the small States would not accept a simple
majority in such cases, and they were not likely to whilst
New South Wales had such representatives as Messrs.
Barton and Wise telling them it was not necessary, and
that Federation could be obtained without it. National
questions were what the Federal Parliament would have
to deal with, and they should be dealt with in a
national spirit—that was by a simple majority. He
admitted that State rights should be protected. They
should lay it down distinctly in the Bill that no territory
should he handed over by or taken away from any Slate
unless with the consent of that State, and it should be
laid down that no fresh power should be given
to the Federal Parliament unless with the con-
sent of the States, and no power should be taken
away from any State unless with its consent. The
crucial point would come when they were asked
to state definitely what sacrifices they were prepared to
make in order to obtain Federation. That was the time
when they would be able to distinguish the real enemies
and friends of Australian union. There were, to his
mind, only two essentials to Federation—a simple
majority in the joint sitting of the two Houses and a
mass Referendum for alterations in the Constitution con-
fined exclusively to those subjects which were handed
over to the Federal Parliament to deal with. He would
not accept Federation with a thousand amendments un-
less these two were granted. New South Wales had a
riffht at this juncture to state the prioe she was prepared
to pay for union.
• * • •
So the Labor-party goes back on its Refer-
endum just as Premier Reid did when he re-
fused to trust the majority with power to
decide the acceptance or rejection of the
Federal Constitution. According to Fergu-
son, M.L.A., the Australian majority is to
boss the show in a few things only, and there
is to be majority rule with strict limitations.
The present generation—the one which is
reared in the traditions and the atmosphere
of provincialism—is to define the powers of
the Federal Parliament and those of-the
State Legislatures. And it is to enact that
after it is dead and gone, and the winds have
blown the forgotten dust of Ferguson,
M.L.A., over the Barrier and away across
the Milparinka plains, the power of the
majority shall be strictly limited through
all succeeding ages by the bounds fixed
for it by Ferguson and his contem-
poraries. The New South Wales Labor-
party, according to Ferguson, M.L.A.,
proposes in the most important respects to
make the alleged cast-iron Constitution of
the late Convention Bessemer steel. That
Constitution, as drafted by the Convention,
is a painfully narrow affair. A scared race,
with the old provincial shackles on its soul,
was so badly afraid to trust the Australian
people with the control of Australia that it
placed the Federal authority under severe
limitations. It gave the Federal Govern-
ment no definite power to take over the
public debts and railways, to make a uniform
criminal code, or to readjust the purely arti-
ficial boundaries of the various sub-divisions
of the country, however necessary such re-
adjustment might be ; and it provided that
all new questions that might arise should be
questions to be decided by the State Legis-
latures. Instead of defining the powers of
the States and leaving the Federal authority
to deal with everything else, it made the
great mistake of defining the Federal autho-
rity and leaving everything else to the little
State Legislatures and the aldermanic func-
tionaries left therein. But when, later on,
the nation has lost some of its parochial
instincts, and the inevitable question of
enlarging the Federal power comes to the
front, the Convention Bill makes such an
enlargement at least reasonably possible. It
can be effected by a majority of the voters
who go to the poll and a majority of the
States. This is the cast-iron constitution of
the Federal Convention, and, as cast-iron is
brittle, the adjective about expresses the
situation.
* * * c
Ferguson, on behalf of the New South
Wales Labor-party, proposes to alter this by
requiring a majority vote in every State. It
is obviously impossible to enlarge the powers
of the Federal Government without reducing
those of the State Parliaments. And the
proposal that no powers shall be taken from
any State without its consent means that the
smallest majority in the smallest State can
block the amendment of the Federal Con-
stitution in the direction where amendment
is most likely to be needed ! The fact that
the people at large are to have power
to vary the Constitution in a few things
is small compensation if a majority of one
in Tasmania is to override the practically
unanimous vote of nearly 4,000,000 Austra-
lians in many things. If the Federal system
is a success the people will almost certainly
desire to extend the powers of the one
Legislature which represents Australia as a
whole. And by that time Ferguson will
probably be dead, and yet the dead hand of
the Ferguson party will reach down through
the ages to deny the Australian people of the
future the right to decide their own destiny
in this matter. It will decree that the
smallest majority in the smallest and least
progressive province—and there always is
one unprogressive province which lags be-
hind the rest—can prohibit all growth and
expansion ; and there won’t even be the
satisfaction of knowing that the dead pro-
vincialists who devised this scheme gain any
joy or benefit thereby. When some future
generation decides that it is absolutely neces-
sary, for the good of the state, to transfer
certain powers from the provinces to the
Federal Government, it is obvious that the
transfer, to be effective, must be made by all
the provinces. And if a million majority in
New' South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and Westralia says yes, and
it is blocked by a majority of a dozen
noes in Tasmania, then it would be interest-
ing to know where Democratic principles, and
the rule of the majority, and the Referendum,
and the popular right of self-government
have gone to.
* * ♦ *
The proposal that no amendment shall be
made in the Federal Constitution, except
with the assent of the majority of the pro-
vinces, was a compromise dictated by the
fears of the small provinces, lest the big pro-
vinces should swallow them up. But there
is no need to make the situation worse than
it already is. The proposal that State boun-
daries shall not be altered, except with the
consent of the province which it is proposed
to subdivide, is one which past and present ex-
perience shows to be a ridiculous fooling with
a weapon that is loaded. The old, unwieldy
province of New South Wales didn’t consent to
the secession of Victoria and Queensland,
and if there had been no higher authority to
interfere the most probable result would
have been civil war Queensland and Wes-
tralia have each a similar problem ripening
now. And it is seriously advocated that,
when an outlying part of a province is robbed
and exploited for the benefit of an over-
grown capital city, as Port Phillip was, and
as North Queensland is, and as Northern
Westralia probably will be by the Perth and
Bunbury gang when it is rich enough to be
worth robbing, there shall be no remedy
except civil war. When the difficulty anses
the people of that day will probably be much
better fitted to deal with it than any dead
and gone Ferguson of 100 or 500 or 1000
years back. At all events it is their own
difficulty, and even if the politicians of to-
day are so much wiser than anybody else
that they are capable of providing for such
contingencies to all futurity the live people
of the period have the right to settle their
own problem according to their own wisdom
—or their own foolishness. And they have
also the same right to decide as to the ex-
tension or limitation of the Federal power
in their day as the present Fergusons have
in theirs. If the "bare majority can be
trusted in one case it can probably be trusted
in the other also.
• * * •
The amendments that are most wanted are
all in the direction of enlarging the Federal
powers. The central authority—the one
which represents the people of Australia as
a whole —should have absolute power over
the debts, railways and education system,
have power to make a uniform criminal and
civil code, to adjust interprovincial disputes,
and to subdivide States if the people of any
part of a State can show a tolerably unani-
mous desire for separation and the Federal
Legislature sees no good reason to the con-
trary. Also, deadlocks should be settled by
a bare majority at a joint sitting of the
Federal Houses, and amendments or ex-
tensions of the Federal authority should be
made as easy as possible. If, owing to pro-
vincial jealousies or suspicious, this idea is
impossible, it should be approached as
nearly as can be. But to enact that there
shall be no extension of the narrow Federal
authority except with the consent of all the
provinces—that the smallest majority in the
smallest State can block all progress and
expansion until the union is amended by
brute force or burst up by violence —is retro-
gression and Toryism. The present idea,
which requires the assent of a majority of
the provinces, in addition to the assent of a
majority of the people, is bad enough. The
one proposed in its stead is many times worse.
The Impure-drug Question.
A MAN who knows writes on a matter urgently
needing State attention :
Ed. Bulletin. —In issue 10/9/’9B “ H.G.” opens up an
interesting- question re the purity of the drugs the public
is so fond of pouring into itself. This question is occa-
sionally ventilated in medical journals, but, after a brief
and technical discussion, it drops again into obscurity.
The average medico who prescribes drugs knows vaguely
that some preparations differ considerably in strength in
different specimens, but, as he is already expected to work
24 hours a day in the service of club-patients who pay
from 12s. 6d. to £1 per annum for his attentions, he has
not got time to make exhaustive quantitative and qualita-
tive.analyses for their benefit. The chemist doesn’t care
—his troubles 1 so long as he gets his ss. per annum—•
and he contents himself with a superior smile when the
puzzled medico unburdens his soul on the subject of
Mrs. Jones’ sudden and fatal idios.vncracy for morphia.
Let me set out a few facts throwing, light on the question.
* * * *
Chlorinated lime (the allegedly-uncertain snake-bite
antidote) should contain 33 per cent, of free chlorine.
Twelve specimens secured from different town and coun-
try pharmacies gave from 1-3 to 15'8 per cent.—the
maximum. On the presence of this free chlorine depends
the efficacy of the drug. Hydrocyanic acid, of which
your correspondent speaks, should have, according to the
British Pharmacopeia, two per cent, by weight of the
pure acid. It lands here never stronger than 1-7 per
cent, and perishes to nil. Sciieele’s acid (made in Ger-
many) is better, its normal four per cent, remaining fairly
constant, through good preparation and careful packing.
Opium, again, the Pharmacopeia alleges to contain 9(4
to 10)4 P er cent, of morphine. Twenty analyzed speci-
mens obtained in Australian cities gave a range of from
3 to 14'2 per cent. As the tincture (laudanum) is very
often manufactured by the chemist himself in the good
old rule-of-thumb B.P. way (by macerating an ounce and
a half of opium in a pint of proof spirit) the chances of
hitting off the official strength of 1 gr. in 14£ minims are
about as remote as Federation under a Reid Government.
* * • •
Turn to antiseptics. Puerperal fever is on the in-
crease, despite careful anti and aseptic technique at
parturitions. Carbolic acid is the favorite antiseptic here,
as perchloride of mercury ruins instrument plating, and
accuracy of solution strength is naturally necessary.
Most ordinary shop specimens of so-called pure carbolic
run from 20 to 50 per cent, under stated strengths.
lodoform, the most widely-used of surgical antiseptics, is
about half flour in most chemists’ specimens ! If the
manufacturers must adulterate it, they might at least
use boracic acid, which is nearly as cheap as flour and it-
self a good antiseptic.
* • * *
The impurity of chloroform is a crying evil, of which
laymen and most general practitioners have no concep-
tion. The B.P. tests for purity are moderately satis-
factory, but not one chloroformist in a hundred applies
them before use. ’s chloroform is perhaps
the only reliable preparation shipped, but as the bottles,
when stoppered, often sweat off a third of their contents
during the voyage they have to be filled up on arrival.
The filling is often done with German chloroform ; and,
regarding German chloroforms, Hewitt, the English
authority on anaesthetics, gives a lurid accountof samples
obtained from a “ respectable German firm.” Here’s one :
“ It had a most disagreeable odour of nitro-benzol and
tobacco, and when inhaled produced giddiness and head-
ache. After 48 hours the smell was replaced by that of
benzoic acid. When the residue was heated and partly
evaporated the remainder turned brown and evolved a
smell like burnt india-rubber. The chloroform from
which the residue was obtained had caused alarming
symptoms in one half of the cases in which it had been
employed.”
Those “in the know” get their chloroform in sealed
flasks to private order. The only efficacious method of
purifying chloroform is by Pictet’s crystallisation freez-
ing process, and by special arrangement this can be done
before shipment -but it is far too expensive for every-day
use.
To sum up. Hospital and lodge committees hold
Economy above all things, thereby producing a demand
for cheap drugs. Cheap drugs mean adulterated drugs,
and as there is no fixed standard of adulteration, any
change of the source of supply may cause serious conse-
quences. Anyone will understand this who has spent a
night lugging an insensible 18st. patient with pin-point
pupils and icy extremities round a waid just because the
hospital committee had got a new and conscientious
chemist the day before. Next committee-day some pom-
pous ass will arise and ask for a vote of censure on the
(sweated) doctor and (underpaid) chemist.
• * * *
There is only one solution for these difficulties, and we
may live to see it. The appointment of a well-paid
expert in each capital, with an efficient staff under his
control, and the power to take samples from all imported
and locally-made medicinal preparations wheresoever he
thinks necessary, would go far towards stamping out the
evil. A little legislation to the effect that any person
selling drugs condemned by that expert, or adulterating
articles he had passed, should he visited with heavy
punishment ; including fine and deletion front the roll ot
licensed chemists —would go further. We pay a quaran-
tine department to keep out foreign diseases, and \\ hy
should we not have one to testify to the purity of the
agents necessary for combating those we have at home .
—Piiyyaka.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Wonderful G. Reid.
Premier Reid at Kempsey, as reported in last
Monday’s Telegraph
Some people had said that the financial clauses in the
Convention Bill were those which he took special ex-
ception to, but that was not so. He took greater ex-
ception to the clause which fixed a three-fifths majority
in the joint sitting. Under that clause when the joint
sitting of the two Federal Houses took place the minority
of 38 could override the majority of 56.
Quite so. And it was Reid’s colleague, Carru-
THERS, who proposed the three-tilths majority,
and according to the damning record on pages
974 and 975 of Convention Hansard (21st Sep-
tember, 1897), Reid, Brunker and Carru-
THERS, all of the CoD-fearing Ministry, voted
for the three-fifths majority most persist-
ently. The division on page 974 shows
the curious result that every N.S.W. delegate
present voted, with Reid’s assistance and cor-
dial approval, for the undemocratic three-fifths
majority. On the other hand, eight out of ten
Victorian delegates voted against it, also
three South Australians, and two Tasmanians.
Another quaint circumstance relates to S.A.
Premier Kingston’s proposed insertion of the
national Referendum in the Convention Bill.
The division bv which the Referendum was
scornfully cast out on its ear is recorded in the
Convention Hansard of 21st September, 1897*
(page 967). It shows that out of seven N.S. VV.
delegates present six (including Reid, Car-
ruthers, and BitUNKER) voted against the
Referendum, and the only N.S.W. delegate
who supported it was B. R. Wise. (Curi-
ously enough, some of the beautiful
political wrigglers who voted against the
Referendum themselves now accuse Wise,
the one N.S.W. delegate who voted for it at
this critical moment, as being an opponent of
the Referendum.) Eleven votes were cast for
the Referendum altogether ; the Victorian con-
tingent, which kept pretty steady on the
Democratic side, supplied six of these ; S.A.
furnished three, Westralia one, N.S.W. one
(B. R. Wise). Of the 30 votes cast against
the Referendum, Tasmania supplied nine,
Westralia seven, N.S.W. and S.A. six each,
Victoria only two. Therefore the N.S.W.
Ministers in the Convention voted solidly on
this occasion for the three-fifths majority and
against the Referendum, and it was this vote
which caused Carruthers’ accursed idea of
the three-fifths majority to be first inserted in
the luckless Bill, where it remained ever after-
wards. If Premier Reid and his following
had stood by the Victorian contingent—the
only one which was reasonably unanimous
against the undemocratic three-fifths idea—
there would at least have been a very small
majority in its favor ; possibly no majority at
all. It is records like these which make The
Bulletin regard Premier Reid as the most
brazen political adventurer in Australia. It
doesn’t much mind him voting for the three-
fifths majority if his convictions lay that way ;
but when he did all he knew to insert that
unlucky idea in the Bill, and then declared the
Bill impossible because that idea was in it, and
denied, or practically denied, that he had sup-
ported it, he gets pretty low down in the mire
of political degradation.
+
The House of Culverts.
The corrupt road-and-bridge vote is being
worked by the Reid Ministry for all it is
worth to down Barton at Macleay (N.S.W.).
S. Smith, the lately rejected Minister for
Vegetables, is contesting the electorate in the
anti-Federal interest, and Minister Potato-
Young, of the Works Department, the gentle-
man who looks after roads and bridges and
culverts, is stumping the district along with
him. Minister Potato- Young practically calls
on the people to remember that ex-Minister
Smith has got the ear of the same Cabinet
which lately built “a very successful bridge”
up there, and spent much money on a local
harbor. Also, he implies very distinctly that
they ought to elect Smith because, if he gets
in, he will chew the ear of the Government
over a local drainage matter. And he points
out to them that Barton, if he is elected,
“ would not lose his time in going round to the
different departments to watch over their in-
terests ” —in other words, he distinctly implies
that Barton would not get them roads and
bridges where Smith would. All this boils
down to a very simple proposition. Minister
Young bosses the distribution of roads and
bridges. The people pay for them exactly the
same whether they are represented by Barton
or Smith, and public works are supposed to be
distributed with absolute impartiality whether
the people elect Barton or Smith. If it will be
better for the people, in the public works line,
that they should elect Smith, then that can
only mean that Young is a shamelessly crooked
Minister who uses the public money to buy
political support for his Ministry ; or that he
is an incompetent fool who gives public money
when he shouldn’t do so to mollify the depart-
ment-trotter, or doesn’t give it when he should
do so in cases where there is no department-
trotter to mollify. And when he points
to the money which has been lately spent
in the electorate as a reason why the people
should support the Reid Government, it
apparently means one of two things—either
that the people are expected to be grateful
because they got more than their fair
share of public money to the injury of other
localities, or that they are expected to be grate-
ful because they weren’t robbed by Minister
Young’s department of their fair share of public
money, it being a department which is quite
capable of such a thing. Also, there lies beyond
the possible inference that they had better wake
up and vote for Smith, lest the Works Depart-
ment should either rob them in the future, or
else give up robbing other localities for (heir
benefit : or lest, Young, being a man who needs


Smith to tell him his own business, shouldn’t
know how to do it, so far as that electorate is
concerned, for want of Smith. When Sydney
Telegraph publishes a statement of the money
spent by the Reid Government in Macleay
electorate, that is also a pretty straight hint
that the money was meant to buy the Macleay
vote, and that the supply may he stopped by a
corrupt Government if Smith doesn’t get in.
And when Premier Reid writes to the Macleay
electors that Smith will “work for all their
legitimate local needs with unswerving devo-
tion,” that, is another pretty straight reach-out
for the local drain vote, and an encouraging
hint that the Reid Government will listen to the
local cry for works —provided it comes through
Smith. Reid, and the Telegraph and Young
and Smith can divide these alternatives among
them. Anyhow, the whole disgraceful busi-
ness lends additional weight to The Bulletin’s
contention that there should be a Second Cham-
ber elected by the people on a manhood suffrage
basis, with the whole province as one electorate,
so that it couldn’t be elected on the local cul-
vert vote, and the people could send there the
men who are too big and honest and indepen-
dent to peddle miserably for votes on the
bridge and reclamation ticket, and whose only
qualification is that they want to help along
the country in general—not the hamlet of Boppy
Mountain alone. Young’s case against Barton
is practically that he is too big an Australian
patriot to keep his eye always on small local
jobs, and he urges the electors to vote for
Smith on the ground, to all intents and pur-
poses, that he is a paltry little commonplace
man who won’t let great Australian questions
come between him and the mud-reclamation
contract. The Daily Telegraph’s attempt to
wake up the old sectarian row by alleging that
Barton —a broad-minded gentleman of Protes-
tant birth —has the local Catholic vote, and
therefore (by implication) that the Protestant
Christian should vote for Smith out of a pious
loathing for the Holy Roman Christian, is such
an old, familiar disgrace that it hardly attracts
notice. But Minister Young’s mode of elec-
tioneering has brought a comparatively new
variety of disgrace into the Macleay contest.
—*
Tottie in Politics.
Apparently, one of Victoria’s urgent needs is
a medical inquiry into the mental condition of
Campbell, M.L.C., which extraordinary pillar
of the State has, by his own account, employed
a detective to discover the reason why prosti-
tutes clamor for the suffrage (if they do clamor).
And the answer furnished to Campbell,
M.L.C. (so he says), by the detective, was as
follows (Argus report):—
Women of the unfortunate class said they frequently
had members of Parliament under their thumbs, and, if
they fret a vote, they would have double power over them.
Later on he said that :
His (Campbell’s) own wife told him that, if he voted
for the Bill, she would fro for a divorce.
Now, even the dottiest legislator surely knows
that his wife can’t get a divorce on such
grounds (if he has previously given her legal
cause, and she has agreed to condone the
offence provided he votes against the Bill, that
isn’t a case in point). And, as regards the
other part of his argument, the only way the
possession of the suffrage could give the alleged
Tottie; “double power” over the M.P. who is
already in her clutches, is that it would give
her power to vote against him. There are
245,000 voters in Victoria ; with female suffrage,
there would be about 490,000; and, if the
Tottie vote would count for anything in
that crowd, then Victoria must be the most
Tottie- infested country on earth. Campbell,
M.L.C., represents one forty-eighth, or say 2
per cent., of the legislative obstructive force
in Victoria, and Lis yarn about himself, and the
policeman, and the Totties who have dark
designs upon the ballot-box, is a public matter.
Therefore, considering that no intelligent male
person believes the Campbell, M.L.C., yarn,
or can see what possible difference it could make
to the Woman Suffrage principle if it were true,
or would willingly give Campbell, M.L.C.,
credit for being a fictionist with malice afore-
thought, the question as to the state of Camp-
bell, M.L.C.’s, brain is important. If he is
anyway wrong in the head lie ought not to have
the worries of political life inflicted upon him.
The interests of humanity demand that Camp-
bell’s intellect should be overhauled by a
specialist; also the specialist, whilst he is on
the job, might as well go all round the Leg.
Council and report upon the general queerness of
the capitalists there assembled. The Bulle-
tin doesn’t suppose that Campbell, M.L.C., is
any “dottier” than most of them. Probably
be has his good nights and his bad nights, and
this happened to be one of his worst.
State Leaseholds.
South Australia, which leads the way among
the six Australian States in most reforms, is
considering a measure which some of its neigh-
bors should think hard over. It provides
that no more State lands shall be sold except
in completion of existing bargains ; future
transactions are to be by way of lease only.
Also, there is to be no trafficking in the State
leaseholds granted under the new law. Any
person who desires to transfer his lease must
first satisfy the Commissioner that the con-
sideration only equals the value of the improve-
ments thereon and no more. Also he must
have the Commissioner’s permission to sell.
This clause is of a lot more importance than
appears at first sight. If the Stale grants a
long lease at £lO a year, unforeseen circum-
stances may presently raise the value to £lOO a
year, and if the lease is saleable then it generally
is sold, and it keeps on passing from hand to
hand till the very last day of the State’s bad
bargain. The only lease that comes hack pre-
maturely on the hands of the State is the one
where the value has fallen. But if the added
value is non-saleable, then the lessee may hold
it for his own life, and his heirs may also hold
it, if he has any heirs. Should he become
bankrupt, however, or want to sell out, the
State will simply exercise its power to refuse
assent to any sale of the improvements to a
private individual, and buy them itself, and
resume possession of the property. This power
makes the State leasehold practically non-
mortgageable, and will prevent the State lease-
holds being swallowed wholesale by banks and
usurers; it will cheek dummying; and it will, in
many cases, enable the State to get back a
portion of the “ unearned increment.” There
is also provision for granting perpetual lease-
holds, but a terrifying knock to banks, mortgage
co.’s and private land-grabbers is dealt in a
clause which provides that the unimproved
value of all the agricultural land which one in-
dividual can hold under perpetual lease, or that
combined with all other forms of tenure, cannot
exceed <£sooo. And, if it is rated as pastoral,
the utmost amount which one individual can
hold under perpetual lease, 4 or that and other
forms of tenure combined, is pasturage for
5000 sheep. The big landholder doesn’t come
in anywhere under the perpetual lease system,
but, if it is intelligently worked, it should raise
a valuable race of small mortgage-proof agri-
culturists and pastoralists in S.A.
A Gridiron Syndicate.
The Great Midland and West Coast Railway
Bill, at present before Tas. Parliament, is a
modest little proposal on the part of a gridiron
syndicate and deserves to die comparatively
young. The co. asks for 300,000 acres of land
mostly decent agricultural land at that, 20,000
effective horse-power of water, the right to sell
water, light, and power, the right to erect
telegraphs and telephones, and the right to
compete with adjacent Govt, railways. All
this in return for building and owning as its
own private spec, some 60 miles of railway
from the handiest spot in a settled district
to some vague, indefinite point “within
the western mining division of Tasmania.”
Furthermore, the co. specifically bargains
that the State shall not have the right
to control the tolls, rates, or charges, which
may be fixed at any figure the syndicate
pleases. Also the syndicate is to have
a right, under certain conditions, to more
land grants, over and above the 300,000 acres
already mentioned. It is to have prac-
tically unlimited powers to take water from the
Mersey, Forth and Leven rivers. There is
already a tolerably thick settlement along these
rivers, so the blessed syndicate will probably be
able to confiscate the local water supply and
sell it back to the local inhabitants at a high
figure, though its powers in this direction are
not quite certain as. yet. Back, General
Manager of Tasmanian State Railways, presents
a damning report, one clause being as follows :
The company proposes to construct 60 miles of railway,
the cost of which is not ascertained, but f r the purpose
of comparison may be set down at £200,000. If the
company can make full use of the concessions asked for in
the bill (and if they cannotdo so there is nothing to pre-
vent the rights being locked up from the public for years)
the}' will receive an annual income exceeding the primary
cost of the railway.
Therefore a responsible State official reckons
that Tasmania is going to give to this shocking
swindle .£200,000 a year or more, in considera-
tion of its expenditure of .£200,000 all told.
But the syndicate-mongering members of Tas.
Parliament—and they are many—have appar-
ently quite made up their minds to get the Bill
through by hook or crook despite the Railway
Manager’s crushing report. One very big rea-
son for Federal railway control sticks out here.
A very small local Parliament which doesn’t
pay its members a living wage, is altogether
too amenable to cash insult or insult in other
forms which are equivalent to cash.
Legal Cruelty.
In connection with proceedings in Divorce, the
view the law takes as to “ cruelty ” is one which
greatly exercises the lay mind. During the
present sittings of ISf.S. W. Divorce Court a wife
was petitioner, and, according to S.M. Herald,
His Honor Judge Simpson made the following
remarks (an indignant lady correspondent for-
wards the clipping to The Bulletin) :
His Honor : Legal cruelty has not been proved. Black-
ening a woman’s eyes is not legal cruelty.
Mr. Fraser : She had to go to the hospital.
His Honor: That does not matter. She had two
stitches put in the cut, and there was an end of it. It
was gross brutality, no doubt, but not legal cruelty.
This, at first sight, seems a shocking slate of
affairs, and the public finds it hard to under-
stand the distinction here drawn. Yet there
is some ground for it. Legal cruelty lies in the
cumulative ill-conduct which the history of the
married life discloses, and in Oliver v. Oliver
(12 W. W.) it was defined as—
Such conduct on the part of the husband as has injured,
or is calculated to endanger the health or safety of the
wife, or to cause a reasonable apprehension that the
health and safety of the wife will be endangered if co-
habitation be continued. ... It is unnecessary that any
physical violence should have been indicted or appre-
hended, if the conduct of the husband, although un-
accompanied by blows, be such as to injure or be calcu-
lated to endanger the health of the wife. . . . There must
be something which renders cohabitation unsafe or likely
to be attended with injury to the person or health of the
party complaining.
Here the ground of the interference of the Court
is plainly laid down. It may need altering,
but the distinction drawn is perfectly intelli-
gible. A husband who strikes his wife once, or
once in a way, is not guilty of “ cruelty,” while
one who never raises his hand to his wife,
but is yet guilty of conduct “ so harsh and irri-
tating, so calculated to lacerate the feelings of a
wife and outrage the instincts of a mother as
to endanger her health,” will find that his
behavior falls within the law’s definition of
cruelty. It is to be observed that this
is the view of the Divorce Court only, and
refers to cruelty as a matrimonial offence.
Though a husband may not be amenable to
the Divorce Court for acts of brutality as dis-
tinguished from legal cruelty, a wife is not
without a remedy for personal injuries inflicted
by her husband : she may summon him for
assault in the same way as she may summon a
stranger. It must be admitted, however, that
Sydney magistrates seem to be imbued with
the idea that a husband who bashes his wife
commits a very trivial offence, as the reports
of the sentences imposed on wife-beaters will
show.
*
A little while ago 14 members of Victoria’s
House of 48 Rich Landlords went out by
effluxion of time, and 12 of them were re-
elected without opposition. The other two
capitalists retired through old age, or fatty
degradation, or some: hing, and Iho two Tories
who were put up in their stead were also
elected without opposition. There wasn’t one
contest in all the fourteen electorates, and
there hardly ever is one. Nothing can rouse
the Victorian people to take any interest in
Council elections ; no Democrat ever puts
up ; nobody ever asks a Democrat to put
up ; and, as things are, all hope of libera-
lising the dreadful establishment which chucks
out all promising legislation seems deader than
the dodo. And the visible reasons for this
utter deadness are these five : (1) The property
qualification for members, which keeps poor
men out; (2) the non-payment of members,
which does ditto ; (3) the restricted franchise,
though the franchise isn’t much restricted, and
this is only a minor cause ; (4) the fact that
there is no chance in the Council of rising to
any important Ministerial office, and little
chance of initiating legislation therefore, able
and ambitious politicians keep away ; (5) the
fact that the Council doesn’t dissolve like the
Assembly, and go to the country in a time of
red-hot political excitement, but merely has a
sleepy little bye-election of its own once every
two years, when nobody is looking. And, while
these circumstances continue, the only promising
way that The Bulletin sees to mend the 48
Rich Landlords is to put a liberal supply of
prussic-acid in the refreshments.
4
Interesting little facts re New Guinea land-
grab. The Govt, surveyor has selected land
(says Gov. M'Gregor) which is ready for trans-
ference to the syndicate ; 1900 acres on the
Geiinauri is described as first-class land, suit-
able for sugar, coffee, maize, or cocoa-nuts.
Another patch of 5000 acres on the Aroana,
mostly fertile plain, could be cleared at a cost
of some 20s. per acre. Another corner of 4500
acres on the Robinson River is described as
first-class country, capable of growing anything
—and so on ad lib. Evidently the very pick of
Papua has been got ready for the hand of the
grabsters. Most of the 31,000 acres surveyed,
we are informed, “ has been bought from the
natives by the Crown.” Indeed ! and with,
whose money? What funds have the Adminis-
trators of Papua other than those supplied by
the Australias ? By-and-bye, under the insane
agreement which gives the British shindykit
first call on all available lands at 2s. an acre,
no matter what they cost, we may see the
Papuan Government reduced to buying land
from the natives at 10s. an acre (paid for with
Australia’s money) to hand it over to the Bull
shindykit at 80 per cent. loss. We shall yet
learn that Australian funds have been used to
fortify Port Moresby against any invading
marauders who hail from Queensland, N.S.W.,
or Victoria.
Cosme Paraguay—committee recently re-
ported on the failing prospects of the settle-
ment in this wise :
Failure is due to misfortunes with crops, drought, and
inability of British comers to adapt themselves to the
principles of communism, teetotalism, life-marriage and
color line.
Just notice : You may get a polygamous folk to
be teetotal: you can get a beer or wine-drink-
ing people to be monogamous ; but teetotolism
and monogamy together are too tough a morsel
for the average human. Furthermore, only a
group of survivors from the Golden A could
possibly accommodate themselves to the above-
quoted modest little programme and they
would, probably, owing to cosmopolitan sym-
pathies, trip now and again over the “ color-
line.” The apostle, William Lane, has actually
drawn up a stiffer code than even Christ,
Mahomet or Moses ever thought necessary or
practicable, and his failure has naturally proved
as gigantic as was the success of the other
prophets. Fancy trying such an experiment
with a lot of loose-living, easy-going Western
men !
Some essence of the yarn told by John W t allace,
M.L.C., in that extraordinary Melb. law-case
last week :
I have been a member of the Vic. Leg. Council for the
past 24 years. lam sole trustee of the property—worth
about a million sterling—bequeathed to my children and
other relatives by my late father-in-law, Thomas Monahan.
I did not understand Mr. Monahan’s will at all, I did not
understand that the boys were to get their money at the
age of 21. (N.B —He threatened them with his stick
when th y asked for it.) I will not swear I understood
that the property was all to be invested on first mort-
gages in Victoria or in Government securities. I thought
that, because of a certain forfeiture clause in the will, I
need not give any of my children a shilling unless
I liked. I didn’t appoint a second trustee, because
I thought it was an advantage to have the estate in
my own control, to do what I liked with it, and I
acted as freely with the estate as if it were my
own, and (hotly) no freer (laughter). I did not look upon
money taken from the estate as borrowed money. I
thought it was all a family affair, and what belonged to
the family (Wallace has married a second wife since
Monahan’s decease) belonged to me, and what belonged
to me belonged to the family. I thought that what was
theirs was mine, and what was mine was my own—(cor-
recting himself in the reply) No, I don’t mean that.”
A lot more essence of Wallace, M.L.C., might
be given, but the foregoing suffices to show that
Premier Reid, when lie spoke of the Vic. House
of 48 Rich Landlords (at the Federal Conven-
tion) had a good grip of his subject. Said Reid :
‘•There are Houses which we know of in
Australia which have developed a spirit of
arrogance and self-sufficiency quite beyond that
of the House of Lords.” The only visible
excuse for John Wallace’s alleged ignorance
and stupidity and arrogance and self-sufficiency
in dealing with the Monahan estate was the
fact that he had already been a member of the
Leg. Council for 15 years when he started to
fulfil the conditions laid down in a document
which, by his own statement, he didn’t under-
stand. Wallace and his 47 colleagues in the
Council are the trustees of the People’s will.
They don’t understand the will at all, but they
know they have sole control of a lot of national
business, and they deal with it as they darn
well like.
Storey, M.L.A. (N.S.W.)
As for the boundaries of States it goes without saying
that they should not be interfered with in one iota except
by a majority vote of the people of the States interested.
But, then, it doesn’t go without saying. Suppose
North-Central Queensland has 400,000 people.
They have been tacked on to South Queensland
without any consent of their own. And they all
want separation, because their land revenue is
spent in the South, and their country is flooded
with Asiatics and niggers and leprosy because
the southern owners of N.Q. lands want cheap
labor. Suppose South Queensland, with 600,000
people, refuses to let the North go because
it is to their interest to hang on to it
and exploit it. Then Storey’s logic is that
N.Q. must be kept in eternal bondage
because by a mere accident the votes of North
and South must be counted together, and the
South has a majority. Storey’s logic, carried
to its legitimate conclusion, would give the
political majority power to hang the political
minority. Also, by the same logic, what is
the Christian minority in Turkey kicking up a
row with the Mahommedan majority for, and
demanding separation? And why does the pious
crowd to which Storey belongs sympathise
with Cuba ? Spain and Cuba are one State
just the same as North and South Queensland,
and the majority, which is Spain, refuses to let
the boundaries of the State be interfered with,
and insists on the Cuban minority staying in-
side the State. And Storey, and the Reid
party to which he belongs, defend this principle
when applied to Australia—Heaven only knows
why !
The withdrawal of the Workmen’s Lien Bill—
the first radical Govt, measure introduced into
Q. Legislature since the advent of the Labor-
party and Griffith’s apostacy —points a moral
that every “ thorough ” politician should print
on his shirt-front and recite with his prayers.
The Bill proposed to abolish attachment of
wages in cases of bona-fide manual workers.
Premier Byrnes, it is no secret, introduced the
measure in defiance of the majority of
his supporters and against the more or
less emphatically expressed wish of his
Tory colleagues. Knowing these facts, the
Opposition might 'wisely have refrained from
any attempt to get more than the Government
reluctantly offered, and from further embarass-
ing the author of the Bill. Instead of acting
with discretion, however, the Democratic Op-
position immediately proceeded to show up the
anomalies in the proposed Act,, and to amend it
by bringing clerks and sundry others within its
provisions. Then the opponents of the measure
on the Government side—willing to assist any
amendment likely to consign the measure to
perdition—sympathised with the Opposition,
favored and voted for its suggestions
—and accomplished their avowed object in
getting the Bill withdrawn. The Demo-
crats, therefore, in their anxiety to get a
perfect Democratic enactment from a hostile
Assembly, succeeded in killing the only Demo-
cratic legislative bantling presented to Queens-
land by the Coalition Ministry. The old
“whole hog or none” policy, with the old
result of no hog at all.
*
Brisbane Courier lifts its voice in protest
against the high rate of Queensland death-
duties. The Courier’s main argument ap-
pears to be that high death-duties “lessen
the motive for making money inasmuch
as they lessen the possibility of keeping
money.” The assumption that the death-duties
either take a man’s money while he is alive or
prevent him keeping it when he is dead, is mag-
nificent. Has the Courier yet to learn that the
typical money-grubber makes money not for his
wife,children or descendants, but simply to gra-
tify his greed for acquisition? Moreover, the fact
of a millionaire’s son having a part of his father’s
wealth taken aw’ay from him won’t stop his
acquiring or attempting to acquire—it will only
make him peg in vigorously and furiously to
acquire some more. It’s the young heir who
steps into possession of a ready-made million
who never thinks of accumulating—he’s far too
busy squandering. (Vide the Yankee proverb :
“Three generations from shirt-sleeves to shirt-
sleeves.”) Further, the Courier remarks that
the high death-duty system is an absurdity in-
asmuch as it “ kills the goose that lays the
golden eggs.” But aforesaid goose (millionaire,
of course), is already dead when the duty is
demanded, and so the State is only taking the
golden eggs from under a defunct goose that
cannot possibly produce any more such glitter-
ing ova. And, as to the millionaire’s son—in
nine cases out of ten—in place of conserving
his patrimony, he promptly proceeds to waste
it in every conceivable foolish fashion. No,
Courier ! The State that wants to encourage
acquisition and production should so frame its
laws that every young man will have to hustle
vigorously for a living instead of waiting idly
for dead men’s shoes and cursing his stars
because the old man doesn’t die earlier !
Dear Bulletin, —Seems to me absurd to con-
demn the police authorities for setting traps
for the evil-doer. The crime cannot be pre-
vented. These men are only dealing wdth the
detection and capture of know'll criminals.
Suppose a wild dog made frequent predatory
visits to your sheep-farm would you consider it
abetting the dog in the commission of the
offence to place a nice lamb where he would be
likely to see it; and lie low for him, close by,
with a gun? Wouldn’t that be a lot better
than strolling around on the off-chance of some
day catching him killing your 1000-guinea
ram? The abortionist makes a livelihood of
crime same as the dog, and, like him, is mighty
hard to catch. Therefore, we are as much
justified in the one case as in the other in set-
ting a snare for the enemy’s undoing
and our own protection. And please re-
member this : No man will fall in with the
disguised ’tec’s proposals unless he is an
abortionist. You don’t make mistakes by this
process and send innocent men to gaol. And
the other way convictions are often got on
dubious and largely circumstantial evidence. I
know' one man who did a long sentence in
Maoriland as an abortionist on very dubious
evidence. If the local detectives had hired
their minions to lay a trap for him, I believe he
would have rejected their overtures so indig-
nantly that they would have decided that he
wasn’t in the business, and that his accuser was
simply bent on blackmail. At all events, the
laying of such a trap would (if he w'as innocent,
as I firmly believe) have furnished powerful
evidence in his favor;— Papanui.
R. E. O’Connor, when N.S.W. Minister
for Justice, wrote a minute forbidding the admis-
sion of newspaper reporters to view 7 the flogging
of prisoners. The minute still works.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial l, 1898.
assets
Increase in Assets during 1897
SURPLUS amounts to ... ...
Increase in Surplus during 1897 ...
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ...
Increase in amount of Assurance in foixfe during 1897
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.CI *
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
8L W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for NAW. and Queensland.
£49,349,231
4,187,992
10,508,995
1,513,749
198,159,549
7,513,284
LLEWELLIN & CO.,
GEM MERCHANTS, .. .
.. . LAPIDARIES, Etc.,
177 PITT Street, SYDNEY,
Deal Largely in Opal. Cut or repair ant Stones.
Bum— A BERTHOLD
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
’^NNINC
I
).MAGHffIES i
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
d. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston Bt., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
f'.OTAL “ Sporting Life.”
t.ER Majesty's “La Poupee.”
Lyceum “ Under the Southern Cross.”
.^ riterion Mesmerist Kennedy. •
I’ivoli. Rickards Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
-’RINCBBB.. << Under the Red Robe.”
•• “ Jane.”
Theatre Royal “ Round the World in 80 Days.”
opera House Rickards Variety Co.
I own Hall Newbury’s Saturday “ Pops."
The quaint opera re the man who wedded
a doll, which proved to be a live meat woman
ii Her Majesty’s at present to the door,
t he doll of Dorothy Vane is the principal cause of
ihis. Since Gilbert’s vein of humor ceased to
[lay crushing expenses there have been few new
operas of the lasting kind, and “La Poupee ” will
probably prove as fleeting as many others. But
while it lasts, and Dorothy Vane is the doll, there
is a great deal of joy to be extracted from it. She
is such a quaint and pretty piece of mechanism,
and she has brought the art of dolldom to such
high perfection, and she creaks so naturally
in her highly commendable joints, that “La
Poupee ” should run a good while for her
sake. The man who made the music for
the new opera isn’t absolutely a genius, and the
world will not make pilgrimages to his grave and
lay blossoms thereon, but he is quite good enough
lor all everyday purposes, and has a splash of real
ability here and there ; and when he is dead some
>ne else will doubtless fill his place just as well.
The new co. is largely the fine old co. over again,
and where fresh material has had to be put in it is
very good material on the whole. If only some
one will rise up now and write a few first-class
new operas, the Firm’s co. and its stage-manage-
ment are quite good enough to do their share of tne
work admirably. If nobody else appears the pre-
sent scribe may get angry enough to write a few
first-class operas himself.
** * *
The “ Fatal Card,” by Raddon Chambers
and co., is proceshing gorgeously through its
second week at Sydney Royal. It is so named
because the card isn’t fatal, though the absence of
it would be. The story all hangs on that rather
staggering document, and there is a boss mystery
about the “Card” which this paper has vainly
tried to clear up for a long time past. The hand-
some bad man has an unpleasantness in Colorado
and a committee urges him to climb up a tree by
his neck, when his old friend, the good man, in-
tervenes and gets him a chance to run for his life.
Then the bad man tears up a card and gives half
of it to the good man that they may know each
other when they meet again, and having done this
he leaves with the air of one who is pressed
for time. They meet again not long after
looking just, the same, but despite their pre-
vious acquaintance neither has the faintest
idea of the other’s identity. Everybody
else knows each other at sight, but these two have
to be in a state of baby-ignorance so that the card
may drop on them, at the critical moment, like an
unexpected grindstone in the eye. The bad man
is head of a co. which does a large business in
burglary a,nd manslaughter, and carefully stuns
the capitalist at his own residence. Large business-
interests lead this syndicate to tie up the good man
on a barrel of powder, with a slow-match appended.
Then, when they have all gone, except the hard
case from Colorado, who has been left behind to
canter gaily round the victim and scolf at him till
the last moment (when the syndicate has time, it
always scoffs at its victim before execution), the
card drops out, and he is saved. If the bad man
had forcibly undressed the good man at their first
meeting, and found the card on him, it would have
saved much anxiety to both parties.
* * * *
The lighter element of the story is supplied
by a lady who steals Bland Holt’s clothes on ac-
count of her unrequited affections, and leaves him
bathing and waiting for night to disguise his flight
home. The gallery loves this episode so much that
the “Card” might stay a good deal longer than
the two weeks allotted to it, if it happened to feel
that way. But it has to make room on Saturday
for “Sporting Life,” a new drama with certain
horse and other effects which are expected to strike
the public with great force in the pocket and else-
where. Two men who were partly responsible for
“White Heather” and “One of the Best” have
collaborated to produce “Sporting Life,” and the
property-man and scene-painter have both lost
their natural rest over it for some time, so good
results should follow.
** * *
That solid, business-like, old-fashioned
horror, “ Evidence,” has come out for two
weeks at Sydney Lyceum that the dust of its
sepulchre may blow off it, and the worm may have
a day out. Taking a comprehensive view of it,
“Queen’s Evidence” deserves an occasional resur-
rection. It is a pleasant old-time essay on the
boiler-plated indestructibleness of the Incriminat-
ing Document. In the ancient type of melodrama
the whole story hinges on the Incriminating Docu-
ment. If it can’t be found the good man must re-
main in gaol for life and be hanged frequently
in between times, and the whole physical force
of the villain is bent on its capture and des-
truction. In the course of years it is stolen and
recovered and stolen again. It is run away with
by dogs and rent by wild elephants ; the villain
planks it in the fire and goes away, and the funny
man dashes in and rescues it; children play with
it, and it is blown over dry wildernesses;
and the sea devours it and casts it up again
on the shore. And at last the hero, away at the
far end of nowhere, finds something blown into
his open mouth as he sleeps under the stars on a
dark night, and, when he spits it out, it proves to
be the Incriminating Document, as good as new.
“ Queen’s Evidence ” has got the Document bad.
Said Document is almost always a letter
written by the first villain to the second villain
before they quarrelled, and the foolishness of it
lies in the way the first villain goes into needless
particulars. It generally reads something like
this :
Dear Bluggins.— I murdered the old gentleman as per
arrangement, and buried the body in the back-yard. His
gold watch, which had his name on it, will be found in
the Mont de Pi6t6. The man there knows me, and will
be able to swear that I pawned it. I have hired Smith to
swear that John Jones committed the murder. We will
murder Smith afterwards so that he can’t give us away.
I left the old man’s clothes under the floor in my oid
lodgings. Two people were looking over the fence when I
buried the body and will probably remember the circum-
stance.
All the same, The Bulletin has a sort of love for
the grand old Incriminating Document, and will
be sorry to see it disappear out of dramatic
literature. And it mentions, with a kind of
regret that on the coming Saturday “ Under the
Southern Cross,” a new drama partly written by
Parson Walters, of “Joseph of Canaan,” will
be staged at the Lyceum. In “ Joseph of
Canaan ” there should have been a comic Egyptian
't ° !*, tb® document that would have cleared
Joseph’s character under a pyramid, and caused
Potiphar to remove the whole pyramid by night in
his efforts to find it. And. as there wasn’t, this
paper has only a moderate opinion of Parson
Walters.
** * *
A quantity of adjectives which The Bul-
letin was saving to discharge at Professor
Kennedy’s mesmeric show (now occupying Sydney
Criterion) unfortunately blazed up by a spon-
taneous-combustible process and were destroyed.
Probably the Professor wouldn’t have liked to
hear them, anyway. Kennedy lately assured his
audience that he wouldn’t think of using his
alleged power in any way calculated to degrade
humanity, and, having finished this remark, he
made one of his subjects swallow the loathsome
kerosene-and-salt mixture as usual. If he holds
that the public drinking of kerosene doesn’t de-
grade humanity, then the awful Professor has
either a very low opinion of humanity or a very
high opinion of kerosene. The shortest way to
get rid of the latter is to drink the stenchful oil
himself.
** * *
Biondi is still the boss wonder of Sydney
Tivoli, but there are serious doubts as to whether
the most wonderful part of his show is appreciated
as it deserves. His impersonations of celebrated
musicians, with his lightning changes from youth
to age, and his mysterious openings and shuttings
of himself—the musicians apparently vary so much
in size that one could swear Biondi opened and
closed as rapidly as a worn telescope—are the
cleverest thing in his multifarious entertainment.
But then Sydney doesn’t know these musicians,
and, however amazing may be the sudden change
from the person you never saw to the one you
hardly even heard of, this is a disadvantage. The
recent addition of General Booth to the collection
of characters is a decided improvement. Sydney
remembers at least one man of that name, and re-
calls an eager, red, burnished nose that used to
bob over tne plate, and a pair of famished eyes,
too closely set together, that took stock of the
takings. That nose used to rush at The Bulletin
in its dreams every night for many weeks.
** # *
R. S. Smythe’s tours have generally been
so long that his stars are not like sands on the
seashore for multitude, therefore it is remarkable
that two of them, both eminent violinists, died in
the same week. On the very day on which old
Horace Poussard was buried in Waverley Cemetery
(N.S.W.), Lady Halle was killed in the Alps by a
falling rock. _ The Much-Travelled personally had
little to do with the Halle tour, for it was managed
by Carlyle Smythe, who was quite equal to the
occasion. The titled instrumentalist being a friend
of the Princess of Wales, in the same way as
Albani was a friend of the Queen, occasionally put
on frills; and, on the first night of their second
season in the Sydney Town Hall, she declared she
would not play if a popular contralto, whom
Smythe had engaged to support her, appeared.
The son of the Much-Travelled assured her that,
if the concert had to be postponed, he would go to
the orchestra and announce the reason, and Neruda
Halle went on and played furiously. The Halid
concerts were the most successful ever given in
Sydney.
•* • *
Newbury, who starts a series of concerts
in Sydney next month, has secured Melb. Exhibi-
tion building for the Xmas holiday dates. With
good luck the big-little tenor will make a lot of
money in Australia, after all, as the result of his
wisdom in accepting an engagement from Rickards
a couple of years ago. Musical people called it a
come-down for a first-class tenor to warble in a
variety show, but it was at “ Rickards’ ” that New-
bury caught the ear of the nimble shilling crowd
and won a lucrative following. At the present
time he is about ten times better known to the
feneral public than any other concert tenor who
as ever travelled this country.
#* * *
At Melbourne Princess’s they had a pretty
well-crowded house for “The Prisoner of Zenda”
on Saturday, and the tale of the red-headed hero
whose great-great-grandmother went astray should
be duly appreciated for six nights only. Mrs. Maes-
more Morris is the present g.g.g. in the prologue,
and she strays in a young and graceful manner.
Also, she has a sufficient excuse for giddiness in
her husband (Lissant). owing to the serio-comic
deportment and utter objectionableness of that
ancient British identity. Nevertheless, the
effect of the “ Zenda ” prologue, despite its beauti-
ful stage set and the glory of Julius Knight’s lace
shirt, is always disappointing. It might be so much
better acted. The mounting of the play through-
out seems a little too good for the cast, to tell the
truth. Julius Knight is not quite the ideal Ras-
sendyll, although he gets nearer to excellence than
several other people who have fine, effective parts
to play. Miss Ferrar was a capital Princess
Fla via last year, but on Saturday she appeared to
be in ill-health ; her voice lacked the old ring of
enthusiasm, and there was no warmth to speak of
in the leading lady’s love for the wrong Rudolph.
If the play and the scenery were not first-
class, the faults in the performance would
pass unnoticed, but, seeing that “ Prisoner
of Zenda ” might have proved a brilliant
success in Australia, and didn’t, and considering
that playgoers, as a rule, are not inclined to ana-
lyse their impressions, the above remarks are
offered as a suggestion of what’s the matter with
this strong show. .It suffers from the want of
more strength in the principals. That’s all.
* • * »
On Saturday next (24th) the Firm will
stage “Under the Red Robe,” which, being like-
wise a romantic play adapted from a well-known
novel, is calculated to boom. A lot of new
scenery and fittings “ regardless of expense ” will
give tone to the production.
** * *
The late Lady Halid, after hubby’s de-
cease, was unique in her ability to play, without
having the music in front of her, sundry tiresome
sonatas and things which nobody else troubled to
commit to memory. Some of the stuff that the
Halles played in Australia was of the purely
scholastic order. It had no real charms for even
the musical public, and to the general public these
heaviest of the Halid performances are quite
meaningless.
** * *
The droll pantomime-drama at Melbourne
Royal goes meandering on its way with a firm
determination to atone for the mistakes of its
youth. “ Round the World ” has learned a good
deal from the experience of four weeks and three
matinees, and if the management decides to hang
on a while longer to a moderate success the
receipts wall probably improve, rather than other-
wise. Meanwhile “Sons of the Sea,” a nautical,
spectacular, ballet-laden festival in four acts and
one huge tableau is ready for production at the
Royal. The days of the dead Rajah, and the fish-
like serpent, and the elephant which was built on
the premises, will be definitely numbered this
W'eek.
*# # *
Rickards is to hoist his flag once again at
Melb. Bijou for a period of three weeks. This
time the prices will be wisely reduced to 35., 2s.
and Is, and the season will open with Pattie
Browne as “Jane.” Also the season should end
with “Jane,’’for that huggable young woman is
one of Pattie’s best characters, and the Bijou is
the only place in Melb. where farcical comedy fills
a long-felt want. Anywhere else it isn’t wanted
at all.
** * *
Peggy Pryde, with her strong-minded
brolly, and her grandmother whose two remaining
teeth are both opposite to one another (thank
Gawd!) is a reliable attraction at the Opera
House. Ada Reeve, on the other hand, is not re-
liable, for sometimes she takes place and some-
times she doesn’t. She is probably figuring on the
programme this week, and anyway the airy little
Ada can be counted upon as a certainty for next
Saturday afternoon, when she is to take a farewell
benefit. The Bulletin has never yet heard of
any actress being severely indisposed on such an
occasion.
** * *
Coghill’s variety co. appears to get along
comfortably at the Gaiety, and another co., of a
songful and various character, is making
Saturday efforts at St. George’s Hall. But,
for the present, Newbury’s “Pops” in the
Town Hall supply all the concert that Mel-
bourne wants on the last night of the week.
Miss Rose Musgrove and M‘Nicol Turner are
contributing a harmless necessary “sketch ” to the
Pop programmes, and J. Madden, the Adminis-
trator of the Govt., has given his patronage,
which amounts to a certif. of Respectability for the
show. Up to last week there had been a doubt in
some people’s minds as to whether any shilling
entertainment could be quite respectable, but
J. Madden’s patronage dispels the doubt.
At Poverty Point.
“ G. 8." : The death of veteran violinist Poussard recalls
his first visit to this part, in company with Douay. The
two artists, of whom Douay was the superior, made some
sensation. Fiddlers of excellence were not then common.
Miska Hauser, Hungarian player, raked in a fortune in
gold-rush times. To-day, it is probable he wouldn’t earn
hall-money—we have so much more culchah now. But,
anyhow, poor Douay, Poussard’s partner, went off his
head—the victim of an inherited decadence. It was a
pitiable case, which interested medical experts of the day,
but was not a topic one would choose to discuss in mixed
company. The poor wretch went home, and was confined
in a lunatic asylum in France, where he was often visited
by the late Empress, who had known Douay when he was
apparently hale, and pitied him when thus undone.
“ S.S.” : Peggy Pryde—a clever little woman, but with
more confidence than ability. Yet it may be that that
capacity for letting oneself go is ability. All successful
burlesque actresses and variety girls have it in a greater
or less degree, notably Alice Leamar, who, more than
any other, invites comparison with Peggy. In her own
Cockney line, the impertinent and vigorous Peggy is
almost deserving of all The Bulletin has said of her, but
she has the woman's insatiable desire to look nice, and
indulges it even though it gives her away, and makes
evident her lack of versatility. Many a good comedienne
has been spoilt by the woman in her, and Peggy, who is
only amusing as a plain plebeian, will persist in spoiling
impressions by trying to prove that she, too, can be “ aw-
fully naice ” when she likes.
Who is “Victor Dougal, of The Bulletin”?
When Geo. Rignold was playing in “ Romany Rye,”
once he made the extraordinary demand, “ f/Vicut these
cords!” Later on, as he was being carried up the
ricketty staircase by two well-known actors, one of whom
sometimes looked upon the beer when it was long, George,
eotto voce, accused the latter of being drunk. He was
quickly silenced with a remark, to which George’s own
avoirdupois lent considerable weight, “Now, you just
shut up—or we’ll let you drop like a load of bricks ! ”
Melbourne thusfar can’t easily believe that Peggy
Pryde— vide advt.—“ crowded Sydney Tivoli for 15
weeks.” They want to know whether the Poluskis, not
to mention George Wood and others, didn’t account for
some of the boom. The Poluskis were particular favorites
at Melb. Opera House during their not very long stay,
and will be welcomed back with a roar.
Westralian weeklies begin to speak in an airy, familiar
way of stage people and things. As, for instance : “ This
province knows a good thing when it sees it, and can pay
for it, too or “ Binks, Jinks, Spinks, and others well
known in W.A., are appearing at Sydney Tivoli.” In a
few months’ time they will probably mention that “ the
favorite Westralian actress, Maggie Moore, intends to
open at Melb. Royal shortly.”
Dear Bulletin.— Three photos, published in last issue—
Dorothy Vane, Carrie Moore, and Francie Adler—remind
one that the Australian operatic stage is suffering 1 from
another epidemic of “ small goods.” They are so diminu-
tive and fleeting, these ladies who dance and sing to us
nowadays. Like Flora Graupner and Violet Varley of
yore, they haven’t come to stay. In the struggle for popu-
larity a charmer of the Nellie Stewart stamp can begin
ten years earlier and be still holding her own ten years
after “a little bit of a thing” is forgotten.— Seasoned.
The Potter-Bellew firm seems to have been dissolved,
in a managerial sense. Mrs. Cora P. is booked for a part
in Beerbohm Tree’s new version of “ The Three Muske-
teers,” and Bellew has accepted an engagement at another
London house.
Charles Arnold told an interviewer lately that he is
under contract to return again to Australia, but owing to
the success of his new piece, “ What Happened to
Jones,” he will endeavor to postpone his tour. Any
Australian contract that Arnold may have in hand just
now is not likely to be very binding, one would think.
It would be interesting to know how much George R.
Sims has made in author’s fees out of “ The Harbor
Lights.” Eight years ago, when the Ibsen boom was on
in London, Sims acknowledged in the Referee that the
play had brought him in over £30,000, and doubted
whether Ibsen’s whole dramatic writings had earned him
that sum oranything like it. And “ The Harbor Lights ”
has been running in various parts of the world constantly
ever since, and has only just, finished a fresh run of about
a month to big business in Melbourne.
Mario Majeroni is coming back to Australia with the
Broughs—a 12 months’ engagement. His brother George
stays on at the Princess’s, and will play “Clou,” the
dumb man, in “ Under the Red Robe.”
At a recent bakblox performance, a local official enacted
a policeman whose sole biz was to rush in, arrest a man,
partly draw a gin-bottle from his tunic, and say “ See,
here is the staff of justice!” then, sot.to voce, “No—
that’s the gin-bottle.” He rehearsed nightly for a whole
week, and when his cue was given he bounded on,
scruffed his man, pulled the bottle out, flourished it round
his head and yelled, “ See, this is the gin-bottle ! ”
Clever little Ada Reeve and Bert Gilbert, unquestion-
ably the best burlesque pair Australia has had since the
days of Fred Leslie'and Nellie Farren, are announced to
return to London a week from date, but with so mer-
curial a couple it is always hard to even suspect their
movements an hour ahead. Up to the time of our going
to press, however, they were living happy ever after.
“H.”: I saw the performance of mesmeric Madame
Sibley, in Melb. one night. After at] amazing show by a
young fellotv, who sang comic songs under the “in-
floonz,” mewed as a cat, fancied he was going to be
hanged, and allowed himself to be made a pincushion of,
a gentleman got up and asked, “ Did I not see this young
man go through the very same performance in England ?”
Madame : “ And pray what of that, if it be so ? Is it not
the more wonderful ?” Gentleman : “But .” (Boohoo !
Shame! Sit down I) An audience is as illogical as an
editor, with the last word.
Melba is always reported by returned globe-trotting
Naice people, from Melb. and Sydney, to be extremely
snortful and haughty with them. But, to fellow-artists,
she shows the bright side of her character. Miss Ridley,
a Melb. musician, who studied her art in tuneful Germany,
tells how, when in London, she called on the prima-donna
at the Savoy, and Melba besought her to come again, and
plied her with questions about “ dear old Melbourne,”
played accompaniments while Miss R. sang to her, warmly
praised her voice, and gave her a letter to Marchesi.
Phil Langdale, the bassoonist, has been all through
Canada with Dan Godfrey’s band, and was, at latest
dates, blowing his weird, peculiar instrument in New
York. Old friend Phil seems to have been the most
popular item of the programme. It fell to his lot to lash
the Yanks into patriotic fury with “ Yankee Doodle,”
arranged (by himself) as a bassoon solo.
Taney’s American book on training learned elephants,
dogs, horses, pigs, shows that it is all done with the eye.
The goose is one of the most intelligent birds.
Little Foley Westwood, the eleven-year-old boy violin-
ist, who gave a quite artistic performance at one of New-
bury’s “Pop” (Melb.) concerts, the other Saturday, is,
sad to say, in danger of losing his eyesight.
“ Pro.”: Harry Sefton visited Australia one timp,
and many can judge that he was not in it with
glorious little John Coleman. He is not to be confounded
with Harry Sefton, who was one of the unfortunate
demised Deacon Skinners, the others being O’Brien and
Redwood, after which the plague stayed.
“ Tell ” : Several tenors recently here have made
liberal use of the falsetto, and they excuse themselves by
saying that everybody in London does the same. Yet the
change from chest or head note to virtual soprano is most
inartistic, and vocalistic visitors to Australia should
not forget that their audiences are generally composed
almost entirely of people who understand the difference
between pure singing and “fake.”
A bill of the “ Octoroon ” is posted up in the dressing-
room of a certain M.L. theatre. It relates to an amateur
performance, and states that the “ Octoroon ” is a “ five
act drama, written by and Dion Boueicault; the
fifth act being the sole production of our local amateur,
.” A professional co. came along and played the
Zoedrama, but the audience lingered after the fall of the
baize, fancying that the local man’s fifth act was still to
come. The manager went on : “I hear you are waiting
for the fifth act, ladies and gentlemen, but, I’m sorry to
say, there ain’t none. Boueicault only wrote four acts;
but when he writes another I shall be happy to play it—
unfortunately Boueicault is dead at present. Had he
‘ived to see the local fifth act, Mr. would prob-
ably be dead also. Under those circs., we’ll have to let
her slide at the fourth act.” And she slid.
A few years ago, in Sydney, an actor, who has since
attained celebrity, made his first appearance in “ Henry
V.,” and was entrusted with the important line, “I hope
they will not come upon us now,” but, instead of speaking
the same in an appropriately subdued tone, he thundered
out the line as if he wanted to lift the roof off, utterly
wrecking the quiet spirit of the scene, with its sacred
musical accompaniment. Whereupon, the only Henry V.:
“You thief! We’re in God’s hands, brother, not in
theirs!’” the preliminary amenity being almost as
audible as the “ book.”
“ Rick ” : Re Billy Hoskins and the super (8., 10 , 9/’9S).
Heard of a panto, super who —when shot up through a
trap—had to say, in answer to “ Who art thou?” “I’m
but a wretched gnome.” But, unfortunately, on the first
night they shot him up too suddenly, and so demoralised
him that he forgot his words and answered—under the
painful necessity of saying something, “ I’m only a blanky
dwarf! ” The prince who gave the cue promptly told
him to “Get hence, thou evil spirit!” and boosted him
into the wings, where, after several more boosts from the
stage-manager, he reached the treasurer’s box, was paid
and fired !
Dear Bulletin. — Re latter-day Thespian’s complaint
that the decadence of taste prevents anything going
down with the public but legs. Mark Twain says of
the old masters that the whole lot together only
painted one picture of any historical consequence—The
Rape of the Sabines—and that subject was chosen for the
sake of the legs and the busts.— Cherub.


Gilfillan and M'Greery, assayers, metallurgist.-;,
and technical chemists; Office, 434 Collins-street, Mel
bourne. Complete battery cyanide and chlorination
plants for bulk tests.*
» * * *
Ed. Bulletin. — Glad to see you direct attention
to the matter of creamery-managers’ wages. I have beet;
connected with the dairying business for 14 years, ann
know what I am talking about. Why, the wages you
quote in your issue 10/9/98 are real good compared with
what are paid in some Q. districts. 1 know half-a-dozen
places where men have taken charge of creameries—find
fuel (i.e., wood) and water, and cart cream to railway
station (averaging in distance from 4 to 13 miles) once ;<
day, and glad to get the job at from 225. 6d. to 325. 6d
per week! What a farce is the Factory Act! In a town,
the boilers used in factories have to be inspected ; and in
town it is far more likely that a competent man is etn
ployed, and that the boilers will be in good order.- The
country is the place where inspection of boilers ought to
be insisted upon. Fancy a man who has watched a
brother creamery-man run his plant for a week applying
for the charge of a creamery where a boiler is used. All
he knows, may be, is that he has got to keep up 601 b. ot
steam to run his plant; as for practical knowledge oi
steam, he has none. I know several places where I, as a
mechanic, would not put 101 b. of steam on a boiler, anu
yet they run them cheerfully at 501 b
Apropos the above. The representative of a big
machinery firm sold a threshing plant to a co. consisting
of German and English farmers, and as soon as the plant
was delivered at the owners’ place be had to put it under
steam. He naturally filled the boiler (portable engine)
from the plug in top of boilei, and when sufficient water
was in put the plug in again and got up steam. As soon
as sufficient pressure was on the boiler he started the
plant, and, as he wanted to catch a train, he left when the
first wheat came through. As soon as one of the owners
noticed that there was hardly any water in the water-
gauge glass he conferred with his fellow-owners as to what
was to be done, whereupon one observant genius said,
“ Oh, I saw do it, and we can easily put water in
the way he did.” Then, taking up a monkey-wrench, he
started to unscrew the plug on top of the boiler. For-
tunately there was only about 101 b. of steam on, because,
when he had got the plug three-quarters of the way out,
away it went, wrench and all; and for the next twenty-
minutes all you could see was several frightened farmers'
faces looking out at the engine from the neighboring hay-
stacks. Next day the firm got a wire : “ Boiler burst—
send a man up.” Solemn fact.
• m • *
Jaques Bros., engineers, Coppin-st., Richmond,
assay ores, and treat samples up to 5 tons, by chlorina-
tion, cyanide, or amalgamation ; wet or dry crushed.
Manufacturers of Rock Breakers, Stamp Batteries, Roast-
ing and Smelting Furnaces, and General Mining
Machinery.*
• * * *
A Vic. miner writes from Klondike :—“There
is a lot of wild talk about the cold in these regions, but I
have never found it as bad as a tough winter on the
Dargo High Plains, in Gippsland. Not one-fifth of the
claims here are on paydirt, and the gold is the poorest I
have struck, realising only from £2 10s. to £2 135.”
■* * * •
After Sydney G.P.O. had, by a stupid blunder,
given the demonetised stamps another year’s lease, and
after having—before perceiving said blunder—wrongfully
taxed hundreds of letters bearing superseded stamps, it
is now graciously pleased to announce that, “on account
of numbers of old stamps being still in the hands of the
public, their validity has been extended for prepayment
of postage for the present.” The present! The Post
Office’s own Guide of July says stamps are good to June
next — i.e., June, ’99.
* * * *
Sydney G.P.O.’s implication that it has power
to repudiate old issues of its own stamps is ridiculous.
Does the law that authorises the postage-stamp contem-
plate the demonetisation of that stamp? The courts
would be very loth to read so immoral a power into the
Act. Strangely enough the public very mildly submits
to such injustice. Fourpenny-bits circulate very little
in Australia now—and the idea is that by some order
they have been reduced in value to threepence. The
banks never give more for them. Nevertheless, the groat
is still a legal tender for fourpence.
* • • *
The 10-head battery at the Beacon Gold Mine,
Bucca Creek, N.S.W., ran continuously for 13 months
without a stop, and has now put through 10,500 tons ore,
and only had one short stoppage for overhaul. This bat-
tery was manufactured and erected by the Austral Otis
Engineering co., of South Melbourne, who are well-
known makers of all kinds of mining and other machin-
ery. They have lately purchased the plant and
stock of the long - established firm of Langlands
Foundry co., now in liquidation, and, as they
have all the patterns, can supply duplicate parts of any
machines made by Langlands. *
• * * *
“ Yarrum ” : Know an old woman who runs a
N.S.W. Post-office for which she receives (or should re-
ceive) £lO 10s. per annum ; but, for present quarter, she
is being paid short 3s. for “ bond premium.” Now, as no
moneys pass through her hands, and as the few stamps
she keeps are her own property, why should she have to
find “ bond premium ? ” Twelve shillings a year is a con-
sideration to a struggling old woman.
» 9 9 9
Sydney D.T’s London correspondent remarks
that Calvert’s and other boomsters ill-luck “ has never
touched Mr. D’Arcy, the Mt. Morgan millionaire who
recently entertained the Lord Chancellor, and half the
peerage, and had Melba there to sing.” How pleased
D’Arcy must be to be thus associated ! He is not a
boomster, and never was, or could he one. He made his
money out of a solid mine, not in a boom-rigged market.
Nine men out of ten who make big money rapidly in the
sunshine of a boom lose it as fast in the frost which surely
follows. D’Arcy could only lose his by absolutely throw-
ing it away, and he would have to keep on throwing or it
would accumulate again in great heaps. Perhaps not
generally known that some three or four years ago he
invested heavily in some of the biggest Rand mines, and,
*tis said, made as much money there as out of Mt. Morgan.
LIFEBUOY
SOAP
A pure Carbolic Disinfectant.
FOR GENERAL Usi
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge,
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 717.
All Mining Chemicals Spot and Forward Delivery.
Nv- Markv/ald,
178 William Street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; Queen-st., Brisb.
R. BELL & CO.’S VESTAS
—ARE—
BRITISH VESTAS.
Aus. |
Reps. f
PHILIPS & PIKE,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney;
and Wellington, N.Z.
“Tbe RCALMACKAY
(Five Crowns) Finest Old Scotch Whisky.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harriaou Sx iLttwood, Sols Proprietor*,
99
E. A. DAWBARN & CO.,
MERCHANTS,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
KEEP LARGE STOCKS OF ALL HEAYY
CHEMICALS.
Minin? Chemicals a Speciality.
BRANCH HOUSES IN BRISBANE C AND PERTH.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(O/O S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
The Bulletin
Lord Kilmorey recently showed his bond-fides
as regards his big S.A. outer-harbor scheme by depositing
£25,000 earnest with the Treasury. Outside the solid
Labor vote, Kilmorey’s greatest opposition comes from
capitalists interested in Port Adelaide. Moreover, he has
tempted fate by introducing the Bill in the Leg. Council,
risking the chance of its being shelved in the Assembly at
the fag-end of the session.
* • • «
Last session of Tas. Parliament, Hobart Gas Co.
(which is like all other gas co.’s and that is saying a lot)
brought in a Bill to enable it to make and supply electric
light. An amendment was made in the House that over
6 per cent, profit the co. should share any surplus takings
with the Hobart corporation, in return for the use of
its streets. Everyone expected that “6 percent.” meant
“perannum,” but when the Bill was passed it was found
that the co. meant per six months, when it made up its
books. Mulcahy, M.P., tried the other day to correct
the mistake, but the Speaker gave his casting vote towards
confirming the blunder.
• * • •
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria reports,
with a certain justifiable pride, that it got through the
half-year ended 30th June, 1898, with an increase in its
accumulated loss of only £1673. The loss on the ordinary
business was really £10,915, but £9242 was realised by the
redemption of £46,357 of the co.’s debentures at a fraction
over £85 —in other words, that amount was made by pay-
ing the bank’s creditors only 17s. in the £. Still, it is
obvious that if the Land Mortgage Bank can raise enough
money to repeat this operation regularly, and its credit
only keeps bad enough so that it can get its debentures
back cheaply, it may make sufficient by this device to
greatly ease its downfall. The losses on the bank’s ordi-
nary business and on sales of property for the last eight
half-years have been :
December, ’94, Loss.. £6038
June, ’95 ~ 6617
December, ’95 ~ 8847
June, ’96 „ 9696
December, ’96, Loss £10,494
June, ’97 „ 14,425
December, ’97 ~ 8508
June, ’9B „ 10,915
Against this the redemption of debentures at a discount
yielded £25,706 for the second half of ’97 and £9242 for the
first half of ’9B.
The best feature about; the Land Mortgage
Bank is that, in the last twelve months, it has succeeded,
out of the proceeds of calls, in reducing its debenture
liability from £900,000 to £736,738. If a reasonable pro-
portion of the still unpaid calls can be collected a
further reduction to £600,000 seems possible, but
that appears to be about all the prospects at
present in view. The bank is still confronted by these
troubles : It has to pay 3j per cent, on its debentures
rising again, at the end of 1901 (unless further conces-
sions can be obtained) to 4J per cent., and after paying
working expenses it earned last half-year about 2£ per
cent. After allowing for losses on property sales it earned
not much over 10s. per cent. The loss, too, seems to be
getting worse instead of better. The liabilities,
apart from those to shareholders, are £751,978, and
the paper assets are put down at £1,076,768, but
over a million are mortgages and real estate
reckoned at the old boom figures this paper valuation
is very little satisfaction. Last half-year the Land Mort-
gage Bank’s investments produced a gross return of about
£2 4s. per cent, per annum on their alleged value, so their
present selling value is probably somewhere between
£500,000 and £600,000, and just now it seems that
the Land Mortgage Bank is in a very tight place
indeed. A revival in property, if there ever is such a
thing, and some kind of luck in the next re-arrangement
(in 1901) with the hard-hearted debenture-holders, may
give it a chance to revive. But the most conspicuous
feature at present is that the interest burden is £7OOO less
than it was at December, ’96, and depreciation seems to
have swallowed up all the saving.
* * * *
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank
(Melbourne) shows a profit of £1207 for the half-year
ended 30th June, 1898. Said profit equals between ss,
and 6s. per cent, per annum on the paid-up capital, which
certainly isn’t much. And, as the gross earnings (£10,655)
only equal a fraction over 1 \ per cent, per annum on the
alleged paper value (over £1,400,000) of the hank’s invest-
ments, it is impossible to avoid the assumption that the
said investments are an even worse lot than those of that
luckless brother institution, the Land Mortgage Bank of
Victoria. If it is assumed that mortgages and other pro-
perties should yield even so small a gross return
as 3 per cent, on their real value, then the alleged
'£1,400,000 of properties are just now worth not much
over £700,000. If they should yield 4 per cent, gross, then
they are not really worth much over £500,000. But luck
and’ other things have stood by the Australian Deposit and
Mortgage concern. It obtained a re-arrangement by
which 70 per cent, of its deposits were renewed for 15 years
at 3J per cent., and the other 30 per cent, were repayable
by instalments extending up to January, 1901, without
interest. And its load of deposits is comparatively small,
while its capital is large, therefore it can pay its way and
show a small profit, and hang on to its assets while waiting
for better times. It has already managed to accumulate
enough cash to pay the 1899 instalment of its deposits,
without making any sacrifice of its properties. The slow
but steady improvement of things since the last recon-
struction is shown by the profits
June, 1896 .. £69
December, 1896 .. 978
June, 1897 .. 911
December, 1897 .. £lO5l
June, 1898 .. .. 1207
During the half-year the Australian Deposit
and Mortgage Bank has reduced its deposit liabilities by
£20,000. With the slow reduction of liabilities and the
very, very gradual accumulation of profits, and the fact
that everything comes to the bank that can wait, the old
losses should be all wiped off some day and then the
A.D. and M. can make a fresh start. At present, bad as
things are with it, it is about the luckiest of the few land
banks which still survive.
V * * *
The West Australian Bank still stands high as
a profit-earning concern. The half-year ended 30th June,
’9B, produced £18,542, equal to £l3 9s. Bd. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders' funds (capital, £lOO,OOO ; re-
serve, £175,000). Some recent profits of this institution :
June, ’94 .. £8,387
December, ’94 .. 9,623
June, ’95 .. 10,315
December, ’95 .. 10,972
June, ’96 .. 12,284
December, ’96 .. £16,703
June,’97 .. 19,685
December, '97 .. 18,251
June, ’9B .. 18,542
The profits, which showed a slight tendency downwards
at the end of ’97, have again risen a little. The West Aus-
tralian Bank has a cash reserve of £663,927, equal to
nearly 40 per cent, of all liabilities to the public, which is
one of the biggest cash reserves in Australia- Its reserve
fund, in proportion to its capital, is the biggest in Aus-
tralasia, being If times the amount paid up by
the shareholders. (The Commercial Bank of Tas-
mania holds second place in this respect). And
it pays the biggest banking dividend in Australasia
(17£ per cent., now paid for the ninth year in succession),
yet this only' absorbs £8750, and leaves £9792 to be added
to the profit and loss balance. If the W.A. Bank liked to
spend all its earnings in dividends it could, according to
its balance-sheet, have paid 36 per cent., but it wisely
sticks to the old figure, and, considering the great chances
of a fall in profits, it is wise to do so. The reasons of
this unusual prosperity appear to be : (1) the boom ; (2)
the fact that the business is large in proportion to the
capital; (3) the comparatively high interest rates hitherto
obtained in the West; and.(4) the enormous proportion of
deposits (about two-thirds) which bear no interest.
Still, before placing absolute reliance on all this
glory The Bulletin would like to hear of a vigorous State
audit, by independent experts brought for the purpose
from N.S.W. or Victoria, or Maoriland, of the West Aus-
tralian Bank. For that quaint, old-world institution
never publishes an auditor’s certificate. So far as is
known it is never formally audited at all—this paper
believes that it has never been formally audited in all
the 57 years of its honored existence. And though no one
seems to have heard of any breath of suspicion on the
eminently prosperous-looking W.A. Bank, still a scientific
overhaul might furnish a job for some deserving person.
• • • *
The nature of the ghost which the old private
management of the Bank of New Zealand left behind it is
shown by the annual report of the Assets Realisation
Board just published. When the Government came to
the rescue of the B.N.Z. it set aside the great mass
of dead assets—about (allegedly) £2,731,000 worth of
properties (more or less bad), and placed them in charge
of a Board for realisation. The alleged £2,731,000 worth
of properties were really only worth, on a careful valuation
then made, £1,879,000, but, by way of easing the shock,
the Board issued £2,680,000 in 3J per cent, debentures
in payment for the properties, the interest thereon being
about £93,000 a year. And, by way of a counter-
balance, the Bank agreed to pay £50,000 a year out of its
profits, if available, to help the Board to make up losses.
The result of this complicated arrangement is that the
Board gets the assets at £1 13s. per cent, per annum
on the paper-value at which it took them over. And, ap-
parently, it can’t make that amount out of them. Last
year it had a shortage of £6629, and it also seems
to have lost £55,924 on sales of property which
didn’t fetch the inflated book-values. So far, £469,000
worth of properties sold seem to have realised
£140,000 less than their book values, and already there
appears to be an accumulated deficit in the assets of
over £200,000. At this rate, unless prices go up,
there should be an awful shortage at the end of the
liquidation, and the Assets Realisation Board, unless it
gets assistance from somewhere (it is difficult to say
where) won’t be able to pay anything like the nominal
value of the debentures it gave in payment for its pro-
perties. And as these debentures are reckoned as assets
by the holders such a contingency must needs be exceed-
ingly unpleasant for somebody. It is a somewhat tangled
situation all round.
* * * *
The big Modern Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne) reports that it has got through another year
(to 31st July, 1898) with a loss of only £10,348. Of this,
£8677 arises through sale of properties below their old
boom-time book value —the Modern had a re-valuation of
its properties some time ago, but it didn’t write them
down to that value, possibly because the figures were too
shocking, and it was considered easier and pleasanter to
wait and hope for a revival. The rest of the loss is caused
by the general inability to make ends meet. The
Modern’s progress (mostly backwards) for the last seven
years has been this :
July, 1892—Profit, £16,752
„ 1893 „ 51
„ 1894—Loss, 13,800
„ 1895 „ 2,630
July, 1896 —Loss, £11,431
„ 1897 „ 7,511
„ 1898 „ 10,348
The reserve fund, which, in 1892, stood at £70,000, is now
down to £14,831; so within another two years, at the pre-
sent rate, the society will begin to eat large holes in
its capital. Last year the Modern sold _ £43,631
worth of property, and the loss on this com-
paratively small transaction was £8677. If the rest
of the houses and lands are similarly over-valued there is
another loss of about £70,000 or £BO,OOO to face before the
Society gets anything like right again. Whether it will
be right then or not is an open question. At present it
has a nominal capital of £199,000, and it is staggering
under an awful load of over £422,000 deposits and deben-
tures. It has had the use of this money for several years
now at the very cheap reconstructed rate of 2f per
cent., and this concession has just been renewed
indefinitely. A co. which gets the use of so vast a
sum at that low figure should be able to pay working
expenses even if it is considerably dry-rotted, but the
Modern fails to do so. Still, it has a patient crowd of
creditors who have agreed to wait till 1902 before they
start discussing the painful question of repaymt it, and
the wooden tenement'and the mud allotment may be
more saleable by then.
f * * *
Scone (N.S.W.) parish, over which Archdeacon
Coles Child presided in 1864, made a thrifty deal for the
future. The parochial council of that dace insured Mr.
Child’s life for £lOOO with the object of permanently en-
dowing his successors. For this purpose they valiantly
paid a yearly premium of £39 3s. for a period of 20 years.
The trustees were by that time all dead, but Mr. Child
lived on. In ’B6 the parish found its original thrift-energy
exhausted and kicked against paying further premiums.
The accumulated bonuses, however, kept the policy alive,
and when Mr. Child died the other day £1350 Is. sd. was
discovered at the credit of the old Scone parish. The
object of the dead of 34 years ago has therefore been
attained.
• * * *
“ Ess ” : The most puzzling goldfield in Aus-
tralia is Tibooburra, N.S.W. The color can be got in the
street, in back-yard3—anywhere. Gold all over the
locality—mostly washed, a great deal rough—yet it’s im-
possible to guess where it came from, being, as it is, in
“ made ” ground. Round the town are cone-shaped piles
of gibbers and rugged hills of sandstone, broken slate and
granite. Some think the whole has been erupted ; others,
that it was the centre of rapid whirlpools in pre-historic
times. After a shower of rain men, women and children
go out “ speckin’,” and pick up bright specks all over the
place. There must be a big reef close by ; and some day
will see those desolate hills alive with miners. Just now
they come by fits and starts, chase a will o’ the wisp for
a few days and peter away as they came. As for the
fossils who’ve lived there for years, they’re tethered to
within cooee of the pubs.
* • • *
Dear Bulletin. —The boom Mareeba-Chillagoe
railway syndicate offers pick-and-shovel-men, &c., 7s.
a-day, and 9d. a yard for side-cutting (piecework).
Latter means picking, shovelling, and carting the stuff
away in wheelbarrows ! Considering the exorbitant prices
of rations here—to say nothing of climate—7s. a-day
hardly equals 4s. a-day in the South ! As for the piece-
work, the best navvies we have consider it impossible to
make much more than tucker at it, even at 10 hours
a-day! Yet the Hughenden-Winton railway-contractors
are advertising in Townsville, Cairns, &c., for navvies at
Bs. a-day 1 Every boat from the South unloads an exten-
sive assortment of navvies, spielers, axemen, miners,
platelayers, carpenters, &c. Pitiful to see the number of
married men who’vcl>roken-up homes in the South, and
are stranded here with wives and children ! The worst
of it, there’s no back-country here, and to look for work
in the surrounding mining districts is absolutely useless.
Most mines at Herberton, Girofla, Hodgkinson, Chilla-
goe, &c., are idle, under six months’ exemption —to allow
“ scrip-gaffing.” S.S. companies, and Cairns, and Mareeba
are having a bit of a spree just now, but what kind of a
recovery will they suffer in the morning I —6 xB.
• * * •
Ed. Bulletin. — Randolph Bedford seems to
divide his time pretty equally between writing resplendent
poetry and booming pars —being, as a highly imaginative
young man, eminently well fitted for both occupations.
But when he attacks others as boomsters, really he draws
public attention too openly to his own weakness. The
Chillagoe Prop, directors should suppress the Reckless for
the sake of the common weal. He curses me for speaking
about Chillagoe without sufficient personal knowledge,
and then proceeds to explain all about Keelbottom, a
place he had never heard of in his life till he met one of
the owners in Townsville and was utterly flattened out
with a glimpse of some local specimens. Just to rectify a
few of his misconceptions : In Keelbottom lodes have been
proved for a distance of five miles ; a lot of prospecting
has been done. Deepest shaft 150 feet, with good lode in
sink ; another 80 feet with 11 feet lode, nearly half native
copper and good gold. Anybody can ascertain that.
Reports of prominent Southern and English experts call
the Keelbottom formation igneous (no filter stains), true
fissure lodes, and predict a great future. As to my per-
sonal interestedness in Keelbottom and consequently
biassed opinion—what is wrong with the beam in Mr.
Bedford’s eye, anyhow? Yours, etc.—S.V.K.
♦ * * *
Editor Bulletin. —So much has been written
as to the relative richness of Chillagoe, Keelbottom, and
other copper centres, that one would think copper only
existed in places virtually inaccessible. Such, however,
is not the case, for we have within a couple of hundred
miles of Brisbane, in a district seamed with railways, num-
bers of copper-lodes, the whole of which carry the noble
metals also. For instance, the New Moonta, about 20
miles from Mt. Perry, in the early Seventies turned out
from 300 to 400 tons of ore averaging 22 per cent, copper,
and a parcel of 23 tons taken out recently yielded up to
21 per cent., beside 14dwt. gold, and 260 z. silver per ton.
Can any of the Chillagoe mines show any such returns as
these ? Another, the Miva, shows enormous siliceous
iron-capped outcrops, in one place over 130 ft. wide stand-
ing out of the ground several feet. From a shaft sunk
near this assays showed 31 per cent, copper, 4oz. gold;
and a small parcel, about 4 or 5 tons, yielded 14 per cent,
copper, loz. 16dwt. gold, 15Joz. silver per ton. Another,
the King Bomba, has four lodes, one of them 30ft. wide,
from which rich assays have been obtained; and there
are many others lying idle for want of capital. “ Distance
lends enchantment to the view.” —Queenslander.
r ~i • * * *
“The Copper-headed Juggins ” : Leave Chilla-
goe fields to do the talking—that’s a very good suggestion.
The silence of Randolph B. will supply a long-felt want.
For my own part, I never professed to know aught about
the Chillagoe field, but I think I knew something about
the Chillagoe “ boom ” when I opened the attack. At
that time, the original Chillagoe shares were quoted at
£lBOO. Now they are—well, what are they? £2 shares
in the new Proprietary co. have dropped to 16s. 6d., any-
how. The market has been talking for some time, and
its conversation is more eloquent than R.B.’s “ ravings.”
* • • *
Croydon items : Croydon Consols management
is spending a good round sum of J. Bull’s money in putting
pumping machinery on the mine. Work will be resumed
in deep shaft when the machinery is erected —probably in
December. At latest No. 5 and 6 N. Golden Gate were
raising 12oz. stone. Waratah co.’s Tabletop low-grade
ore quarries reported to give profit of almost 7s. per ton
by a fern-head experiment! Late crushings : Diamond
Jubilee, 75 tons, 2730 z. ; 3 and 4 S. Golden Gate, 60 tons
for 2oz. 14dwt. per ton ; Homeward Bound No. 3 North,
45 tons, 920 z.
* * • *
Croydon August returns: Mills, 2555 tons,
24450 z. ; cyanide, 1015 tons, 7890 z. As Rogers’ No. 1
Golden Gate only cleans up quarterly, its results are not
included in these figures.
* * » •
If water holds out (unlikely) the end of the year
should be a record for Croydon. Present month’s results
will be increased by a 500 ton crushing for No. 7 N.
Golden Gate, estimated to yield a 5000 oz. cake for exhibi-
tion in London. Many lines are showing increased pro-
spects of payableness. Reported that several big
Bull co.’s are now taking preliminary steps towards amal-
gamation, with a view to more systematic and energetic
prospecting and development.
So far every month of ’9B in Queensland has
shown an increase on the corresponding period of ’97. The
total for Aug. was 81,5820 z.— an increase of 18,4690 z. over
the output for Aug., ’97—figures highly satisfactory to all
concerned. First six months of this year are in advance
of corresponding division of last year by 18 per cent.
Towers’ increase, however, is principally due to cyaniding
operations. Gympie shows up splendidly again.
* * * *
Melb. Metrop. Board of Works has carried a
resolution in the teeth of Boss Fitz Gibbon, Autocrat of
the Sewers, binding the board to the use of Vic. coal for
the future. Only "five members beside Fitz. were found
to vote against the proposal.
Not many Westralian or other mines can show
a better result than this of the Peak Hill, Murchison dis-
trict : 6890 tons crushed for 31,9220 z. The tonnage may
be slightly more ; some earlier records were kept imper-
fectly. The last crushing was a parcel of 860 tons, from
which an average of 3oz. 2fdwt. was got. Present output
passes IOOOoz. a month, and it is estimated that there is
well on to 18 months’ stone showing. Mostly English, of
course.
* • • •
General manager Kohler, of the new Fremantle
smelting-works—an interested party, no doubt—reckons
that, with the railway facilities offering, goldfields stuff
running 1)4 0Z - over can best be treated away from
the fields. The Kanowna pug he pronounces suitable for
smelting. The plan for the immediate future is to use
Broken Hill concentrates as lead flux ; but the co. has
got hold of some of the Northampton lead mines—worked
years ago by Mitchell, now M.P., and looks to them for
most of that class of material by-and-bye. In the old days
the Northampton lead was sent to Europe as wool-ship
ballast.
* * * *
Wealth of Nations, W.A. (in liquidation):
1 Crushed during the month of July, 73*> tons, gross yield
being 3450 z.” What a name for an under-joz. mine in
one of the hardest places in the province for water!
Liquidation, no doubt, will mean some form of recon-
struction.
* • * *
Kalgoorlie wire : “ Rumored that a big find of
telluride and free gold has been made in either the Star
of the West or Mt. Charlotte North, adjoining the Golden
Zone and Reefer’s Eureka. The managers, while admit-
ting that both mines have a nice-looking sulphide lode,
deny the presence of telluride, or very rich ore.” Now,
what does this mean? Why publish a rumor at the same
time as the managers’ denial ? This looks like a new way
of getting long-wearied shareholders to stump up for un-
paid calls. “ A nice-looking sulphide lode ” ! Was ever a
nasty-looking sulphide lode heard of ?
• * * •
Hutchison, a S.A. Labor M.P., is the author of
a common-sense amending Companies Bill now before
S.A. Assembly. He proposes the appointment of a Govt.
Inspector to examine the books and affairs of every re-
gistered co., and also wants to compel every mining co.
to file a statement showing nominal capital, names
and addresses of shareholders and number of shares ht'a
by each. Also the Bill requires the furnishing of particu-
lars as to prices paid to vendors, and the periodical pub-
lication of balance-sheets. The Bill would hit wild-cu n
boomsters pretty hard, particularly in Adelaide, whies
has fathered many mining swindles.
* * • *
Harvest prospects are so good in S.A. that tin*
railway commissioner has given the Barrier silver-minin»
co.’s notice that he probably will not be able to answer
their truck demands promptly between November am
March. To which the co’s reply that, seeing they hav*
kept S.A. out of the muck through many bad season-.,
it is hard lines that they should be made to suffer as soon
as ever a good season comes along. Wanted, federal rail
way-control and uniform railway gauge. Then some 01
the spare rolling-stock of N.S.W., which is abundant! >
supplied, could be shunted round S.A. way to fill the
temporary void.
» • • *
The failure of the Ashcroft process at the Cockl 3
Creek works landed the S.A. Treasurer with a deficit-
£32,ooo altogether. The Sulphide Corporation (Ash
croft’s people), on the plea of opening up a new trade,
secured a big concession ; and the B.H. Proprietary, ge= •
ting wind of it, forced similar terms out of Govt.
Hence the trouble.


r
d
ORIENT
CLOTH INC
CHEAPEST AND BEST
FOR
MEN’S & BOYS’ WEAR.
First Quality Men’s Suits, 355. Extra Quality Men’s Suits, 40s.
Special Quality Men’s Suits, 455.
SEND FOR SAMPLES.
We pay carriage on all Parcels of £2 to any Railway Station or Sea-
board in the Colony, furnishings excepted.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STREETS,
Opposite j
SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
SOCIETY
Jdiey wure j n very p Gor circumstances.
a IiHI -p )a "| ( K ed 75) had lived for some time on
a little dry bread arid tea without sugar. He was
street ' , i t ? lc^ n « U P Sora P s of food in the
■ cieets, and she had often remonstrated with him
ror it, as :ie was always ill after eating them.”
Pair.l'V? wo 6 u,quest u P° n the body of William
Patchett Melbourne. And may we trouble you
tor a contribution towards the fund for sending
W T eu missionaries to China? It is the
good Lord’s work
“ Melb.” : There are 18 girls at the Train-
ing Home, here for missionaries in China. The
expenses, including rent, passage-moneys, cloth-
nig, and other expenses the girls are unable to
meet amount to over £loooa year, which all comes
in, ala Muller, without being asked. The report
bread a Syinpathetl ° baker has donated all the
* * * •
~ Il V„ his competition with the whiteman,
trie Chinaman’s endurance must count. It is
astonish.ng to see the vegetable-growers coming
into Sydney with their market loads between 2
and 6 o clock on three mornings a week—which
means that most of them must have been har-
nessed up by 1 a.m. In every case, seemingly,
the Chow has been at work in his garden through-
out the preceding day, and he follows up the sale
of his produce by another day’s graft. They sleep
on top of their loads when coming into town—and
until the white person is prepared to forfeit his
regular eight hours in bed, the Chow will continue
to have the pull over him
* * * 9
According to the annual report of the
Inspector of Factories, Brisbane holds its own in
the sweating line. Women are, of course, the
chief victims. One-fifth of the dressmakers in
that city are apprenticed from 9 to 18 months on
no wages at all and then promptly sacked at the
expiration of that period. Slop trousers are built
NO SENSE OF PROPORTION.
YOUNG HARDY: “I see Judye Nolore us takiny his wife to
Japan."
MR. NEED: “ Don’t wonder! He's the sort of man who'd take a meat sandwich to a Federation
banquet!"
by the hapless seamstress at 6s. a dozen ; pyjamas,
exclusive of buttonholes, are sewn together at the
same rate. Sanitary accommodation unspeakable
at warehouses run by men great and godly and
living in the full stench of sanctity. Let us send
missionaries to the Chinese !
* * * »
Standing by an open grave in a big ceme-
tery near Sydney, the other day, the clergyman
refused to read the prayers until his fee (7s. fid.)
was paid. The husband of the dead happened to
have the amount in his pocket, or —well, it’s not
clear what might not have happened to the woman
in the coffin.
* * * •
A mob of representative Melbourne per-
sons, from FitzG i Ebon down to Acting-Gov.
Madden, made a pilgrimage to St. Pat’s Cathedral
last I nday for the purpose of hearing a holy
father talk about the late Empress of Austria as
follows: “ The departed Empress was all that
such a one should be. She seemed to be the em-
bodiment of a poet’s dream. All her greatness
see rued. to have vanished, but that was not so.
Her spiritual greatness remained.”
**. * •
For the £4-a-week job of council clerk,
rate collector, inspector of nuisances, and many
other things in far-away Wilcannia, lately the text
of a Bulletin par., there were, nevertheless, as
many as 61 applications. And the irony of it was
that the odd GO might have spared themselves the
pains.
* * * *
( blear Bulletin. —Re what you call the
“sweating ” of that compendious Wilcannia job of
council clerk, inspector of nuisances, &c., &c.,
at =£4 a week : Sydney G.P.O. recently offered to
a couple of its telegraph messengers (much over 20
years of age) the position of junior letter-carrier at
Wilcannia, at £65 per annum—2ss. a week and
keep yourself at Wilcannia. Ye gods ! — Slave.
* » * *
They talk, talk, talk in Adelaide of a
public-private hospital in opposition to the King-
ston institution. One sawbones offers £ 100 for
five years upon many conditions; and an “ex-
matron ” sends along her little offer of 12 months’
gratis services—though a year’s board-and-lodgiug,
with a leg-in for a possible life-billet, . may be
worth something these times. At the bottom of
all the real desire there is for a new hospital is the
feeling that South Australia ought to have a
medical-school again.
• * » •
A furious resident of Exhibition-street,
Melb., writes to the Argus, demanding to know
why it has freshly been labelled as “Stephen.”
The authorities seemingly do not believe that a
rose by any other name will smell as sweet. But
this is a loyal outburst. It was Stephen in the
Duke of Edinburgh’s time.
A zealous crank,
named Brown, has dona-
ted, from the top of some
mountain in Scotland,
500,000 temperance-tracts
to Queensland. Brown
thought Queensland a s
densely populated as Chi-
na, but that the people
consume alcohol instead of
opium. He has no doubt
fallen in with some of
Queensland’s lately - ap-
pointed immigration lec-
turers.
* * *
“Bargo”: N. S. W.
Public Service Board Cer-
tificate of Merit forms
were recently distributed
through the postal depart-
ment, and now comes the
time when the assistant
who lends the P.M. money,
grooms his horse, or at-
tends the same kirk or
lodge will be duly labelled
“ excellent while he who
refused to see his superior
through a small difficulty
will have reason to remem-
ber that circumstance. A
peculiar feature of the ar-
rangement is that an in-
spector can alter any re-
port of postmasters or de-
partmental heads. Outside
the head office, an inspec-
tor sees postal officials for
two or three hours once or
twice in 12 months (at an-
nual or semi-annual in-
spection) ; nathless he is
assumed, as per certificate,
to be better able to gauge
an official’s capabilities
than is his immediate su-
perior. The device is, how-
ever, a good one for the
effectual squashing of those
“ agitators ” or recalci-
trants who, ever since the
establishment of the P.S.
Board, have had the sack
continually held over their
heads. The certificate busi-
ness means a stab in tl e
back whichever way it
worked.
* * *
Force of habit works
peculiarly. A fireman’s
wife, in Sydney, was dan-
gerously ill last week, and
had grown so accustomed
to the clanging fire-alarm in her room that it was
not thought necessary to disconnect it. Yet her
husband hears it in his sleep and is always in the
street fully dressed before it stops ringing.
» * * *
N.S. Wales letter-carriers never act as
news-distributors re deceased persons on their
different beats. Correspondence addressed to
persons who have died is simply endorsed by the
letter-carrier, “Left,” and in due time returned
to sender per Dead Letter office. Unless a red-
coat actually secs a person dead he is not allowed by
the department to mark “Deceased” on the cor-
respondence of a defunct. Letters from “ Home ”
to dead relatives out here are regularly returned
endorsed “Addressee left,” although “addressee”
may have, within general public knowledge, been
deceased for years. If a letter arrived addressed
to Capt. Cook, the N.S.W. letter-carrier would
simply endorse it with the statement that Capt. C.
had “Left.”
* * * *
Q. Assembly has voted an extra £6O a year
to the Parliamentary caterer, on condition that
he supplies hon. members with fruit and sweets.
These martyrs for their country only pay Is. Gd.
per meal at the ’Ouse.
* * * *
A Brisbane (Q.) lawyer expressed himself
willing to take on a young lady typist and steno-
grapher-certificated in both arts. “ What
wages?” asked her intermediary. “7s. Gd. a
week.” “ But she can’t live on that.’’ “Well,
all I can say is that I can get 20, 30, or 50 cap-
able girls on those terms.” “ What sort of girls ? ”
Oh, principally daughters of civil-servants,
traders, and billeted parents gen ‘rally, who keep
them in clothes, p ovide them h good homes,
and let them use their salaries as pocket-money.”
Always the well-to-do who elbow-out the needy.
A poor woman’s worst enemy is her more comfort-
ably-placed sister.
* * * *
Recently-deceased John O’Brien, of Port
Melbourne (Vic.), provided by will for the con-
struction of a monument over his grave, at a cost
not to exceed £5OO. Also, he devised £2OO to fix
up suitable memorials over his dead parents’
graves in old Ireland. Which suggests that
although John O’Brien was assured of his own
superior importance, he was not utterly insensible
to the fact that his parents had, in some remote
degree, contributed to its existence, and that some
tangible appreciation of their good offices in that
direction.was, therefore, owing to them. The self-
sacrifice of the deceased merits admiration. Had
he been altogether unmindful of the claims of his
dead parents, he could have gone in for £7OO
worth of personal memorial. As it was, he took
but £5OO worth for himself, and handed the bal-
ance to the other less important shareholders.
VV hat a lesson to the irreverent native youth, who
so constantly reminds the authors of his being that
it is about time they were pole-axed !
Ihe Chinese Fook Shin Yong, or Good
Work Society of Townsville (Q.), circulates its
compatriots throughout Australia asking for assist-
ance to remove to China the bones of 110 Chinese
COMING EVENTS.
LITTLE BILLY (who attends funeral for first time and is much pleased),
“ Mother, can Igo to Mrs. Jones’ funeral? ”
MOTHER: "I am glad to say Mrs. Jones is not dead, my dear.”
LITTLE BILLY : “No, but there’s two doctors there.”
buried in Townsville cemetery. The “good
work ” is to cost about ,£3OO, and all those who
died under Chinese name will be carefully con-
signed to their relations in the Flowery Land, hut
those who were careless enough to die under
European names such as “ Charlie ” and “ Willie,”
will have to go as a bulk parcel. “ Help us,
friends,” says the circular ; “ think of the misery
the ghosts of those buried in a foreign land endure.
Think how destitute they feel when they meet at
the Annual Grave-Visiting Festival in our own
country and see the happy spirits of those whose
bones are safe in the holy' soil. Coldness or hunger
or the absence of the women we love is nothing to
the terrible feelings of those poor spirits, made all
the more miserable by the happiness of the other
spirits. So please send some money and your
ancestors will bless you. If your crops have been
good or if you have been fortunate with your
Tattersall send more than you would have done
otherwise. Do not send postage-stamps and let
your letter be registered.”
* * * *
This cutting from Perth (W.A.) Morning
Herald needs no remark further than that it is
no skit on the speed of Westralian trains, but is
given as a sober piece of news :
Accident to a Railway Guard.—A railway guard named
Richard Gildard had a narrow escape last night. He was
in charge of a train which was running to Perth from
Midland Junction. When approaching' E. Perth station
he noticed that the door of the dog-box had become un-
fastened, and was swinging open, and he attempted to
walk along the footboard of the train in order to close it,
but in getting from one truck to Another he missed his
footing and fell. The train was crossing an embankment
at the time, but Gildard rolled to the bottom without
sustaining injury, and was enabled to catch his train at
the E. Perth station and bring it into Perth.
* * * *
“ Melb.” : The Church of England Gram-
mar School has just been in the throes of produc-
ing anew head-master. A Sydney man comes
out on top. The school ought to have stuck to
Morris. As soon as he married Higinbotham’s
daughter he was booked and cooked. Higgy
egged him on to lecture against land monopoly.
Such a fellow could not possibly be trusted with
the intellects and souls of the young tallowfats.
Since then the school has been on the wallow, in
the trough of the ocean.
* * * *
S.A. Premier Kingston proposes to bring
barmaids within the benefits of local factory-law.
* * * *
Gov. Buxton is apparently trying to make
out that it was only the cost of freight to Ade-
laide of a stallion zebra, and not the cost of the
animal itself, which he undertook to meet for the
benefit of the local Zoo.
* * * *
Adelaide Hospital curse again. The S.A.
Critic is in for a libel-action for injudiciously
asserting that a local lawyer was bribed by the
Attorney-General to hold his tongue on a certain
alleged hospital scandal connected with the case
of a prisoner whom the lawyer was defending on a
capital offence. Some unscrupulous foe of the
institution led the editor astrav.
» * * *
At recent N.Q. Anglican Synod, when the
question under discussion was the spiritual value
of a bishop’s presence, a young shepherd electrified
his brethren with an anecdote- “ During his
.Lordship’s last visit to my parish ’’—the following
conversation was overheard between two miners
occupying same room in local hotel. “ ‘Gobi’ to
church to-morrow, Bill?’ ‘Not me!’ (emphati-
cally). ‘But Barlow’s goin’ to preach.’ ‘Don’t
care a d—n who’s goin’ to preach.’ ‘ Oh, yes, Bill;
let’s go and give poor old Barlow a bob ! Then
everybody tried hard to focus “ poor old Barlow ”
without appearing to do it.
THE INSCRUTABLE.
What wondrous worlds those eyes of thine !
What mysteries dwell within!
At eventide, with these ashine,
Who would not win to sin !
Of mornings, tender, dewy, bright—
How different, then they seem !
Twin orbs, with God’s own peace alight—
Is Love itself a dream ?
L. R. MACLEOD.


.
£ 61
pJksj
lAvE You
FdrgoJTEil
RAFFAN’3 HEPATIC
Elegant and
Effective.
An Unrivalled BLOOD
PURIFIER.
.3
DEFINITELY CURE HYDATIDS, SKIN ERUPTIONS,
BOILS, ABSCESSES, CONSTIPATION, and ALL IM-
PURITIES of the BLOOD. Full directions with each
packet. Post Free throughout Australasia for Is. 3d.
Stamps. The Trade supplied from the Wholesale Houses.
R. RAFFAN, Proprietor,
SHIRTS.
Station and Out-door work our SILK Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
ROBIN, Benzine, Turps,
Citronella, Caustic Soda,
CAUSTIC POTASH,
Oil of Mirbane, Acid Yellow,
CREAM OP TARTAR,
Glucose, Carb. Ammonia, Canary Seed.
Markwald,
178 William-st., Melbourne;
11 Pitt-stn efc, Sydney ;
68 Currie-st., Adelaide; Queen-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin is excluded from the war-
ders’ library, at Darlinghurst, Sydney, with the
satisfactory result, as far as this deleterious rag is
concerned, that the warders have to invest their
individual sixpences. What said warders think of
the matter is another story.
* * * *
“F.C.”: Ran against a regular treasure
of a woman the other day—a pearl, a jewel. She
is the wife of a ship’s steward, and the mother of
six children. Finds time to keep his house in
apple-pie order, her children clean and neatly
The proposal to let the Druitt-street end
of Sydney’s enormous new markets for a hotel is
taken by many to mean the first step towards the
municipalisation of the drink-traffic, and elicits,
therefore, a sympathy and antagonism outside the
merits of the project as a question of business.
dressed, and herself a little lady.
A dressmaker-by trade, she makes
up the clothing for all the children,
boys as well as girls. Not only this,
but she even goes as far as to half-
sole and repair the youngster’s
slices-and in workmanlike style,
too. Withal she is a smart
woman and a living little
wife—uid her husband is a
China - nan !
Not long since, in
an Australian pro-
vince, the public flagel-
lator made the journey
from the capital to a
way - back town and
back (about 1000 miles)
to inflict ten lashes
upon a semi - luna’ic
found gu'lty of inde-
cency. When the el-
derly wretch was triced
up in a corner of the
vaol- ad, the flogger
flim i.shed his cat, and
was about to bring it
and iwn upon his victim,
when the warder who
was to keep “tally”
ca led “One!” The
man-flayer cast an in-
dignant look on the
oflicial, and. lowering
the c.it, .said, “Don’t
count till I strike,
please”—the shivering
wretch enduring more
torture meanwhile than
the cat could inflict. When
ten had been duly counted and the man let
down, the flagellator bitterly complained that the
efficiency of his first lash had been interfered with
by the warder’s haste to count. Which calls to
mind that there is still alive in N.S.W. an old
man, now close upon his 95th year, whose duty it
was to keep “tally,’ in the days of the System,
out West.
* * * *
S.A. Advertiser’s artless London man
announces that the annual S.A. dinner has been
postponed until the arrival of Glov. Buxton, who
will then take the chair. If the committee has
any horse sense it will hurry up that dinner and
get it over ere the evangelistic brewer arrives.
H. Ex. is the hollo west frost in the shape of a
chairman that Adelaide has yet experienced, for
he sits nearly all the time in one attitude and with
such a rigid, Calvinistic, Nonconformist expression
of abject misery on his countenance that beholders
are almost moved to tears.
• * * *
“ A.P.” to The Bulletin :
Regarding the fizzled-out agitation against the N.S.W.
Govt. Law clerks’ privileges, two very important points
were overlooked, viz., (1) That the new rules re the ad-
mission as attorneys of such clerks apply to a very
limited number of persons whose tenure of office usually
runs to 10,15 or 20 years, with the consequence that on
an average hardly one clerk will present himself for
examination in two years ; (2) The new rules are merely
a revival of the previously existing provisions enabling
the Supreme Court and Crown Law office to send up cer-
tain well-trained clerks for examination. The present
prothonotary, Mr. C. R. Walsh, the Registrar of Probates,
Mr. Thomas Garrett, Mr. Theo. Powell and Mr. T. E.
Murphy came in under similar rules, and I think they
compare very favorably, to say the least of it, with the
rank-and-file of the profession who have been writing
superior-toned letters to the press on this subject vaunt-
ing their own attainments and deriding the capabilities
of the Government drudge. Meanwhile the Judges hold
their own opinions.
“S.S.” : Happened to be on Spencer-
street railway-platform when the Christian En-
deavor excursion arrived from Adelaide, and
beheld an edifying spectacle'. The majority of the
elderly brethren in the train had little, cheap blue
flags fixed on sticks, and these they fluttered out
of the window, with much splutter and vacuous
giggling, and their wide grins and goatish gambols
were very suggestive of a Sunday-school infant-
ebtss out on a skim-milk razzle. The reception-
committee, male and female, decorated with blue
tags, were bursting with importance and gratuitous
benevolence, and brethren received “ sistern ” and
‘‘sistern” brethren witli a babel of rapturous
gasps, and squeals, and saintly. expletives, and
the racket was deafening for nearly 10 minutes.
HTS MEASURE—ONE QUART.
BEGGAR: “ What I out up all that wood for a bob—
d’ye think I work for pleasure, mum? ”
LADY: “ Oh, dear, no; for beer !”
Little Dr. Maloney, in the Vic. Assembly,
pleads for the right of every child born out of
wedlock to be registered as the child of its parents
(when both parents are willing) without reference
to their unmarried state. Also Maloney asks that
the registration of a “ legitimate ” baby shall not
entail a confession of illegitimacy as regards the
previous offspring of either parent.
* » *
“ Face The forcible expulsion of aliens.
Was passing the back of a big house in a certain
fashionable Sydney suburb when it
suddenly opened and a Chow shot
forth as though fired from a gun,
and landed with a great bump
inthegutter, followed close-
ly by baskets and cabba
gee. As John sorrow-
fully gathered by his
goods and chattels
I peeped over the
fence. A fine big
lump of a servant-
girl was standing
coolly in the yard
shying vegetables at
John and inviting
him to come and
“try his funny busi-
ness again.’’ Apro-
pos. The “ Chin-
key ” doesn’talways
confine his atten-
tions to the “ welly
ni’ ” fat slavey. A
neighbor, a pretty
yonng widow —/ am
a nice young bache-
lor—was consoling
with her yellow
callot vendor k
on the loss
of his
“ horsey ”
when lie
staggered
her by ex-
claiming,
“Oh,mi.ssee,
you welly
kin’ heart.
Me lov ey
you always.
Me serve '
you tlee-four
year—lovey
you all time—
you mally me ? ”
John then proceed-
ed to go into details
concerning his wealth
and prospects until he was
rudely awakened by “ missee/’
remarking that he must be drunk.
“You no likee man who dlink '! asked
John brokenly. “ No, I don’t,” answered his
loved one. “Me never dlink again,” said the
almond-eyed lover earnestly, as lie shouldered his
baskets and departed—heart-broken.
* * * *
Within the last few weeks Toowoomba and
Roma have turned out a pair of suicides, aged
respectively 22 and 35, victims of unrequited
love. And only last week a man of dissipated
habits returned from the North to Brisbane and
found his one time paramour living with another
individual, whereupon he settled his troubles by
cutting the woman’s throat and then his own.
Eros, the gentle, the tender, the beautiful . . .
the raving maniac, the blood-stained butcher !
The still-unsettled question as to whether
theN.S.W. Inebriate Asylum, the site of which
was gazetted the other day, shall be subject to the
Comptroller-General of Prisons or to the Inspec-
tor-General of the Insane should be promptly
determined in one way. Principle and practice
will both be confused if the institution be handed
over to the Prisons Department. The inmates
will be depressed by contact, if not diseased by
contagion, and the motives underlying the new
movement will be stultified.
• » • »
The Victorian Government has decided
that it can't prosecute the respectable-looking old
gentleman, who professed to be an up-country
J.P. when he wasn’t, and who peacefully took his
scat on a Melbourne bench the other day, and
helped to sentence a few people. There is no law
to deal with the bogus J.P. This opens up a very
gladsome prospect, indeed. The J.P. is invulner-
able. No one can know all of him by sight, and
he can step into a court almost anywhere in the.
province, and discharge his friend with a caution,
or amuse himself by giving somebody three
months, with impunity. The present J.P. was
bowled out because he foolishly gave a name which
didn’t appear on the list of cheap and nasty
beaks ; if he had chosen the designation of some
real J.P. with an address away in far
Croajingolong he might have been undiscovered to
this day. Is he first of the bogus beaks, or the
seven hundredth, or what ?
* J * * •
Still more suppressed chuckling in Ade-
laide Hospital-circles, against which the local
medical boycott still prevails, over another death
under ether in an antagonistic private hospital—-
in a case, too, in which the warmest of anti-
hospitallers were concerned.
* * * »
The N.S.W. Art Society’s recent smoke-
night was a most enjoyable function. Some of
the best musicians of Sydney played and sang—
Lemmone, Harry Weir, “Daddy” Hallewell; and
Harry Leston and Lawrence Campbell recited.
Then there was Price, M.P., who did the inevit-
able “ Man from Snowy River.” Lightning-
sketches were to the fore, but not so remarkable
as in previous years ; Souter being missed. The
company was miscellaneous —politicians, musicians,
lawyers, literary men, rival artists, high and other
officials. J. B. Suttor - , Critchett Walker, John
Arthur Barry, and Favenc were there. John
Lemmone, who played divinely on the flute, is one
of the few artists in the world who can cause a
Philistine to discriminate between that instru-
ment and a tin-whistle. There were quiet corners
in the rooms remote from the concert-room, where
the meditative sat and gazed dreamily at pictures.
Arthur Collingridge gave his annual rend ring of
the “Marseillaise,” though this year without the
blouse and sword which were formerly its in-
separable properties.
«• * * *
There apparently isn’t going to be much
of the threatened exodus of S.A. farmers to the
Darling Downs and other available parts of
Queensland. Farmers who have settled, and
others who have been over to spy out the land,
report wonderfully fine soil, but too uncer-
tain winter rainfall, and too certain a tropical
down-pour when crops are ripening. And freights,
it is added, put really material assistance by
dairying out of the question at present. Mr.
Donald Murray, whose word counts for a good
deal in the northern S.A. areas, says this, among
much else.
* * * *
A white female outcast was lately taken
from the kanaka quarters at Isis Scrub (Q.l, where
our black-aud-tan brothers went shares in her
society. With her was a five-year-old white
boy, who knew no language but a gibberish
L of “ pidgeon ’’-English.
B. E. Minns sketches for
“ The Bulletin” Charmion,
the latest sensation at Lon-
don Alhambra.
Among legal anomalies awaiting the vigor-
ous whisk of a reforming broom is that which
prescribes that a physician shall be paid a fee for
attending N.S.W. inquests,’but that a chemist
shall not.
The niceties of the law in N.S.W. Charge
of using insulting language “ whereby a breach of
the peace might have been occasioned ’’—summons
to the effect on the ordinary printed form. The
Victorian (Bendigo) case of Wakley resuscitated
—also Clarson v. Blair, to support the contention
that the information should have stated that the
breach “may be occasioned.” Case dismissed.
* * * *
A correspondent of S.M. Herald com-
plains of the shook to the feelings of ordinary
passengers caused by handcuffed and leg-ironed
prisoners travelling in ordinary railway compart-
ments. The feelings of passengers should be con-
idered, no doubt, but what of the feelings of the
srisoner—who, if on his way to trial, may be quite
pnnocent after all?
* ♦ • *
The thirst for litigation ! Damages were
lately claimed in a Brisbane Court for the
injury done to property by a trespasser who had
rolled himself in a piece of bed-ticking and slept
in a house from which the last flood had driven
the occupants. Judge Real smiled a weary smile,
and gave complainant damages to the extent of
sixpence.
• * * *
St. Helena, Queensland’s chief gaol, shines
by comparison with other Australian prisons.
During last year it witnessed no executions and
no floggings; and insubordination was a thing
almost unknown. You can always have a chance
of reforming your gaol-bird if you first reform
your gaoler.
* * * *
Lovely woman is to the fore again. During
the recent M.L. Parliamentary stonewall, a
motion was passed excluding strangers and conse-
quently the press. Some time afterwards, in the
a.m., a member pointed out to acting-Speaker
Guinness that a woman in the ladies’ gallery was
busy taking notes. Guinness, however, was
equal to the occasion, and ruled that by English
precedent he couldn’t see the ladies' gallery, and,
therefore, couldn’t see' the lady taking notes ;
much as a Judge can’t see a lawyer till he has his
wig on. Consequently the only report of the
stonewall comes from the lady in question who
stuck to her post all night; and very good read ng
it is. She describes the snores of sleeping mem-
bers as ranging from a grunt to a nasal drone ;
and “all that could be seen of the Govt, whip
was a blue blanket and a pink sheet of blotting-
paper.” After describing various others, she goes
on, “Fortunately, I could not see them all.” In
future, no doubt, the mere male pressman will
have to disguise himself in skirt and bonnet, or,
perchance in bloomers, and betake himself and his
flimsy to the ladies’ gallery.
* * * •
“ The Peerage is getting more mouldy and
moth-eaten every day,” writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent. A certain young duke
has had to be put in irons, orbed, on board his
own yacht in the Channel through omitting to
shoot the skipper. Regretting his bad aim, he
brought up an armful of six-shooters which he
distributed amongst the crew, urging them to co-
operatively corpse the captain. But at under
forty, “lor’ bless yer, sir, these dooks suffers from
their teeth ’’ —so they locked him in his cabin and
sent for the police. The rest of the mildewed
nobility are walking about in secret places cursing
Hooley and looking for another of his kind.
* * * *
“ BULLETIN ” DEFINITIONS.
Law—One man’s meat, another’s poison.
Newest thing in the world—To-day’s newspaper.
‘Oldest ditto—Yesterday’s.
Court —State of man before and after marriage.
Tip—Unnecessary necessary payment.
Advice—Gratuitous waste.
Vice—That which redeems man from the com-
mon-place.
Politeness—The Whited Sepulchre of Nature.
Woman —A useful article but expensive luxury.
Kisses —Stepping stones to hell.
I-I.L.C.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin. —Be recent Sydney Aus-
tralia Hotel Sunday-selling case in which, though
the manager was fined, the license was not. en-
dorsed, nor the three “gentlemen” concerned
hauled up and fined for being on licensed premises
during illegal hours. If defendant had been a
small, struggling publican with only one bar,
instead of the controller of the splendid Aus-
tralia, the license would have been endorsed,
the common, vulgar customers fined, and sharper
police supervision ordered. Again, one law for the
rich and another for the poor. Never been fined
myself, so have the right to growl.— Publican.
* * * *
Somebody writes to an Adelaide paper that
“ a lad went to the office of a well-known solicitor
at a salary of ss. per week. He recently left, after
being in the office just on seven years. He was
getting 16s. a week.” Yet it is precisely that
sort which holds off from trades-unionism and the
Labor-party, though certainly trades-unionism
and existing Labor-parties don’t try very hard to
make it otherwise. »»
* * • *
Woman only loves God faute de mieux. —
Tassy.
* * * *
The New Woman—The shriek of a dying
century.
* * * *
There’s a cheerfully-frank M.D. in an E.
Coast village of the Land of Lots o’ Time. He re-
cently visited a mining-camp in company with
a rather pious storekeeper. All hands as-
sembled on the departure of the
twain, and as the tea-and-sugar
saint mounted his horse he earn-
estly spoke unto the miners for a
few minutes, and wound up with,
“ Good-bye, my friends, and .may
the Lord bless yers.” Then Saw-
bones, with well-copied earnest-
ness : “ Good-day, chaps, and may
the Lord see fit to strike you all sick.
My address is Nodville.”
QUEER PLACE!
N.Q.
Oh, what a queer place this would he
If those who could,
Bu t only would ;
And those who would
If they but could,
Were given opportunity !
Oh, what a queer place this would be
If all was wrought
That really ought;
And no one caught
At what he ought
Not do in this locality !
6x8.


Visitors
to Sydney
Take Note.
No Part of
Man’s Attire
detracts from or adds to his
personal appearance one-half
as much as his
BOOTS.
They are the finishing touch to the perfectly-
dressed man. If you want the proper thing
in
FOOTWEAR
in Tan, Black, or Patent Leather properly
fitted to your feet
get
a Pair of Callaghan Boots.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
396 George-st., Sydney.
“Save Your Teeth.”
Mr. Charles I. Harris, who is Dentist
by special appointment to HIS EMINENCE
CARDINAL MORAN, has published a little
book entitled “How to Save the Teeth,” and
as he can do so without causing the slightest pain
whatever, owing to the very latest invention
known to Dental Science, he will forward a copy
to anyone free of any expense.
This should be the means of preventing many
from needlessly having their teeth extracted.
In this book Mr. HARRIS also publishes his
list of fees. Address—
Mr. CHARLES I. HARRIS (Dentist),
ST. JAMES’ CHAMBERS,
King Street, SYDNEY,
Telephone 1482. opposite the Queen’s Statue.
GLOBE TEAS have N ° bp-*-
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
„, Sydney, September 20, 1898.
My Dear Myee—
Race week went off gaily, with a bigger Mel-
bourne contingent than usual. Pretty Mrs. Percy
Chirnside dressed herself uniquely all along the
week, and Mrs. Edward Miller was another
remarkably well-constructed figure. The daughter
of a big Melbourne draper who has “climbed,”
startled Rand wick with a red silk blouse and white
skirt one day. But I noticed a score of imitators
next race meeting, and presume that Sydney is
not going to quarrel with any sort of Melbourne
lead just now. Saturday’s racing drew a
tremendous crowd with a wide license in frock-
ing. White piques looked as happy as silks,
and shirts and skirts abounded. Hysterics
threatened in the Steeplechase, when Parnell’s
jockey picked up his fallen horse, and raced into
the third place, with blood streaming down his
face. As a rule, jockeys’ accidents don’t stir any-
one, but this was different. The horse came in
third, you see.
The two Government House balls came off on
1 uesday and Thursday, Tuesday’s ball being quite
another story. To be asked on Thursday amounted
to almost a blunder. Miss Ruby Madden, in
black net with long sleeves, and steel armor laid
on thick, glittered as brightly as anyone in the
ballroom. Brides and debutantes were every-
where. Mrs. Livingstone Learmonth, who was
Mass Mnrcia Cox last month, wore her embroidered
bridal robe, and Mrs. Vallange also made frivolous
use of her ceremonial gown.
Two mild scares livened Tuesday’s hop. Some-
body in the room was said to have measles, and
everyone craned to get a glimpse of the red spots
oh the unconscious neck. She was surrounded by
a crowd two-deep all the evening, curiosity killing
alarm. The one other sensation was the gentleman
who had been handing chairs in a big city shop
that morning. Sydney doesn’t understand how to
treat a case of this kind yet, and crude cuts, foz
he used to be in “ our set,” resounded through the
air. I heard a, lady, who came out of a beer-
barrel, pathetically whisper to her spouse, “ Go-
vernment ’Ouse ain’t what it hused to be.”
The most graceful woman in Sydney was a gentle
symphony in cream satin and yellow-hearted roses.
Little Miss Winnie Austin, in black satin and a
beauty-spot, and Mrs. Walter Allan, in pink and
rosebuds, were two particularly attractive items.
Mrs. Rennie’s black frock, with its sequin decora-
tions, suggested the cut of foreign scissors. Lady
Rupert Clarke produced another gown from the
sea, with jewels crusting the bodice like scales,
and frills where the feet ought to be. Mrs. W. B.
Mitchell, whose frocks might fill a folio, was in
grey sequined tulle one night, lit up with vivid
bouquet and streamers, and another night blazed
brightly in a cerise satin polonaise, cu t up over
white chiffon flounces.
Sydney wiseacres are snaking their heads over
His Ex., and saying that Her Gracious would not
be too pleased could she know of the high jinks at
Govt. House last week. Considering that the
Gov. is Royalty’s representative, and that while
the balls were at their height Royalty at ’Ome was
mourning the Empress of Austria, the wise folk
are probably right as regards the etiquette of the
thing.
The macrons of North Sydney managed one of
the best balls of the season on Monday night.
1 he element of the brass button had something to
do with its success, but every other element that
goes to make up a good hop was also present. Two
aides shed their light on the scene for an hour or
so, and I noticed that there was a new
alacrity stirring up masculine wall-supporters.
Dances are now so extensively arranged by
telephone before a ball begins, that men who want
a partner are obliged to hustle round a bit. It’s
all very well to be a wallflower when there are
plenty of imploring eyes dumbly asking you to
dance. But it’s a different thing “when all the
women have their programmes full, and don’t take
any notice. The hostesses included Mrs. Burton
Dibbs, in black satin and the new coiffure ; Mrs.
Barton, in lemon-tinted pink ; and 16 other North
Shore matrons. The belle of the ball has gone out
of fashion, but the nearest thing to it was Miss
Irene Marks, in white satin and a silver butterfly
m her golden tresses. For the rest De Groen’s
band made music, and the supper was a dream.
The University girls have settled their diffi-
culties at last and a dance at Riviere College,
Woollahra, is to be the result. This is the first
time the University Association has entertained
away from the University, but if the people make
the place and not the place the people it should be
a success—moreover, it is a very nice place.
i Has it ever struck you how like Society is to
Gaol ? lam not accusing you of ever having been
m either, but judging from the look of things. All
race-week I had my eye on a score of Sydney
social leaders, who are as much in chokee as that
bowled-out female shop-lifter. I have watched
them take their one little .toddling walk down the
race-lawn, with eyes strained and mouths snaky in
the effort not to miss anybody they ought to see,
and not to see anybody they ought to miss. And
I have seen them stand a whole evening in the
ball-room with the same fear poisoning their ex-
pressions and nipping their "feelings like a mud-
shark. They won’t dance with anybody, for fear
they might miss somebody taller. And they
won’t eat any supper for fear they might be
thought common, otherwise hungry. Ah, well,
there’s this about being poor: the rich pay for
their misery, the poor get theirs for nothing.
It seems as if the wicked quip about there being
no flirtations on the P. and O. boats, because the
mails are all tied up in bags, is going to turn out a
fact. Cause, the dinner-party that is accused of
having wrecked the China—now once more afloat.
Yes, brass-buttons, captains, officers, doctors, all
the lovely men, are threatened with an isolated
dming-table, where no fair charmers are admitted.
They are not even to be allowed a flutter between
meals, and social sea-doings are to be kept right
out of their way. These changes are to endure
until—well, until the Board discovers the falling-
off in the passenger-lists.
And there will be the chance for the captain’s
wives to come in. Isn’t it a primeval superstition
that won’t allow wives to travel by their hubby’s
boats, for fear the latter will neglect their duties !
More enlightened minds believe that rocks would
not have the least chance, or dinner-parties a
danger, if all the wives were given free passes.
But I forgot—the steamship-owners say that no
vessel can carry two captains, and that is why Mrs.
Captain is not allowed to go to sea with her
husband.
The social side of these big steamers has been
sating its head off for a long time. To seek peace
m a sea-voyage was once a popular scheme, but,
nowadays, nasty little social microbes get on at
every port, and fester the air with balls, and con-
certs, and bazaars, and theatricals, until there
isn’t even time to be wholesomely seasick. Out
among the infinities, with only the sea, and the
sky,, and an elemental whale or so looking on—
that’s where social status matters. It’s even more
important there than in the Victoria Salon. A
boat went ’Ome, the other day, with a lot of
students travelling second-class, and a wealth of
Blood and Money in the first. First-class gave
balls, and icily excluded second. Second-class got
up theatricals, and wrote their -programmes in
Greek characters, winding up with “ No first-class
passengers admitted.” And first-class used to
stroll past miserably trying to decipher the mystery.
For first-class didn’t know Greek.
At last the concert strain is slackening. Soon
there will be silence in the halls of song. Amy
Sherwin, who has been drawing splendid shilling
houses all the week, leaves for London this month,
and, so far, there is no word of anyone new.
Clever little Adela Verne got together a fine pro-
gramme and a fair house at the concert she pre-
sented to Lemmone last week. The heaviest part
of the programme fell on her own white muslin
shoulders, two huge concertos forming the bulk of
her work. A heterodox query, but do people care
for concertos ? And should they, if they don’t ?
Music isn’t music when it wearies, when the brain
begins to be strained, and the creation doesn’t
send out any emotional messages, any thrills or
throbs. When it has no meaning it’s a noise. And
the ordinary listener isn’t educated enough to fol-
low all the subtle undercurrents of thought that
move beneath the music’s complications. One
concerto an evening, if you like, but two tighten
the system until the nerves kick, and the audience
feels about as comfortable as a grasshopper in a
sovereign-case.
Oh, this charming “waitawhile” land! Mr.
Guenett, of ‘Melbourne musical fame, received
verbal permission from M. Wiegand, during his
recent visit to Sydney, to play on “the greatest
organ in the world.” When he had been playing
for about an hour one morning, some persons
approached and told him he must either have per-
mission from the Mayor and aldermen to go on
playing or pay ten shillings. Mr. Guenett accord-
ingly left off. When he had been back in Mel-
bourne about a fortnight, and had forgotten the
occurrence, an official document reached him bear-
ing the signatures of the Mayor and all the city
councillors and giving him gracious leave to try
the organ. He thought of wiring in reply, “ Can’t
stop, can’t stop.”
The year 1898 seems to be an unlucky one (or
lucky ?) for the musical world. In Sydney alone
three prominent professionals have gone to play
harps of gold, of whom the first two, Harry
Hyndes and Miss Pedley, were only beginning
middle age. Poussard, though old, was even more
suddenly cut off. Lady Halle’s tragic death has
stirred the world, and serious illnesses and acci-
dents are troubling many of our well-known local
musicians.
Gossips are already busy coupling the names of
a certain highly-placed widow with more or less
eligible suitors. Lord Rosebery was the first name
mentioned, but he can’t spare the time to come
out ; next, a doctor who lately attended the lady
after an accident; next, as being very suitable,
Melbourne’s leading surgeon; finally, an aristo-
cratic member of a certain vice-regal staff. The
last-named, however, is said to have had his
aspirations nipped in the bud by a sprightly
relative of the lady herself. Yet a third lady is
supposed to have had some claim on the attentions
of this gay lordling. This is a well-known Melb.
society girl, but even the proverbial grain of truth
is now expelled from this story by the announce-
ment of the lady’s engagement to an officer from
India.
English newspapers announce the return to Aus-
tralia, in February, of our open-handed mil-
lionairess, Miss Eadith Walker. Engliseeman 10
catchee ?
Speaking of engagements, the youthful curly-
haired scholar, just appointed to a certain head-
mastership, had a rather embarrassing pre-matri-
monial experience in Sydney. Several otherwise-
unemployed persons so persistently announced his
engagement to his chief’s daughter that the
harassed lady one day remarked desperately,
“ Why, yes, of course we are engaged.” Far
from stopping the persecution, congratulations
began to pour in on every side, in the Very midst
of which the pedagogue escaped to England,
whence he returned a few months later with a
blushing bride.
One of the month’s benedicts has not allowed
history to repeat itself over his second marriage.
His first engagement lasted nine years, and was
followed by eleven months of matrimony. Two
months covered acquaintance, courtship and
engagement in the second case, and forty-two
years of wedded bliss should result by inverse
ratio.
It must certainly feel strange to be bridesmaid
to your father’s second wife, yet this is what
actually happened at a fashionable Sydney
wedding last week.
I went to a dear little unsophisticated party the
r . given by the Boy Authors. It wouldn’t
be fair to tell who they are, but they all took it in
turn to read their own inspirations. Did I say to
ro; Mj • I mean to mumble, remonstrate, shuffle,
sniff, snort, cough, gabble, choke, whisper, stutter,
croon, make noises m all the unused parts of their
throats, and, finally, obliterate their dear dream-
children’s faces with a rush that could have put a
girdle round two worlds in twenty minutes. There
were some ten Authors present, and every one
began with: “ Just-a-little-thing-I-wrote-no-good-
only-a-sketeh. ” Even writers with a Name. But
nobody noticed. If you are going to read your
own inspirations presently, it’s wonderful what
you can endure. Everybody applauded. Won-
derful what you’ll applaud just before your turn
comes. That’s the only way to keep a little sect
like this together. Let everyone read something
he’s written.
There’s a move on just now to edge together all
literary and artistic people, and make them smoke
and drink at a given signal, and talk shop at in-
tervals. But Sydney isn’t big enough. In London,
where there are plenty of big people running along
different big lines, artistic clubs have a meaning.
But in Sydney, one pressman reckons he knows as
much as another. As for artists, who can tell
what an artist knows ?
That fashion is a fickle goddess is a remark so
true that it will bear oft repeating. Only last
season, to buy a dressy blouse for a few guineas
was reckoned quite a soft snap if one could run up
any sort of a skirt to match. Now, it is the
correct caper to pay the same price for a be-flounced
and a be-frilled skirt and match the stuff for a
plain bodice.
Other times, other waists. A corset-maker,
who comes to Sydney every year for orders,
showed corns all over her hands the other day.
These come, she alleges, from straining at the
strings of Sydney corsets, and she tells the sad story
of how the seventeen-inch beloved of corset-
makers has widened into twenty-four in the
fashionable world.
Do you know that men are not altogether the
culinary connoisseurs they’re painted. In a small
N.S.W. town where the city method of raising
funds for local religious bodies is by means of
social suppers and bun-worries, was a man with a
record for “surrounding” pastry, especially mince-
pies. He never failed to attend these gatherings,
and one day the ladies who ran the show put a
piece of leather through a sausage-mill, and mixed
it with the mince in an especially large pie. Brown
always began on the biggest. Conducted to a seat
opposite the huge mince, he devoured it first, and
then, having eaten the others, paralysed the ex-
pectant jokers by asking for the “recipe for that
there big ’un ” !
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“A mob of women welled up to Vic. Leg.
Council-chamber to hear the Fat Men debate
women’s suffrage. They completely filled the big
galleries, but the chamber looked more animated
than smart. Dress is not the strong point of the
average suffrage woman, and a sombre array of
rusty black, faded browns, and shabby greys cer-
tainly did not tend to enliven the place. A few
Councillors’ wives, daughters and friends occupied
the lower gallery—a plain lot, with the exception
of a handsome dame of plump and pleasing coun-
tenance, who managed to keep up a smile of
amused scorn for two hours.
“The debate was shabbier than its female
hearers, The absolute mental bankruptcy of those
who supported the Bill was only excelled by the
senile indecency of its opponents. Even a suffrage
woman can be pardoned for feeling ashamed
of the wretched arguments advanced in
support of the Bill. The quality of Minister
M‘Culloch’s introductory speech—delivered in a
mumbling, incoherent monotone —would not have
been good enough to persuade a cat to lap cream
or a donkey to eat thistles, much more to induce
the Tory Council to pass a constitutional reform.
Altogether the proceedings were intellectually and
in every way doleful, and Fatman Campbell’s in-
sulting lie that the supporters of woman’s franchise
were either agitators or the unfortunates of the
city, was the only thing about it that rose above
the level of the veriest commonplace.
“ The audience at the Princess’s never turned a
hair on Bert Gilbert’s last night. His own ad-
mirers probably had been choked off lately by
their non-appreciation of ‘Harbor Lights,’ and
people who came in crowds to sniff the briny
drama knew not Bert, except as a new acquaint-
ance, and gave all their claps to Knight and
Ferrar. All the same, the whole thing would
have been as dull as ditch-water but for Tom
Dossiter. Florence Terriss, as Peggy Chudleigh,
softened down her angles a shade as time went,
but at first her lack of grace took from the success
of the joint scenes with Gilbert.
“Patrons of last Saturday’s ‘Pop’ must give
Newbury credit for a liberal shilling’s-worth. A
young baritone, Victor Dougal, in ‘When bright
eyes glance,’ delivered his warning against
feminine snares in a solemn and didactic spirit.
Maggie M‘Cann, rendering ‘l’m ower young to
marry yet, ’ was apparently taken quite literally
by some of her hearers. A nice young Christian
Endeavourer next to me hissed ‘ Absurd! ’ so
fiercely that I couldn’t screw up my courage to
ask whether he suspected the singer of a ‘ wicked
story, ’ or merely condemned her ditty as frivolous.
“Yet the ‘ Pop ’ seemed the very place to divert
a young Christian, sated with a week’s bun-fight-
ing ; but you never know. In due course Philip
Newbury appeared, with his curls combed into his
eyes as usual, to sing two songs quite deliciously.
When Rodda Perry’s turn came, his sleek, lank
hair was all plastered over his’ forehead, and ears
too. More shame for Newbury if the poor boy
learnt his thatch methods from the former. One
yearned to lasso the pair of them off the platform,
shear the monkey-fringes from their ‘foreheads
high and white,’ and shoo them back to duty
again. Boy Rodda, the newly-discovered songful
Bendigo miner—a white-faced, lean lad—looks
very young for 24. He hangs both his arms
straight down in front, bends his knees, and sings
without any feeling in a high, shrill voice. , He
doesn’t fulfil one’s conception of a miner a single
scrap : in fact, it seems cruel to think of him doing
such hard work.
“ That skit on a Xmas pantomime by clever
Rose Musgrove and M ‘Nicol Turner was the snap-
piest item in a breezy programme. Miss Mus-
grove, looking bright as a button in pink frock,
apron-skirt, chiffon sash, and pink fillet in her
hair, ‘took off ’ the prevalent coon-song con-
vincingly, and succeeded admirably in numerous
bits of song-and-dance nonsense, and was realistic
as the twangy child-fairy of the stage. Mr.
Turner, lacking his colleague’s voice advantages,
was nevertheless gay and laughable, though, in
my opinion, not built for knee-breeches. That
discrepancy of shin-outline, or whatever it was,
recalled Gilbert when, in response to Maid
Marion’s defence of her bloomers, ‘ Oh, they’re all
right, dad,’ he replied, in wilful misunderstand-
ing, ‘ Well, your right’s all right, but your left’s a
bit cronk ! ’
“A party-of Austral Salonites presided over the
elocutionary debut of Miss Osmond, local pen-
woman, and a sort of white-headed girl with sister
clubites. The recitation was ‘ The Sentinel’s
Alarm ’ a little piece of descriptive writing pre-
sented to Miss 0 by Bland Holt ’! Did the
donor write it himself, I wonder ? If so, he should
have pruned it liberally before turning it loose on
a confiding lady friend. Such lots of unneces-
sary twaddle ! ‘ The tired horses slept, and we
could hear their heavy breathing.’ Who
wants to know about animals snoring when
thrilling incidents are, or should be, pending?
‘ What is that spot ? Has the spot a body ? It
has a body ! ’ —is a roundabout way of introducing a
red-skin ! Then there were ‘whirrings’ of crickets,
‘ wah-hooings ’ of night - birds, and responsive
‘ wah-hooings ’ from night-bird’s mate. Some
hearers laughed rudely at these imitations, but I
didn’t, because, not having been to red-skin land,
I can’t say whether these insect and bird sounds
were fair to the originals or not. Yes, I blame
the author, rather than the elocutionist. However,
the latter got lots of flowers and a recall, so that’s
all right. Mdme. Spada, in blue satin, white
gauze and pink roses, held her own against all-
comers.
“Melb. Mayor McEacharn’s ball-invitations
differ materially in wording from those of his pre-
decessors, and are especially composed with an eye
to real ‘Naiceness.’ The company of the invitee
is not baldly requested as heretofore; he is in-
vited ‘ to meet the Administrator of the Govt, and
Lady Madden at a ball, ’ etc.
“Re the murdered Empress, Janet Laay Clarke
and others have been showering impassioned
epistolatory sympathy on the local Austrian Con-
sul in a sort of personal way, as if they thought
that patriot’s bruised spirit must break if not ten-
derly treated. As a matter of fact, Mr. Pinschof
seems to be bearing up, as indeed why shouldn’t
he ? After all, take his consular dignities as
seriously as you like, the home-quitting importer
probably wasn’t absolutely a tame cat in Imperial
circles. Besides, there are always consolations.
Mrs. Pinschof (Madame Wiedermann), besides
being a masterly vocalist, is one of the best ama-
teur cooks in Melb.—which means a good deal to
a Benedict, who, in his wooing days, is said to
have forwarded with every billet-doux from far
Australia to his be trot lied in the home-land a
love-token in the shape of a cookery-book.
“Talking of all-conquering nurses and their
subjugated patients, one of those youthful Wallace
litigants led to the altar, a while back, a charming
capped-and-pinnied ministrant, somewhat his
senior, who had just seen him safely through
a long illness. Another goldfish in the bag of the
Florence Nightingale brigade.
“ Old adherents tear their hair re cne Chalmers
Church sale and consequent removal of memorials
of Dr. Cairns, its original pastor. After all, Dr.
Cairns’ very own connections and double-dyed dis-
ciples held the first torch to the elderly taber-
nacles’s funeral pyre, so to speak, when, after
their Idol’s death, they pig-headedly led forth a
secession from his successor’s congregation and
started that rival firm, ‘ Cairns Memorial Church.’
The new house cut into the business for long
enough to help (mildly speaking) towards the ruin
of the senior branch, and then, having accom-
plished its ruin, sank into poverty itself.
“ The unhappy parson who suffered througn the
split in funds and followers was, apparently,
weighed in the balances and found wanting by
rabid Cairnsites whenever he deviated by one jot
or one tittle from his dead-and-gone predecessor’s
methods—not that the latter had been one of your
meek and lowly sort. Among Vic. Presbyterians
there are a band of warriors, able men most of
them, who have devoted themselves principally to
stoning (speaking metaphorically) offenders into
repentant corners or out of the fold altogether.
“Doctor Morrison, in his anxiety to have a
R.C. girls’ school in Chalmers Church, next door
to the Scotch College, rather than a detrimental
hospital, apparently doesn’t trouble about the
sister institution to his own academy—the Presby-
terian Ladies’ College. The latter won’t care for
a ladies’ high school poaching on its preserves.
And _E. Melb. covers are none too flush of pupils,
as it is, owing to emigration of families to other
suburbs.
It ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


BMOKE
THREE CASTLES
s*
S
T "‘ ,u -
-—-—
CIGARETTES.
oie"
IS IN THE DRINKING
AND
IT CAN BE TESTED FREE
THEREFORE WRITE TO US
! or Dainty Sample Tin (a postcard will do) which will be sent
post tree, if when writing yon name this Journal.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is sold by Grocers, Chemists and Stores.
Addrtst*: Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocon, Limited, Sydney.
The Famous French
Chocolate.
CHBGDtBT HIEiIIER
Obtainable from all Grocers and Confectioners.
Wholesale
Agents:
W. M. Cameron & Co.,
340 Oeorye-st., Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Syme enlarges the Leader —a tribute to
the skill with which W. Carrington has wrought
up the Weekly Times.
Cardinal Moran completed his 68th year on
Friday, 16th September. He has been 14 years
Archbishop of Sydney.
Johnny Wallace, M.L.C., of Monahan
fame, never wore a coat in Melbourne up to 20
years ago, or less. He always sported a jumper.
Rougemont, who ought to be translated
Unblushing, is, of course, only a re-incarnation of
Capt. Lawson, whose New Guinea travels were
published a while ago.
Apropos the impending visit to Australia
of a certain alleged nobleman. How about an en-
largement of the scope of the Vic. Undesirable
Immigrants Restriction Bill ?
Latest news tells that Rev. L. M. Isitt has
had his pocket picked in London. One of his
yarns in Australia was that his most edifying con-
vert was an ex-pick Docket. A fresh graduate—or
a relapse ?
Adelaide citizens are becoming inclined to
resent the way in which Chief Justice Way
attempts to monopolise the principal offices in
connection with every public movement and in-
stitution.
Ex-Secretary Russell, so long and favor-
ably known in connection with Sydney Hospital—
both the old wooden one and the new palatial
structure —has now the ill-luck to occupy a
patient’s bed in one of the wards.
Mrs. John Grant, who lately died in
Wangaratta district, just under 99 years of
age, spent 96 of them without a doctor’s help.
Then the sawbones was only called in because the
old lady had fallen and injured a joint.
An attempt is to be made, judging by
evidence given before the House of Lords’ Copy-
right Bill Committee, to compel writers of
“colonial ” books to forward copies to the British
Museum and Bodleian Library, free of charge.
Mysterious cutting from Brisbane society
paper:—
The Earl of Yarmouth, who has matte a name for him-
self in Australia, is about to undergo, in London, an
operation, which it is hoped may relieve him of a source
of some anxiety to his friends.
Earl De La Warr, of Hooley renown, is
not a stranger to Australia. He was pearl-fishing
in the Far North when the drowning of his elder
brother, Viscount Cantelupe, made him heir to
the De La Warr peerage. Also he is known in
Westralia.
THE LATE HORACE POUSSARD.
44 Bun Tuck ” —the words, somehow, sug-
gest a Sunday-school feed— is the latest nick-name
bestowed upon the stalwart Premier of Maoriland.
Rather, it is claimed to be the revival of a long-
defunct title —the story, told in all seriousness to
Parliament, being that it was the name by which
Seddon was known when he was partner in a
mining claim with a couple of Chinamen, some 20
years ago. According to the apocryphal yarn,
Dick “squeezed ” the almond-eyed brethren, and
sold the mine to “ white devils.” In other words,
Bun Tuck “ tuk the bun,” which the story )s fairly
entitled to do as a piece of Parliamentary fiction,
skilfully woven and supported by a Chinese docu-
ment and sworn affidavit.
During a recent shivoo at Melb. morgue,
Zox, M.L.C., was talking to Dr. Brett, one of the
post-mortemists, when Brett asked Zox whether he
had seen “the chamber of horrors ” —photographs
of unclaimed bodies which are kept for possible
identification. Thinking that the gruesome gallery
was the apartment where he stood, the short-
sighted Zox turned to a frame of pictures on the
wall and glanced up and down one of the rows
with the eye of an expert. Suddenly he developed
a smile of satisfaction as he picked out one face
and said, “I’ll swear I’ve seen that chap dozens
of times.” Knowing that the portraits which Zox
was examining were those of the members of the
Yic. Parliament, Brett went over with a grin and
found that Zox’s supposed recognisable corpse was
no less a personage than ex-Premier Gillies. But,
after all, Zox wasn’t so far out. As a politician,
Gillies has been dead and decomposed for years.
Major-General Kitchener and Holled-
Smith, of Victoria, were for some years com-
panions-in-arms in Egypt. Smith also succeeded
Kitchener as Gov.-General of the Red Sea littoral,
and believes that had he not been transferred to
Victoria the glory of avenging Gordon would have
fallen to him.
If there is any man who ought to have a
fair idea whether M. deßougemont, who is telling
the tall tales of adventures among Australian
aborigines, has the truth in him, it is Harry Stock-
dale. Stock dale began his connection with the
north-west part disastrously nearly a quarter of a
century ago, and has continued it more or less ever
since.
“Melb.”: “Demise, Charles Ryan, of
Macedon, father of Dr. “Plevna” Ryan. His
Macedon garden is a paradise, universally'allowed
the finest private garden in Australia. There one
can realise the feelings of Satan outside Eden.
Ryan was a squatter, who came successfully out
of the fight with Democracy.
On September 30 Agent-General Saul
Samuel finally passes from the public life of N.S.
Wales. In 1854 he was elected to the old Leg.
Council, and in one capacity or another (mostly
remunerated) he has represented N.S.W. interests
ever since. His leave of absence on full pay,
which terminates on the date stated, stands in
lieu of pension and retiring allowance. On Oct. 2
he completes his 78th year.
“ Scribo ” : Bateman, entrepreneur of
“Round the World in Eighty Days,” at Melb.
Royal, is son of the former part-proprietor and
whole leaderist of Ballarat Courier They said
Bateman, senr., used to work all day on his lead-
ing article. Then he went to a restaurant and ate
two complete meals. Undoubtedly his persistent
articles were the ablest defence extant of the
M‘Culloch and Berry regimes.
Old G. W. Rusden, author of the “ His-
tory of Australia,” has a theological bent. He has
lately ordered 250 copies of Prof. Campbell
Fraser’s “Philosophy of Theism,” a thick, expen-
sive book, to distribute among the Vic., public
libraries and mechanics’ institutes. Rusden is a
Victorian pensioned civil servant, and is lucky to
be able to afford rather over <£loo in distributing
a book that few will care to read.
A nephew of that famous surgeon, J. Y.
Simpson, who, in ’47, popularised, even if he did
not actually introduce, the use of chloroform, died
in S. Australia, a few days ago—a Methodist
minister, bearing the great man’s name. Metho-
dist pulpits and obesity seem somehow incon-
gruous ; the Rev. J. Y., who inherited a tendency
to great girth, felt it so, and worried over it.
Besides, he was a Scotch humorist.
Bishop Samuel Ballarat
takes great pride in announcing
his blood-relationship to the suc-
cessful General Kitchener, who
is his first cousin.
“H.” : The first Melb.
schoolmaster was Brickwood, an
Anglican clergyman, who left
for an English incumbency,
which he has held ever since,
and he is still reported alive. A
surviving pupil is squatter Bond,
formerly an antagonist of Mor-
gan, the bushranger, in N.S.W.,
but now settled at Preston, near
Melb. Last year the few alive
of Brickwood’s scholars dined at
Bond’s, and then signed an ad-
dress of congratulation, which
was forwarded to their old
pedagogue. Brickwood was
highly esteemed, like Cape, in
Sydney.
Peggy Pryde’s “ Mother
Doyle,” who used to go bail for
all the “blokes” in trouble,
has a real, live prototype in
Melbourne—a little, quiet,
motherly - looking, spectacled
old woman, who follows the
calling of a professional “ bonds-
woman.” In appearance she
would make a splendid matron
for a benevolent asylum, but
there is only one public place
where her homely old phiz is
seen, and that is the witness-box
of the different police - courts
around Melb. when she arises
to swear that she is worth such-
and-such a sum over and above
all her just debts.
“ I think my brother Judges might show
sufficient consideration for my arguments to re-
frain from talking when I am delivering judg-
ment,” said Mr. Justice Bundey in S.A. Full
Court, the other day. Whereupon Way and
Boucaut became suddenly as silent as the grave,
but the rebuke was discreetly kept out of the local
press.
When old Tom Brassey gets back to Vic-
toria—in a few weeks now—the papers will be
interviewing him. There never was a more inter-
viewable man. The difficulty is, not for a reporter
to get to see him, but to get away again when the
scribe has finished. H.E. has been known to shut
the door, stand with his back against it, and prose
away for an hour, after the regular interview was
finished, about the navy, foreign politics, and any-
thing that affords an opportunity for being dull
and ponderous. In the case of a Governor a scribe
can’t say “ Shut up! I’m off ! ” though he may
think it hard all the time, hoping there is some-
thing in thought-transference.
“ Geolay ” : ne Ben Hall. He was shot—
as he lay asleep, according to “ Sir Watkin, the
black-tracker’s, version—in the scrub two miles
from his betrayer’s hut. The wife of the indi-
vidual who “ put him away,” some months after
the affair, gave birth to a child, a boy, on whose
body were reproduced many
marks like old bullet-wounds
(Hall, when picked up, had 32
bullet-holes in his body). How
is that for pre-natal influ-
ence ?
WHY, OH WHY?
VIOLET: “ Typewriters only weigh a few pounds,
don't they, mother ?”
MOTHER: 'Yes, dear. ”
VIOLET: “ Well, why was pa boasting about being
able to hold the new one on his knee by the
hour !”
Recently there died at Navarre (Vic.),
Mrs. Stuart, who was born at Bulleen, near Tem-
plestowe (Vic.), in 1840. She was the daughter of
William Howard, ship’s who came
from Launceston with John Pascoe lawkner, the
founder of Melbourne.
AN.S.W. District Court Judge with de-
signs on the Supreme Court Bench was so irritated
at being passed over twice running that he wrote
out and forwarded his resignation. Friendly
counsel intervened, however, and he was permitted
to withdraw the document.
Speaker Mason (Vic.) is going it. He
gives dinners to members and Parliamentary
officials every week. It recalls the old Mat
Davies days—with the difference that Mason does
it out of real money, and his guests need not
feel that they are eating paper.
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley entered his
69th year on Sunday last. In November he will
have been 12 years on the Bench. He was ad-
mitted to N.S.W. bar in June, ’62, and to the
Irish bar in Jan.,’s3—so that he has spent more
than 45 years of his life at the bar and on the
Bench.
Mrs. Way, wife of the S.A. Chief Justice,
was in her younger days a most accomplished
amateur actress and vocalist, and she gave many
performances round the Southern towns of the pro-
vince in “Our Bay,” “Milky White,” and other
oon>“dm“. She also appeared as plaintiff in “Trial
by Jury.”
The anarchists of other countries are fully as
mad as those of Italy, but instead of using a file or
dagger as Lucceni did, they trust to a revolver or
other firearm, and consequently merely scare the
intended victim. Sometimes the victim knows
nothing about the attempt, as the weapon simply
clicks. It is the national weapon and not in-
ordinate national bloodthirstiness which makes
the Italian murderer so often successful.
The secretaryship of N.S.W. Evangelical
Alliance (a very prayerful but purposeless institu-
tion) has just been vacated by the venerable Rev.
T. S. Forsaith, familiar in M.L. history as Pre-
mier of that province for a day-and-a-half. His
was the memorable “ Clean-Shirt ” Ministry
brought into office as the result of a chance-vote
in the days when even N.S.W. could afford to
laugh at the antics of Maoriland politicians.
THE SENSE OF COLOR.
The sky was blue, the bush was green and red,
When Reckless Randolph sang his songs erratic.
But now he’s turned quite eminently proper;
“One cannot live on poetry,” he said,
And so he feeds his taste poly-chromatic
On peacock ore and carbonates of copper !
N.Q. Von Kotzb.
While the portraits of Melbourne’s two
first coroners were being unveiled at the local
morgue last week, Coroner Candler stated that
during the Hotham regime Dr. Campbell, the
coroner of the day, was sacked for simply “talking
back ” to so exalted a personage as a Governor.
Gov. Hotham had written to Campbell asking him
what it would cost Government to bury stray
corpses on its own account, and, on the doctor
responding that “ he was not an undertaker,” the
unspeakable Hotham promptly dismissed him.
That was before the days of Responsible Govern-
ment, when Vic. and all in it were at the mercy of
t he whims of an Imperial popinjay.
Rumored that Deputy Super. Webb, of
Sydney Metropolitan Fire Brigade, is to be pro-
moted to be chief superintendent. Apropos of
which, it was said that Premier Reid secured the
“ fire vote ” (about 40) at King Division election,
by promising a pension to retiring Super. Bear.
“ Thorold ” : The only
Red Page critic who remains
cold to the charms of Daley
makes the absurd remark
that our poet “ is meant to
be the Herrick of Austra-
lia ” —and, apparently, no-
thing more. Certainly, Daley
almost touches Herrick’s
dainty fragility and Her-
rick could even make poetry
of a “ crimson stomacher,” or
a “ tempestuous petticoat”—
but wherever did the seven-
teenth century singer evi-
dence the imaginative depth
of “ Lethe,” that greatest of
all Daley's efforts, or the
splendor of “A Sunset Fan-
tasy ? ” How cruel, though,
to ask the average lover of
word-music to name the three
poems of his choice, when
Daley’s book gleams with the
gems of 15 years —when one
has to overlook his sensuous
fragments, his lightsome
“ King in Exile,” with its
appeal to our tenderest re-
membrances, and sonnets
such as “ The Gleaner ! ”
A certain brilliant old-
time Vic. barrister, who had
married the daughter of a
milkman, was shortly afterwards pleading before
Judge Barry, when he used the phrase, “the
cream of the argument.” “I understand, Mr.
,” said Barry, “ that you—er— priss It,
and beg—er—to offer my congratulations.”
When Judge Macoboy and Villciieuye
Smith were on circuit together in Northern
Victoria they stopped one day at a roadside
boarding-house kept by a Frenchman, noted for
the excellence of his soups. Soup was served to
them from an iron pot in the fireplace, and was
pronounced excellent, but when French jr was
ladling out a second helping he fished up a piece of
rag, over which he swore lustily. “ What is the
matter ? ” asked the Judge in alarm. “ Diable ! ”
was the reply, “ dem navvees will hang der socks
in de fireplace to dry, no matter what I shall say.
Tableaux.
Victoria’s first Judge, E. J. Brewster, who
died at Capetown (S. Afr.) on 17th March last—left
£88,184 in England and ,£61,800 in Victoria, from
which province he had been absent over half-a-
century. Although bred a lawyer he died a par-
son—which somehow recalls the penitent thief —
and left £5200 to English religious and charitable
objects. He did not bequeath one cent to any Vic-
torian charity. After paying certain legacies he
left the balance of his property to his wife for life.
At her death it is to be sold for cash and given
chiefly to societies for the ’version O c Jews and
Roman Catholics.
Vic. Chief- Justice Madden, in his vice-
regal incapacity, has addressed a letter to the
Austrian Consul in Melbourne. In that document,
speaking on behalf of the people of Victoria, he
expresses sympathy with Austria in regard to the
assassination of the Empress. He concludes
thus :
I have also asked the Imperial authorities m England
to convey officially to His Imperial .Majesty the con-
dolence and indignation of Victoria with his sorrow and
the shocking cause.
Now, how would H.Ex., in his Chief-Judicial
capacity, interpret that sentence, if called upon to
translate it into intelligibility and grammatical
concord, in a suit in Equity ?
SIDNEY WEBB. BEATRICE WEBB
Photo?., C. E. Fry Son, London.
The late William Henry Walsh, a pioneer
Queenslander, whose vogues were squatting and
politics, had a hospitable manner with guests,
after half-an-hour’s conversation, of saying, “ Well
I think a little spirit would do us no harm,”
therewith producing the decanters and glasses.
Another half-hour’s talk would bring—“ Well, I
think a little more spirit would do us no harm.”
And so on till the visit expended itself. The
writer was once taken by B. D. Morehead to see
“ Old Spirit’s ” epitaph. It was simple enough :
“ And the spirit returned to God who gave it.”
“ Bargo ” : Knew Ernie Brockman, hero
of Wide World lion - story— republished in
Bulletin of Sept. 10th, and erroneously credited
to the Transmitter, which had cribbed it from
the magazine named. He was here (Sydney) tele-
graph-operating for some time, but, having a fixed
idea that a man should not stay more than two or
three years in any one place, resigned. From
occasional communications dropped from Hono-
lulu, Panama, “the States,” etc., he seems since
to have successfully “ hustled ” round three
parts of the globe. I believe every word of his
story, for his manliness and integrity were con-
spicuous. Am not a bit surprised at “ Brocky ”
meeting with his horrible adventure—he had a
knack, amounting to positive genius, for getting
into all sorts of extraordinary scrapes.


a
r
►
ip Apsorea
v(jQRCESTERSJ///jt
f"WT Ht QPpjf E W
F °R ROAST B&s£
WORRIES CflAVif^,,.'
Hi * * •"•’iiiV* * * ■.« nitiC^f
|jf THE^
FMMdJtTEi CDCGfI.
Guaranteed Pure Cocoa and Extract of Malt
Aboriginalities.
“Snell" : The best mysterious disappear-
ance that came under my “ immediate eye ’ hap-
pened in Ballarat South some years ago. One
Kelly went out into his garden after tea to devote
a little time to his favorite vegetables, and sud-
denly disappeared from the face of nature and
the midst of things. From the moment Kelly
stepped from his kitchen door, he seemed to have
been simply wiped out, and an all-night search
resulted only in convincing Mrs. Kelly that Ned
had been carried up to heaven “ for his sins.” The
police were on the job all next day up till four
o’clock, dragging dams and searching in nooks and
corners, and they did not even discover an excuse
for a clue. At four o’clock Mrs. Kelly was weep-
ing in the garden when she heard her husband's
voice calling for help in faint, far-off tones. There
was absolutely nothing about that could hide the
missing man, excepting a few shrubs, and these
had been beaten a dozen times. Mrs. Kelly knew
it was the ghost of her old man calling, and she
went down the road, bare-headed, and yelling.
But the Kelly house-dog had more savee, and
when a neighbor arrived the tyke had solved the
mystery. Kelly had crept under a large, spread-
ing gooseberry-bush to cut away a lot of the
growth, and had gone through into an old shaft,
dragging a few of the boughs down in such a
way that the small aperture was quite hidden.
Kelly was saved from drowning by old timbers
jambed across the shaft, but was badly damaged
when brought to light again.
* * * #
“ Takapuna ” : It is customary for a
young Maori wife, when nursing an infant,
to take a young pig from a litter and suckle it
with her own child. As soon as the little porker
is fat it is cooked and eaten. I believe this is a
well-known custom ; but I have not seen in print
the fact I now affirm after partaking of the
porker—to wit, that it is much sweeter and more
delicate than if reared in the ordinary way.
Still another of the joys of the bush. Back-
country pubs, mostly do their own “killing”;
and pretty often the only beasts offering are those
too bad to be taken along with travelling mobs
which pass that way. “ Don’t eat beef here,” an
old-established coach-driver once told the writer,
in a matter-of-fact sort of way, as a changing-
house was neared.
“ Timi”: The gigantic lizard
or kumi, reported by cable to have
been seen near Gisborne, in Auck-
land province, M.L., will probably
prove to be a myth. The Maori
traditions of the kumi, unlike
those regarding the moa, vary as
to the shape, size and other
characteristics. Some of the tra-
ditional accounts of the animal
make it a winged dragon, a de-
scription which apparently mixes
the kumi up with the taniwha
myth. Years ago, in Rotorua
district, an old tohunga pointed
out to me the dragon on a
sovereign, and said, “Kumi. 1 ’
In other parts of the country the
legends favor a crqcodilean shape.
I don’t remember hearing of the
discovery in Maoriland of the
remains of any large reptile be-
longing to any recent geological
era. The traditions of the Maoris
re the moa have been verified by
modern scientific research, and
unfossilised eggs and feathers of
the giant bird have been found
occasionally, showing that tho
moa has but recently become ex-
tinct. In view of the accuracy of
the moa traditions, and the hazi-
ness of the natives concerning the
kumi, it will be safe to regar
with caution the reported appear
ance of the reptile.
* * *
“ B.G.’' : Recent bunyip-
statements prompt me to describe
what I once saw, when a boy of
14. Travelling down the Lachlan
with my father, we camped just
above a waterhole, nearly a quar-
ter of a mile long. Going for the
horses, just before daybreak, about
30 yards from our camp I heard
a rushing among the reeds, and
saw something lurch out and
plunge into the water. It was, as
described by one of your corres-
pondents, like a Newfoundland
dog, with a shorter and thicker
tail, color a browny-slate. My
father only laughed at me, though he admitted
hearing the plunge.
* * * * *
“ Tindog ” : When camels make love, they
put out their tongues. Once saw a camel in Cue,
W.A., making overtures to her ladyship in the
distance, and, to call his attention to business, the
driver dumped two thirty-sixes of beer on his
back - Bgcw t. ! After doing a 20-mile dry stage,
the camel had his head turned round, and his
tongue out, trying to get at the beer ! His affec-
tions had been transferred ! Human, wasn’t it ?
I vvuz wance the champion baker in
Melbun’,” said the shearer’s cook. He had been
dispensing indigestion amongst the shearers for
some days, and never failed to “skite” each
evening, but as he possessed the very necessary
adjunct of being able to convince unbelievers with
his “dooks,” he was listened to. “I’ad a shop
in Collins-street,” he continued, “ an’ us ter bake
two millions loafs ’er bred every mornin’. I ’ad a
flour-mill continyerly niakin’ flour to keep me
goin’, an’ me oven wuz as big as that shed, an’
uster ’old one million loafs at a time, and me
dough uster be put to rise in big iron tanks. Wun
day I ’ad to go away an’ I left a bloke to look
after the dough, and when I wuz erway it riz up
an’ spread all over the room an’ caught the bloke
and smothered ’im. Well, I comes back, an’
bein a bit late I gits to work (I wuz pretty
slippery them times), an’ I made all the loafs,
and, blew me, if I noo where the bloke wuz until
I found is ear an’ one of ’is boots in the larst loaf.
As the others vvuz all bakin’ I couldn’t go through
em » s ?, as e wuz P refct y we H mixed up in ’em, I
traded em all as the ‘ noo sanwich loaf,’ and they
wuz sellin like smoke until the chap that got the
head-part put the perlice on me, an’ I had to cut.
What yer grinnin’ at, Ginger ? D’yer blanky
well disbelieve me ? ” Ginger protested that he
would sooner disbelieve the “gorspel,” as he
picked up a loaf and went out to the wood-heap
to cut himself a slice.
* • * •
Snake-killing cats ? One Page, of Towns-
ville (N.Q.), has a cat known as a notable
snake-killer. A recent feat Qf puss was to rush up
a tree, bring down a 4-ft. brown snake, and do
battle with it according to approved cat-snake
rules. It dodged every attempted bite, and killed
the enemy. It has now a victory record of over a
dozen snakes.
» * , »
“0.R.”: That item re the capacity for
counting possessed by the Port Phillip blacks, re-
calls what a Vie. bank-manager once told me.
He was spending a day at the house of a neigh-
boring squatter when Punch, the station black-
fellow, came rushing up to the verandah yelling,
“ Turkeys ! turkeys 1 ” Of course he meant wild
turkeys. “ How many, Punch ? ” enquired the
squatter. “ Thousands,” replied Punch, spreading
out his arms as i f to indicate that the whole coun-
tryside was black with turkeys. “ Nonsense,
Punch, ’ said the squatter, “ there can’t be thou-
sands. Think a bit and tell us how many you
THE BULLETIN’S AMATEUR ART-GALLERY.
On the selection. Cutting out a sugar-bag before the limb fell.
saw.” “Well, I plurry well counted four,” an-
swered Punch, sullenly.
* * * *
Poynton, backblocks M.P., at Adelaide
Interprovincial Labor Conference :
On one station in N.S.W. I know of one building, 14ft.
wide, 28ft. long, and 7ft. high, which has to give accommo-
dation to 28 men, who eat and sleep in it.
The Bulletin has been trying to arrange that lot
along the walls, but, in the end has had to put a
job lot under the table. The conference, anyhow,
was moved to declare that accommodation for
station and farm-workers should, as in Maoriland,
be under State control.
On a certain
Murrumbidgee
station the Yan-
kee nigger-cook
is an adept at
nice ceremonial
d isti notions.
“Who dar? Tra*
heller ? How far
you come, tra-
beller? Poor fel-
low 1 Go darn
de crick an’ rest
you paw feet,
catchy rabbit,
paw trabeller.”
“Who dar?
Shearer? Come
inside shearer
an’ hab bit of
browney.” The
secret of the dis-
tinction is that
a shearer once
got on the chim-
ney and, with
the aid of a fish-
ing-line and an
entertaining ac-
complice inside,
managed to
elope with Sam’s
three duffs.
* *
Dear Bulle-
tin.—Have nev-
er seen in your
columns any no-
tice of that
strange bush hy-
brid the “ ’pos-
sum-cat.” Has
the advance of
civilisation put
an end to the
immoral freak ?
He was common
enough in the
old days. I once
gained the repu-
tation of a dar-
ing liar by as-
serting the pos-
sibility and the actual existence of such hybrids
in opposition to the dictum of an eminent biolo-
gist. Is it too late to rehabilitate myself ? What
do other bush-liars say ?— Waipißi. [A Bulletin
man has seen the cross between the ’possum and
the domestic cat.]
* * * *
“Bushman” : Only time a ’roo’s tail does
not touch ground is when hopping. About half
the tail is bare underneath, the skin of this por-
tion being much thickened by contact with the
ground when the animal is at rest or feeding.
When hopping, the tail moves up and down, but
does not touch the ground. A tailless ’roo can get
along all right, but can neither turn short nor
jump fences. When the ’roo is taking off at a
fence it will be seen that, as his body rises, the
tail jerks down —as a man’s hands do when he
jumps with weights.
* * * •
“ S.S.”: Possibly I am wrong about the
night cry of the lyre-bird. The country I speak
of is the range at Hazlewood, about 10 miles from
Morwell, in Gippsland. There were many of the
birds on the hills, and it was quite common to see
them scurrying about on the side of the gorge
amongst the heath. I had the assurance of the
oldest inhabitant and other local authorities that
the lyres were I’esponsible for the gruesome cries
that made early morning hideous. May say lam
too familiar with the utterances of the ’possum in
all his stages to have been scared by a parliament
of joeys.
* * * 9
There is a freak at Brookville (Vic.), which
a .Melb. showman ought to “lay for”—a sheep
with the head of a native bear. The shape is
accurate and the head is covered with grey hair.
The rest of the animal is clothed in all wool as per
usual. The beast was discovered running with
strays at New Rush Creek. At Tongio and there-
abouts domestic eats with a dash of ’possum are
quite common, and one man boasts a ring-tail
cat.
• * » *
“M.Gr.T.”: Be women working. In Q.
once saw a man and his wife and family travelling
with a wool-laden waggon and dray. The hus-
band drove waggon, and behind came the dray
driven by the wife, with the tribe of youngsters
stacked on top of the wool. She had seven horses
to handle along a heavily-timbered track, and
well she did it, too. On the camp of a morniug
also she always harnessed up her own team.
• • • •
“Jeff”: The rams where I am shearing
at present, up Walgett way, are affected with a
disease I have never seen in sheep before. After
the animal is shorn, large, hideous gatherings are
visible, some of them as big as an orange—and
these, if struck hard with a sharp comb, will ex-
plode like a shell. How will the Sydney public
like to know that these rams are fathering mutton
for them to eat ? The disease isn’t the ordinary
“ yolk-boil,” which is not a circumstance to it.
* * • •
“ 8.W.” : Be “Jinda’s” par (27/8/’9B).
Working up on Kiar Lake (Monaro district) we
made a canoe, and one night at knock-off time we
found that it had drifted to the middle of the
lake. I being the only one who could swim,
stripped and swam out for it; but, when within a
few yards of it, I became suddenly weak; and,
as I had had a hard day’s work, lost my presence
of mind, and began to swim back. Though I
did not dare to waste strength in answering my
mates’ shouts, I presently found that I could not
keep on swimming, and started to “ tread water,”
when I discovered that the depth only came up to
mu neck! Next morning, waded out to the spot
where the canoe had been the night before.
» » * •
“A.J.8.” : More Australese. Was ac-
costed recently with, “Say, boss, have you seen
the bloke (manager) about ? ” and, when I pre-
tended not to understand, “Blime ! don’t you
know what the flaming bloke is?” I acknow-
ledged that I was the man, and was told that he
LOGIC .
FIRST B OOZER: “A nice mess you've let me into. Jumped the neddy and
everything over the bar. I thought you said you'd set me on my feet. ”
SECOND BOOZER : “ Well, haven’t you got to walk now ?”
wanted to earn a few “men-on-horsebaok” (sovs.),
ooald I give him a “ start ’’—job. He had such a
casual style about him that I took him on. When
he turned up next morning he had on a nice new
pair of “ crabs ” (boots) and a pair of white mole
2 Strides ” (trousers), tied up with leather “ tow-
yangs ” (leg-straps), and a red “ stook ” (silk
handkerchief) round his neck. He was such a
howling swell. Have since heard him call a
sovereign a “John Gogler.” He’s enlarging my
vocabulary rapidly.
* * * •
“E.S.S.”: The bottle-tree is one of the
most curious and important trees in Australia.
Inside the hard, rough bark is a soft, vegetable-
like substance on which horses and cattle fatten
quickly. A man may exist on it tor a long time when
nothing else is available. In times of drought it
has saved thousands of sheep and cattle, and
revived many a perishing traveller. One Q. squat-
ter saved his stock in a dry season by running the
water from these trees into troughs for their use.
But it killed a great number of his best trees.
Many are destroyed by being cut into before they
are old enough to contain water. An old hand
will never make this mistake. He looks on the
ground at the butt for the droppings of birds. If
he sees none, he knows there is no water in the
tree ; but if the ground is plentifully spotted—in
goes the axe, and out comes the water. Pity that
this tree is allowed to be so ruthlessly destroyed.
The bunya, or banyan tree, is rigorously pre-
served. Yet it is of far less importance than the
other. The bunya merely yields a limited supply
of food for the aborigine ; the bottle-tree supplies
man and beast with food and water. I should
like to learn what is the girth-measurement of the
largest bottle-tree in Australia, and where
situated ? What age does a bottle-tree attain
before it contains water? How <jo birds get at
the vvater in the trees ? What is the greatest
quantity of water taken from a single tree ?
* * * *
“ Wandywarra ” : The way niggers recover
from wounds is marvellous. In one fight among
the Roebuck Bay (Broome) niggers, one fellow got
a crack which completely bashed the top of his
head in, and gave him the appearance of a
youngster with his “old man’s” boxer on. The
blood spurted from his ears when he got the blow,
but, medical opinion that the ease was
hopeless, he is still about, and as lively as a soldier-
ant. [This is the quality of “ disvulnerability,”
which decreases with the increase of civilisation.]
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin. —Re drink, thrift, and
wage-cutting. In the more populous districts it
is certainly the “steady, saving, servile indi-
vidual” who does the trick every time. He is
mostly married, therefore a “ local bird ” ; has an
“ old woman ” who is a terror for work, a cow or
two, “ tailed ” about the roads by young
Johnny; also a few industrious pigs that make
their own living, and fowls. On Sundays he puts
on a pious expression, a cheap coat, pants that
speak of poverty, polished bluchers, and, as be-
comes his “position,” takes a backseat. After
the ordeal he sees Mr. Pinkothrift about dam
sinking, or Mr. Shillingshice about hedge-trim-
ming, &c. He affects piece-work, “ keeps the
boys going”; gets it low, lives low, works long
hours and makes a“do ” of it. This man isn’t a
passing circumstance ; he has come to stay until
the independent spirit of a free and purely Aus-
tralian nation gets its work in.— Ben Sun.
• * * *
Be that “ Pars the terinarter sauce ” story
—such things do happen. A traveller once glared
at writer for taking chutnee (served on a glass
jam-dish) with his meat. But the glare in his
eyes became a glisten when he tried some on his own
bread and butter. At another hotel a very few
early peas were put on the table. There was
about a spoonful each all round, but the third
man to whom they came helped himself to all but
about a spoonful. His neighbor quietly took the
pepper-castor, unscrewed its top, and canted the
whole contents over the other man’s peas with the


SUN HATS & HELMETS
TREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST
WHISKY, DRINK . . .
Williams’.
Tucker & Co.,
Agents. SYDNEY
remark: “Look here, old fellow, you’ve got all
the peas, better have all the pepper too.”
* * * *
The butcher at Weld Range, Murchison,
W.A., ran out of live-stock and had to shoot
kangaroos for meat. He posted up notice—
“ Anyone requiring emu or bungarra-meat will
have to give notice the day before.”
* * * *
“Yarrumi”: Thousands of rabbits in
Riverina die every year in logs. If “bunny ’ be
chased into a place in which he can’t turn round—
he’ll turn it up and die right away. Did anyone
ever see a rabbit coming out of a log “mid his
tail in de front ? ” Writer never did, and he has
seen as many as the next man.
Dear Bulletin. —Re
par. (Aug. 13) about a
girl who objected to cut
mallee-shoots. I haveseen
gn-ls cutting shoots, win-
nowing, ploughing, and
doing all kind of farm
work on a malice farm
near Ninyeanook Vic.
Seemed very healthy.
Passing the place lately
a man stopped our trap
and said he had a girl of
15 (produced) who would
run anyone of us for £l.
No takers. The girl was
the cut of a runner, long
from knee to hip, short
from knee to ankle, well-
turned leg, fine ankle,
and determined fac e.
Sort of girl Marshall-
Hall would rave about.—•
J.M.A.
♦ *
“ Yokel ” : The din-
goes made a raid on our
sheep one night, and,
after sampling about a
dozen, found one to their
taste, slew him, and left
him for future use. Com-
ing across the carcase,
about 200yds. from the
house, I got the strych-
nine and put on a liberal
dose. When cleaning the
piggery shortly after-
wards two of the in-
mates escaped, and when
I next saw them they
were wrangling over the
remains of the poisoned
carcase. In fear and
trembling I drove them
back into the stye ex-
pecting their speedy de-
mise ; but though for a
couple of days those
porkers seemed a bit off
their feed, at the end of
that time they were apparently ready to tackle
another spread of mutton and strychnine. Are
pigs strychnia-proof?
* * * *
It was in a cattle-duffing country out West.
Michael Bullock, J.P., was adjudicating in one of
the cases peculiar to the district, and the evidence
against defendant was overwhelming. Conviction
was unavoidable, and the sympathetic heart of
Bullock was racked at the sad prospect ahead for
the evil-doer. Suddenly he burst out: “ Brown,
ye divil, ye’re guilty, and I fine ye two quid
which I’ll pay myself by way of showin’ the
feelin’s of a district that does a good bit o’ duffin’
itself when it ain’t otherwise okkypied.”
* * * »
“ W.S.T.” : I have solved the bunyip
question to my own satisfaction, at all events.
The bugbear of Australian zoology and literature
is neither more nor less than an “ old-man ” Mur-
ray cod. I have lived in various parts of the
Riverina country, and wherever the bunyip story
prevails—from the Murray’s mouth to the far
away Warrego, there also is the omnivorous,
gorging, apoplectic cod. From his innocent youth
until he attains the bulk of a full-grown porpoise
he will swallow anything he can get his jaws
round—except the bunyip tradition ! Has been
known to nip a drinking magpie off a log and
swallow the bird whole. “A shark,” it is said,
“ will fly from a feather,” but Mr. Murray Cod
“sets” young ducks like a well-broken pointer,
and gobbles them like an ill-broken one. Up here
on the Macquarie there are various bunyip yarns ;
one to the effect that while some blacks were
bathing with their piccannies in the “Deep Hole”
at Ellengerah station, and while one of the gins
was tossing about her babe in the water, the infant
was suddenly snatched from her and taken under.
Certain it is, at all events, that the blacks have
never bathed in the hola from that day to this.
« * * *
“WillS.”: Talk about pigs! My mate
carried a he-sucker from Zeehan to Mt. Black
(Tas.) and carefully brought him (the pig) up dog-
fashion. Dennis would answer to calls, &0., and
follow, when he grew up, better than most dogs ;
also he would waltz to the strains of “Erins
Green Shore ” till he became giddy. Would
follow us to work and lie on Dan’s bluey in the
smithy during the time we were in the tunnel.
He’d bark at all strangers on the approved watch-
dog system, and once he chased a couple of English
new-chums clean off the “show.” Dennis was
gifted with remarkable intelligence. During the
winter he was invaluable, for we utilised the
warmth of his body to soften the frozen gelignite.
We'd just roll in a bag and he’d lie on it. After
a while moroseness prompted his porkship to
“ sample ” the explosive, and once he got the taste
he became utterly demoralised. He gradually
lost his respectability, and his sole aim in life was
Nobel’s compounds. Fcr a while we encouraged
him in his acquired taste, but soon there was no
limit to his demands for “primers.” Then we
shut down on him, but it was like trying to cut off
the irrigation of the habitual boozer. Dennis
was a confirmed nitro-glycerinist, and, to satisfy
his depraved craving, he would “ surruptiously ”
visit the claims and stoiv away in his interior any
loose explosives he could reach. (Have known
canines ">> the same downward course after once
tasting dynamite). Dennis’s dissipations played
on his nervous system ; he lost his sleep and be-
came a mere shadow. IJltunately he struck up a
warm affection for Connolly’s ancient pack-horse,
who reciprocated ; but this friendship proved
fatal to both parties. One day, in the township, a
dog persisted in yelping at the heels of the flea-
bitten steed, who was attended as usual by Dennis.
Connolly’s moke kicked ostensibly at the dog, but
Dennis took the hoof in the vicinity of the ribs,
and then followed a muffled report, while the
\adjacent atmosphere was strewn with the frag-
ments of three animals. The concussion had ex-
yloded the nitro-glyeerine-laden oarcase of Dennis.
We buried all we could collect of the lamented
pdrker in a ineat-tin, and Connolly talks of suing
us] for the loss of his horse.
• * * * /
“ A.H.M.” : Re, man caught in dog-trap.
Some years ago I was on Markoranko, S.A., and
one day, riding through the niallee, came across
marks of a struggle of some sort in the sand.
RETALIATION,
CURTIN : “I hear, Jerry, you was fined a quid for strikin' a Chow?”
M'GRATH : “Fact.”
C. : “ How'd it happen?”
M‘G.: “ Sure, I ses ‘ good-day, Paddy.’ Then the insultin’ heathen ses
' good-day, Chinaman .’ I don’t stand that from nobody !”
Tracked blood up for about two miles and found,
near some rocks, remains of double-spring dog-
trap. Found afterwards that one of a party of
half-warrigal blacks had got his foot in the trap,
and as none of the lot had sense enough to open it,
they and the trapped one dragged it to the nearest
rocks and smashed it. Remember also a swag-
man, a few years ago, being caught by foot in a
trap near Lake Albacutya (Vic.), but, as he could
not possibly open the trap by himself, he perished
miserably.
* * * *
“Porthos”: I fail to see the refining
effects of near communion with Nature on “ a bold
peasantry, their country’s pride.” The men look
as though they have been chasing a sixpence to
the point of exhaustion, and the women are pre-
maturely wrinkled, and have the wan, pensive
look that the bush seems to fix on all that come
under its influence. The youths differ from town
hoodlums only in want of alertness, and a greater
monotony in their curses. Living in the country
gets you no nearer to nature. The countryman’s
work is as commercial and his thoughts as mer-
cenary as the townman’s. In fact, familiarity
with nature is usually antagonistic to that study
of and wonder at her works which have a distinctly
refining influence.
* * m *
Thornton, of Tower Hill (a well-known N.
Queenslander), tells how he went down to the
station lagoon the other day and shot a black duck
and an ibis. Examined the birds, and found
them covered with tick larvse. Went then and
inspected the cattle (supposed to be clean) feeding
beside the lagoon, and found them also tick-bear-
ing. If Australia wants to block the tick she’ll
have to run up a solid granite wall to the height
of about 15,000 feet above sea-level round every
infested district, and soak every bakblox swagger
in turpentine for a week.
“ Let our Princes marry as many wives
and have as many concubines as they like. It is
the safest way they can spend their money, and
the most useful for us.”— Wellington, in India.
THE TYPEWRITER IN WESTRALIA.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Go’s representative on thee [?] fields.
Two Socialists.—Address, “The Australia
Hotel."
It is enough to make G. Republican Dibbs stare,
and rub his glasses, and read again, and damn
Chicago under his breath and his big cigar. lor
G. Republican Dibbs is a fine fellow without any
brains in particular for the understanding of
economic tenets and theories ; and he belongs _to
the last old Tory generation, the generation which
is used to lump Socialists and Anarchists and dy-
oiamite-throwers together in the same enemies-of-
society lump, and to thank God that those
villainous new-fangled ideas don’t go down here
in the pure land of freedom where Suffield
remains in prison on evidence that wouldn t
convict a dog; and where a Minister of the
Crown seeks to gain a sea.t for his party by
telling of the possible expenditure of Govt, money
— i.e., by suggesting bribery and corruption. The
Bulletin therefore explains once more to G.
Republican Dibbs and the old-fogey generation
that a socialist is the very antipodes of an anar-
chist ; that the last thing he dreams of is a
dynamite bomb; that his proper _ address is
the Australia Hotel, because Socialism aims to
level things up to the Australia Hotel standard
of comfortable living ; and that his chief object in
life is to stop levelling things down under the
modern system which sweats seamstresses and re-
d ices the labourer to the state of a machine for
transforming flesh-and-blood into Fat Man’s bank-
-1 ialances.
G. Republican Dibbs can afford to smoke big
cigars because he gets <£l3oo a year from the com-
munity for his labor as manager of N.S.W*
Savings Bank. What every socialist wants to do is
to give every man in the community a chance to
fet £l3OO a year from the con munity in return for
is labor for the community, so that Jack Smith,
Tom Jones, and Bill Robinson can smoke big
cigars also if they want to, and the good living at
the Australia Hotel will be shared by every man-
jack and woman-jill in the country. And if that
is unattainable, then every socialist wants to get as
near that as the comniunity can—wants to even-up
the extremes of civilisation, prosaically speaking;
and, more poetically speaking, to make a better
world for better men. It is a dream, perhaps, but
what a glorious dream ! And that it isn’t alto-
gether a dream is shown by the fact that some of
it—even a good deal of it—is fast becoming reality.
And Sidney and Beatrice Webb, who work to-
gether in socialist books and socialist life, are
helping towards the realisation.
Sidney Webb is a plump little fellow in a tweed
suit, with pince-nez to help his blue eyes, and a
brown tuft of hair on the chin to match his
1 irown moustache. He doesn’t look so brainy as
his books—hardly anybody does. I cannot say if
Mrs. Webb looks as brainy as her books ; for Mr.
Webb regretted that at the moment “she wasn’t
visible,” and next day they left the Australia
Hotel for the land of “Socialism in Our Time ” (in
theory), and——well, I was sorry not to see Mrs.
Webb. For as Beatrice Potter she investigated
and wrote quite as much as her husband; and
the married firm takes rank as a chief
source of Socialist literature in England. That
is, /act-literature ; they collate statistics, and com-
pare ideas, and provide much material for Fabian
I ions to gnash their teeth over. ,
“When I’m at home,” said Mr. Webb, “I
write in the morning, and—as member of the Lon-
don County Council for Deptford—help to manage
the affairs of millions of people in the after-
noon. And when you come to think that all Aus-
tralasia hasn’t 4Ji- millions of people, you will see
there is some scope for the employment of intelli-
gence, if one has any. It is a striking thing now
that all over England young men who would
formerly have sought a career in Par-
liament are now busying themselves with
municipal affairs. The problems presented to
them are, if I may say so, in their way quite as
difficult* and quite as important to the well-being
of the people, as even those which Parliament has
to deal with. And the size of the constituencies
involved elevates municipal office to a dignity and
responsibility which attract the very best men.
Lord Rosebery, for example, has been at the same
time Foreign Minister and L.C.C. Chairman;
Lord Carrington leaves the governorship of
N.S. Wales to come and help govern London.
I’m glad to hear The Bulletin has advocated
amalgamation of the Sydney municipalities—it is
the obvious thing to do, and you would find it
would greatly raise the standard and value of
municipal life. We are devoting special attention
to Australasian municipal institutions, with a view
to incorporating the results in a book on British
Municipalism. Of course, our visit is mainly a
pleasure trip.
“You ask me to tell you how socialism is pro-
gressing in England. Well, the chief thing to
note about the progress is that there is progress all
along the line—the whole national mind seems to
be acquiring and employing socialistic ideas. It
is not so much in the passage of any single measure
of legislation, or in the success of any single idea,
that we see an advance; but in the general diffusion
of socialistic theories and the gradual application of
them by all classes of the community. England is
by no means standing still: we have a manhood
franchise for municipalities (and to some extent a
womanhood franchise too); and the Parliament
ary franchise is now practically based on manhood
suffrage. And, while you in N.S. Wales are still
without a complete enforcement of employers’
liability for accidents to workmen, we in England
have the Workmen’s Compensation Act which
came into force this year, and which protects the
workman in the case of every accident —even when
occasioned by his own negligence. And, mind
you, this Act was passed by a Conservative
Government. I don’t say it is just that an em-
ployer should be compelled to pay a workman
damages for an accident caused by the workman’s
fault: we say the State should pay, because it
isn’t to the State’s interest that a workman’s wife
and family should suffer when the breadwinner is
disabled. But a Conservative Government makes
the employer pay.
“ Then you have not yet free education in N.S.
Wales, unless parents incur the stigma of pauper-
ism. Practically every child in England can get
free education. We gave education to 6,000,000
of children in England last year at a cost of some-
thing like .£6,000,000. And, coming from great
things to smaller, to show how we look after the
recreation of the poor, I may say that in most of
the parks of London any team of lads can get a
cricket-pitch reserved any Saturday. And the
County Council paid £BOOO last year for public
music in the parks. These are some items result-
ing from the Progressive policy—and, as you
know, the Progressives got a smashing maiority
at last elections.”
And so, and so on, Mr. Webb talked, Know-
ing his subject thoroughly, finding his words
as he fingered his watch - chain, and leaving
a definite impression of sincerity armed with
many bluebooksful of “informations.” At 39
years of age, one of 700 or 800 Fabians who com-
bine thought with action, literary speculation with
practical effort, he is and is going to be one of the
most useful men in England. But I was sorry not
to see Mrs. Webb.
A.G.S.
“Disgusted” on the subject of the new
musical professor at Adelaide conservatorium :
Can you let your readers know how these appoint-
ments are worked at Home? Anything may do for the
“ Chapels Royal” or choirs of old city churches where
the congregation often takes a lot of .looking for. hut, for
such a nice little plum as was left by Benefactor
Thomas Elder, let someone be found whose mouth is not
already too full of them.
[The lines of musical professors appear to be cast
in unpleasant places of late. Marshall Hall was
“impious.” The new-ehum in S. A. is alleged to
have plums in his mouth. — Ed. B.]
AT THE SUNDAY-SCHOOL PICNIC.
SHE: “ And what is your religion?”
H E: “ Well, I was thinking of embracing
Wesley anism !”
S HE: “ You’d better commence at once!”
“J.L.F.”: It wasn’t “Patsy King”
that kept the Southern Cross Hotel in West Mel-
bourne and always had a big bundle of electors’
rights in his cupboard. The house was
in King-street, but the landlord’s name was
Ring. I knew him well. The house is still there
at the corner of King-street and Latrobe-street,
alongside the old Immigration depot. Captain
McMahon also got Ring’s votes —and they were
many.
Mr. Frank Senior, who has been chemist
to the N.S. Wales Governors for many years past,
has conferred a blessing upon the citizens of his
country by discovering a wonderful cure for head-
ache. The new remedy cures instantaneously, is
very palatable, and perfectly harmless to both
ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, it is perfectly
effectual, no matter what the cause of the head-
ache may be. This cure, the result of years of
experience, can be had in 3 sizes, by post 1/4, 2/6,
3/8., in N.S.W. only. To all the other colonies
1/8, 2/8, 3/8. Beware of imitations. Only address:
Senior, chemist, 246 George-street Sydney.*
Dear Bulletin. — Re your notion that only
certain kinds of persons cling to the archaic night-
shirt. Mark Twain, in “ More Tramps Abroad,”
describes his experiments with pyjamas and his
glad return to the night-shirt. Possibly to some
minds the pyjama seems immoral. Remember I
had a boyish idea that it was “ fast ” to have your
hair cut by a regular barber, and absolutely
wicked to eat oysters. I may have been right,
but now have doubts. Takes all sorts to make a
world ; what is one man’s night-shirt ib another
man’s pyjamas.—T.P. [Memo, by sub-editor :
Pour times, in the course of a more or less un-
ornamental existence, have roused a doctor in the
dead of night and brought him down in undress.
Three came down in night shirts. One—l wanted
him for a mine-accident in Queensland—came to
the door dressed in nothing at all but a large
mosquito-bite. Didn’t catch one medico in pyja-
mas. What does the profession think of the
relative merits of the two garments ?]


FOILED AGAIN!
MULETEER TURNER: “ These annual failures wouldn't annoy me so much, if I didn't know that the beast was laughing at my discomfiture.'*


SMITH’S PUMPKIN POLICY.
REID AND CO. (in background) : “ Smith’s your man! He’ll get more milk for you out of that cow than Barton can, We'll hold the cow!”
FARMER HASTINGS : “ Yes ; but it doesn’t look now as if you could hold her very long!”


Circus Life in Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two men sit opposite me in a small tent, hung
with harness, whips and bridles. The floor of the
tent is planked and carpeted. Three or four
travelling trunks and portmanteaux lie around,
bearing the brands of hotels in different parts of
the world —Cooktown, New York, Vienna, Rome,
Copenhagen, London. A table and half-a-dozen
chairs, some glasses, an open box of cigars, and a
couple of bottles of real good whisky complete the
furniture. Through the flaps of the tent, pinned
up to the top, I look into a larger tent, brightly
lit—a monster tent, its roof flapping lazily in the
wind like the wings of some great bird. The tent
is crowded with people, and the band is playing a
waltz. The two men are like and yet unlike—one
Don FitzGerald.
stout and robust, the other
thin and wiry; but both pre-
s< nt the aspect of eneVgetio
men in repose, in the pleasant
halting - place between two
periods of action. These are
the Fitz Gerald Brothers —
Dan and Tom—whose names
are Australian, as Barnum’s
is American. They are rest-
ing during the happy time
when Tom has counted the
receipts, and Dan has finished
his Bronchos and the pony
Commodore. They only re-
main to superintend the great-
est of all circus feats—the
taking down, packing and
transporting of a plant and
company as large as an army
corps ; and to negotiate a feat
infinitely more delicate but
not less important—the feat
of being interviewed for The
Bulletin.
m v w
A very small but very black boy, in tights, with
gauze-painted wings and butterfly horns, a bright-
faced intelligent boy, asks my choice, and taking a
little soda with it, I start to extract information.
Tom, the stout one, starts the conversation. It is
his rdle, as agent in advance, or proprietor-in-
advance, on all great occasions, such as entering a
big city, or being interviewed. He is not an
archaeologist, he says, and cannot pose as an
authority on the antiquities of the circus, though
the ancients did know a thing or two.
* • * •
“There’s that Greek vase in the British Museum
which my brother and I saw a couple of years
ago—quite three thousand years old. It belongs
to the Elgin marbles, and has sculptured upon it
an acrobat walking upon his hands. Would we
give him an engagement to-day ? Oh, yes! he
was a beautifully-made fellow, but he would be a
little behind in these days of one-hand balancing.
Here also is an Egyptian bas-relief, very likely
much older than the Greek vase. Probably this
vase was the ancient way of advertising, as we do
to-day with colored posters.”
* * * *
Dan ( loq ): “Colored posters, as we know them
now, are, I believe, the product of the cleverest
brain in the circus business to-day—the brain of
James Bailey, of Barnum and Bailey’s. Bailey
came out to Australia 20 odd years ago with
Cooper and Bailey’s circus. He evolved the
poster. One of our former agents, Harry Lyons,
"John Bums."
a Tasmanian, who
went round the world
with Blondin, used to
tell the story of Bailey
studying out his pos-
ters by the aid of
prints of animals,
beasts, birds, &c., cut-
ting out a picture
here and there and
arranging them as he
desired them in the
poster. A peculiarity
was that Jim Bailey
always selected the
animals in their most
bloodthirsty-moments, when they were tearing some-
thing, crunching their prey, preparing to spring,
or in combat with other wild beasts or birds. The
result was that Bailey’s posters were full of action
and compelled and attracted the attention of the
passer-by—which is the supreme object of a
poster.”
» • • *
“We were the guests of Mr. Bailey on our trip
to America” (Tom takes a hand), “and travelled
for a week with the gigantic organisation known
as Barnum’s, of which Bailey is now sole proprie-
tor. It moves on a special train, with dining, sleep-
ing, freight and menagerie cars. The people and
animals live on the trains. In season, the circus
plays twice a day—afternoon and evening. Besides
this, there is a costume procession through the
streets every forenoon. After the performance in
the evening, the tents come down as if by magic ;
everything is packed on the trains, the people go
to bed, and then the great procession moves on to
the next town. We are trying to introduce the
system to Australia. Oh, yes, we are just begin-
ning to feel big enough. Well, no, we’re not quite
as big as Barnum’s yet, but we’re not too bad for
a young country. As it grows, no doubt we’ll
grow too.”
* * • *
“I remember,” says Dan, in a reminiscent way,
and looking into the clouds of cigar smoke, “the
Cooper-Bailey show when it came to Australia. It
was our first big circus. Eh? Well, yes, it did
alter my ambition, and probably changed my
career. I was then a pupil-teacher in a school, at
Bathurst. I resolved to be a circus-clown instead
of a bushranger. Oh, yes; all the boys wanted to
be bushrangers. I was young then. Where was
I ? Ah ! In America they say that a circus is an
organised robbery, as Disraeli said that a Con-
servative Government is an organised hypocrisy.
Cooper-Bailey’s didn’t quite come up to that. But
they brought over a rowdy
gang of workmen, ready for
anything, who, at the least sign
of trouble, turned out with
pick-handles, and struck and
spared not. Their first esca-
pade was on Circular Quay, at
landing, where they came into
collision with the water-police,
and sturdy old senior-sergeant
Prince Little, now dead, let
them know a few nasty ‘ holts, *
in spite of hip-pockets and re-
volvers. One of the tent-men
was Jack Graham, the wrestler
(now in Melbourne), one of the
most courageous lion - tamers
we ever had. He had been privateering
or filibustering in Cuba, and picked up
with the circus to get out of America. I be-
lieve most of that gang had to get out of America.
One of the performers was glad to get out of Aus-
tralia. That was the man who played the big
steam Calliope piano. He shot a man on Mel-
P. T. Barnum.
bourne wharf from the deck of
the steamer just as she steamed
away from the wharf with the
circus on board. He swam
ashore, and escaped to America.
Eh! Oh, the usual cause.
Cherchez la femme t ”
• * *
We clinked glasses once more.
“Yes,’’said Tom, “I have heard
some good yarns about Bailey.
He used to go about with his
coat - pocket full of sovereigns, and jingle
them as he walked along. Probably this
was to remind him that he was a
millionaire. Dangerous? Of course. But he
always had four picked boxers and wrestlers
within arm’s-length of him. There is a story of
Bailey, for which, however, I won’t vouch. The
circus got to a big township up South, and the
story goes that the people would not pay the
prices, but stood in crowds outside. A few stones
were thrown that night at the tent, and a horse
was cut. A wire went down to the capital, and
about 20 first-class boxing-men were on the ground
next day. These were distributed about amongst
the crowd by Bailey, and instructed to capture the
first stone-thrower and bring him into the tent.
The performance began. Bailey went about jin-
gling his sovereigns, when presently a man was
brought in, his pockets full of stones. Bailey said,
sternly, ‘You darned scoundrel, you might have
hit a woman with one of them, ’ and, while the
man held the culprit, Bailey, a delicate little man,
kicked him till he could kick no longer. The man
was then allowed to go into the show. No. He
was not offered a seat, or, at any rate, he didn’t
accept one. We’ve never had any bad rows. The
American circuses carried it with a somewhat high
hand in Australia, and perhaps it led on occasions
to justifiable retaliation. ”
* * * «
At this point we were interrupted by the arrival
of a stout, dark-complexioned gentleman, who was
introduced as Billy Jones, the Grand Old Man of
Australian circus-business. He pleaded guilty to
nearly (50 summers, but can still carry a somewhat
Falstaffian figure over in a back somersault. He
took his with water—not soda. When he had
gone, Dan again became reminiscent. “ When I
was a very little boy in a very little bush township,
I saw a ‘dodger,’ or circus-bill, tacked on a gum-
tree. It represented a man standing on one leg on
a madly-bounding horse, and holding out the other
leg with his hand. While a small gang of boys
were discussing the possibility of this amazing
fea,t, a stout, dark, young man with curly black
hair rode by, leading two horses, and said, ‘Boys,
you must come to the circus to-night. There’s a
circus at Mrs. Taylor’s.’ That was Billy Jones.
Twenty years afterwards, when we were full-
blown circus-proprietors, Billy Jones joined us,
and has been with us ever since. He has an un-
paralleled fund of anecdote of Australian circus-
life, knows every bit of harness and property in
Commodore.
the show, and has an unequalled knowledge of
Australian roads. His knowledge of Australia is
like Sam Weller’s of London, ‘extensive and pecu-
liar. ’ Drop him from ‘the clouds anywhere in Aus-
tralia, he will probably say, ‘Let’s see, there’s a
turn-off here to the left somewhere to go to Bungle-
bong ’; or, ‘I was here fifteen years agp, and I
think you take the road to the right ’; or, possi-
bly, ‘You see that gum-tree there? Well, when I
was here before that gum-tree was only a sapling.’
He was with Rowe’s Circus when they left the
Ovens Goldfield with horses shod with gold shoes.
He travelled with Bully Hayes when _ that bucca-
neer took to show-life through love of a circus-
girl, and he saw the same gentleman nearly
drowned in the Bay of Islands, Maoriland, when
a boat upset and he had to swim ashore.”
* * * *
The FitzGeralds made their first big punch in
N.S.W. in 1889. From that time they have gone
on steadily improving in knowledge and experi-
ence. They have travelled round the world twice,
and have ransacked America and Europe in search
of novelties. They have seen nearly every circus,
menagerie, and music-hall in the U.S., Great
Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Nor-
way, and Sweden.
* * * *
Dan (foq.) : “On our first visit to America we
were the guests for a week of the three great
American circuses, Bailey’s, Sells Brothers, and
Ringling Brothers—all monstrous affairs. We
think the shifting by train and boat of our 120
horses, three or four tents, twenty cages of animals,
and 150 people a huge undertaking, but you should
see the big American shows ! The whole tiling
moves like a piece of clockwork. Oh, yes, we
consider our big tent and impedimenta take some
organisation to transport. But we have got it
down very fine, and now the thing moves auto-
matically. Of course we trust to the skill of our
people—such men, for example, as Yon der Meh-
den, who, besides being the finest cornet-player in
the world, is our general manager, also our most
responsible man. Then there is Frank M. Jones,
a Sydney boy, who, besides his pneumatic clown-
ing, makes our forage-contracts. Then there is
Morns, agent,
a most versatile
man, who may
be seen one day
posting bills on
gum - trees in
the backblocks,
and a few
months after-
wards convers-
ing amicably
in German and
drinking dry
gin with the
heir - apparent
to the throne of Austria - Hungary. Oh,
yes ; Prince Ferdinand drank dry gin in
my dressing-room when on his visit to Syd-
ney. It was evidently not his first circus, and he
appeared to know his way about dressing-rooms.
On my last trip to Europe I entered into business
relations with Herr Carl Hagenbeck, the great
animal trainer, who owns a Zoo at Hamburg, and
has agents scouring the forests of India and Africa
to recruit his menagerie, now the biggest in the
world. From him we purchased the lion-and-ele-
phant act last year, also the tiger and pony. W-
hope to have further relations
with him by-and-bye, and
thinks later on we shall as-
tonish Australians even more
than we have up to now. Well,
yes, our present co. is one of
the best ever brought to Aus-
tralia, in every sense, and has
been one of the most success-
ful. Last co. was most suc-
cessful also, except for the
death of Peart, the plucky
James Bailey.
diver. Madame Adelina Antonio was the
greatest aerial star, in our opinion, ever seen in
Australia, and, moreover, one of the most charm-
ing women.”
• • * •
In reply to a rather personal, not to say im-
pertinent question, Tom says —“Do we take any
interest in anything pertaining to the philosophy
of the circus ? Well, _ I didn’t know there was
much philosophy in a circus, except in the monkey
cages, where we had for a long time a chimpanzee,
named Mrs. Tang, of great age and supernatural
wisdom. You should have seen her getting a
patent stopper out of a lemonade bottle and drink-
ing the liquid. She died in most affecting cir-
cumstances near a place called Riverton, Maori -
land. We had camped out one Sunday, and all
hands were round her when she died—quite a
family group, as it were—all the ladies in tears,
men deeply affected. She was left out one cold
night in a wind storm, and got pneumonia. We
tried to get a doctor to prescribe for her, but they
Egyptian bas-relief.
all thought it
unprofessional,
so we could
only keep her
warm and await
results. Her
death was a most
human affair,
and I shall never
forget the pathe-
tic look in her
eyes. What lite-
rature there is of
the circus we
have it. Here are Van Hare’s ‘ Recollec-
tions, ’ which are most interesting. Look at
this book by Monsieur Hugues le Roux, illu-
strated by M. Jules G-arnier—he whose Rabelais
pictures created such a sensation in London in
1890, and who had the distinction of having four
of those pictures condemned by the English censor
to be destroyed. No, they were not destroyed.
The French Government intervened, and made a
diplomatic affair of it. These two—le Roux and
Gamier—have collaborated in this work, called
‘Acrobats and Mountebanks.’ They deal with
French circus life in all its phases—fairs, entre-
sorts, theatre booths, trainers, tamers, equestrians,
equilibrists, gymnasts, clowns—in fact, they ex-
haust the subject. Here is the only circus novel,
‘Les Freres Zemganno,’ by Edmond de Gon-
court, and there is ‘L’Art d’Equitation,’ by
Fillis, of Paris, uncle of Frank Fillis, who was
out here a few years ago.”
• • * •
“Yes,” broke in Dan, “if we had time to write
out our adventures, no doubt they would prove
good reading. About the menagerie? Oh, that
was added long after we made our first success.
We bought from the Sydney Zoo a cage contain-
ing a lioness and three cubs. One of those cubs is
the blind lion, ‘John Burns ’; another, the lioness,
Queenie, has been immortalised by the brush of
Miss Mary Stoddard, and the portrait by that
promising artist is now in the Sydney National
Gallery. We have had a number of cubs born in
captivity with us. The first litters, as a rule, did
not thrive, but the second ones did. Accidents !
No, we’ve been very fortunate with our beasts.
At least, we’ve never had any of the public injured
by them. Humphreys, our first tamer, was bitten
several times, but he seemed to like it. The
animals hated him. After a lapse of five years he
turned up lately in the menagerie tent in Maori-
land, and as soon as ever the blind lion, • ‘ Burns, ’
heard his voice, he went almost mad to get at him.
Jack Graham was scratched on the hand once, but
that was in play. He was always on the best of
terms with the lions.
* * * *
“We don’t often have to shift animals from one
cage to another, but there’s no danger in it, under
our system. We have reduced it to a science.
The Man-eater.
No, emphatically
—the Tantanoola
tiger did not escape
from our niena-
ferie. As Mrs.
’rig would say,
‘we don’t believe
there ain’t no sich
a tiger.’ Here’s
how the chang-
ing’s done. The
cages are placed
on waggons side
by side and lashed together. The doors
slide upwards. A man stands on top of
the cage, and when the signal is given
he lifts the door up. The animals almost
invariably scamper into the other cage, probably
in the belief that they are escaping. If they
don’t move ? Oh, we get Yon der Mehden to play
soft andantes on the cornet outside the new cage.
If that doesn’t entice them he stands behind the
old cage and blows a terrific blast. They always
go after** that. A friend of ours had a bad time
lately. We were shipping 3ome lions and tigers to
Hagenbeck in Hamburg, and we left instructions
with a friend to have a bigger cage built for a male
lion and change him into it for the voyage. He
decided to do the changing at night, when every-
thing would be nice and quiet and no one about.
The cages were in some stables in a back street in
the Glebe. When our friend arrived about eight
o’clock in the evening he fourijd the animals had set
up a dreadful roaring and ha/d attracted children,
as he assures us, to the number
of several millions. They ranged
upwards from infants m arms,
and had all brought their
mothers with them. He had to
employ several men to keep the
kids beyond scratching dis-
tance of the cages, and for an
hour and a half he stood bathed
in a cold sweat and with his
heart in his mouth watching the
trollies and cages being lashed
together. The fine, new cage
had a bed of nice, clean straw
in it. The lion, a splendid fel-
low from the Adelaide Zoo,
stood at the door of his cage during the prepara-
tions, and hungrily watched a plump baby carried
in its mother’s arms just near the bars of the new
cage. As soon as the doors slid up he simply
dived for that baby, and found himself in the new
cage, glaring horribly at the infant, which he evi-
dently made sure of. My friend has since refused
a thousand pounds to superintend the changing of
another lion in the vicinity of the Glebe. He
swears he will never forget to his dying day the
contrast between the furious rage of the lion in the
cage and the calm, fatuous face of the mother
pointing out the great beast to the smiling baby.
Oh, there was no danger, but still
• * * •
Tom resists all attempts to draw upon his stores
of circus erudition, refuses to discuss the lion-
taming exploits of Samson and Hercules, or the
Algerian adventures of Tartarin of Tarascon. His
eyes twinkle, however, at the recollection of a night
spent in Brisbane in company with a weii-known
Sydney merchant whose exploits in tiger-hunting
are world-renowned. They passed the time very
pleasantly exchanging stories —the merchant’s re-
lating to the noble beast in his native jungles,
while Tom’s were apropos of the same noble
animal in captivity and on tour.
* * * *
“ Moving a great show like ours ! Yes, we could
give points in transport to some army men. If
ever this country goes to war we’ll undertake the
transport of the army—
and, if necessary, let the
menagerie loose on the
enemy. Why not let the
clowns and the advance-
agents loose on them, you
say ? That would be hor-
rible cruelty, not sanc-
tioned by the rules of
the Geneva Convention.
We have to provision and
transport men, horses,
and animals, and put up
and take down the great
tents on an average three
times a week all the year
round. Yet, in the old
days, when we travelled
in waggons, we have come
into town at 7 p.m., and
have opened at B—a8 —a tent
up, seats erected, ring
dug, everyone fed, and
house packed in an hour.
At 11 o’clock the same
night every stick was on
the waggons again ready
to start at 6 a.m. the
Tom Fitz-Gerald.
following morning. Oh, yes, we have heard the
lines —
Fold our tents like the circus
And silently steal away. •
But not exactly that way. Latterly, as we havt
grown big, we travel by steamers (mostly specially
chartered) and trains. This gives us more free-
dom, and enables us to avoid bad weather and
catch the proper seasons. For instance, to begin
our Queensland tour, which is just concluded, we
jumped by steamer from Auckland (Maoriland) to
Cooktown (Queensland) —a tidy leap of nineteen
days.”
* • * *
“ Episodes in circus history?” (it is Dan who is
speaking); “some are most pic-
turesque. When Old Man Wilson
came to Australia, his partner was
a delicate-looking man, with a
pale face and dark moustache, lie
was called Omar Kingsley. This
same Omar Kingsley was the
famous rider who had for years
masqueraded as a woman, under
the name of Ella Zoyara. He
had been courted and run after,
had offers of marriage by the dozen,
and was once abducted by a German
princeling, who had fallen in love with ‘him-her.’
All the time, he was a married man himself, and
his wife —Sally Stickney I think her name was— re-
sembled him, and often impersonated him on State
occasions. We have never gone in for ‘freaks,’
though in every town we are offered a two-headed
or six-legged calf. We don’t like freaks or dan-
gerous acts, and we’re not taking any more sensa-
tional divers. Here’s a perfectly horrible freak
story, told by Van Hare. Probably it’s a lie, but
never mind. A celebrated freak, a ‘ nondescript ’
or dog-faced lady, Julia Pastrana, married her
manager. He exhibited her through Europe. She
died m child-birth in St. Petersburg, and her
husband sold her body to a celebrated doctor for
£5OO. The doctor embalmed her so naturally that
the husband bought her back again for £BOO, and
afterwards exhibited her. I think that story per-
fectly horrible. Don’t you ? ”
* * * *
“If ever we are ruined,” said Tom, eonfiden-
tially, as we walked out
through the big tent, now
empty and lighted by only
one torch, “it will be
through the habit my
brother has of pensioning
off horses that grow old in
our service. His old-age
pension scheme already
causes us to pay for horses
left behind in all parts
of Australia and Maori-
land, where their old age
is soothed in nice grass
paddocks. When the
bills come in annually Dan
swears, but pays. He is
a horse-lover par excel-
lence. As to Commo-
dore, he is a Fitz Gerald
Brother ex officio. In France last year Dan had
some nice steak at his lodgings in Moulin Hubert,
and he relished it immensely. Afterwards they
told him it was from the ‘ boucherie chevaline, ’ or
horse butcher’s. His feelings may be better ima-
gined than described. Why, he would much
rather have eaten me/”
* * * •
“Our plans. Well, a railway-tour through all
the principal towns of N.S.W., and then on to
Victoria for the Melbourne Cup, do Victoria
right through, not forgetting Bendigo, where we
are natives by adoption. Then we will be off early
next year to bring out the new company from
Europe. What are we going to bring out ? That
is a secret at present, but it will comprise novelties
which will fill the Australian youth with de-
light, and an Australian youth alive to his


Arthur Griffith (M.L.A.), International
Patents Agent, 41 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Patents secured, private works and copyrights
registered in all parts of the world.*
Mr. A. H. Moore, of Sydney, has some
splendid testimonials concerning his tennis-rac-
quets. Mr. A. Noble, the ex-champion tennis
player of N.S.W., says : “I have constantly used
your racquets for the last three years.” Mr. E.
B. Dewhurst, one of N.S.W’s most prominent
players, also says: “ I have much pleasure in
stating that I have used your racquets for the
past two seasons exclusively, and find them all
that could be desired and equal to Tate’s best.”
Miss P. Howitt, champion lady lawn tennis
player of Australia, says: “ The racquets supplied
by A. H. Moore & Co., have a durability (most
especially the gut) superior to any of the other
various kinds I have used, and any one desiring
improvement in their game should use these
racquets only.”*
“ HermeB The battle of Omdurman and
the dramatic grimness thereof : Contemplate this
spectacle of the culmination of human heroism and
fanatical recklessness withering away under the
scientific deadliness of magazine rifles and machine
artillery. And the Khalifa’s wild flight hunted
neck and tail for 30 miles by British cavalry, then
by Arabs on dromedaries—dropping his favorite
wives one by one as the pursuit grew hotter—must
have turned to gall the mellow memories of his 10
years’ glory and made him envy the brother who
had died a brave death in the last rally round the
Black Standard.
Line upon line. A common remark on entering
a well-stocked ironmongery store is—“ What a number
of lines you keep.” This is true, but the art in keeping
a stock is just to keep the very line your customer wants
at the price he wants. In McLEAN BROS. & RIGQ
LTD. Melbourne and Sydney warehouses you will find
the very article you are looking for. Implements for the
farm, ironmongery for the house, guns for the sportsman,
fishing tackle for the fisherman at eye-opener prices. If
you can’t inspect write for quotations.*
Broken Hill, a stronghold of trades-
unionism once, is struggling desperately to get up
a trades hall; but unionism is so parched a thing
there now that, as the committee will not borrow
or run into debt, only a brick and a sheet of iron
can be got at a time. The real smashing blow
that unionism got was not the strikes but the
mines’ rule which compelled men to belong to a
union before they were given work. While the
rule existed propaganda work ceased altogether,
with the result that when the rule was abolished
it was found that two-thirds of those who were
members of the unions weren’t earnest unionists,
if unionists at all. Then the best organisers
either went to Parliament or found it more pro-
fitable to leave the district, and so the unions be-
came comparative wrecks. Now they have en-
gaged ex-M.P. Black to run a weekly propagandist
paper and do other organising.
“ASK AND YE SHALL RECEIVE.”
The best is worth asking for—“D.C.L.” Whisky
is the best that Scotland produces, and you are
not likely to get it unless you specially ask for it—
“D.C.L.” Whisky, please.*
Do you ever have a headache 1 Would
you not have a cure —simple, harmless, effective,
of trifling cost, and occupying no more space than
a thimble? Then, write or call on Newman and
Sue Ison (chemists to Lord Hampden), King-
street, Sydney. They have discovered a specific
which instantly relieves a headache of any origin,
and which never produces any of the injurious
after-effects so common with other headache cures.
The new cure is put up in packets of ten tablets—
ten doses—for Is. Id. by post.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advfc. on page
27 of this issue. *
LATEST LONDON NOVELTIES.
Gold Bangle set with 9 Beautiful Opal* and
16 White Pearls. fiQs. each*
Our New
Twin
Bird
Brooches
Plain (Jolit,
?s 6d pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,,
13a. pair*
Cola, set with one finest quality Amethyst, Topaz, 09
Garnet, and 10 White Pearls, 40s.
Our 1898 Registered
Novelty
Bird Brooch,
Extra Strong.
Bb. Gold,
168
pair.
BEG 3
160, ao!«,
80s
pwfe
Our New Gold Bamttoo Bangles.
i 6d: Broader, 32s 6d; Children’s Size, 14&
'3
Gold Twin Swallow Brooches.
J'all Size, London-made, 9c., 12s 6d; ISo., 17a 6d pair.
Gold pin and Chain Pendant*
h
Gold. Pin and Cham Pendants.'
With Lucky Bean,, 7/8. Smaller size. 6/8
m, Lucky Belli 7/8. „ ~ 4 6
» Heart. 7/6. ” "££
„ Gross B'-. Larger size, in a
Lucky Bells with Chaiii, 3s 6d; 6s 6di 7s 6d, 10s
Our. New Wild Boar’s,-
Tusk Brooch.
With Chain & Bell Pendant*.
Silver-mounted, 6s 6cl.
Gold 14a-.
POST fBKK.
Steal Amethyst Heart Pendant* 2/6 eaob>
Real Amethyst Button Hooks, 2/6 each.
Lucky Shamrock
Pendants.
Genuine 4-leal between
2. Crystals, Solid Gold
Mount, 10s each..
New Gold
Horse & Stirrup
Pendant, 13/6
NOTH'—Our ONLY Australian Address — 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
rHE “F AND R” WATCH,
CD
©
CD
25/e
THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY WATCH OF THE
AGE.
The movements ore on the Lever principle, have
Breguet Hair-Springs, are jewelled in 10 holes ; have
expansion balances, are Keyless. In SOLID SILVER.
CASES, which SCREW together, thus making them
dust-proof and practically watertight.
42/-
The same Watch in Oxydised Metal Case, 25/6
THESE WATCHES ARE GUARANTEED FOR 15
YEARS, AND KEPT IN ORDER (BREAKAGES
EXCEPTED) FOR 2 YEARS.
They go with profound accuracy, and stand hard
riding and knocking about.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Sydney Wool & Produce Market
(Season 1898-9).
WOOL.
Salas bald EVERY MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY during the
Weekly Series-
PRODUCE.
Sales held EVERY WEEK as under:
Tobacco Leaf
Leather
Bark -
Fur Skins -
Monday
Tuesday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Australasian Mortgage and Agency Co., Limited.
John Bridge and Co., Limited.
Dalgety and Co., Limited.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited.
Harrison, Jones and Delvin, Limited.
Hill, Clark and Co.
Hair, Horns & Bones Thursday
Sheepskins - Friday
Tallow- - - - Friday
Hides - Friday
New Zealand Loin and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.
Pastoral Finance Association, Limited.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Limited.
Winchcombe, Carson and Co.
Wyly, Trenchard and Co.
J. C. Young and Co.
TERRIS
A. H. MOORE & CO.,
416, 418, 420
George-st., SYDNEY.
A. H. Moore’s . . .
“PERFECT” Racquet
at 20s.
Is for Workmanship and Wear the only
perfect racquet at the price on the Aus-
tralian market.
The “Perfect” Kacquet
is of Excellent Balance, Frame and
Gut.
Miss P. HOWITT,
Champion of Australia, says: “ No
matter how good a player one may
be, one will be placed at a dis-
advantage if the racquet used is of
the inferior qualities now being
imported into the colonies.”
FOR SUMMER AND WINTER.
weetftws
iMlycerme
HUS NO EQUAL FOR KEEPING THE
SKIN SOFT AND SMOOTH
At all Seasons of the Year,
It removes and prevents all
REDNESS, ROUGHNESS, IRRITATION, TAN, CHAPS
A CJjEAR AND HEALTHY COMPLEXION
Is soon obtained by its use.
Beware of Injurious Imitations,
“ BEETHAM’S" is the only genuine.
Bottles 1 /-& 2/6 of all Chemists. M. BEETHAM
& SON, Chemists, Cheltenham, England.
FELTON,
ELLIOTT
GRIM WADE & CO., Melbourne
BROS., Sydney.
responsibilities always brings his parents to the
circus with him. A circus appeals to the heart,
and in most people that is always young. Good-
bye ! ”
Answers to Correspondents.
Xo notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Wickham T. : Bulletin doesn’t want to be on
Q. Parliamentary Library table —and be read on the
cheap. The Bulletin, if it had its choice, wouldn’t even
be seen dead in the company of the dominant Q. party.
This paper is prepared to allow S. Grimes a free copy for
his own private perusal if he can succeed in keeping
Bulletin out of Parliamentary Library. Grimes' copy
will be sent, if he likes, “in an envelope secure against
observation.’’ .... C.I. (T.) : No, thanks N. : Even the
slaughter of wounded dervishes is to the clergy part of the
scheme of Christianity Passenger on Board : Some
people had a supper on the boat. Did they, now? How
thrilling ! .... H : Don’t be always writing about “ sexual
needs.” The need for cutting the toe-nails is just about
as urgent. Give it a turn Interest: The will says dis-
tinctly that the money is to be handed over when the
legatees reach the age of 21, therefore if the trustee
(your father) hangs on to it he is simply a fraudulent
trustee, and is fairly liable to a long spell in gaol. Be-
lieve you would have to take proceedings in Maoriland,
hut better ask a solicitor about that .B.G. (Ham.): It
would mean six months’hard. Stockman: To hand.
Sendo : A paper of general circulation can’t afford to
encourage discussion on such a subject. “ Why don’t
the medical papers deal more extensively in such con-
troversies?” Well, the fact is that doctors, taken all
round, are inclined to the prosaic and practical. It
doesn’t suit a doctor, as a doctor, to display over-much
imagination Puyaka : Many thanks Paraite :
“Drawn in S.” reads unreal Reve : (1) We do not.
(2) Yes. (3) Would depend on recipient’s taste ; will not
recommend, though. Re other matters, send real name,
and will write Winda : The subject of “ maternal-im-
pression-on-folks ”is vast; and, while we like to record
local original observations, the line has to be drawn at
second-hand matter, unless very pat or important.
..Things: Your best apothegm says that a man
shouldn’t see his dinner cooking or his wife dressing
—and that’s debateable R.R. : Not bright enough.
R.H.W.: Thanks luma : Subject pretty tired
M. de S. (N., Yic.): Sorry to say have not heard of him
for a long while Jack : Just so; but, with equal
“ machinery,” the nation with the most men to be killed
would be on top in the end. Also, “ men,” in the sense
intended by The 8., had the qualitative as well as the
quantitative meaning Booser : , Libellous gossip
R.J.C. : Unsuitable E.C.K. :It was not published
because it was long and windy and microscopically written
and scrawled on both sides of the paper. And we are all
half-blind and are tired of resetting needles from hay-
stacks C. J. Lane (B.B.): Address wanted B. :
Can’t use “Webb.” ... Kink : One account says the Jap.
shot the woman because he loved her and his sensitive
nature revolted at the life of shame she led ; but another,
and apparently more reliable, version is that he wanted
her to go where he could keep a frugal eye upon her and
duly collect the receipts ; and, as she wouldn’t go, he
promptly shot her and then himself . .Kit: Two constables
fired once each at fugitive Peisley, and another constable
four times; score, nil! When the N.S.W. police were
first armed with revolvers they were known, many
of them, to be partial to pocket-pistols, and Inspector-
General Fosbery knew that the O.V.G. brand was the only
one they could use effectively. Hence the public were
never in much danger of lead-poisoning G. Kelling-
ton : A wins .... G.L.W. : You say Protection is undemo-
cratic. If we were equally foolish we would tell you that
your theory of Land Nationalisation is a product of
bigoted Toryism. Then we would be fools together.
Doubtless it is because Protection is Tory that the two
distinctly radical provinces (S.A. and Maoriland) practise
it. Also, Protection didn’t exist in England for “ several
hundred years.” In the Dark Ages and from them down
to the latter Stuart period England mainly practised
direct taxarion and something very nearly approaching
Freetrade. Anyhow,The Bulletin advocates the substi-
tution of State leases for land-sales ; the resumption of
large estates for closer settlement; heavy graduated
land-tax to crush out the big land-holder ; and the limi-
tation of the area held by any one individual. If
these things are Tory then this paper is as Tory as they
make them. Also, The Bulletin never said that prin-
ciples were nothing to it. It said that it wrote
to please itself. And its conscience is itself
Veritas : Will all go in 20 lines 7x7 : “ You have been
all your life a student of physiognomy.” Not a very
long time, apparently. At thrice your present age your
inductions might begin to be worth something Harris:
Not skill enough ... W.M.F. : “Scotty” falls flat
W.M.C. : Rather feeble .... Willifred B. : Too slight of
build .... Miner Bloke : It expired without a groan
Nell Cook : Your verse, as usual, a little below mark
J.A.M : All true, but root of matter is that you can’t
give the Australian al fresco Continental habits until
you’ve bred the beef-gorging Briton out of him F.
Hopper : Not bright or terse enough for B .... Sprite :
Nothing in it F.O.S. : Sorry not story enough
Yarran : Neat ; may use A.C.W. : Hardly above
doggerel-mark ... E.P. : Idea not used to advantage
J.F.R. : Drawing unsuitable. You must study Mac.:
The verdant “ cheek ”of your Biondi! As though a
crowd of wealthy Americans in London wouldn’t know
too much about the length, breadth and thickness of
Gladstone and Irving, to be imposed upon by a plump
little Italian mimic Tim : Good suggestion. Our tame
poet will consider it one night, when his muse feels
skittish Scotty W. : The romantic side of your friend’s
garottement was drawn from his imagination. The men
were just plain, ordinary criminals, with previous convic-
tions to their credit, and they were flogged in due course.
F.K. : Be as candid as you like—will still take you
strictly on your merits 6 x 8 : Once more ! —write
larger, and with more line-interval, or —! Cherub:
“ The game that wins is the game that pays.” Yes—pays
the winner!—whereas, in the made-in-Germany game,
Britain is the loser T.T.C. : Cheerful anathema !
Darkie : Pars acceptable Helen O. : Three months,
oftener than three weeks! Will look up and deal
with. Smoker: Funny, but a little r0ugh........
L.A.E. : A masterpiece of inaccuracy. The Mr. Stone
who died at. Brighton was not the father of the Stone
doctoresses, nor in any way related to them. Their
father is alive. The family is not stern Wesleyan, and
there never was any objection to the daughters studying
medicine W. J.H. : “ Hard Luck ” just struck another
streak of the same and died Long-’Un : Poem unpub-
lishable owing to remarks about portion of human frame
generally buried in obscurity E.A.F. : Depends greatly
on the circumference of the lady 7x 7 : This is our
tired day and we give it up A.W.: Even if he gets no
money, the actor likes an engagement, because his name
on the bill means credit ...P.W.R, : Not a live story.
Only a dead reminiscence Huberto : Commonplace
proposal of marriage by Samuel, aged 60, to Mary, aged
f>l T. F. Daly : (1) Vote by ballot wasn’t first adopted
in Victoria. Ancient—very ancient—Greece had it, and
where the Greeks got it from this paper knoweth not.
(2) Yes Mac : The loafer in question was not one of the
Finch-Hattons at all .. . . A.E. : No. Not likely that
either of the Cyclorama buildings will be used for circus
purposes. There are drawbacks in both cases.
A Wail From the North.
Dear Bulletin. —The latest plan of S.A. to save
the Northern Territory from ruin is to make over
a portion of it to Japan. I have been a resident
of the Territory for 20 years on and off, and have
witnessed various patriotic attempts to flood the
country with an opium-smoking, leprosy-stricken
rase : the present Government seems to have
got the disease in a more aggravated form. Its
continual howl is that white labor will not do in
the Territory; but white labor has never had an
opening in the Territory, except as regards the
railway. There are plenty of white men work-
ing on the line at present for 7s. 6d. a day, and
they do well enough and are quite contented, only
for the disgrace of having to work alongside
Chows. I know men who have been working
hard here for the last 25 years, all the time
struggling against the Chinese invasion—fighting,
struggling for a miserable existence on the poorer
outside fields, where they have to live on hard
tucker and bad water for half the year, sooner
than come in and intermix with the Govt, ’s yellow
pets on the inside fields, and also petitioning
Govt, to keep _ the Chows back from fields that
a nor’-west fossicker would rot be found dead on.
Government floods the country with aliens, and
crowds the European out, and then says white
labor won’t do in the territory. Well, they have
been nearly 30 years trying to colonise with
Chinkies, and the result is that the country is
poorer than it was 20 years ago, with the excep-
tion of a few miles of a railway that does not pay
working-expenses. If Govt, had had the slightest
inclination to make a start in the right direction, !
it should have arranged that Europeans only
should be employed making this line (at least half
of whom would have settled in the country, and
the rest have spent their money in it), in-
stead of allowing the contractors to employ !
cheap labor and make a pile out of the job,
not one penny of which benefited the Territory.
S.A. Government has effectually killed the goose
up here. Look at the thousands that have flocked
into Westralia within the last four years, yet some
parts of the Territory were quite as rich in gold and
richer in other minerals than Westralia; but the
Chows have been allowed the run of the goldfields,
not only alluvial, but the reefs, which they rooted
out down to water - level the whole length of
the golden belt. Then they filled in the country,
and no one now knows where the rich patches
were. The only mining hope for the future of the
Territory is strong companies with plenty of
capital and machinery to prospect the reefs below
water level. At present only two or three bona-
fide co’s have started, with good results so far ;
and they are getting more extensive machinery
with the intention of doing their utmost to bring
the dead to life. If Government will only look on
and not flood the country with more yellow
vermin, I am convinced that the companies will
come to prefer European labor.
As to the Territory climate, most southern people
have got the-idea that it is very unhealthy, but we
have little sickness here except fever in the mildest
form. Very few die of it, though most get an
occasional touch. My experience of the average
Australian is that he can inure himself to any
climate and can work there just as well as any
alien; but Govt. h,as never held out the slightest
inducement for settlers to come in. There are
hundreds of miles of blacksoil flats on the rivers
that will grow almost anything—rivers two and
three hundred miles long running all the year, alive
with fish, and the country around swarming with
game. If some of the other-side cockies, who are
struggling on small selections that will grow only
pumpkins, once got a footing over here on some of
the rivers, it would be a paradise for them. Goats
breed like rabbits here, and are equal to mutton
for the table. The place also is a natural
nursery for poultry of all sorts, and pigs do well.
Also, there’s plenty of outside country to run stock
on. To sum uji, in my opinion the only thing to save
the Territory is “Federation ” —or “ Separation.”
We have plenty of able men who have spent the
best part of their life here ; who know the re-
sources and requirements of the country, and
could run it to far better advantage than a South-
ern Government, whose only idea is that the Ter-
ritory is a receptacle for them to empty the refuse
of the world in.-
OLD HAND.


TIME !!! TIME !!!
WHAT TIME? HIGH TIME—to BUY the BEST !
BREAKFAST TIME—
GRANUMA, King of Porridge
Foods.
; LUNCH TIME—
GOLDENIA, Best Ceylon Tea in
the World.
DINNER TIME —A Wee Drappie o’t
White Heather Whisky.
Pure, Mellow, and Matured.
ALL THE TIME—
BILLYTEA is BEST!
JAMES INGLIS & CO., Sydney & Brisbane
Sole Agents and Proprietors. Wholesale Only.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRSPLEY* CO.,
Furniture & Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the A action dooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Tozer’s appointment as Q. Agent-General
is for three years, at .£lsoo—=£soo advance on
former agency salaries. Lucerne-paddocked for
three years ! By whose hypnotism ?
Caldwell moves in S.A. Assembly in favor
of the discontinuance of compulsory vaccination.
Premier Kingston declines to bring in a Bill on
the subject this season, but is believed to side with
the abolitionists.
What is the difference between the man
who buys the votes of 40 electors for a promise of
beer and a Minister of the Crown who buys the 40
votes of a township by promising the voters a
bridge over the creek ?
It is now difficult to discover which of the
two gentlemen is more anxiously endeavoring to
consolidate Lyne’s leadership of the N.S.W.
Opposition—Lyne, or G. H. Reid. Reid cer-
tainly has most to gain.
Alfred Deakin turns pious in his middle-
age, and the spiritualistic unbeliever—as was —
now wants to introduce religious teaching into
Vic. State schools. Deakin by name—is he to
wind up as deacon by nature ?
Barton approaches the Macleay and Hast-
ings electors holding in his hand a draft of the
Constitution. His opponent goes to woo them
carrying a bucket wherein he proposes, with the
assistance of the shameless Works Minister, to
milk the State cow.
If Reid can navigate' the N.S.W.'ship of
State into smooth wacer he will, he admitted in
conversation the other day, invite R. E. O’Connor
to be one of his first batch' of appointments to the
Upper House. Barton, if not elected to the
Assembly, will not be offered a seat in the
Council.
There’s very little
artfuldissimulation about
\ ic. Leg.
Council’s
dealings with
Radical mea-
sures. F at-
man practi-
c a 11 y dis-
posed of the
Woman’s
Suffrage Bill
and Plural
Voting Abo-
lition Bill in
five hours.
1 neither case
2 5 votes (an
actual major-
ity of the
House) was
needed to
pass the —er
—absurdly
ridiculous pro-
pos a 1. The
W.S.B. was slung
out rightavvay by 10
votes to 15, and on the
P. V. A. B. question 23
Rich Landlords (against
14) voted for a fort -
night’s adjournment “ to
enable the House to con-
sider some alternative
proposal in the direction
of recognising Thrift by
an extra vote.” Sargood
is to base the precious
alternative proposal on
certain municipal returns
of the number of rate-
payers and the values of
their proputty. The As-
sembly having long ago
rejected the suggestion of
a “Some Men Two
Votes ” compromise, Sar-
good’s adjournment is in-
tended merely as an in-
sult to the Lower House.
PERSONALITIES.
ARTIST: “My word! Miss Brascnose, you have
got a hard face ”
SITTEB: “Sir!"
A.: “To draw.”
S.: “ Oh, I beg your pardon."
The Reid Government came out of the
censure debate with a majority of just four (in-
eluding pairs there were 61 for the Government
and 57 against it). Ex-lawyer Meagher, of Dean
celebrity, was one-fourth of the Reid majority,
Four isn’t much of a working majority in
a House where 119 out of 125 members are
accounted for, and the Wriggling Ministiy hangs
on by a hair.
Vic. House of 48 Fatmen cast out the
Woman’s Vote Bill largely because “the majority
of the women of the country have expressed no
desire to vote.” The same House of Lards has
again and again smashed One Man One , Vote de-
spite the fact that several successive Parliaments
been returned pledged to that measure.
Whether the country expresses or doesn t express
a desire its all the same.
Farmer Copley (renegade Liberal) in’Bs
told S.A. Leg. Council that without payment of
members he could not continue to sit in Parliament.
And when opposing the Bill granting “ House-
hold Suffrage” to man and wife for the Upper
Chamber he had the front to remark that the King-
stem Ministry is made up of professional politicians
and that he has no faith whatever in them when
they are dealing with national affairs.
Another claimant for the Federal capital-
ship : this time Port Augusta, which gets some-
what near (though still a good way off) The Bul-
letin’s idea of a site in the Mac Donnell Ranges in
Central Australia. Distances to capitals are: to
Adelaide 260 miles, Melbourne 742, Sydney 1020
(this via Broken Hill), Brisbane 1450 (this via
Birdsville), and Perth 1450. To the objection that
it’s on the sea, the local reply is that this particu-
lar sea is a gulf with a fairly narrow entrance.
There is a lot of humanity and horse-sense
about Dr. Cullen’s Bill, now before N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, by which no “female person’s” sewing-
machine or mangle shall be liable to distraint for
rent. But why not make the freedom from dis-
traint cover all tools of trade, as well as furniture
to a certain value? The poor music-teacher’s
jangling piano, or the hash-lady’s stock of tables
and beds and pots and pans, or a wash-tub or
embroidery-frame may also be a lone female’s sole
means of livelihood.
The principle of assessing on unimproved
values by municipalities has now been before
S. A. Parliament seven times. Since’BB the dif-
ferent measures have been thrown out in the Leg.
Council five times ; in ’92 by the casting vote of
the chairman. Six years ago the principle be-
came law, but Tory landholding M’s.P. placed
such restrictions as to voting that the Act is in-
operative. Assisted by the Kingston Ministry,
S.A. Democrats are now making a determined
attempt to amend the Act.
The Labor-party in Victoria begins to
assert its independence by voting more frequently
against the Turner Ministry, and the defeat of the
proposed Maffra Beet Sugar co. subsidy was one
result of this policy. And this is just where the
need of an elective Executive comes in. Under
the Party system the Labor section, in its efforts
to show that the progressive Turner isn’t quite
progressive enough, .may some day quite acci-
dentally upset him, and let that brassy Tory,
Dunky Gillies, into his billet.
The Byrnes Govt, suffered its first defeat
in Q. Assembly in committee on the Workman’s
Lien Bill. The little fiddle-faddle was as to
whether “workman” included “workwoman.”
Attorney Byrnes said “ Aes ; ” others said “ No.”
Lawyer Drake moved an amendment to make the
clause plain to the dullest understanding. Govt,
went down by 26 votes against 20. “A straw
shows,” &c. As a matter of law, by the Inter-
pretation of Statutes Act, except where otherwise
specifically provided against, the masculine always
includes the feminine.
The same deter -
mined set is being made
to keep Barton
out of Parlia-
ment as was
made before
against him,
Wise, Bruce
Smith, and R.
E. O’Connor.
Lyne suits the
Government as
Opposition
leader, and the
Govt, is doing
its level best
to maintain
him in that
position. Reid
doesn’t want
anyone in who
can meet him
on equal debat-
ing terms. Nei-
ther do a number of
those pushing young
men who won reputations
in a mediocre Parliament
and fear their bubble will
be pricked by the advent
of first-rate men. And
so the ineffable Sydney
Smith is being sentup on
the State Cow racket to
show how much better
that animal can be milked
by him than by Barton.
Drake, Oppositionist
M.L.A. (Q.), t’other day
asked for a census to be
taken of the province’s
alien population. Premier
Byrnes hid his head un-
der the Govt, blanket
of expense, and promised
an “official” return up
to date. An astute move
and “ won on the nod.”
This return won’t be
worth the paper it is
written on.
Mine-promoter Knox started his career as
a Vic. Leg. Councillor by saying No to the
Woman Suffrage and Plural Voting Abolition
Bills. No flies on Knox’s Toryism. He has come
into politics determined to put a stop to wild-cat
legislation, and he regards his seat as a fully-paid-
up share in a limited co. for saving the country.
The first “count-out” for eight or nine
years took place this month in S. A. Assembly, late
at night, because several Oppositionists, including
Downer, the leader, declined to come in and make
up a House. The appointed tool having called
the Speaker’s attention to the lack of a quorum,
the Early-Closing Bill was comoulsorily dropped.
“Barton’s too great a man to attend to
the wants of a country constituency.”—Minister
Young in support of Pumpkin Smith. Policy of
the provincialists :
Why prat e to us of a higher fate
And I he Gory of statesmanship ?
Look after the District ; damn the State,
Let Federation rip !
The feeler in favor of appointing Minister
Carruthers to the N.S.W. Agency-General raises
the question of the Reid Govt.’s power to validly
make at the present time any permanent political
appointment not urgently demanded. The ap-
pointment of one of themselves to a high office
by a Ministry on its death-bed would be Queens-
landish in indecency.
An Affiliation Bill now before S.A. Assem-
bly is a document of large discourse looking before
and after. Clause 7 provides that if an order is
made on the putative father for the maintenance
of his unborn child, and the child isn’t born
within five months thereafter, said order will
lapse. It also provides that he may be ordered
FITTING THE CRIME.
BURGLAR BILL : “But, yer ’onor, I only intended
to take the goods on time-payment.”
HIS H ONOR: “ Very well, so you shall; SIX
MONTHS!”
to put up a sum not exceeding ,£2O for “ confine-
ment expenses.” Which is logical enough, but
the Bill will probably be drowned by the monthly-
nurse variety of small wit, and the old, stale
Gamp jokes will fall on it like a deluge.
Sydney Daily Telegraph, which cham-
pions N.S.W. anti-liquor brigade’s Local Option
efforts, says of Holder’s S.A. Fire Insurance Bill,
“If the Govt, arbitrarily supplant existing capital
and deprive a large number of people of their
present means of subsistence it ought to compen-
sate them for the loss.” Now this is exactly the
affirmation craved by Bung.
Crick, M.P., seems to possess the power
of sending that erstwhile most good-humored poli-
tician, G. H. Reid, into fits of raging madness.
He was also almost invariably successful in per-
forming the same feat with Bruce Smith, who was
noted for his imperturbable manner and general
coolness under all other circumstances. As the man
who loses his temper is invariably in the wrong in
popular estimation, Crick scores every time.
Item from the great night of riot in Maori-
land House of Reps.—An M.P. : “Mr. Fisher
said that supposing my father had been sentenced
to seven days for stealing a glass of beer
Fisher (interrupting): “I said he was a most
notorious drunkard.” The other M.P. : “The
whole statement has been disproved. My father
was never an excessive drinker. He was never
convicted in any court. It is a pure fabrication.”
Russell, leader of M.L. Opposition, gob a
great truth off his chest lately when he pointed
out that Maoriland had already paid more to Bull
in interest on its public debt than it had received
from him in loans. All the older provinces are in
the same situation. But, though politicians say
things like that, not one of them comes forward
with a definite scheme for raising the public-works
money out of taxation and thus dispensing with
the loan curse hereafter.
That splendid British man-o'-war, the
Rapid, lately wandering in Australian waters,
crawled back to England in a trifle over four
months (a decent sailing vessel can do the same
voyage in three), and was condemned as unsafe for
further struggles with the mighty deep. It is just
14 years since the Rapid was launched, so it would
seem that she must have been pretty cronk to
begin with. A good many of Bull’s fighting ships
have dark suspicions attached to them.
Yosper, anyhow, is doing good educational
work in the West; and that is about the most
serviceable sort that can be done, so long as
Premier Forrest persists in his refusal to remedy
the swamping of goldfields miners by far Northern
cattle. Vosper’s latest proposal (of course, he
hasn’t the ghost of a chance to carry anything) is
that the West Australian Bank ought to have its
accounts audited by an officer of the Audit Dept.,
inasmuch as it is entrusted with large sums of
Govt, money. Vosper comes from Queensland,
so ought to know a thing or two of interest in
that connection.
Barton should be returned for the Hastings
and Macleay because able, independent-minded
men, not mere party-hacks, are needed in Parlia-
• ment to frame the Constitution of our nation. In
the making of that Constitution it is vitally neces-
sary to employ the most intellectual exponents of
every shade of opinion. Barton is a man who has
taken a leading place in every sphere wherein he
has worked. At the University, in Parliament
as a member and as Speaker, and at the Bar.
Those who would have the Australian Constitu-
tion made by a party instead of by all parties are
traitors to our country.
Henry Wrixon, M.L.C., did his share in
the rejection of the Woman’s Suffrage Bill by
Victoria’s House of 48 Rich Landlords on the
ground that for women to have a vote would cause
division in the household, and would be against
“the refining influences which at present operated
on women.” Of course, if the mere possession of
a vote is against refinement, it is reasonable to
infer that Wrixon, as the owner of several votes
and a politician to boot, must be a rather coarse
and brutalised individual by this time. And, by
the way, what are the “ refining influences which
at present operate on women ? ” It is a good old
cant phrase, but what does it mean?
When Higgins, M.L.A., suggested in Yic.
Assembly that the province should pay for its
public works out of revenue, instead of floating a
gaudy £2, 000,000 loan, Minister Foster promptly
rose to point out that part of the loan was for
waterworks in Higgins’s own constituency of Gee-
long. The presumable object of that irrelevant
argument was to bribe Higgins to silence, or else
to draw the attention of Higgins’s constituents to
the fact that their member was wickedly en-
dangering their little job for the sake of mere
principle. An Assembly which wasn’t utterly
corrupted by loans and road-and-bridge swindles
would have aimed the biggest available book at
Foster.
Several times in the course of the late
N.S.W..censure debate and many hundred times
before then, the party which wants to Override the
majority of -June 3 repeated the old accusation
that Barton declared the Federal Bill the best Bill
conceivable, and now showed himself a turncoat
by attempting to amend it. The shortest explana-
tion on which point is that the statement is a dis-
graceful lie and the circulators thereof are mostly
liars. What Barton said over and over again was
that the Federal Bill was the best that could be
got from that Convention ; also, that he believed it
was the very best possible Bill considering all the
divergent interests involved in the making of it.
Any man can be made to say anything if you saw
his sentence off in the right place.
The N.S.W. road-and-bridge agent adver-
tises thus :
THANKS.
T DESIRE to thank most sincerely the 981 electors
•*- of Blanketstown who cast their votes in m,v favor,
and to assure the voters of the constituency as a
whole that I will do my utmost to advance the in-
terests of the constituency in every way. All com-
munications to be addressed to Parliament House,
Sydney.
Yours, eto., WILLIAM BLANK, M.L.A.
There seems to be something left out in this.
Why not, “ Hopes by civility and strict attention
to the State Cow Department, and by indefatig-
able waiting oh the doormat, to merit a continu-
ance of the patronage hitherto bestowed,” like the
grocer and the butcher ? This is the kind of man
who will always be preferred to Edmund Barton
—by the peddling small constituency.
Extract from letter received by an official
of N.S.W. Department of Agriculture : “ I am
afrade that ’s vinyid has got the philip-
oxery.”
They are having a big-man competition at
St. Ignatius’s fair, Melbourne, with prizes for the
most massive Englishman, Irishman and Scot, and
a special prize for the biggest amongst all comers.
George Reid has not yet sent along his entrance
fee.
The best Gladstone anagram: “The
Right Honorable William Ewart Gladstone: ‘I
am the Whig who'll be a traitor to England’s
rule.’ ” Tories made much capital out of it when
it was “discovered ” about the time of the Home
Rule Bill elections.
Some years ago, two trains used to back-
up to each other at Haleombe (M.L.) —one going
north to Wanganui, other south to Foxton; and
one day a well-known Maori named “Wi”
coupled, unobserved, the rear carriages of the two
trains, which were backed up close. Presently
the W. guard whistled and Wi danced around
singing out, “I hackee the Wanganui ! No! I
backee the Foxton ! ” till the former was fairly
dragging the latter out of the station. Then,
when Wi saw the surprised passengers jumping
out of the Foxton train, he shouted “Wanganui
makee the win. Wanganui makee the win. I
backee the Wanganui.” Nobody was hurt and
the trains were stopped within 100 yards ; but Mr.
Wi’s little pleasantry cost him six months gaol.
THE SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST.
JUM: “Is Josser plyin’ with yer now?”
BILL THE BLOKE: “ Naw, ’e chucked it; too
chicken-hearted ’e was fer football.”
JIM: “ What’s ’e doin’?”
BILL THE BLOKE: “He’s took up this 'ere prize-
fightin’.”
On Japanese railways a watchman is em-
ployed at the entrance to each tunnel. When the
train enters, the man lets down a closelv-woven
curtain that closes that particular opening. The
result of this simple contrivance is that the smoke
all follows the train, and, when the locomotive
has left the tunnel, hardly a particle of smoke re-
mains in the excavation. Said to be a splendid
idea for keeping the air of tunnels clear and sweet.
As Barton’s fees in the M‘Sharry case are
paid half by plaintiff and half by defendant, the re-
current tear-shedding of N.S.W. Government,the
defendant, over its share of the 25 guineas a day,
while plaintiff stands uncomplainingly to his
agreement, is explicable only on grounds of
political partyism. Especially as the Government
only started complaining when it found Barton
coming back to politics. And the Government, by
indulging to the extent it has indulged this spirit
of partyism, is, if Barton’s decision be adverse to
M'Sharfy, supplying that plaintiff with a sub-
stantial ground for appealing to the Privy Council.
The Government is, practically, doing what it can
to bounce the arbitrator into an early verdiot
which to the losing side must naturally seem an
immature one.


Do you want a pleasant
evening l at home, or to
give an exhibition? The
Qraphophone
a most marvellous instru-
ment ; reproduces |the
music of great military
bands, famous opera
singers, and celebrated
comedians in laughter-
provoking monologues
produced upon the stages
of the great cities of the
world.
Simple to operate.
Will not get out of
order.
Write or Call for Catalogues or any information. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
UNITED IMPORTING COMPANY,
117 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Keep YoCir BOSipess >0 YoGr Ov/p Hapds.
The ONLY TRUE and EFFECTIVE BUSINESS COUPON SYSTEM
IS THAT SUPPLIED BY THE USE OF
The Storekeepers’ Coupon
ffl
mss
m
: m
REGISTER.
IT CONCENTRATES your CASH BUSI-
NESS by giving special inducements to your
Customers to REGULARLY Purchase at your
Store.
IT ISSUES a DATED and NUMBERED
PRINTED COUPON with every transaction,
which is a STATEMENT of the transaction, a
RECEIPT for the MONEY PAID, and which
at the same time bears your Advertisement.
Full Particulars on application to
The national Cash Register
Company’s
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA:
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Telephone No. 2976. W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager. P.O. BOX, 1036.
Cheaper an d
better than any
other House in
Australasia
Strings & Fittings
For Every Musical Instrument.
Pianos
Organs
Music
Violins
Hecordeons
Autoharps
Mouth Organs
Poiophons
Cornets
Flutes
SOLE AGENTS FOR
TH ?WASHBU
n an
r
GUITARS,
MANDOLINS,
BANJOS *«»
ZITHERS
I BEST IN THE WILD!
Used by all the Leading Musicians.
Catalogues
Post Free.
W, H. PALING & CO., Limited
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
.A-lETD -A-T BEISBAUE & UEWCASTLE.
World s Championship Results
CABLEGRAM.
To the Dunlop Tyre Co*
Melbourne.
VIENNA,
Saturday, 10/9/98.
The 100 Kilometres (62£ miles) World’s
Professional Championship won by R.
Palmer, of England, on
Dun iflp Tyres
THE above event is the second of the
World’s paced long-distance champion-
ships set down for decision at the World’s
Championship Meeting now being held
at Vienna. R. Palmer, the winner of the
above event, is England’s finest middle
distance pace follower, and has amongst
his best performances nearly all the
World’s records up to 100 miles, the cen-
tury being ridden in the marvellous time
of 3hrs. 25mins. 21 4-5 sec. Palmer would
be paced by the famous Dunlop pacing
teams, which last year assisted J. W.
Stocks (on Dunlops) in carrying off the
same event. The two remaining events to
be decided are the One Mile Amateur and
One Mile Professional World’s Champion-
ships. These sprint races have been
carried off during the last two or three
years by Continental sprinters ; but Eng-
land has a worthy representative this year
in F. Chinn, who has a big chance of cap-
turing the professional “blue riband.”
CABLEGRAM.
To the Dunlop Tyre Co.,
Melbourne.
LONDON,
Thursday, 8/9/98.
The 100 Kilometres (62g miles) World’s
Amateur Championship won by A. J.
Cherry, of England, on
Duniqp Tyres
THE above event is one of the four World’s
Championships set down for running
under the International Association rules,
the venue this year being at Vienna. 11
was A. J. Body’s ambition to ride in the
professional championships, to be run in
Vienna this week ; but, as intimated liv-
eable, the International Association re-
fused Body’s entry on the ground that the
Australian Leagues were not affiliated
with the International Association. This
is to be regretted, as on the form shown by
A. J. Body in the Cuca Cup, which he
won, he would have had a big chance in
the events to be decided at the Austrian
capital this week. The 100 kilometre race
is a paced one, and the winner, A Cherry,
is a well-known English amateur, having
won last year’s 50 miles Amateur English
Championship. The World’s Champion-
ships were run at Glasgow, Scotland, last
year, and this particular event was won bv
E. Gould (on Dunlops), another English
crack. Last year England retained two
out of the four World’s championships,
Denmark and Germany accounting for the
other two events.
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. Ctd
486 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Mr. “Jim ” Parker, late squatter and
formerly well-known on the far N.Q. mining-
fields, who has for some time past been endeavor-
ing to push a fruit-preserving invention of his in
Sydney, is missing from his usual haunts, and
friends are anxious concerning him. Any infor-
mation will be gladly received by Messrs. Warden
Harry Graves & Son, 5 Spring-st., Sydney.
Touting has already been started at
N.S.W. Parliament House by members anxious
to fill the vacant seats on the Public Works Com-
mittee. The most necessary qualification is to be
able to show that you are in an advanced stage of
“hard up,” and the member who has the necessary
meanness of spirit to go round and prove to ad
hands that he is next to bankruptcy is pretty sure
of a seat. The amount of lobbying that is done in
this connection is absolutely disgraceful.
Premier Reid’s latest action is further
proof of the intensity of the Wriggler’s Federal
zeal. He strains every effort, and also the truth,
to defeat the Federal leader, and put a political
nonentity like Smith, author of the Bounty Bogey,
back into Parliament. The electors of the Hast-
ings are not likely to be gulled by the protesta-
tions of one whose every Federal action has been
a contradiction or a lie. As The Bulletin has
shown, Reid now denounces every clause he voted
for, and advocates every clause he voted against
in Convention. Barton gave his whole ability to
framing a measure in which the balance of power,
which is justice, would be equitably held between
the States; lie, looking ahead, endeavored to con-
solidate and forward the interests of United Aus-
tralia, recognising that, union once accomplished,
the present artificial barriers will fade from the
minds of men.
“Poor Poussard ! ” says one. who knew
him, “ Sydney loses an artist in losing him. His
playing lost force in his later years ; that was in-
evitable ; but in his prime his violin held witchery.
And even three years ago I heard him play in a
trio of, Raff’s —that one with the magnificent
adagio.” Madame Kellertnann played also, and
played brilliantly; Herr Strauss was good ;
but Poussard—ah, he eclipsed them both, he was
grand. Yes, there was in that man a passionate
fibre that thrilled at the touch of fine music, and
at his best he had the skill to transmute
his emotion into sound with those delicate
fingers, and thrill you also. He did not
fail in technique; but it was not in techr
nique that his power lay—it lay in his grace,
his fire, his feeling, in that inexpressible some-
thing which is the artist’s heritage, which
divides him for ever from the mere skilled crafts-
man. True, he did not stand in the very first
rank ; we have had Wilhelmj, we have had
Remenyi, we have had others to surpass him ; but
by moments—yes, by moments —he made you feel
he had a spark of genius. And, as a man,
he had the good heart—he never spoke ill
of any. And bon enfant I—to1 —to hear him laugh !
—he laughed with his whole being, laughed
all over—it was a veritable explosion. And
t rench withal —oh, a real Frenchman ! He
had the national weaknesses—he would exag-
gerate—if you asked him how many pupils he
had, he would say, “Oh, three hundred.” But
he did not exaggerate his age—my faith !
About 56,” he would say. Now, we who know
him think he must have been 71. The good
fellow ! He never smoked a cigar—always
cigarettes ; but he never refused a cigar. Always
it went to his pocket. Yet, mind you, there was
nothing mean about Poussard, nothing stingy. It
was just a little trait, you understand ; he did not
like to let the cigar pass him, so I think. And he
was going to Maoriland next month, to Europe
next year ; he was full of plans. It was very
sudden, his death. Why, his little son (himself a
promising violinist) was to have had a birthday-
party on the very day when that. worn brain
snapped. Poor Poussard ! Ah, there are regrets! ”
Sydney D.T. advt. :
WANTED, competent Young- General. Refer-
' v ences. Apply, “B ” Quarters, Victoria Bar-
racks, Paddington.
By the way, Gen. French completes his three
years’ appointment as N.S.W. commandant in
April next.
“ Tang Anyut ” : The reward of virtue.
Old friend of mine—awful swearer and swiper—
once endeavored, in playful mood, to pitch a
Dutchman over a hotel verandah. Dutchy was
strong, but verandah-post wasn’t —result, broken
head, arm, collar-bone and ribs. While in hospi-
tal recovering, received news of death of maiden
aunt. Forsook evil ways, went home to look after
things, fell down stairs in his new house and was
killed !
S.A.’s well-kept mortuary statistics are
alternately cheerful and depressing. For in-
stance, 63 people were drowned in ’B9; but
(? owing to increase in the number of swimmers)
the figures have- steadily fallen to 35 last year.
Cancer’s victims have, on the other hand, gone
from 116 in ’BB to 185 in ’97 (? diseased meat); and,
for some not very clear reasons, heart-disease
victims are steadily becoming more numerous.
The Rev. Gribble, a well-known Northern
clergyman who devotes himself to bettering the
condition of the blacks, is fond of performing the
marriage-ceremony among the aboriginals. Accord-
ing to the Cairns Post, he was catechising the
niggers the other day before Dr. Roth, and asked
a dusky pupil, apropos of the “means of salva-
tion,” “What are these good works that are
pleasing in the sight of the Lord?” “Please,
sir,” said a. festive buck, “getting married.”
Du Paty de Clam’s dismissal from the
French army, following hard upon Col. Henry’s
degradation and suicide, marks the fatal rift in
the monstrous Dreyfus conspiracy of concealment;
and, as de Clam bossed the court martial that con-
demned Dreyfus, and afterwards played “ veiled
lady ” in the Esterhazy hush-up, it is evident that
the final burst-up is at hand—thanks, funda-
mentally, to the noble perseverance of the con-
demned man’s wife. This is the sort of thing that
should have a statue.
“ General ” Booth, of the “ Army,” made
his 33rd annual report on July 18. Claimed for
the organisation that it now operates in 47 coun-
tries, has 12,033 staff, and 48,162 local officers,
besides 2986 cadets and other employes ; that its
weekly publications have a circulation of 880,000,
and its monthly magazines 131,074; and that
26,000 “submerged ” are daily “cared for.” The
“ Army’s ” “ land colonies ” now number 15 ; bub
“prison-gate homes,” of which there are alto-
gether only the same number, seem to get more
attention in Australia than elsewhere.
Little was said by the papers about the
disgraceful scene in the lobby of N.S.W. Assembly
prior to the recent want-of-confidence division.
It was the effort of the jackals of both sides to
make amenable members drunk, in the hope that
they would be unable to take part in the division
—though, by the way, the member who is so
drunk as to be unable to vote must indeed bo
memorably “tanked.” The hero of the evening
was Crick, whose knowledge of Parliamentary
forms and readiness of wit are proverbial. Just
as the division-bell had ceased ringing he appeared
at the bar of the House with a laggard friend,
whom he had been skirmishing round to find, and
the bar went down before the laggard member
could get through. Whereupon Crick drew Mr.
Speaker’s attention to the fact that, as the resolu-
tions had not been read, a vote could not yet be
taken (it was a pure guess on Crick’s part that the
reso’utions had not been read, but his assumption
that the formality had been neglected proved
correct). Mr. Speaker ordered the resolutions to
be read, whereupon the bar was raised and Crick’s
stray sheep got through and joined in the division.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
111. fflont de piete
D. & I. Co., Limited
(Large White Marble Building),
74
CASTLEItEAGH ST.,
SYBHEY
(BETWEEN KING AND MARKET
STREETS).'
Pawnbroking Branch :
£1 Lent for 4d.
PER MOISTTH.
FOR LARGE AMOUNTS, v
V AS LOW AS 2d. CHARGED.
Goods Transferred from other Offices at Above
Low Rates of Interest.
LEWIS LEVY, Manager.
MfcftSSUt&TkCft
u
HEAD OFFlcj
Intersection Hunter, Bligh AND
Castlereagh Streets,—
• SYDNEY •
fat * Esta b - /873.
V s Office in AustrM-'*;
rffi/NUAL Income and Invested
ft/nds ExceedJgOO.OQO 9er/in*.
wool $ ncy company
Of QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
Capital: £60.000 in £1 Shares.
Payable 2/6 per Share on Application and 2/6 on
Allotment.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. W. ALLAN, M.L.G.
DE BLRGH PERSSE, Esq. (Director Royal
Bank of Queensland Ltd.)
A. J. CARTER, Esq. (President Brisbane Cham-
ber of Cammerce)
A. C. SANDEMAN, Esq. (Aplin Brown and
Crawshay Ltd.)
R: NEWTON, Esq. (R. Newton and Co.)
OBJECTS:
Sale of Wool and Produce, &c., in
Queensland.
Prospectus on Application to
S. LAEAED, Secretary,
Courier Buildings, BRISBANE.
CECEM
URDERUIEIIR
FOR
WINTER COMFORT.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, llndervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc , in Natural Wool, Silk and
Wool, or Cotton.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
SS C H.LULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
Oanid graham $ go.,
73 & 75
King“-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
By Appointment to His Excellency
the Governor,
Parliament House, the Leading Clubs, Hotels,
Cafes, Dining-Rooms, Colleges, and Convents
of the Metropolis and Suburbs.
A. SHAPLER,
SYDNEY and SUBURBS.
Established 1854—44 Years.
FAMOUS WHITE BREAD,
HOMAH or HO VIS BREAD,
WHOLE-MEAL BREAD,
AFTERNOON TEA BREAD,
MALT BREAD,
VIENNA BREAD,
MILK BREAD.
Hotels and Large Institutions Special Terms.
Tel.,
No. 312.
Head Office
Tel.,
No. 312.
73 HOTTER ST.. SYDNEY.
, Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb« Trustees, €n£^6torS,
AND
Agency Con>paoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVES and Undivided Profits used in the
£150,000
£60,000
company’s business ... ... £45,198
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and
Clients, 30th June, 1898 ... ... £6,073,603
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman of Directors.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,500,000
Paid-up . .. £2,974,501 lOs.
Directors :
Hon. Janies Service, M.L.C., Chairman; Archibald
Cu;ite, Esq., J.P. ; Robert Harper, Esq., M.L.A. ;
Georjre Meares, Esq., C.M.G., J.PHon N. Thornlev.
M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Inspectors: Wm. Turner, John M'Nall, R. H. M'Nicol,
H. L. Heron anrl Arthur Walker.
OLD BANK ASSETS REALISATION OFFICE:
Manager: John M'Cutcheon, J.P.
Accountant: Sidney B. Joske.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith. Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jii.shopsr/nte Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers: The City Bank Limited, Threadneedle Street.
NEW COUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEOItGE STREET.
Manager: John Bartholomew.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
II ay market, Gosford with ayency at Wj'ong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, ’ South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Mercantile Mutual Fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
The CASH BONUS, viz., JEB2IO, divided
with Policy-holders for the year 1897 is now
payable on renewal of policies. The BONUS
makes .£106,067, divided in cash between
Policy-holders and Shareholders in IS years.
Fire Insurance at Lowest Rates.
Head Office: 120 Pitt Street, Sydney-
KELSO KING, Secretary.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon., J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,153,342.
Policies issued, 76,748—assuring £23,860,490.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £1,928,645.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. Diabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Company, Ltd-
ALDERSHOT, MARYBOROUGH.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites, &c.
For tariff, apply to
GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, 52 Market-street :
or to the
MANAGERS, ALDERSHOT (Queensland).
Rational trustees.
EXECUTORS, and AGENCY COMPANY of
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
DIRECTORS: Hon. N. FITZGERALD, M.L.O. (Chair-
man) ; W. Cain, Esq., J.P. ; M. D. M'Eacharn, Esq. ;
M. O’Shanassy, Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. I. Winter-Irving.
M.L.C. ; and Hon. Walter Madden.
Executors, Trustees, and Agents for Absentees.
Managing Director : Hon. WALTER MADDEN.
Offices—4s4 Collins st. corner William-st., Melbourne.
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/3 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20in. long, 6/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
worked up, 2/6 per oz.
We are the cheapestin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. N.~Wigz«ll,
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps (or fill! Price Met.
Prompt attention given to Country Order*
Shipping
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 24, 2 p.m.
-Buninyona, Tues., Oct. 4, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 8, 2 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
-Buninyong-, Tues., Oefc. 4, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., Oct. 4, 5 p.m.
Takes passengers and cargo for
S.S. Gabo, leaving Melbourne
Saturday, Oct. 8.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 24, 2 p.m.
Bur wall, Tuesday, Sept. 27, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 1,2 p.m.
BUNDABERG
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Leura, Saturday. Sept 24, 2 p.m.
-Barrabool, Tups., Sept. 27, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Oct. 1, 2 p.m.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
LOWEST i'll It KENT It I!ES TO ALL POUTS.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
Wm. Howard Smith Sc Sons Proprietary, Ltd.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
England via America
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and Sail Fran*
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their 'onrney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San i raneisoo, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane:
AND
J Afi>
4/V
QUEENSLAND POETS and POET DAEWIN.
THE EASTERN AND AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.,
TXESPATCH the following FAVORITE PASSENGER
STEAMERS specially built for the EASTERN TRADE
at regular intervals for above ports :
AIRLIE.
GUTHRIE.
AUSTRALIAN.
MENMUIR.
For dates of sailing and full information apply
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
or to GIBBS, BRIGHT & 00., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Brisbane, and Newcastle.
business Announcements.
Cable Address— Kiemseil. Telephone No. 095.
Code— Mousing & Neal, etc. lsox No. 237, G.P.0.,
—— Adelaide.
Clarke & Co
(A. RUTTER CLARKE, Member Stock Exchanges of
Adelaide and Melbourne),
SHAREBROKERS,
ADELAIDE,
—AND—
KALGOORLTE.
Agents in London and throughout the Colonies.
Particulars of all Western Australian Stocks always
available.
Our “INVESTORS’ GUIDE” invaluable to Investors,
free on application.
Elliott’s
INVESTORS’ SUIPE
Should be read by all Investors. It will be
forwarded by post, gratis, to any address on
application to the proprietors,
EDWIN ELLIOTT & CO.,
SHAREBROKERS,
877 COLLINS -STREET MELBOURNE.
D.S .MAI R
SP
n in
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Mainspring, 2/6; Cleaning, 2, 6 ; Hairspring, 2/6, Jewels,
26; Staffs, 4/-; Cylinders, 3/6. All work guaranteed
12 months.
D. S. MAIR, having fitted his centrally-situated work-
shop with the most modern tools and appliances necessary
for the execution of high-class workmanship, requests
Country Residents to forward Watch Repairs to him by
Post. Satisfaction guaranteed. Note address: 684 George-
street, Sydney.
gECOND-HAND
AND
•KTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 60 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 102»
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.)
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
S.S. Bullarra, (from Sydney)
Friday, Sept. 23.
S.S. Marloo (from Melbourne)
Friday, Sept. 23.
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to l
VASSE, DONGARRA, |
BUNBURY, GERALDTON
And all North West Ports. J
S.S. Bullarra (from Sydney)
Friday, Sept. 23.
S.S. Marloo (from Melb.)
Friday, Sept. 23.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Innamineka, Saturday,
September 24.
S.S. Bullarra, Saturday,
October 1.
Best & Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Gr. S. YUILL AND CO., Ltd., Agents,
6 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows '
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
• With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Himalaya
Oriental .
Britannia
Oceana ..
Victoria ..
Commander.
6898 W. L. Broun
5284 I’. Seymour
6525 T. S. Angus
66U3 E. Stewart
6527 E. Crewe ..
Sydney,
Noon
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
Ade-
laide,
2 p.m.
Sept. 24 Sept.
Oct. BjOet.
Oct. 221 Oct.
Nov. 51 Nov.
Nov. 19 Nov.
27 Sept.
lljOct.
25jOct.
8 Nov.
22! Nov.
And thenceforward every alternate week. Rates of
: LONDON > Return Tickets, t 65 to £llO.
TO COLOMBO, Single, £25, £27 10s, £35. Cheap Fares to
western Australia. Passage-money can be paid here on
l™,™ 8 for Plages from England. EDWARD
IBELAWNY, Agent, Corner Pitt and Bridge-sts., Sydney.
Huddart, Parker g (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
MARITIMES-
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them everv assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
ORDINARY RETURN TICKETS, FIRST-CLASS,
between Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide, issued by this
Company, or by the Railway Offices, are interchangeable
for return by Rail or by Sea.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
E. BLANC,
Principal Agent.
Kniuiraith.dl^acharn&Co-
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and-Freight Quota! ions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eaoharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
„ „ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD.
Passengers are carried by the IMPERIAL MAIL
STEAMERS according to the requirements of the Mer-
chants Shipping Act of 1894 to SOUTHAMPTON,
ANTWERP, BREMEN, via FREMANTLE, COLONiRO,
ADEN, SUEZ, PORT SAID, NAPLES, and GENOA
Steamer.
Tons
Stuttgart
P.R. L’pold
Friedr. D.
Grosse ...
Bremen ...
Kon. Luise
Barbarossa
Com-
mander.
5048 F. Weyer
H. Walter
M. Eichel
6288
10531
10525
10566
Reimkasten
Schu’kmann
Leave
Sydney,
Noon.
Leave
Mel-
bourne.
Leave
Ade-
laide.
Oct. 5 Oct.
Nov. 2 Nov.
Nov. 30 Dec.
11 Oct.
8 Nov.
6 Dee.
Dec.
Jan.
28 Jari.
25 Jan.
uviiu xvuiauii f iaii. ZjO tJii.ll.
10769 A. Richter |Feb. 22 Feb.
3 Jan. 7
31 Feb. 4
28 March 4
Passage Money from £l4 to £67 10s. Return tickets to
London, Saloon, £55 to £llO. Through tickets over the
Co’s Own Lines to Europe, Asia, North and S. America.
Passages from Europe, America, etc., can be prepaid in the
colonies. WEBER LOHMANN & CO.,
Exchange Corner, 63 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A. U. S. N. C
OY.
■ TD.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay!
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekiy.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Fortnightly, via Brisbane
Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island, and
Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FlJl—Monthly.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and WEST
AUSTRALIA-Weekly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents


SOLE
AGENTS :
KTICHOLSOKT & CO.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A DISH FOR PRINCES.
Custard with the Luscious Fruits of Australia, and all Imported Fruits.
BIRD’S
CUSTARD
Produces the Richest Custard
without Eggs.
POWDER
TINNED FRUIT is Delicious with BIRD’S
CUSTARD. The Fruit with Syrup should be
emptied into one glass dish and the Custard
poured into another. A portion of the Fruit
and Custard when served upon each plate
forms a most attractive dish.
BIRD'S CUSTARD POWDER
can be obtained wherever
Tinned Fruit is sold .
The best resource for every house-
keeper-affording a constant varia-
tion in the daily menu .
Storekeepers can obtain supplies of
Bird’s Custard and Bird’s Concentrated
Egg Powdersj. Bird’s Baking and Bird s
Blanc-Mange Powders, from D. Cohen &
Co., and other leading Wholesale Houses.
Dr. TARRANT,
P.11.0.5.E., L.R.C.P.E,, L.E.0.5.1., L.M.E.C.P.E.,
w
N
Is a legally-qualified PHYSICIAN and SURGEON,
and is duly registered by the
New South Wales Government
Medical Board. Founder of and Chief Surgeon to
the Clarmont Private Hospital, and for
Sixteen Years Hon. Surgeon to the Sydney
Hospital. Dr. Tarrant has, during his recent
world-wide travels, discovered a
New Method of Healing.
This mode of treatment is absolutely free from
Mercury, and other deleterious, poisonous, or en-
slaving ingredients, may be stopped at any time,
need not be continued after a cure is effected, and
is unlike any other formulae formerly in use, and is
known to Dr. Tarrant alone. Hypodermic medica-
tion is limited to a few remedies, and is applicable
to a few diseases only. The administration of
drugs through the stomach is also limited by the
danger of injury to the organs of digestion.
This New Method of
Treatment
on the contrary, promotes digestion, clears the
Liver and Kidneys, thus paving the way to Perfect
health.
Many sufferers fear lest others should know they
are afflicted. I may assure those who confide their
secret to me that there is not the slightest risk of
exposure, and all letters are regarded as positively
confidential, and are destroyed by fire as soon
as answered, and all appliances are sent securely
sealed.
Dr. Tarrant’s Knowledge of
Special Complaints
from liny cause arising, whether hereditary or
acquired, was gained by careful study and observa-
tion in the principal Hospitals of the world. Dr. TARRANT makes it a special point to eradicate thoroughly
and pleasantly every trace of disease from the system, ensuring not only permanent restoration to health,
but immunity to offspring from hereditary taint.
No man will accomplish a noble purpose, become eminent, or achieve greatness, whose nervous
system is deranged.
KTo 3VEa>xx or Woman
should marry without first assuring themselves that they are in perfect health. If you are unable to under-
stand your malady, or if it is vour intention to marry, send for Dr. TARRRANT S exhaustive work,
“ FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS.”
Price Sixpence in Stamps, which contains 164 pages, blocked in gold, including numerous Prescriptions,
Illustrations and Pictures ; it will enable you to understand and describe your case. Sufferers from Special
Complaints should consult Dr. TARRANT, who has by profound research thoroughly investigated their
origin, traced i)heir deadly sources and insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest and safest method
of eradication.
Dr TARRANT is frequently consulted by patients who have been erroneously treated for Indigestion,
Liver Complaint, Bright’s Disease, Consumption, and other complaints, whose cases prove to be over-strained
nerves. Many who have thus been experimented upon, fear to consult even a physician so welbknown and
universally respected as Dr. Tarrant, who has cured thousands, who have been thus unstieated, by advice
alone. Therefore, if you are a sufferer, write to the doctor, who will, on receipt of your letter, reply cour-
teously and confidentially, naming your malady and cure. You should consult . Dr. TARRANT it
you experience
Dangerous Symptoms,
Foul Breath, Indigestion, Palpitation, Blushing, Shortness of Breath, Impaired Memory, Weak, Sore, Sunken,
or Dark-circled Eves; Sallow or Pimply Skin, Dullness of Intellect, Piles, Constipation, or Relaxation of the
Bowels ; Bad Taste, Wind, Desire for Solitude or Drink, Bashfulness, Weak Back, Bad V eetOozing of. Sa li v a
from the n
to Throw
Twitching
TARRANT makes
Absolutely 3VTo Claarge
vjomujainis, risimia,, riuis, i OlO, , ~
tion, Hip Disease, Dropsy, Worms, Epilepsy (Fits), Bright’s Disease, Influenza, Lung Troubles, Coughs
Neuralgia, and other complaints too numerous to mention, you should, to avoid delay, enclose that amount
in vour first letter, thus proving bona and consequently ensuring immediate attention. Should Dr.
TARRANT decide that he cannot warrant a cure, or that your malady may be cured by advice alone, the
One Pound will be returned to yon.
Patients male or female, living at a distance mav, if desired, without unnecessary expense be accommo-
dated at Dr’. TARRANTS Private Hospital, and nursed back to health by carefully-trained nurses, under
the guidance of Dr. TARRANT.
If von-are ill, be you young or ftlil, male or female, either call or write in perfect confidence .to Dr
TAEfiANT, who will give your- case prompt, courteous, careful, and confidential consideration, and impart
his diagnosis in plain understandable language.
COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED
Dr. HARMAN TARRANT, 151 Elizabeth-street, Hyde Park,
Sydney ) or, if preferred, H.T. Box 1204, Cr.F.O., Sydney.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing .
.( v )a
American Waltham Watch Comp. Watches
Are the most Perfect Timekeepers it is possible to make. To increase the
Sale of WALTHAM WA TCHES, and also give the Australian pe.ople
at the same time a PERFECT WATCH for the same money they have been
paying for a poor make, we have decided to sell to the Australian Public
DIRECT AT OUR WHOLESALE PRICES !
We send Goods Post-paid to any Colony on receipt of
Money Order or Draft.
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 5 years £2 7 6
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar.lo years 3 0 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, syr. guarantee
14c. Gold Filled Waltham Watch (Lady’s or Gent’s), case, guar. 15 years 615 U
Gold-Plated Watches (Ladies’or Gents’, with the “America” movement 1 0 0
14c. Gold Filled Double Alberts, lOyr. guarantee S o o
14c. Gold Filled Double Albert, syr. guarantee 0 8 y
When ordering Watches, please mention if Plain or Fancy Case is wanted.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH DEPOT,
J. Landes, Manager.
Tmnrvial Aveade, Sydney.
BOULESTIN BRANPY.
The finest French Brandy imported into Australia.
Maybe had at the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores, and all the leading Hotels and Wine
and Spirit Merchants.
ASK FOR BOULESTIN.
SOLD IN BOXES
2d., 6d., & 1/- each.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
W „ „ mn n m iron Tint Mil) *T umCTUC BDIHC
FOR MAKING DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, IN LESS TIME AND AT HALF THE PRICE
Delicious to Plum Pudding. Delicious to Stewed Rice. Delicious to all kinds of Puddings.
Delicious to everything. g Delicious to Jam'farts: Delicious to all kinds of Fruit.
Delicious to all kinds of Fruit Pies. Delicious alone.
DeIICIOUS to ail KIUCI& or .FruiL irics. d»cuv.iduo _
TJueaualled for the purposes intended. Will give the utmost satisfaction if the instructions given are
implicitly followed he proprietors entertain tlie greates confidence in the ai tide, aiid cameconi-
liupuuLiy iuiiuwcu. il . v v f„,h» nmnaratuin ofa pood Cus ard. Glveitatnal
_ propneiors emei Lam me gicdLcp cunnucucc - “ „ . : , . ,
mend it to housekeepers generally as a useful agent itithe o f agood Cus ard. Giveita ti ml
Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, __
Sole Agents for New South Wales : TILLOCK & CO., KENT and LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY
ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
& Household Remedy for Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
0
*9
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
■with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYAEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time 1
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot ie
overestim i ted.” —A Professional Nurse (Qualified).
THE EFFECT of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ on a DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEYERISH CONDITION, is SIMPLY MARYELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it,
you have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
tv
°£W
£
v* 7*
films
S 3
.IMITED
A
o 'W
% o
C. 'o
V? v>
%
A
T»OOK OF NATURE
J— l " —AND—
Complete Medical Treatise,
By Dr. LAFAYETTE M. BYRN, M.D.
A WORK FOR HUSBANDS AND WIVES.
Both Sexes will find here a full exposition of what concerns
them : everything is fully laid bare. Do not marry until you have
perused its pages. No other medical work contains such valued
information upon this important subject. There is not the slightest
reservation or holding back of what doctors treat as medical secrets.
Illustrated with more than fifty engravings, price 3s 6d ; by post 4s.
It is impossible in a public newspaper to speak openly of the
delicate matters made plain in everyday language in this great book.
Write for a full description ; sent post free to any address.
BOOKS ON
SEND
FREE
ALL SUBJECTS. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
FOR OUR UP-TO-DATE BOOK LISTS POST
ANYWHERE.
Private Book for Young Men, by l>r. Foote, new
edition, illustrated, enlarged, Is ; post free Is 2d.
The Notorious Moll Flanders, by I)e Foe, complete
and unabridged, illustrated, post free Is fid.
Amours of Gustave, from the French, Is; by
post Is fid. Tiie Woman of. Fire, illustrated, 2s post.
1 Piping Hot; Aube Mouret’s Six; The Soil; Dream
of Love, and all Zola’s Novels; posted 2s each.
Plain Home Talk About the Human System, new
edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post free 7s fid.
Merry Tales of the Monks, peppery, 2s fid, post.
Romance of A Fair Girl’s Bathroom, price Is
fid • post free. Practical Palmistry, post Is fid.
Clara Stanley’s Amours, by G. W. Reynolds,
2s- post 2s fid. Florence Eaton, or the Secrets of a
Picture Gallery, post 2s fid. Pauline Clarendon, 2s fid.
He.’TAMERON, unexpurgated, French Stories, post 3s.
Fruits of. Philosophy, Besant-Brad’augh prosecuted
-book, Is ;by post Is 2d. Camille, post Is fid.
Aristotle complete, colored plates, fis 6d ; post 4s.
Marriage As It Was, As It Is, and As It Should
Be, by Annie Besant, Is ; by post Is 2d.
Mademoiselle de Mac pin, Romance of Love and
Passion, post 2s. A Wily Widow, post 2s.
Speeches and Toasts Ready Made for all occasions
and everybody ; public speaking made easy, Is 6d post.
Decameron of Boccaccio, only genuine illustrated
edition, containing all the suppressed paiges, 2/6; post 3/-
lIOW TO BECOME A VENTRILOQUIST, post free Is. THE
Art of Wrestling, post Is. Marta Monk, post Is 9d.
- Amativeness, by O. S. Fowler, post free.Sd.
Dumb Bells, Clubs, Athletics. &c., Is Cd post.
Modern Etiquette : Parties, Love, Dress, etc., 1/6 pt.
Papa, Mamma, and Baby, by Gustave Droz, posted 2s.
The Works of Rabelais, faithfully translated from
the French unexpurgated, 422 pages. Full-page illus-
trations l>y Gustave DorA 2s 6d.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, posted Is 6d. Nigger Jokes, Is.
Tiie Silent Friend, by Dr. Lamartine, illustrated
private hook, Is (id. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Sexi'al Physiology for Boys, Is 6d post. Sexual
Physiology for Girls, Is (id post.
Bitter Fruits, latest illus. French realism, Is 6d post.
Aus. Miner’s Guide : Simple Tests for Minerals, 3s'Cd.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed— Guide to Female
Loveliness, price Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, Is 9d post.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide, price Is ; post Is 4d.
The Wife’s Handbook, illustrated, latest information
for Married Women. Post free Is 2d.
How to Dance, new work, Is post free.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Booh Depot
16 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.


The cure of piles by the new “ Canalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet
‘Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to
any colony from the depdt, 257 George-street,
Sydney.*
A sense of humor is absolutely fatal to a
man who wishes to become really great—for it
causes him to know when he is making himself
ridiculous and interferes with the stupendous con-
ceitjtecessary to the acquisition of true greatness.
A Melb. burglar, the other night, broke into a
house, and, after ransacking the place, took a glee-
fnlddiffht in writing on a picture the words,
Thanks very much,” and leaving his old battered
boots in place of a new pair. The boots provided
the first clue, and the “ writing on the wall ” com-
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignoi’s that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Shirts
Made to Measure.
Post free 30/- per }4-(lozen through-
out the colonies. Or sample shirt, on
receipt of P. 0.0. or Stamps, 5/6.
X
Very Strong, Soft, Porous and Unshrinkable. Specially
suitable for Station and Bush wear. State height, chest
measure & size of collar worn. FI K K li HO I H EIIS,
Gentlemen’s Emporium, BRISBANE. Sole agents for the
Genuine Cawnpore Khaki and Assam Silk.
W£-
V'
WERE You Ever Told
why many so-called HIGH-GRADE CYCLES excel all others » We
think not. Here’s one point of RED BIRD SUPERIORITY :
s— 4
The Improved
Bearings
IS BUT ONE OF THE
SWELL
Bed Bird Special’s
MANY
IMPORTANT FEATURES
The World’s Most Care-
fully Constructed Wheel.
1 Mi
This shows the BALLS as they are placed in the
Bearings of other Wheels. IN OTHER WHEELS, the
balls are placed in a cup on the shaft, and are allowed
to find their own positions during' the period of momen-
tum. IN CONSEQUENCE, they are jammed one upon
the other, causing friction and wear.
This shows the BALLS as they are placed in the
Bearings of the RED BIRD SPECIAL. With Red Bird
Special Bearings, every ball runs in a separate groove,
never coming in contact with its fellows. The RE-
SULT is an entire absence of friction and an ease Of
propulsion impossible with bearings that have the balls
all jammed in together.
The Goold Bicycle Co., Limited.
Australasian \64 KING ST., SYDNEY (Head Office).
Branches : /EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
245 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON.
{Agents
Everywhere.
in
m
in
in
Agents in Town and Country.
USE THE
“ New Sunlight
Sunliglit in Your Homes.
Incandescent Burner.
Save 50 per cent of Gas
AND OBTAIN
A SWEET, SOFT LIGHT,
3 Times the power of Ordinary Burners,
Complete , (is, (id.
AUSTRALIAN CYCLE & MOTOR CO., 45 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
If, as we hear so often, the chief charm of
horse-racing- lies in its uncertainty, patrons of the sport
must have been well pleased on the last day of Randwick
meeting. Blair, at 12 to 1, defeated the short-priced
Stand-Off for the High Weight Handicap, and Johansen
scored his second win of the meeting in the Members'
Handicap, the favorite Tui finishing nearer last than first.
Levanter started a prime favorite for the Second Steeple-
chase, and, carrying his 13st. like a feather-weight, won
as he liked from Pomeroy. Parnell fell and Underwood
got a nasty gash in the head, but he remounted and
finished in third place. Another 12 to 1 mare, Sweet
Marie, won Waverley Handicap, and the sterling little
ex-galloway Fitzroy appropriated the Final Handicap.
Ambente, Merloolas, and Nevada were the only starters
in Randwick Plate ; Merloolas, on the strength of his
two previous wins from Amberite, starting an even-money
favorite. Merloolas cut out the running, but when fairly
on the road down the straight Amberite passed the
favorite and won, after a great set-to, by a head.
* * • *
A.J.C. Derby resolved itself into a sprint, for
during the early part of the race the horses barely gal-
loped fast enough to keep themselves warm. Some of
the w.f.a. races were also run at a middling pace, and it
is high time that a time-limit should be imposed to pre-
vent farces.
* • • •
Emily Soldene, in her description of A.J.C.
Derby, hit off to the life the average lady-punter. “ What
is it ? ” said I to a woman in shabby black, with a shabby
black tippet trimmed with shabby black fur. “ Oh, don’t
”. s nei * hb °r> grabbing rny arm. “ What is
it? said I again. “ Oh, m3’ God ! ” screamed the woman
111 s *} a hby black, “it’s Picture.” She waved her arms
and her umbrella frantically—“ Come on, you beauty I
Come on—Picture ! —Picture ! My darling I—my beauty 1
I knew it!
* * • •
The weights for the handicaps run at Randwick
tost Saturday were not, as usual, published the day
before ; consequently owners and trainers were unable to
decide early as to running their horses, and endless con-
fusion, much heartburning, and fearful language ensued.
ror the sake of stalling off a few of the supposed in-
fringers of the club’s race-book copyright, the A.J.C. not
only broke faith with the public, butalso broke its own rule
which says that the weigtits shall be published the day
before the race. If the club issued, in addition to the
race-book, a cheap card setting forth names, numbers,
weights, and colors, everyone would buy it, and there
would be no need for such high-handed action as that of
last week.
* • • •
Amberite’s performances during the recent
meeting were of a very in-and-out description. After
being badly beaten by Merloolas on the first day, he ran
a great horse in the Metrop. (won by a stable companion)
carrying top weight and finishing a close fourth. He
then “ went off,” and finished behind The Grafter, Mer-
loola* and Cocos, but two days later again showed
wonderful improvement, and beat said Merloolas. Am-
berite would now appear to be a most unreliable animal.
♦ * * m
A winner at the recent Randwick meeting who
will he heard of again is Blair, a big, clumsy-looking geld-
ing of the cab-horse type, with little or no breeding, but
a good-tempered, honest trier, and a beautiful galloper.
His wins were at six and ten furlongs, and were both
easy.
* * • *
Some owners took advantage of the strong
muster of bookies in Sydney last week to thus early
support their Derby and Cup candidates. For Caulfield
Cup Reka, Massinissa and Hymettus received very solid
backing, whilst Reka and Merloolas were also heavily
supported forMelb. Cup. Gauleon and Woodlark coupled
were backed to the tune of 7000—700, a wager of which, at
present, the layer seems to have a bit the best.
«...
Last week’s trot at Brighton, Sydney, was the
most exciting event on the programme. Siren was
f' v ' n n Kola a couple of secs, start, and from the word
Go the pair commenced to battle it out. Entering
the straight for the last time, Siren, Kola, and little Satan
were all together, but Kola breaking at the critical
moment., Siren just won from Satan.
*-• * •
The demand for the Tote in Yic. and N.S.W.
has had the temporary effect of enlarging s.p. prices (on
paper) against horses that don’t win, for the horse-
reporters to a man are anxious to make out the best pos-
sib'P case for Ikey Mo. But they can't make a good job
of it, anyhow. The Sydney Handicap winner, Sweet
Mane, was returned by the s.p. reporters as a 20 to 1
chance in a field of 12 onty. That looks attract ive. Ikey
Mos barrackers will point to the Sweet Marie case as a
proof that the gent with the prominent feature to his
face lays odds equal to the tote’s. Now, presuming that
he did bet as reported—viz., from sto 2 against Fucile
down to “15 to 1 against Charge, and 20 to 1 against
others -and presuming that he laid the odds to lose
ClOO against everything in the race, he would have £149
10s. in his bag wherewith to repay £lO5 t o the backer
who took “20 fivers” about Sweet Marie. £44 10s. would
stick to I key’s fingers-say, £3O more than the tote
would deduct for commission. Meanwhile punters can
amuse themselves by studying the s.p. returns, and see-
ing whether they are true statements of the case as
regards the horses that do win.
* * • •
Dear Bulletin.—How about IS being the «»-
lucky number? No. 13 on the card won three times to-
day (A.J.C. meeting) in succession, and this on the 13th
of the month.— Quambo.
• * • *
Melb. Argus seems to have boldly and un-
blushingly proclaimed itself the friend of Ikey Mo by
publishing the market odds against 12 winners, as follows:
SATURDAY'S STARTING PRICES.
W ILLIAMSTO W N.
6 to 1 agst Yelta 1 to 1 agst Konning
10 „ 1 „ Corowa 9 ~ 2 „ Marie Corelli
® » 1 » Tremolo 8 ~ 1 ~ Tecoma.
Randwick.
7 to 1 agst Mentone 7 to 1 agst Aletnene
7 „ 1 „ Blair 4 „ 1 „ Merloolas
3 „ 1 „ Picture 5 „ 2 „ Tubal Cain IL
The apparent intention was to persuade punters that they
can t do better than bet with the bookie who lavs such
“ liberal ” prices, but the full effect of the Argus’s'tactics
will felt presently, when the public have a “good
day, ’ and the ridiculously short prices laid against the
winners are not published in that artless journal. Mean-
while, a good many punters will wonder what odds a tote
would have returned against some of the outsiders in the
foregoing list. Tecoma, for instance, was seventh favorite
in a field of 10. The writer of this par. will now proceed
to make a £3O book on Tecoma’s race, taking the starting
prices from the Argus report:—
To pay out.
40 £3O to £lO against Devoted
36 30 ~ 0 ~ Seasong
35 30 „ 6 ~ Riverslea
35 30 ~ 5 „ Moonlyong
35 30 ~ 6 „ Sir James
33/15 30 „ 3/15 „ Clive
33/15 30 ~ 3/15 „ Tecoma
33 30 „ 3 „ Surge
33 30 ~ 3 „ May Day
33 30 „ 3 „ Bright Eyes
£47/10
Taking the Argus figures as a true statement of Ikey
Mo’s business on Tecoma’s race (the chances are the
Argus reporter didn’t, understate the odds) we find Ikey
could have betted to win from £7 10s. to £l4 10s. on a
turnover of £47 10s.—say a profit varying from 15 to 30
per cent. Well, the tote would charge not more than 10
percent, on any winner. The newspaper that barracks
for Ikey Mo on commercial grounds gets itself into much
the same argumentative mess as the parson who objects
to the tote on behalf of public morality.
Dear Bulletin.— As an advt. for the A.J.C.
Spring' carnival I notice about Sydney a poster, which
depicts a ruck of conventionally-drawn horses, stretched
In impossible galloping postures, while the jockeys who
bestride them are libels on Australian horsemanship.
Aow, why should not the A.J.C.—like the shipping co.'s—
commission competent men to design something artistio
and local? Why not give, say Mahony, the commission
to design a poster that, besides being true to life, would
be an ornament to the city and a credit to the club. An-
other business-poster depicts a two-horse “finish,” and
observes underneath that “ So-and-so wins, hands down/ 1
Yet both jocks are represented as hard at work with their
prads. Fancy a man, with both heels and hands at work,
winning “ hands down ” 1 How many understand the
phrase ?—Jack Shay.
* • * *
New-arrival Capt. Thomas Brand—eldest son
Of Gov. Hampden—will be an acquisition to N.S.W. Polo
Club, as he was, it is said, looked upon at ’Ome as the
best polo player in England. Capt. “ Tom ” takes Major
J erguson s place as second-in-command of the Australian
Horse.
* * * *
The annual report of the V.A.T.C., Caulfield,
shows that, with a gross revenue of £31,000, the credit
balance is £8935.
* * * •
A pork-suppered publican at Coolah scored the
first Melb. Cup dream of the season, last week. As the
horses were racing down the straight he saw a brown
horse come bounding like a greyhound through a
lot of sheep dogs, but just then the crowd “took to
him for a guy-a-whack bookmaker, and in the scrimmage
he lost sight of the horses. When he awoke, his wife was
punching and shaking him, having become alarmed by
his stertorous breathing. He says he wouldn’t have
minded the punching if she had oniy given him a chance
to recognise that brown horse.
* • • •
The bloom ia off the cycling industry. N.S.
WalM “amateur” cyclists cycled mostly to empty
benches at Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday. How-
ever, some good racing was seen. Goodson (Q.) won the
Ten Mile Championship from Longmuir, and New and
Park (Vie.) scooped the Lap Scratch race. “Monny”
Kerr (brother to ex-champion Wally) just scraped home
in the Five Mile Handicap. In this race half-a-dozen fell
and young “Jim’ ’Tooher was so seriously hurt—skull-
fracture—that he died soon after.
• * • •
The death of poor Tooher produced very little
shock in the Sydney community. Such a fatal accident
had been expected ever since the first field of inexperi-
enced riders wobbled round the hard, high banking. No
man who has seen a big field of horses gallop at a hurdle
having room only for six abreast has been surprised at the
accident which follows. And the death of Tooher pro-
duced no more effect than is produced by the death of a
patient who for a long time has notoriously been suffering
from an incurable and severe malady. The danger of a
fatal fall with a crowded cycling field is so imminent that
a lion-hearted rider like Martin plavs upon the fear that
is m every rider in order to win the race ; makes it
one of his chief instruments of success. Fear of falling
prevents the majority of cyclists from winning a race.
Martin often used openly to take his life in his hands on
the track ; and perhaps always acted on the assumption
that he was the only man who would dare take his life in
his hands. The fear of falling is so severe that if a cyclist
does get a really bad smash in a bunch, he never regains
the nerve to thread through another bunch at 25 miles
an hour. Given crowded fields, there will be many more
fatal accidents on the cricket-ground track.
* * * *
Alf. Middleton, the Dunolly man with calves
on his heart, won the Vic. 100-miles-road championship
on Saturday, but by only a couple of lengths from “ Little
Bil martin ’’ Forbes ; Broadbent, Iredale, and Calder fol-
lowing within syds.—a really phenomenal finish to a race
of that distance. Considering that 50 miles had to be
ridden in the teeth of a stiff northerly gale, the closeness
of the final sprint seetns all the more extraordinary.
Carpenter, last year’s winner, could only get into sixth
place, and Corbett, who won the recent 50-mile spin,
dropped out through accident.
• * * *
M‘Donald, the Pt. Darwin telegraph-operator
who has made a cycling dash down to Adelaide, has
easily lowered all “records ’’-Murif’s and Coleman and
Mather’s. Everything, though, was in his favor-
weather, tracks (hardened by rains), the assistance of
transcontinental linemen, accurate description of the
tracks, the knowledge that the trip had been accom-
plished, and the fact that expensive preparations are
being made en route for the line-duplication. Besides
there was a girl waiting at the other side. Murif’s ride
still stands as the really plucky thing; for, spite of all
that has been said,, that eccentric set out absolutely “ on
his own,” and with an amazing ignorance about the
route.
* • » *
The other afternoon a bike-yahoo rode down
Oxford-street (Syd.) with both hands stuffed into bis
pockets and a big butcher’s-block pipe sticking out of
his face. After about two-score of miraculous escapes
he succeeded in riding over an ancient female and empty-
ing the contents of his pipe into the eye of a man who
tried to save her. In trifles like this N.S.W. might with
advantage copy Italy, where the law jumps with both
feet on the cyclomaniac who lets go the handles, takes his
feet off the pedals, or gyrates about the streets without
bell, brake or candle;
♦ * • •
A Northern hotel-keeper replied lately to a Syd-
ney enquiry re prices to members of the Cycling Associa-
tion—" Ordinary charge for meals, 25.; cyclists, 7s. 6d.”
* • * *
The question of the liability of an innkeeper for
the safety of his guest’s bicycle entrusted to his custody
formed the subject of an interesting case in an English
County Court lately. Plaintiff rode on Easter Monday
from St. Albans to Luton, where he entered the yard of
an hotel. One of the innkeeper's men, in answer to a
question as to where the machine was to be put, pointed
to a shed in the yard. The machine was put there, and
plaintiff went inside for lunch. On returning, he found
the bike had disappeared. The innkeeper, when sued,
E leaded in effect that plaintiff ought to have padlocked
is machine, that it was bank holiday and there were 50
other bicycles there, and that he couldn’t be expected to
see that each man took his own, that the common law on
the subject never contemplated such unprofitable things
as cycles as being under its protection, and that plaintiff
must prove that the innkeeper was guilty of negligence.
But the Court bl ushed all these pleas away, and, apply-
ing the old doctrine of the common law'that an inn-
keeper insures the safety of his guest’s goods properly
left in his charge against all loss, unless occasioned by the
act of God or of the Queen’s enemies or the guest’s own
negligence, made an order in favor of the cyclist. It was
especially held in this case that it was not negligence to
omit to padlock the cycle.
• * * *
Fitzroy (Vic.) footballers astonished all the
knowing ones on Saturday by defeating Collingwood by
22 toll, after a game which, though played in a gale, is
regarded as the best of the season. The Vic. premiership
contest seems interminable. If, was expected to end three
weeks ago, but Fitzro.ys upsi t all expectations by beating
Essendon, and placing themselves level with their oppon-
ents and Collingwood. Last Saturday they had to decide
whether the “Woodsies” or themselves' should meet
Essendon for the final, and all tips were knocked on the
head by the result. Next Saturday, when Fitzroy and
Essendon meet, the chances are they will make a draw of
it, for finality has been so often deferred this season that
it seems unattainable.
* * » •
Of all Vic. clubs St. Kilda possesses a record
unique in the annals of local football, the doughty
“ Saints having won not a single match for two years !
In ’97 season they managed to score a draw or two, but
this time they have lost every match. Yet there is not a
club on the list that has not at some time had to go under
to the seasiders.
• * * *
Opponents of electorate cricket in Adelaide,
who were very strong prior to its initiation last year, are
being oonfonnded by the progress of two clubs, Sturt and
Port Adelaide, which have made big successes of local
grounds. The poor displays of S.A. cricketers as regards
fielding and catching have often been attributed to the
fact that matches have been played in restricted spaces
on the Adelaide Oval, a drawback now likely to be re-
moved.
• • • *
“ Bails ” : So far as I know, the only Aus-
tralian members of representative teams in England who
have died are Midwinter and M‘Donnell.
* * • •
“ The essential difference between English and
Australian bowling,” writes The Bulletin’s London cor-
respondent, “ was plainly exposed iri the Middlesex-
Surrey match, when the latter lost their hope of the
championship. The former bowl for their averages, the
latter for their team, and, in fact, English bowlers are
merely stonewallers. To win a three-days’ match the
batsmen have to make runs, and that pretty rapidly ;
therefore, J. T. Hearne and his like keep a splendid pitch
and systematic break that do not allow of many liber-
ties. But when it comes to shifting ‘stickers,’ who do
not want to score—well, give me a man, not a machine.
In the last innings Surrey had 287 runs to get, and lots of
time to do it in. The cracks (bar Abel) collapsed, and
then the draw was played for. Here Hearne was useless,
but Albert Trott fed, coaxed, and puzzled them so cleverly
that a few minutes before time the game was won. Had
it not been for A.E., Middlesex would have drawn, for
two Hearnes would not have shifted the batsmen. Yet
the Australian got 6 for 87, and the Englishman 4 for 38,
though each bowled 40 overs. The latter had 24 maidens,
the former ten less, yet can it be questioned which was of
the more service to his .side?”
* » • •
“F.” : At N.S.W. Publio Schools Sports last
week saw several “ three-card ” men with the usual large
umbrella and collection of very-evident. ‘‘ buttoners ”
doing great biz by enticing the youngsters to bet pennies.
The adult idiot who fancies he can pick the card mostly
earns all he gets ; but when big, able-bodied men com-
bine to take a child down for a penny, they deserve
squashing with the large, heavy, flat foot of the law.
* * * *
Golden Gate Athletio Club, Sydney, gave some
600 enthusiasts a good half-dozen rounds on Saturday
night, when Hope and Essler supplied the battle of the
evening. The set-to was even until towards the end of
the sixth round, when Essler got all the best of it, but the
referee stepped in and declared it a draw. These Satur-
day-night shows, as a rule, are well-contested, and devoid
of brutality, as the referee is a man who knows when to
knock off. There was more blood spilt when Underwood
got his fall off Parnell, on Saturday, at Randwick, than
has been shed at the Golden Gate since the inception of
these contests.
• • • «
“W.”: An unpublished incident anent a
recently-deceased high N.S.W. ex-civil servant. In his
young days he was no end of a bruiser, and I was one of
a party whioh accompanied him to Garden Island to
settle a little difference. He had a mop of curly bright
hair, but when his opponent appeared with hair cropped
as if just out of gaol, it was decided that our man must
have a crop also. A knife that would cut could not be
raised, so we knocked out of the bottom of a bottle the
piece which boys call a swallow-cutter, and with that we
hacked his hair off. He won like a tradesman.
* * * *
Western Champion tells hew Jack O’Mahoney
was beaten a short time ago by Madame in four
rounds at Bowen Downs woolshed. And this is what
“ the tall, straight Western man ” has come to—knocked
out in four rounds by a petticoat !
• • * *
A determined attack has been made in the
Westralian goldfields towns on Sunday sports. One fight
took place in the Kalgoorlie Council, on a motion to con-
tinue the granting of the use of the public grounds for
that day. T’othersiders quoted, in opposition, Broken
Hill as a mining town, working under similar conditions,
which had its sports meeting's and football-matches on
Saturdays. But the argument did not avail; and the
Sawbath is still to be enjoyed. But, as for Broken Hill,
though it shuts the town grounds on Sundays, it opens
those reached by train—and things happen then that
wouldn’t happen at home.
* • * •
Mark Foy, of Smith-street and Sydney,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ has made
three matches for his yacht, the Irex, against the Med-
way Y mu ht Club > who are building a special boat to meet
her. The crew of the Irex is to be made up entirely of
Sydneyites, and George Bull and H. Llewellyn, formerly
known in banking circles, are amongst the sturdy salts
chosen. The race is to be on the Medway, crews to be
amateurs, with a pilot for the ‘down-under’s’ boat.”
[Cable says the English boat beat Irex bably.j
pleted the chain of evidence. The housebreaker
was arrested within a couple of days, and his
handwriting was found to correspond with the
satirical remarks scribbled on the picture.
“ Financed by 1 Tit-Bits ’ Newnes, Borch-
grevink,” writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, “who was a social favorite in Australia
in his ‘ single ’ days, sets steam for the South Pole
this week. The expedition is remarkably com-
plete in equipnfent, and all the very latest, ‘seven-
courses-in-a-tabloid ’ provisions are being taken.
Meanwhile, ‘ Borchy ’ has slightly annoyed one
Gilbert Bowick, a London merchant who
claims <£20,000 damages for money lent, breach of
agreement, &c. G.B. says the other B. told him
of huge guano deposits covering acres of islands in
the chilly south and then threw over the syndicate
formed to finance him for the ‘ Strand ’ man.
Borchy is to be allowed to leave peacefully in the
hope that he may be worth powder and shot on
his return.”
Queensland vital statistics for last year
show that the population has increased faster
than that of any other continental division—Wes-
tralia excepted. The Q. rate of increase was
2‘65 per cent, as against Victoria OTI p.c., Maori-
land 2’09 p.c., South Australia o‘7B p.c. Total
increase for last statistical year was 12,251 persons,
of which number 9004 arrived in the first half of
present year. Males (naturally for so young a
country) predominate—l 27 to every 100 females.
In 10 years Q. has attracted 27,000 persons from
the other Australias. The North possesses
95,837 inhabitants, the Centre 57,610, the South
331,253 ; sum total, 484,700. (Separationists will
note with interest that the South still boasts no
less than 68 per cent, of the total population.)
Marriage-rate, six per thousand. Average Q.
family greater than those of Germany, Russia,
France, England, Scotland, Belgium, Sweden, or
Denmark. (Ireland, however, is slightly ahead.)
Birth-rate, the highest on the continent, 29.92 per
thousand. Death-rate seems to get lower every
year, being now down to 11 ‘33. (Alien death-rate,
however, is still as portentous as ever). The
ladies of Bananaland are cosmopolitan in their
tastes. During the last year 738 of them married
natives, 346 married Englishmen, 80 wedded
Scotchmen, 105 settled down with Irishmen,
while jfire married Chinamen, and three Polyne-
sians. The women, however, who live unmarried
with various smellful aliens may be reckoned by
the score.
“ Von Kotze ” on J. A. Philp and the
Chinese question :
It is bad to suffer from pet-theory on the brain. S. A.
Philp asserts that he never advocated Chinese immigra-
tion at all. Well, if he didn’t do so directly, the inference
was unescapeable. He says, “ that the Chinese market
gardeners are not equal to the supply of vegetables is
evidenced by the increased price of vegetables and the
always rising wages of the market gardener.” Which is
acbully a capital argument for my contention. Exclude
Chinese, and the wages rise ! More than even I ever
dared to maintain. Again, “it is the Chinaman who
garners the wealth of the deserted gold and tin fields,
and faces, without a grumble, the Chinaman’s work of
scrub-cutting, etc.” Yes ; and keeps the white fossieker
off the ground. The Palmer, for instance, would be
carrying a white population to-day, and the commercial
destiny of the Far North would have been very different,
but for those slant-eyed gleaners. J.A.P. further denies
that he favors racial intermarriages, which in the face of
his plea for immigration-restrictions modification" is very
much on a par with Reid’s Federal professions. More
Chow market-gardener means more yellow hybrid.
Lastly, the liking or dislike for Chinese is not a matter of
taste, but of healthy racial instinct ; and a cosmopolitan
philanthropy that takes to its bosom the better class of
Asiatic in preference to the slum-bred white produce of
cheap labor and monopolism, is a very ladylike, and there-
fore very illogical, sentiment indeed. On the whole, Mr.
Philp makes the case against the Chinaman so much
blacker, or yellower, than I could, that the Chow might
well, in this case, ask to be “ saved from his friends.”


The French military authorities have been
at last forced by the remorseless logio of
events from the possibility of maintaining that
Dreyfus wrote the famous “bordereau” upon
which principally he was condemned. Looks,
however, as if they were still holding out against
revision of the sentence in the expectation that
Dreyfus, by becoming the “Man who’s Dead,”
will himself put an end to the sordid “ situation.”
That well-known Bulletin writer, Ed-
ward Dyson, is publishing through Geo. Robert-
son and Co. a new book of Australian tales,
entitled “Below and On-Top,” dealing mainly
with mining, township and bush life. The volume,
published at 3s. 6d. cloth, 2s. 6d. paper, will be
illustrated by Phil May, Alf. Vincent and Amb.
Dyson.
A company is being formed to work the
block of ground at Maldon, Victoria, adjoining
the South German company, over which there
was so much excitement some few months ago,
when the land was pegged out by several appli-
cants, and which culminated in a Parliamentary
enquiry. The company is called the “South
German Deep co.” See advt.*
Some people find a certain significance in
the fact that Chief Justice Madden, after listen-
ing for days to the unparalleled story of John
Wallace’s trusteeship, spoke of it as an “ extremely
commonplace and unemotional case.” Under the
circs., it was natural for barrister Higgins to sug-
gest that the learned gentleman with the waxed
moustache had not been paying proper attention
to the matter.
WHAT’S YOUR
NECK WORTH?
Would you sell it for £l3 : O *0
Or £18:0:0 ? Of course yon
would not 1 But there are lots of
people who are doing so; they are
riding the £l5 :0 :0 and £18:0:0 kind
of bicycles which is practically the
same thing. They are risking their
necks and courting repair bills to
save the £7 :0 :0 or £lO :0: 0 that
would purchase a trustworthy, easy
running Massey - Harris
It’s not the cheapest in price, but
the cheapest in the end.
Are you an economist of that sort?
If so, we will be glad to show you
at any of our depots or agencies the
difference between Massey-Harris
Bicycles and the break-neck kind.
Even if you do not purchase you
will learn something interesting
about High - bred Cycle
Construction.
Established 1847.
MASSEY-HARRIS COMPANY Ltd,
TORONTO, CANADA.
Australasian Head Quarters : William Street, Melbourne
Beanches : J'unedin—Sydney— Brisbane
Adelaide—Hobart —K ortham.
Depots and Agencies almost, everywhere.
N.S.W. Branch:
385 George-st., Sydney
(opp. Strand Arcade).
Jawbone Neild, when interviewed by
Sydney Daily Telegraph for an explanation of
his absence from the censure vote division, was
curt and snappish to a degree. The Majah
much resents his non-inclusion in the Ministry.
He significantly remarked that this was the first
occasion he had been summoned to a division by
the Reid Government.
Under Maoriland Land Settlements Act
of 1894, to March of recent financial year, 28
estates of 86,919 acres had been purchased for
£377,553 65., to which must be added i 11,761,
expense of roads, surveys, administration, &c. ;
19 had been subdivided, and greater part selected ;
133 houses erected, and <£13,022 worth of improve-
ments effected. The rental (4'76 per cent, on cost)
leaves a surplus after providing interest on
purchase money. Of 397 selectors 12 only have
forfeited their rights for breach of covenant.
Balance of land when selected will further aug-
ment the profits and demonstrate how to do with-
out the landlord.
Amusements.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
The Greatest Vaudeville Bill Ever Offered in Any Part of
the World.
Miss Peggy Pryde Mr- Gr- H- Wood
THE SISTERS TERRY. D. H. OASTON.
Mr. WILL WHITBURN. WALLACE KING.
DELOHERY, CRAYDON and HOLLAND.
Foreman. <& Fa.nxia.xi.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
"*■ Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrovb.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
“ Tbe Prisoner of Zeoda.”
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as RUDOLPH.
Miss ADA FERRAR as FLA VIA.
SATURDAY, Sept. 24, the Romantic Play, in Four Acts,
“UNDER THE RED ROBE."
Box Plan at ALLAN'S and MENZIES’.
•TIOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
■A Sole Lessee and Director ... Philip Newbury.
Saturday Next, at 8 o’efoefc.
Saturday SbilliQS “Pops.”
COLOSSAL PROGRAMME.
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
FIRST of the “ POPS,” 15th OCTOBER.
ARCHIBALD NEWBURY, Manager.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Bateman and Maurice.
4th WEEK ! |3T* LAST NIGHTS !
TRIP ROUND THE WORLD.
On SATURDAY, 24th Sept. First time in Australia.
SONS OP THE SEA.
The most Thrilling, Sensational and Picturesque Play
ever produced. Full strength of Brilliant Company.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES —3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and SIXPENCE.
JJRISBANE. THEATRE ROYAL.
Redecorated, New Scenery, Auditorium altered, Seated
for 1000. Population, 100,000. Times now prosperous.
Rent Low. Fares paid for good speculations.
Apply, Terms, etc , Mr WALTER BENTLEY.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
6th WEEK! and Continued Success of the Royal
Comic Opera Company.
THIS EVENING, at 8. Wednesday Matinees, at 2.
1 ** LB POO P € €.”
Comic Opera in 2 Acts and 4 Tableaux.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—6s., 35., 25., and Is.
rjIHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
BLANP HOLT’S
Successful Adephi Drama,
THE FATAL. CARD.
SATURDAY, Sept. 24, the Up-to-date Bohemian Play,
“SPOUTING LIFE.’'
PRICES—3s., 25., and One Shilling. Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
3RD WEEK 3RD
CONTINUED SUCCESS OP
Professor T. A. KENNEDY’S
Wondrous Hypnotic Entertainment.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.15.
Screams, Roars, Yells of Laughter from all parts of the
Theatre. PEOPLE’S PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and Sixpence.
Seats reserved at Nicholson’s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Signor- XT go Bioixcli.
The most astounding Quick-change Artist in the world.
Last Week in Australia of
THE POLUSKIS. GOVELL SISTERS.
LOU BE RES FORD, ALICE SIMMONS, NETTIE
WAITE, J. W. WINTON, FANING & DEVOE.
TO-DAY (Saturday) First Appearance of JULEENE’S
ELECTRIC ORGAN.
“Imperial” Bicycles
(THE GO-LIGHTLY KIND).
Made by the celebrated American Manufacturers,
AMES & FROST CO.
BEAUTY . . LIGHTNESS . . STRENGTH . . RIGIDITY
and SPEED COMBINED.
Dealers supplied at Factory Prices. Sample Machine sent
on approval to any part of the colonies where not estab-
lished. Wheels fitted with any Tyres or Rims to suit
customers.
J. F. Me Oermott,
Terms on General Agent for Australasia,
Application. 37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
“DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CKESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway); and- the other is
“ Ell s’ King-street foffee Palace,” situated 60
KING STREET, and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor - - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Here To-day!
Yesterday !
and To-morrow !
TYtE are one of the Pioneers in the Bicycle trade.
' ' We know a good wheel when we see it, and stock
only machines that are absolutely reliable and fully
up-to-date.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Estab. 1884. 234 Pitt-street, SYDNEY.
SSW Agent for “Naumann”and “Clyde” Cycles ; Con-
tractors for the supply of cycles to the Govt. Electrical
Department.
“bargains in bicycles.
. . CLEARANCE SALE . .
plf American High Jjrt Cycles
. . AT , .
HALF-PRICE !
Ladies’ model of most graceful design. Cent's
Racers and Roadsters, unsurpassed for quality
and speed. 13T Everything fancy but the price.
English American gicycles
Sent to me as Samples
By various First-class Makers.
SANSPABEIL
WAVERLEY
CRESCENT
WEARWECL
I)
MACK TAN
HENLEY
GRIMLEY
QUADRANT
BOULEVARD also
The Interchangeable.
These offer the greatest variety to be found in any
one establishment, and the best value obtainable
anywhere. Catalogues on application.
FRANK GRIMLEY,
263 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
r
5011 AGENTS-THE-
AUSTRAL-CYCLE-AG-
ENCY-LTD-MELBOURJfc
SYDNEY- ADELAIDE-
fi
CYCLES
Latest EG ro peai)
Successes:
CUCA CUP.
Q fl
WON BY
JACK GREEN.
24 Hours’ Hoad Record
(428 Miles)
Won by GOODWIN.
MOUNTED on DUNLOP TYPES.
Sole Agents z N
THE AUSTRAL CYCLE AGENCY LTD.,
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Perth. 301 George Street, Sydney ;


TO TONE UP THE
SYSTEM AGAINST
OPPRESSIVE HEAT
“I Consider it Unequaled”
Mr. Edwin Bright of Brisbane,
Queensland, gives this strong testi-
monial :
fi
“I am pleased to say I have used
AVER’S
Sarsaparilla
both in the United States and through-
out Australia whenever I have felt the
need of a tonic. As a remedy for loss
of appetite, weakness and debility, and
to tone up the system to withstand the
oppressive heat and sudden changes I
consider it unequaled.”
For constipation take Dr. Ayer’s Pills. They
promptly relieve and surely cure. Take them
with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla: one aids the other.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
JNISW SOUTH WALES BARKERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 & 682 George Street,
SYDNEY".
Hairdressers and Wigmakers
TO THE TRADE.
EVERY KIND OF HUMAN HAIR,
Straight and Curled, in Stock.
All Lengths and Shades.
All Requisites Hairworking.
Agents for the “ROYAL LOUNGE”
HAIRDRESSING CHAIR.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies’ Naturally Curly Fringes a speciality,
from 4/6 to 30/-each. Newest Designs. Best
English Hair Tails, from 5/6 to 42/- each.
Wigs, Scalp“ts, &c., made to Order. Comb-
ings Made Up.
A'Sl ST A NT' Engaged for Ihe Country.
-A. feaolici Silver '\7%T a, "t; olx
ABSOLUTELY GIVEN AWAY!
Can you read this :
IW* A * S j T* E j T*M * |
We undertake and guarantee to stive awav one of our
£2 10s. Solid Silver Watches, the quality never
before seen (Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s), to every reader who
sends us the correct reading of the above rebus. Condi-
t ions That your answer is correct, and that you further
undertake, if correct, to purchase one of our Solid Silver
Cnains. Our Watches are Solid Silver Cases, jewelled
movements, and reliable timekeepers. Send at once,
enclosing stamped addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if correct. Address-THE MANAGER, the
London Watch and Jewellery Co., 482 George-street,
Sydney.
Edison up to date : From N.S.W. Govt.
Gazette list of patents :
No.
8,247. Joseph George White, Morpeth, N.S.W. —An im-
proved cockroach and bed-bug trap. 26th March.
The blessings of science !
The English Amalgamated Engineers’
Society, which was about the most conservative
of ’totherside unions, has been a good deal shaken
up by its recent strike-defeat; now its trade
organ prints many pages in advocacy of political
action. Maori land, with its anti-strike legisla-
tion, is naturally the model just at present.
£ At Albury the other day a man run in
on the vag.” told the bench that he had travelled
to that town under the belief that it was abso-
lutely certain to become the Federal city. “He
was remamded to the gaol hospital for medical
examination.” Surely Moss Vale had a finger in
this !
The South Australian Full Court lately
took a day off, along with the Crown Solicitor
and the most learned member of the local Bar, to
consider the molar teeth of a black girl with a
baby. It all began with the fascination of Chong
Yow, an unpretentious yellow person with a
Northern Territory mia-mia. A stray trooper
suspected Yow of smoking uncustomed opium,
and “raided ” him. Now, all this trouble having
been taken over a mere Chow, he had to be
guilty of something ; and the black Kit who
shared the Celestial mansion (and had apparently
shared either that or some other mansion for
several months) was a convenient peg for a prose-
cution. To the astonishment of Yow (who denied
responsibility for the lady’s interesting condition),
he was charged with carnally knowing, and a
few other things, the allegation being that
Kathleen (The Bulletin hereby performs
the ceremony of baptism, which appears to
have been overlooked) was something be-
tween 13 and 16—most likely 13J. Kathleen’s
mamma had, however, omitted to register her
daughter’s birth, and the family Bible had bpen
mislaid ;as a matter of fact, Kathleen’s mamma
had been mislaid, too. A doctor was called in,
and, having looked into Kathleen’s mouth, pro-
nounced her 13 or about—on the evidence of
the molar teeth. The fine legal point, however,
was that Kathleen had a mamma, and that that
lady would have given the best evidence of Kath-
leen’s age; yet no attempt had apparently been
made at Palmerston, where Yow had been duly
found guilty, to produce mamma. Wherefore the
“best evidence ” wasn’t on hand, and the evidence
that was on hand wasn’t any good, unless the
doctor had great experience in connection with
female blacks’molar teeth, which he hadn’t. And
so Yow, who has by now probably served a couple
of years or so (happily it isn’t likely that he has
the least idea what it’s all about; except, probably,
that it has some connection with the disowned
infant) is declared to have been wrongly convicted,
and the conviction is duly set aside.
FEPERAL - -
PALACE
- - - HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Conveniently situated close to Station, Steamers and
centre of city.
ROOMS 2s. to 10s.
MEALS Is. and 2s. 6d.
BOARDERS 30s. to £3 3s.
Another use has been found for the par-
son. Archdeacon M‘Cullagh, the generally-
trusted Anglican dignitary at Bendigo, has, for a
week or two, been sitting in his vestry hearing
evidence and arguments in M'Coll v. Hoskins—an
action in which the Yic. ex-Minister of Mines
wants a thousand or two from a local alderman
for throwing doubts upon the purity of some of
the plaintiff’s Ministerial actions. The matter
was taken out of the regular courts in its earliest
stages.
The British Government’s pension-list for
’97-’9B shows a decided tendency to do a little
something for brainworkers and their poor rela-
tions. A daughter of Mrs. Olipbant gets £75 a
year, the widow of Prof. Palmer gets .£lOO a year
in recognition of her late husband’s classical
scholarship and lack of capital, and a dozen or
more other people are provided with bread and
cheese for the term of their natural lives on
account of their own or a parent’s distinguished
labor in an unremunerative field.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRU3B & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
foie Agents f\>r New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
9
CLUB HOUSE HOTEL
(OA I UNt),
KTorth Queensland.
James Wattsr3 Proprietor.
TAMES WATTERS will always be pleased to see any
of his West Australian and North Queensland friends
if they will <five him a call at the CLUB HOUSE.' The
latest reliable mining information to be obtained from J.W.
Your Cue is—
Gough’s Theatre Royal,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Largest Seating Accommodation in Queensland
Next GOUGH’S EXCELSIOR HOTEL.
WHEN YOU BUY
Eucalt/ptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAMP.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
n.s.w. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BRQ'?,, L + 'd. f
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil 00. Ltd., Hobart.
This well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
COUGH Siops
c o 7
i£Opi\IFUL A DOSE
Gives Immediate Relief and Rest.
Safe and Pleasant for Children.
See that HAYMAN’S is supplied.
WSRj
FOREIGN STAMPS.
£VETS of 12 Cuba, 9d. ; 50 Spain (fine), 2s.
m* 9 Porto Rico, Gd.; 5 Philippine Isles, 4d.
9 U.S.A. (Columbus), Is. Gd.; 8 New Cale
donia, Is.; 5 Bolivia, 6d.; 8 Egypt, Gd.
set 9 Borneo, Is. Gd. ; set 10 Brazil, 6d.
set 12 Heligoland, Is. Packets :30 differ
ent, Gd. ; 50, Is. ; 100, 2s. Gd. ; 150, ss.
postage, 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N., orstamps
Price Lists, Foreign and Australian, free.
WM. AOKLAND,
162 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
BUILT LIKE A WATCH/
STERLING CYCLES.
W
Fitted with MORSE Chain.
Absolutely no Friction.
The best Lady Machine Built.
Westwood Rims
STERLING CYCLE DEPOT,
75 -Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY,
Ladies. - Can and
see our CHEAP
.MACHINES, from 20s
each. Greatest BAR-
GAINS ever offered.
Gash, or 2s 6d weekly.
Repairs, parts, fittings,
i etc.
! s. ROWLEY & 00.;
ROYAL ARCADE, opposite New Markets, SYDNEY.
German Hollow Ground
Sms*'
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADE
IN BLACK AMD IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: GSIORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LCfCC"
DAVID STORER & SONS’
TATTOO OIL
(The Perfect Sheep Marker)
In Three Colors, BLACK, RED,
AND BLUE ; is the only
ABSOLUTELY SAFE ...
. . . WOOL MARKING or
Kept by all Leading Merchants
and Storekeepers.
Sbtcp Brai)dii}g Oil.
Sole Proprietors: WILKINSON, HEYWOOD & CLARK, Ltd.
LONDON, MELBOURNE, and SYDNEY.
DAPTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
SYDKTEX.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS.
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
I
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWAEM”
. . BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEF.
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD For
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Souses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
VALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


N* rr ßaSSri)(iSS€i)’S AlfaliQe Herbal RenjcdicS
More Marvellously Successful and Effectual than Ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
Testimonials.
A. Few of Them.
4.
A Magistrate Cured of Nervousness and
Biliousness.
160 Elizabeth-street, Melb.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure to inform you that a
course of your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a
severe case of biliousness and nervousness. I may also
mention that several of my friends to whom I have re-
commended your remedies have derived great benefit
from them ; therefore, I consider you are deserving of
success, which I do most heartily wish you.—Yours grate-
fully, A. HARRIS, J.P.
Nervousness Cured.
The well-known and popular representative of the
Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony carries
special weight, writes thus : To Herr Rassmussen.— Dear
Sir,—l think.it my duty to inform you that a course of
your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recom-
mended them to many friends, who have all been cured
by their use.—Yours, R. A. LUCKHAM.
A Comedian Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. Alf. Lawton, of Bailey-street, Coolgardie, writes,
saying that the Alfaline Remedies completely cured him,
and that he can highly recommend them for Weak Nerves,
Sluggish Liver and Kidneys.
A Miner Cured at Coolgardie.
Mr. C. Richmond, of Fair Adelaide mine, Siberia,
writes that the Alfaline Herbal Remedies cured him of
several complaints, and that he never found them to fail,
and that he is continually recommending them.
A Stewardess Cured.
Mrs. Elizabeth Grecious, stewardess of the s.s. War-
oonga, writes that the Alfaline Remedies cured her of a
very serious Liver and Kidney affection.
A Kalgoorlie Resident Cured.
Mr. E. Webber writes from Kalgoorlie that the Alfaline
Remedies made a new man of him, after several doctors
failed to cure him, and he can highly recommend them.
A Lady’s Testimonial.
It gives me great pleasure to inform you that your
celebrated Alfaline Pills cured me, when all other reme-
dies and doctors failed, of a stubborn case of Debility of
18 years’ standing. Dear Sir, I shall recommend your
Alfaline Remedies to all sufferers I come across. Anyone
writing to me will have full particulars. -1 am, yours
respectfully, _ Mrs. E. SMITH.
Port Macquarie, Hastings River, N.S. Wales.
A Wonderful Cure.
Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.— In the year 1871 I contracted rheumatism
and stiffness in the joints, and have tried all advertised
medicines. When I came to Sydney I had a great diffi-
culty in walking. Passing your window, I saw a testi-
monial from Mr. E. W. O'Sullivan, M.P., with the same
complaint as I had, which led me to try your Remedies.
On Thursday before Good Friday I took the first of vour
Pills, and I am now, with the blessing of God, as well in
health as I was 23 years ago. May you long be spared
under God to be a blessing to suffering humanity.—l re-
main, Dear Sir, yours very gratefully,
JOHN KEAY.
C/o Mr. Davidson, Geralda Station, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Unhappy Results of Intemperance Cured.
Falls Creek, Shoalhaven, N.S.W.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt affords me much gratification to testify to
the efficiency of your Alfaline Remedies. After only tak-
ing two Pills I felt relief at once. Although I was physi-
cally a vvreck through intemperance, I am happy to say
I consider you have thoroughly re-established my health
and saved roe from untold misery, for which accept my
warmest thanks. —Yours in deep gratitude,
(Signed) HERBERT DRURY.
Obstinate Debility Cured.
Clermont, Queensland, October 9th, 1893.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I inform you that
lam a wonderfully different man to what I was when I
commenced your treatment. I thank you sincerely for
the great cure your Alfaline Vitality Pills have made in
my case. I have been working in Queensland while tak-
ing your remedies, and I have improved wonderfully; my
friends that see me since I began taking your remedies all
say that I have improved wonderfully. I will never cease
to recommend your Alfaline Remedies to my fellow work-
men. With many thanks.—l am, dear sir, yours gratefully,
DENIS BEAN.
Skin and Blood Cured.
Canning Mills, Canning, Western Australia.
To Herr Rassmussen.
I am pleased to inform you that your Alfaline Blood
Pills completely cured me. Previous to taking your
Blood Pills, I was under the treatment of a doctor for six
weeks, but was getting no better ; and I shall never regret
trying your Alfaline Pills, as they had a wonderful effect
on my complaint, which several of my work-mates can
testify to. I have recommended your Alfaline Herbal
Remedies to several of my friends, who have reason to be
very grateful for it.—Yours gratefully, J. NERVIN.
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe Mine.
Boulder City, W.A.
Mr. O. J. A. Nielsen, of the Ivanhoe Mine, writes that
the Alfaline Remedies cured him of Weak Nerves and
Rheumatism, and that he always found the remedies all
they were claimed to do, and have recommended them to
many others in the same mine, whom they never failed to
cure.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
PRCSS : OPINIONS
REFERRING TO
The Wonderful Virtues
OF HIS FAR-FAMED
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Sydney Bulletin. —“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures, which his numerous testimonials will
prove.”
Evening News, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen has
shown us some highly complimentary testimonials, certi-
fying to important cures effected by his remedies.”
N.Z. Times, Wellington,—“ Herr Rassmussen manu-
factures some excellent Blood and Nerve Remedies.”
Daily Telegraph, Launceston, Tas. —“Herr Rass-
mussen is a clever botanist.”
S. A. Register, Adelaide, S.A.—“ Herr Rassmussen’s
Press notices agree as to the skill he possesses as a
botanist, and the bona fide s of his testimonials appear to
be well established.”
Cooktown Courier, Queensland. —“Herr Rasmus-
sen, we are glad to say, holds the highest place in the
colonies as a botanist, and enjoys the confidence of many
leading people of New South Wales, Victoria, and Queens-
land, and the remaining colonies.”
Evening Journal, Adelaide.—“ Herr Rassmussen
has achieved a high reputation for his skill in manufac-
turing botanic remedies.”
Sydney Truth. —“ Herr Rasmussen is sufficiently well
known not to require any additional praise from Truth.
His remedies are simply wonderful.”
Sunday Times, Sydney. “It may not be out of
place to mention that Herr Rassmussen has now been be-
fore the public for over thirteen years.”
N.Z. Mail, Wellington.—“We have among us at the
present time one of Australia’s foremost botanists, viz.,
Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated Danish botanist, of
Sydney.”
Australian Star, Sydney.—“ Herr Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for himself a reputation in the
medical world of herbal science, and his name has become
known throughout New South Wales and Australia.”
Another Sufferer Cured of Piles.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Some two years ago, when I was in Victoria,
I suffered from “ piles.” I tried almost everything-, but
without success. At last I tried your Pile Powders, and,
thank God, I got immediately cured. My friends bless
the day they were told about your Pile Powders. Words
cannot, express my thanks to you.—l am, yours, &e.,
J. KITTERIDGE, Lucknow, via Orange, N.S.W.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
20 Susan-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com-
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the benefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
HERR RASMUSSEN’S
mission in the Herbal ||]orld.
Herr Rasmussen has devoted his whole life to
the study of medical herbs and manufacture of
Herbal remedies, and his great mission has been
most wonderfully successful.
The great virtues of the Herr Rasmussen’s Alfa-
line Herbal Remedies are so well known that it is
quite unnecessary to say much in regard to them ;
the very fact of their having been before the pub-
lic for so many years, and continually growing in
popularity, is quite sufficient evidence that they
are all they are claimed to be. Taking into-con-
sideration the fact that they have been awarded
the Parisian Gold Medal, and that so many thou-
sands of original and unsolicited testimonials have
been received, and maybe seenat the Head Office,
some of which appear in his pamphlets, there
should be no difficulty in predicting a great future
for these health-giving Remedies unprecedented in
the History of Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
WARNING • •
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised
agents —which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mnssen does not travel
selling his Remcdies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
'V” /
r?
Herr Massmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
• • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent Medicine
dealers for the genuine
Alf aline Remedies.
£5O REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
HERR RASMUSSEN,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER AND PROPRIETOR OF THE
.. Alfaline Herbal Remedies . .
(Registered).
Which have Cured Thousands of Sufferers throughout Australasia
from Affection of the Blood and Nerves, Skin Diseases, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Rheumatism, Piles and Indigestion.
Awarded Gold Medal at Paris, Praised by the Press, Recommended by
the Faculty, and received more Testimonials than all the other remedies
put together in Australia.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,’
most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL
FREE BOOK,
1 which contains
COMPLAINTS,
and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSHIUSSen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVKC FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—“H.R., Box
208, G.P.0., Sydney,” but letters containing money should be registered.
LIST
OF THE
ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies.
(registered.)
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete' Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Slood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD
AND SKIN DISEASES, no matter how contracted, or
hereditary. They remove any Taint or Poison from the
Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin.
BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted.
This Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from
Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEF2
Alfaline U niversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Boxes, One Shilling.
An Excellent Herbal Remedy for Costiveness, Indiges-
tion, Flatulency, Wind, Heartburn, Sluggish Liver, De-
ranged Kidneys, Biliousness, Headache, and all Affections
of the Liver and Kidneys. Positively the best remedy in
existence for regulating the bowels, which a trial will
prove. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders -A harmless
but most effectual remedy l for transforming the stoulest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil —Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, lit.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Embrocation— ls Unequalled as a Power-
ful and Effectual External Remedy for Sprained Muscles,
Stiff Joints, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout, Lumbago, and
Chest Affections. Excellent for Cyclists’ use. Bottles,
2s. posted.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
By taking 1 Herr Rassmussen’s /V T.T-t* T.TTVT VITALITY FIT»T.S (Registered), which is the GREATEST NERVE RESTORER and
BLOOD BUIEDER the world has ever seen, and unequalled for Strengthening the Spine, Perfecting the Brain, Sharpening the Intellect and Brightening *he
Eyesight, Improving the Memory, and causing General Satisfaction and Happiness all round.
Only obtainable from Herr Rassmussen’s own Shops. BOOKS WITH ALL ADVICE SENT FREE.
Herr Rassmasseu’s Head Office s - 547 George Street, Sydney,.
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :
KAIiGOORIiIE Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller)
EANOWNA ... Issabella-street (next Friedman’s)
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near High-street)


In a recent English divorce-case the appel-
lant stated that the respondent was pleasantly
given to going to bed with his boots on, and
scraping them on her legs. The respondent did
not deny this, but said it was only his little joke.
Goes to show what an elusive element Humor is,
no two persons having exaotly the same sense
of it.
“S.” : (Bulletin, 27/8/’9B) : Zenith of a
Hyperbolic Curve. Only a point can have a zenith ;
and that in the perpendicular to the tangent at
that point. But a hyperbola has an asymptote,
being a line which the curve approaches but never
reaches, except in infinity. I have taken the
name of Asymptote unto myself : in the infinite I
shall reach perfection, that is, hyperbolic per-
fection.
Amateur-scientist O’Connor, who took four
specimensof theceratodus to England, recently sold
two to London Zoological Society for .£9O, and
was offered .£lOO if he could land the remaining
two in the gardens of Paris. O’Connor writes
that, by a strange coincidence, a man arrived
about the same time from South America with a
living specimen of the lepidosiren, another of the
group of three existing fishes to which the eera-
todus belongs. .. . Worth noticing, as a specimen
of lamentable ignorance, that a certain much-
advertised dictionary of Australian words and
phrases actually mixes up the ceratodus and the
iarrimundi —two fish about as much alike as chalk
and cheese.
“ Scotty W.” : Re animal-taming, a Parsee
gentleman once told me, “You may tame a
Hindoo, not a Mussulman ; the former has grati-
tude, the latter none. The Hindoo is a lion, the
Mussulman a tiger. You cannot tame a tiger or
a Mussulman ; they will bite the hand that feeds
them ; whilst the Hindoo will lick the hand that
thrashes him.” [“ Scotty’s ” Parsee friend made
wild confusion between “ taming’s ” two senses of
“ making friendly ” and simply “ cowing.” You
can’t so easily cow the Mussulman as the Hindoo,
but you can make a much more trustworthy friend
of him. The average Mussulman is as much of a
man as you are, and he knows it; the average
Hindoo is not as much of a man—>and he knows it.
The Hindoo a lion !—oh !]
An article by G. W. Smalley in Har-
per’s New Monthly treats of Gladstone’s dis-
like for the “ Hero of Khartoum ” as an inexplic-
able thing. When Gordon was about to depart
on his last mission to Egypt the G.O.M. refused
him a personal interview, and essayist Smalley
can only suggest a mean political reason for the
refusal. The real reason, probably, was Glad-
stone’s moral loathing for the gory mystic who
took sacramental bread and wine at twelve London
churches a few hours before he left for Khartoum.
It has been said of Gordon that nobody who had
an unquestionable knowledge of his Christian life
among un-Christian peoples was ever known to
gush about his virtues. The actual man Gordon
was known to very few “brother officers,” and
those discreet old tacticians held their tongues
and smiled from the corners of their eyes when
the hero’s praises were being sung in sassiety.
Gladstone, presumably, had “ the whisper ” con-
cerning pietist Gordon.
The Esperance (W.A.) people maice out a
strong indictment against Premier Forrest in a
pamphlet circulated in the interests of the Espe-
rance-Norseman line. In ’96 Forrest said the
Govt, was willing to build the line whenever it
was shown that the field justified it, that the
Govt, did not favor extending the Coolgardie line
in that direction, and, when it did propose to
build the line, it would start from Esperance.
Later he said, though there were some” persons
who thought a line from Esperance would be
antagonistic to the interests of Fremantle, no such
narrow views were entertained by him. At Norse-
man recently he admitted that Esperance was the
natural port of the field. But in the face of all
these assurances, he now proposes to give that
field a line from Coolgardie, which means 480
miles transit to Fremantle instead of 120 miles to
Esperance, and says: “Esperance will have to
remain isolated. I have no doubt this will not
please the people of Esperance, but I cannot help
it.” It is not the trade of the Norseman alone
that the small-minded and big-bodied W.A. Govt,
is afraid of, so much as the fear of the trade that
would go via Esperance to the Eastern provinces
from the bigger fields higher up, instead of taking
the long and costly route to Perth, in order to
keep the boom going there.
Dr. Aveling has died within four months
after the suicide of his wife, the daughter of Karl
Marx. He seems to have fallen out of the odor
of Socialistic sanctity during the last few months.
Not a single Socialist or trades unionist represen-
tative was present at his cremation, which was
rather hard on the author of the “Student’s
Marx ” and a good worker for the movement, and
the following, from Reynold’s Newspaper, hardly
explains it: —
If Dr. Aveling had died a few years ago his obsequies
would have been attended by a notable gathering of
Socialists and trade union leaders. Yesterday, not a
single representative man, as far gs we are aware, put in
an appearance at the Woking cremation. The reason is
not far to seek. Gifted with considerable ability-
ability that had secured him a doctorship at London Uni-
versity, a fellowship at University College, a professorship
of comparative anatomy at the London Hospital, &c.,
qualifications of the very highest degree, Dr. Aveling had,
nevertheless, alienated almost everyone of his acquaint-
ances by a long course of low intrigues. That the suicide of
Karl Marx’s brilliant daughter was due to his heartless treat-
ment is abundantly proved by the mournful letters that
she has left behind her. Strange to say, in spite of an
exterior that almost recalled Quasimodo, he always exer-
cised a remarkable fascination for women, and the effect
of his lecturing tours in the provinces was frequently dis-
counted by tales of victims that he left behind him.'That
these offences were only known to a few persons, who
were unable to speak in fear of injuring the innocent, is
the explanation of the position he occupied in the politi-
cal world. In order to shield the unfortunate lady who
had united her fortunes with his own, silence was neces-
sary. But Dr. Aveling's death has almost coincided
with an exposure that would have driven him from the
movement for ever. To find Dr. Aveling’s counterpart in
history, we have to turn to the career Of Wainwright, the
essayist, who appears to have been in the same way a
strange compound of sin and genius.
Concerning this remarkable man, a scribe who
knew him writes to The Bulletin :
Aveling had a brilliant career at Cambridge, was a
D. Sc. of London University, a colleague of Bradlaugh as
Atheist lecturer, wrote several excellent scientific text-
books, was the author of several plays (written under the
name of Alec. Nelson), was a powerful orator, a fine
critic of literature, and—a heavy drinker. He was a
little man, with geat wide brilliant brown eyes that stood
out like bosses from his forehead ; had a powerful jaw,
a lofty forehead, the true, musical voice of an orator,
and a simply prodigious memory. But his character had
a kink in it. Old William Morris described him vividly
in an epigram unfortunately unprintable. His “ Students’
Darwin ” and his essays on the plays of Shakespeare were
both masterly works. Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant broke
off from him on account of some curious doings in connec-
tion with his science classes; His best play was “ The
Jackal,” which had a fair run, and was doubtless a tale
of personal experience, the plot centering on a young
fellow whose brains were exploited by a wealthy cad,
who enjoyed the reputation of the young man’s work
done in his name.
The list of winners in Pattisons’ pictorial com-
petition will appear in next issue of Sunday
Times and The Bulletin.
Alleged that the royalty paid to an English
lord, on the coal used by an Atlantic steamer,
equals the wages of the officers and crew.
Said Favre to Bismarck : “ After I have
agreed to such terms (in 1870) I will be branded
as a traitor.” Bismarck: “ Get up an insurrec-
tion, and then stifle it while the army remains
faithful.”
The S.A. Govt, declines now to be at the
expense of bringing wife-deserting husbands back
from the other provinces. The officials found out
that women were playing a little game oh them
when their partners got stranded on the Westra-
lian goldfields or in other distant parts.
“8.K." to The Bulletin, from Westra-
lia:—
. “ C.C.” is all adrift about the shellbacks of Tus. whal-
ing-days. First place, he doesn’t know the lore-peak
from the lazarette, or he wouldn’t talk about a “ below-
the-deck fo’eastle” ; and, nextly, he makes poor Jack
81 ng—“O Bams O was no say-a-lor,” &c. This rousing
old chantey gives the history of one Lorenzo, from his
joining ship to his desperate pier-head jump and ultimate
marriage to the skipper’s daughter. “’Renzo” we can
stand, but not “ Rams 0”!1 The pathetic and emetic
description of the ’tween-deck fo’ksle is merely the ex-
pression of the hysterical throes of “ Cape-fever.” As to
the decadence of Australian youth in spirit of adventure
and hardship-endurance, any old “ deep-water ’’-man
would contradict “ C. 0.”
Dear Bulletin. —Hooray ! Science pre-
vails even in Theology, and Ritualistic contro-
versy is ended. Listen to Science Siftings,
16/7/98 :
Machine services for churches.—One of the features in
a recent electrical exhibition was a church lighted en-
tirely by tubes of soft, white, phosphorescence in the
roof. To make the show even more true to the condi-
tions it simulated, there were pews with hymn-books and
a real organ, upon which a prelude and an offertory were
played at each session. This being greatly appreciated,
it was suggested that the ecclesiastical idea should
be further carried out by introducing a real ser-
vice. As the show was practically continuous, there
were objections to engaging a clergyman, but a phono-
graph was mounted on a chair at the altar, with its brass
funnel stretching over the lectern, and from this instru-
ment the Lord’s Prayer, the 23rd Psalm and the Beati-
tudes were given out with sonorous effect. It may be
that in the near future a whole church service, sermon,
music and all, will be run by machinery.
Look at the humor of it. The show has to be<
made “true to the conditions simulated,” a
simulacrum of a sham; the “ecclesiastical idea”
is good, very good, “in a real service.” And,
hold me, “ the phonograph mounted on a chair”
with a “ brass ’’ funnel ! Could anything hit the
nail neater than that “ instrument ” with its
“sonorous” or is it “ snorous ” effect? And
there will be no difference, except in speed,
whether the Archbishop of Canterbury or the
curate of Pairandmaitem turns the handle. This,
however, opens up a serious question : How about
machine-made marriages ? Our law courts could
fine drunks by a-shilling-in-the-slot fashion.—
Scotty the Wrinkler.
Gerald Quealey, Bendigo’s dashing amateur
pug-reporcer, was once “ doing ”an inquest for
Bendigo Independent and, not sufficient men
being on hand to form a jury, Quealey was
pressed into service by the orderly. The case
was one of death from natural causes and
the evidence was simple and straight ; but at its
conclusion, the reporter, who had been elected
foreman, insisted on a retirement. After a lapse
of half-an-hour, he reappeared, and, having
announced the verdict, turned to the coroner:
“ Sir, I cannot allow this occasion to pass without
expressing my deep appreciation of the high in-
telligence and acumen displayed by my colleagues
on the jury.” The coroner stared hard. “ I hope
I am not doing anything irregular,” asked
Quealey. “No ! no ! but it’s not usual.” “ Perhaps
not,” continued the Independent man, unabashed,
“but I feel it my duty to express my recognition
of the assistance which my colleagues have given
towards the finding of this verdict. I may say
that the high order of intelligence displayed by
the other gentlemen of the jury was responsible
for the expedition with which we arrived at a
conclusion.” As coroner, orderly, and witnesses
stared open-eyed at Quealey, wondering whether
to laugh or not, the foreman drew another breath
and went on : “ And to you, Mr. Coroner, for your
able summing-up another word of thanks is due ;
for I must say had it not been for the lucid, con-
cise manner in .which the different points of the
evidence were given by you, sir, we would not
have been so well able to grasp the full strength of
the case.” And, bowing politely and with a
solemn face to all hands, Quealey left them in a
state of collapse. Outside court he confided in a
companion. “I couldn’t resist that borak,” he
said, “they were the thickest-headed lot of owls I
ever met.”
The name of a certain hugely-rich Scotch
squatter is a household word down South as a
synonym for canniness. There was a lot of good
in the eccentric old Mammonite, but one had to
bore for it. A lately-deceased pastoralist, F ,
was fond of recounting how, when there were
several lady visitors at his station and they were
just sitting down to dinner one sultry evening,
Mac was announced as wanting to be put-up
for the night. With many doubts as to his pro-
bable behavior, F had him shown in. Croesus
was clothed in a pair of tweeds, blue cotton shirt,
open at the throat, and calico coat, all strangers to
the washtub. The waitress laid the usual table-
accessories for him, and no sooner was this done
than he shook out the serviette, wiped his face,
the back of his neck, and as far down his breast-
bone as he could reach ; then he laid down the
serviette with a huge sigh of satisfaction, as of
one refreshed from a bath, and exclaimed, “ Eh
but thot’s gran’.” For breakfast the first time
writer put-up at Mac.’s homestead there were
three eggs cooked—an unusual extravagance, as
the old man sold his eggs, &c., in the adjoining
township. The scribe had a chop and an egg, and
the squatter an egg—which, though soft boiled,
he managed to eat with a knife. The host, fear-
ing that the remaining one might regale the
kitchen divinity, said, “ Eat this ither egg, ma
boy.” “No, thanks ; I’ve done very well.” Then
he held it out in his palsied hand, with the further
invitation : “ Pit it in yer pocket, lad, an’ eat it
alang the road.” The gilded ancient once came to
Sydney to buy a mob of cattle which were travel-
ling in from out-back. They were delayed through
floods, and, to save the expense of a six-weeks
sojourn in town, he took a billet as gardener at
15s. per week, only leaving that employment a
day or two before the cattle-sale. A short while
before he died he was in Melbourne, and, meeting
two brother-squatters, somehow or other invited
them to lunch —at Menzies’, if you please. When
they’d stoked, Mac. enquired, “ Hoo much do I
owe?” “ Sixteen-and-six, sir.” “ What’s that
you say, me marn? Saxteen-an’-sax ? ” After
much fumbling and counting, he anted-up that
sum, and said : “ Tak this to Muster Menzies,
and tell him it’s the first time I was ever in his
hoose, an’ it’ll be the laist. Ah don’t believe in
extoortionate ohairges.”
The struggle for a crust. A Sydney win-
dow-sign reads: “ Dressmaker and medical clair-
voyant.” Catch ’em on both the weak points !
The revelations re massacres of wounded
Arabs have evidently impelled General lvitchener
to order all newspaper correspondents to retire
from the Anglo-Egyptian army in the Soudan.
.But what nonsense is all this pretence about the
slaughter being the unauthorised work of the
savages assisting the white soldiers ! During the
fighting around Abuklea and Suakim in ’B4, Mel-
ton Prior sent pictures to the Graphic showing,
not the black allies but the real live Christian
lommy Atkinses spearing their disabled enemies
after the actual fighting had ceased. Some of
those pictures ought to be resuscitated in view of
the pharisaical endeavor to shift the charge of
inhumanity on to the shoulders of the nigger
assistants.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
Dottles Is. everywhere.*
Advts. appearing side by side in a recent
S.M. Herald :
T ADY Help wanted, all duties, family two, assist in
bar, 7s. References. Apply .
J ADY Help, all duties, family small, 6s. .
Also—
QOVERNESS, £3O (11s. odd per week).
In same column are advts. for servants from 9s. to
16s. Now, who would be a lady, and what is a
“lady help”?
The photograph showing the camel laden
with type-writers on the goldfields of Westralia
affords picturesque evidence of the push and
penetration of the United Typewriters Supplies
Co. It also shows that the Westralian mirier has
firm conviction of the value of writing love-letters
in a style that will not constitute proof in a court
of law.*
About months ago Sunday Brunker
was reported as telling a public meeting in his
electorate that a 27 per cent. Federal tariff meant
<£27 taken out of every £lOO of a man’s income.
And last_ week the dull old man was at length
prodded into making the usual explanation—that
he had been misreported :
I said if you have to pay your taxation through the
Customs House it dribbles away, and you know nothing
at all about it till you find your funds diminishing ; but
if any of you have a mortgage on your property, if you
borrow £lOO, and you are fools enough to pay 27 per
cent, as some people do—in fact some of them go so far
as to pay 60 per cent.—then that means £27 a year to
your mortgagee, and you have to dump it down every
half-year or every year.— Hansard report.
And by a weird coincidence a whole lot of news-
papers which were represented at Brunker’s meet-
ing reported him as saying the thing he says he
didn’t say, and not one, so far as The Bulletin
knows, reported him as saying the thing he says
he did say. And Brunker himself never explained
to any one of all these papers what a remarkable
mistake they had all made. The only probable
feature about the present yarn is that the thing
Brunker said he said is so utterly dull and useless
that it looks exactly like the thing Brunker would
say. Also, that wise old man might safely add
that if you pay Is. 7d. per lb. for butter, then
every time you buy lib. of butter you have to
dump down Is. 7d., and as you can’t pay the Is.
7d. and have it —why, then, you don’t have
the Is. 7d. any more because it is gone.
A Silver Watcb
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR ! 1500
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OP
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady's or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the CORRECT READING of the
following PUZZLE
| T*E T*M * F*R E*E*Y*Q*Y~
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains
to wear with the Watch.
SEND NO MONEY.
Simply forward your answer and enclose stamped and
addressed envelope, so that we may inform you if you
have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
“The Manager English Watch Co.—Miss Shellerg
wishes to acknowledge receipt of watch and chain re-
ceived to-day, and says she is very much pleased with
them. All Saints College, Bathurst, 19th July, 1897.’’
Address—THE MANAGER,
English Watch & Jewellery Go-,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Bankers: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
EDISON ELECTRIC PARLOR.
162 PITT STREET, Sydney, opposite The Strand.
THE
TalkiOS MacbiO* Pcpot.
Edison Phonographs from £7. Graphophones from £4.
Berliner Gramophones from £3. Latest Spring Motor
Gramophone, £7 10s. RECORDS, 3s.
Needles, Is. 6d. ALL GENUINE GOODS. No Fakes.
Records, Blanks, and all Accessories in Stock.
Repairs. Send for Catalogue,
Head Quarters in Australia, EDISON ELECTRIC
COMPANY, 162 Pitt Street, Sydney (Only).
BOOK-KCCPING.
PRACTICAL INSTRUCTION.
F. BUNDER, Accountant.
21 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
SHORTHAND
Thoroughly Taught by
Post. Mr. F. W. JONSON.
20 years Certificated Teacher (of Riverview College ;
Petersham and Ashfield Govt. Technical Schools).
SYDNEY TYPEWRITING SCHOOL, 21 Elizabeth-street,
Tel. 3015. Pitman’s Books. MSS. and Documents typed.
Scurfs Dandruff Cured
Remedies) with full instructions, 5/-, postage Bd.
Special Treatment for the Cure of Bair Falling
Out. Remedies, with full instructions, 10/-.
The above REMEDIES will absolutely cure you, having
been prescribed for the last 12 years and only prepared by
A. W. PAGE,
91 Uiun Stem, SYDNEY. N.&W.
To the Wool Growers of New South Wales-
have pleasure in informing' you that, the dispute in
’ T the Wool Trade—which has for some time past
been under consideration by the Wool Buyers' Associa-
tion and the Co-Operative Wool Co.—has been satis-
factorily settled.
A conference at the instigation of the wool buyers was
held to-day between the Wool Selling Brokers’ Association
and the Co-Operative Company.
At this meeting the whole question of the selling
charges on wool in Sydney was fully discussed, and it
was mutually agreed that the following reduced scale of
charges be adopted, viz.:
Warehousing, Insurance in Store, etc. I/O per bale
Commission 3 per cent.
Cartage, Storage, Insurance, Re-
packing, etc., to the buyer. 1 j(i per bale
It was unanimously agreed that these charges are based
upon fair and equitable lines, taking into account the
absolute necessity of placing wools before buyers in a
manner to secure the highest poi-s’ble results for growers.
lIY. TRENCHARD,
Acting-Chairman Wool Selling Brokers’ Ass’n.
FRANCIS BACON,
Chairman Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
September 19, 1898.
A LEGITIMATE MINING ENTERPRISE.
The South German Deep Com-
pany, No Liability.
maldon.
Capital: .£50,000, in 5000 Shares of £lO each.
Directors:
D. T. DAVIES, Esq., M.E., London and Melbourne.
J. W. KIRTON, Esq., M.P., Ballarat.
P. J. O’CONNOR, Esq., J.P., Richmond.
JOHN ANDERSON, Esq., M.P., Melbourne.
G. H. BENNETT, Esq., M.P., Richmond.
2000 Shares available for Public Subscription,
payable £2 10s. on application, £2 10s. on
allotment, the whole of the proceeds sub-
scribed to be placed to the credit of company.
The lease is in the heart of the Maldon gold-
fields, adjoins the famous South German Com-
pany, Maldon, Victoria, which has paid over
£200,000 in dividends during the last six years,
and, according to surveys, etc., the rich body of
stone now being operated upon by this company
must run into the lease of the South German
Deep Company, in addition to which the lease is
traversed by the brilliant EAGLEHAWK and
DOCTOR’S REEFS, which have yielded im-
mense quantities of gold where worked to the
north of this block.
Over THREE MILLION POUNDS worth of
gold have been taken from shallow workings in
ground immediately surrounding this lease.
Prospectus to be obtained from the manager, at
whose office full reports, sectional plans, copies of
Government reports may be inspected.
Application for Shares received by any branch
of the London Bank of Australia Limited, or
manager pro. tern. Mr. Percy P. Cook, 375
Collins-street, Melbourne.
Allotment made according to priority of appli-
cation.
See full prospectus, Argus and Age, 17th Sep-
tember.
Missing Friends.
S) GRAlGMlLE.—lnformation re this person will
be thankfully received by J. A. Philp,l9Hunter-st., Syd.
Publications.
KTEW MUSIC.
“The Chimes of Normandy,” by Stanhope Gray, a song
certain to please ; “ Saucy Sally,” by Will Godwin, a good
song 1 with a g'ood chorus; “ Pat Magee,” a pretty, wittv
Irish song; “Rose of the Morn” Waltz, by Henri LaskV
composer of “My Polly” Waltz; “Pierrot et Pierrette”
(Gavotte), by Henri Laski, composer of “My Polly”
Waltz; “Frascatti” Waltz, by Theo Bonheur. Of'all
dealers. Catalogue 3 post free on application to IF.
PATTON GO., 203 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
~~ and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell, “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each. Also arranged
for small orchestra, 2s. 6d. each. Of all Musicsellers or
from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co., London
and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
Married Ladies.
Book, deeply concerning your welfare.
SAUNDERS & CO.,
312 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Improved Edition, “Wife’s Guide and Friend,”
100 pages, elegantly bound in cloth and gold. 2/6
post free. ’
Medical.
Fainless Dentistry.
THE .. ..
London Oental
Institute.
Dr. S. LEVER, Graduate in Dental Surgery and
Prosthetics, and Mr. S. D. ASHER, Dentists.
Modern Dentistry in all its Brandies
Legitimately Practised.
We guarantee to fit any mouth with Teeth, no matter
how difficult, with or without the extractions of roots,
and without pain ; also to fill Teeth without future
trouble. Painless Extractions.
Reform Fees. Consultation Free.
ONLY —9B KING ST., SYDNEY-only.
Over Hollingdale and Kessell’s, between George
and Pitt Streets. Telephone 2615.
The
DEAF
iIEAS
"Common Sense Ear
Drums ” relieve Deafness and
Head Noises, where medical skill
fails. The only Scientific Aural
Sound Conductor. Safe to wear,
comfortable, invisible, no (dan-
gerous) wire or metal attach-
ment. Becommended by physi-
cians. Write for book. Free.
Wilson Ear Drum Co.
J. A. Chalmers, Agent.
229 Collins-street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS.
The Langston
Treatment is
absolutely per-
fect.lt has been used (secretly in many cases), by
thousands and has never failed to cure. It is an inex-
pensive home treatment, and can be given without the
patient's knowledge if necessary. Send for Book,
posted sealed free. Consultation Free and strictly
confidential. SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Enq.,
121 Collins Street, Melbourne. Victoria.


HELUR’S
Is not Farinaceous and
is entirely free from
Starch and Cane Sugar.
When added to diluted Cow’s milk it produces
a complete and perfect diet, adapted for the
strong - as well as for the sickly babe.
MELLIN’S FOOD
supplies materials by which diluted Cow’s milk is
converted into a perfect food for the youngest
infant.
MELLIN’S FOOD
may be obtained of - all Dealers throughout the
vvor'd
MELLIN’S FOOD WORKS,
Feckhasn, London, England.
Pub i at ; on<s, e^c.
Worth <a€ttil)g
Worth RcadiQg
Worth KecpiQg
We have five little books which have
been carefully prepared, and explain in
clear and simple language the cause and
cure of various prevalent maladies. Eai h
of these popular Medical Guides dea's
with a different subject. No. 1 with
Gout, No. 2 with Headache, No. 3 with
Indigestion, No. 4 with Constipation,
and No. 5 is for Ladies, and deals with
Neuralgia, and Periodic Headache, and
their cure by means of YAMBA. Either
or all will be sent Post Free to any ad-
dress by A. BISHOP LTD., Mile
End New Town, London ; or from
their Australian Dep6t, 18 O’Connell-
st., Sydney. When writing, please say
which booklet is required, and write
to-day.
Scot
Fr«
-Ballet Girl,
With 22 Racy ILLUS-
TRATE ONS, depicting her
Theatrical and Domestic
Life.
Post Free, Is.
Sydney
The Life,
Adven.
tures, and
Confes- 1
sions
of a
Barmaid.
Post Free, 1/6.
To be had Only of
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Illustrated Booklet
Post, free for one stamp.
band or mmn playing
LEARNT IN ONE DAY.
PRATT’S CHART of CHORDS for PIANO and ORGAN.
A QUICK METHOD of learning to play the piano for those
without time or unable to engage the services of a teacher.
With it any one can become an exbert pianist accompany-
ing Songs and Dances. Useful to the advanced Musician.
It is the nearest approach to a ready made knowledge
OF MUSIC YET DEVISED BY THE HUMAN MIND.
i 81 CAllffo frnn To.introduce to every home PRATT’S CHART
10t oUllgo II Cu Published at 5/-, we will send the Giant Album
of 184 Songs, Words and Music FREE, together with Pratt s Chart
of Chords for only 2/6 post paid 2/8. Stamps 2d. extra. Address:
A.nglo American Publishing Co., Commercial Chambers, Sydney
Mention this paper when writing. AGENTS WANTED.
BOOKS.
Books
Published Second
Price. Hand.
Farm Management and Veterinary Practice.. 15/- 7/6
The New Enquire Within, 5000 receipts .. 7/6 5/-
Every Man His Own Medical Adviser, 800 do. 35/- 15/-
The Farmer’s Own Booh suitable for Breeding 7/6 5/-
Farm Engineering, Irrigation, Water Supply 16/- 10/-
Dictionary of Universal Information . .25/- 10/6
Hopper’s Prac. Timber Measure, with tables 51- 2/6
Skinner’s Noted Case of 20 2s. cloth-bound Novels by the
best Authors for £l. All Books sent Post Free.
NEW UP-TO-DATE
PUBLICATIONS.
_ _ The Soiled Dove, being
the History of a Gay Young Lady, very spicy ; Miss
Skittles, the Girl with Six Husbands, also very spicy;
Sappho’s Gay Life in Paris ; Maria Monk ; Ovid’s Art of
Love ; Byron’s Don Juan—all very spicy, post free Is. 6d.
The Ballet Girl : Gay Life behind the Scenes; The New
Receipt Book : How to command the Love and Admira-
tion of the Opposite Sex, STERILITY and Impotence —
each, post, free, Is. R. W. SKINNER, New and
Second-hand Book Arcade, 105 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Telephone 3043.
FORTUNE
TELLING Cards (Mdnie-
Lenormand’s ; celebrated
LETTERS,
12 of the best
trench Sybil), 2s.
LOVE
you ever read, read 2 ways sure to please Is.
52 TRANSPARENT CARDS; 3s. ——-
SECRET
Photos,
(2* Is.
LOVERS
Package
Is.
Continental Supply Agency,
i Box 1402 G.P.0., Sydney.
Dr. J. A. M‘Gill’s “Orange Blossom”
Specific. A positive cure without the use of the
knife for TUMORS and all forms of malignant,
growths, allied with Female Weaknesses, Sick
Headaches, Despondency, Hysteria, etc. “ORANGE
BLOSSOM’’ is applied direct; instantly removes pain
and congestion. All women can use this most wonderful
remedy at home. Thousands of testimonials from young
and old. Pamphlet “ Plain Talk to Ladies,” sent upon rsv
oeipt of stamped envelope. Consultation free—lo to 5.
Head office in Australia for Dr. M'Gill's “ Orange Blossom
Specific,” City Chambers, 114 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
“D.”: John M‘Arthur, first owner of
Camden Park, Camden, N.S.W., was granted as
much land as he could ride around in a day for
first importing Merinos. Said that he took as
much as he could see as well; at any rate, the
estate now comprises between 50,000 and 60,000
acres ; 60 families living on it. Family bnrying-
ground on estate ; big house built by convicts.
Some of the employes have never been to Sydney,
their fathers having lived and died on the place.
I was reared there myself—one of a family of ten,
father receiving .£1 a week, house, milch cow,
acre of ground and two rations. Colonel Onslow,
son of present owner (a lady) took N.S.W.
Mounted Rifles ’Ome at Jubilee time.
During the recent N.S.W. electoral cam-
paign two candidates with similar names —one
being Fitzpatrick and the other Fitzgerald—but
very divergent views, pervaded various remote and
mountainous districts in pursuit of the coy elector.
One of them came late in the evening in his buggy
to a small settlement which was utterly hostile to
him and his views—a fact the more remarkable
inasmuch as the electors had never beheld him.
His surprise was great, therefore, when he struck
the first house, at being received with much en-
thusiasm, and set down to plentiful bush fare,
while the “ boss ” scoured the country in the dark
for the free and independent. A good meeting
was assembled, and when he had finished tea, bitz
started to air his views in the dining-room. But
as he went on, the audience grew more and more
astonished and uneasy, till at last the host in-
terrupted, with horrified misgiving. “ Excuse me,
sir, but are you the Protectionist candidate?’
“No, sir, Pm a staunch Freetrader” The meeting
broke up in great disorder, and the wrong Fitz
polled exactly one vote there on election day
against the other’s sixteen.
CA LVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFE TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be need
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Consfhs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Iffl A i
"OLEMftNE’S
FUCALYPTE
EXTRACT
Is indeed “ MONARCH ” of
all the Eucalyptus Extracts
on the market, as it is ONE
QUALITY onIy—FIRST, and
Guaranteed Pure.
For a COLD, a BAD
COUGH, or any CHEST
TROUBLES, there is no-
thing can touch it. It is
Euealypte pure and simple
Without Adulterants.
Investigate before Purchasing.
WRITE US AND WE WILL SEND YOU ABSOLUTE
PROOF THAT
Is positively the best remedy for RHEUMATISM,
LUMBAGO, ALL ACHES and PAINS, WOUNDS,
BRUISES, etc. For Stable Use, it is the best Embro-
cation in the world. We cannot publish all the testi-
monials we are constantly receiving from grateful sufferers
who have been cured. Send us a post-card, and we will
forward you gratis and post free a descriptive book and
copies of testimonials, which must convince the most
sceptical of the unquestionable supremacy of Solomon
Solution. Don't purchase before investigating. Send
your address to
S. COX & CO.,
PATENTEES and SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
422 BourJee Street, Melbourne.
Obtainable throughout the Colonies. Price in Victoria,
2s. 6d. and (triple size) ss.—per jar postage, 6d. extra.
Owl Drug Stores,
Corner Elizabeth Sc Bathurst Streets,
SXDISEY
Being direct importers and case
BUYERS, our Qrugs and Toilet Requisites
are of the BEST QUALITY and sold at tin
LOWEST PRICES. Pr escriptions Dispensed
by first-class Registered Chemists, and faithfulh
EXCELLENCY, & FIDELITY
—Our Motto. Call and inspect our Store, am
you will be satisfied.
Telephone D. COBCROET, Proprietor.
2036. W. E. ARNOLD, Manager.
Medicines carefully packed and forwarded to
all parts of the Colonies.
Dear Sir,— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Debility by a simple and inexpensive remedy
and will be pleased to send the means of cure to al
sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and make
no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed envelope
to Mr. WILBER KELLOGG, 89 Pitt-street, Sydney.
“I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. Gd.
Sole Agents :
The Result..
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 Gsorge- st,, Sydney
Jack : I hear the Yankees are going to
give over using powder and shot
in their war with Spain.
Tom: How are they going to win,
then?
Jack : With St. Jacobs Oil. I*
CONQUERS PAIN.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Queen of Soaps.
Si*
COLGATE’S
CASHMERE
BOUQUET.
IN LARGE AND SMALL CAKES,
EVERYWHERE.
ATKINSON’S
EAU
DE
COLOGNE
THE FINEST ENGLISH MAKE.
More Fragrant; More Lasting;
and very much more refreshing
than all others.
USE ATKIN SOit’S ONLY.
AND BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Only genuine with “White Rose” Ti'ade Mark.
Of all Dealers & of the Manufacturers—
J. & TO. jVTKIiSrSOJSr, Limited,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
A CART LOAD OF COLD
FREE
TO ALL
MEN
“If you dumped a cart-
load of gold at my feet it
would not bring such joy and
gladness into my life.” So
writ s a prominent man after
using the Homoeopathic
method of self-treatment that
has re tored so many men.
A little book that makes it
all plain may he had by writ-
ing. posted free, sealed and
without marks. Address
DR. IRVING CO., Cr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
IQUOR
HABIT
EucraSy will completsiy he«
stroy the desire for liquor in any
form, in 2 to 6 days, perfectly
harmless, causes no sickness, and
may be given without the know •
ledge of the patient, who will
voluntarily stop drinking,
Pamph! on the disease of Drunk,
enness andits cure sent Free, sealed.
eucrasy CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
EASILY
CORED
FOLLOW THE FOOTSTEPS of the WISE
and BUY the BEST, CHEAPEST, and most
STYLISH Clothing in Australia from
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Proprietary Limited,
238 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, opp. Station.
f,"I'll III.o:
n.'.vM'iiniiiiiiiiijj!
•'!' !"fiiini iiLi ,
(••"!!!«iliiiliJS*,
(i
nnilWyO
liL'uitiiii
!!! | !! | iiiui!
!!!!iiiiiiiiii!
Nfliiiiniiiii
»»!!!!!!" lifif
m i ' ! ■:
uiiiiii'!!!!!'; :s
niiiiiiii"*!!:! I
Our Suit to Order at 42 - is mar-
vellous value, made from All-Wool
Tweeds, Vicunas or Serges, fast
color, is perfectly fitting, beauti-
fully finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Material, £3 3 -.
To Measure, capital Trousers, 10/6.
A Special Line, very good patterns,
12 6. Dress Suits to B4 -.
Clerical Suits to Measure, £5. Golf
or Cycling Suits, 35 -. Riding-
Breeches, 25/-. Waterproof,
Tweed, or Cloth Overcoats, Band
, and other Uniforms, Riding Habits,
&c. 5000 pieces of Woollens to
’ select from.
We supply Ready-made Men’s
capital Tweed Suits, 21/-. Famous
Ballarat Serge Suits, Indigo dye,
25 -. Sergerette Suits, any shade,
30/-. Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, 5/11. Rainproof Tweed
Cycling Suits, 32 6. Black Water-
proof Overcoats, full capes, 15 9.
Fancy Tweed do., 18/6. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys’
Clothing in Australia. Elegant
Tennis Shirts from 2 11. Un-
dressed White Shirts, Linen Fronts
and Cuffs, 2/-, 2 11, 33. Warm
Travelling Rugs, 13 6. Gents’splendid Balmoral Boots,
6/6, 9/6. Hats, Caps, all kinds, Cheap.
Our Book, “ The Philosophy of Dress,” also Patterns of
all kinds, and Self-measurement Forms posted free. Write
for them. The largest stock in Australia, of Woollens,
Clothing, Boots, Hats, Underwear, Ties, Shirts, Blankets,
Rugs, Bags, etc. It will pay you to write to, or call upon
us. We will send you enough good Victorian Tweed
to make a Man’s Suit, for 10 -, trimmings included.
DON’T USE DRUGS.
They only stimulate, break down stomach, scatter the
nerves, and never cure. What we use is Nature’s own
gift to man— Electricity.
Our Electric Belts will cure
all NERVOUS WEAK-
NESSES in all stages, and
restore the wearer to
ROBUST HEALTH.
Our Marvellous Electric
• Belts give a steady, sooth-
ing current that can be felt
by the wearer through all
WEAK PARTS. REMEM-
BER, we give a written
guarantee with each Elec-
tric Belt that it will per-
manently cure you. If it
does not we will promptly
return the full amount
paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do pre-
cisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before pur-
chasing we prefer that you
send for our ELECTRIC
ERA and Price List (post
free), owing illustrations of different appliances for BOTH
SEXES, also TESTIMONY which will convince the most
sceptical.
GERMAN ELECTRIC APPL T ANCE AGENCY,
63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
The Lowest Prices—
The Highest Testimonials—
The Finest Preparations—
Those are the Three Points of Recom-
mendation with
MINERVA TONIC
AND
Hfinerva peptonised Emulsion
Minerva Tonic, a phosphorised iron syrup of
incalculable tonic value, lias been reduced to the
public from 2s. 6d. to Is. 9d. The high quality of
the preparation lias not been reduced.
Minerva Peptonised Emulsion, the most
perfect emulsion of cod-liver oil that was ever put
on the market, has been reduced to the public
from 3s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. large size, and to Is. !)d.
small size. The known excellence of the prepara-
tion, recognised as it is by Professor Macadam
(consulting chemist to the British Government),
Dr. Ekin (visiting physician to the Thirlmere
Home for Consumptives) and others, is fully
maintained.
All Chemists, or direct from the Sydney depot,
56 Margaret-street, by enclosing with the above
price 6d. extra to cover postage. Sanwple bottle
free on application.
The Minerva Co-,
Manufacturing Chem sts Sc Food Specialist".
LONDON : 15 and 17 Fore-street Avenue, E.C.
NEW YORK : Kemble Building, Whitehall-street.
SYDNEY: 56 M .rgaret-street.
PROVED BY /OO YEARS USE .
DRROBERTS’:
Frseno
SK/rf ME ASET
and Wouajds
or £. V£R Y
DESCR/PT/O/Y'
D?ROBERIS
Altera^
FOR SKIN DISEASES
AND ALL D/S ORDERS OF THE
STOMAC// & L/VER .
OF ALL CHEM/srs ff/i & 2/?EACH
BEACH & BARNICOTT L°- BR ID PORT.
MELBOURNE.
POST FREE ~y't>*
Watches-Clocks-Jevi/ellery- BirtHday*
Weddiivlc z Presents
H NeWMAIVI- 1755177-FII?ARFTri ST*
OPPOSITE C:P.Q.
MELBOURNE.
QJQ
DEAF
tans
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
[Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
[how long standing. Are the same
to the eaVs as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo-n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.


TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPjETITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY.
(Under Royal Patronag-e.)
Contains over 300 Apartments, Fur-
nished with ail Modern Luxury. Two
minutes from the Park, Kensington
Gardens, Imperial Institute, and in the
midst qf the Fashionable Quarter.
MODERATE TARIFF.
GloucesterJßoad, London, S.W.
JL3
Locomotives
FOK
Heavy Haulage.
STEAM
Cultivating
Machinery.
IBM)
m
c -• ■'
Traction,
PORTABLE
AND
Electric-Lighting
ENGINES
ROAD ROLLERS.
Portable Railway
Locomotives ,
and
Truck’s of all Gauges.
MINING MACHINERY, STEEL WIRE ROPES, &0., &o.
JOHN FOWLER & CO. (Leeds) Ltd,
HEAD COLONIAL OFFICE:
73 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
WALTER M. NOAKES, M.1.M.E., Colonial Manager.
Also Representative for tlie “THISTLE" OIL ENGINE.
THE MOST REFRESHING, COOLdNG. & HEAETHFUE BEVERAGE.
Trade Hark)
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
The “LANCET” says: “We counsel the Public to
drink Montserrat Lime Juice whenever and where-
ever they list. It is a far more wholesome drink
than any form of alcohol.”
MONTSERRAT LIME FRUIT JUICE, either alone or
with Soda Water, is a delightfully satisfying thirst-quencher.
It leaves a grateful sense of cleanliness and freshness in the
mouth, and is very palatable. Perfectly pure and wholesome,
and is sold everywhere in Imperial Quarts and Pints.
Montserrat is made from cultivated limes.
Sole Consignees —
EVANS, LESCHER & WEBB, LONDON; EVANS, SONS & Co., LIVERPOOL.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
r Sydney—Da vidsonßros., Jules Renard & Co.; Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., D. Mitchell & Co.. D. Cohen & Co., arid The Australian
Drug- Co. Newcastle—D. Cohen & Co.
ITIWt
bSShI
m
mw He'
ga|»<niKT»S-
SfcND v Lk OkDKR TO=DAY.
We will more than please you.
American Organs £6
AND UPWARDS.
sw-j
FACTORY TO FIRESIDE
At Wholesale Prices.
\~mi
We have one of the largest Organ Manufactories in the World.
Capacity, two thousand Organs a month. From this im-
mense plant we sell direct to the consumer at a small profit
over the cost of manufacturing. For instance, we can sell
you our beautiful style Celestial, as shown in cut, for only
£l2 ios., f. o. b. vessel New York. Cost of carriage, about
£2 10s. Descriptions Case, Solid Walnut or Oak, highly
polished and handsomely carved, fo inches high, 48 inches,
long and 22 inches deep. Action, 5 cc*ave manual of keys,
5 sets, 10 octaves of our beautiful golden-tcrrd r : eds, 13 stops.
Right and left knee swell. Free with each Organ, Stool
and Instructor. Each Organ warranted 25 years. Safe de-
livery at destination guaranteed. Fifteen other styles shown
in our large catalogue, which we send free on application.
From £6 up to £tg. Refetence, First National Bank here,
National Shoe and Leather Bank, New York City.
BEETHOVEN ORGAN Co.
WASHINGTON, N.J.,U.S.A.
P. O. Box.
YORKSHIRE RELISH
6Y2 132 BOTTLpfc D EL,ICIOUS SAUCE
,1 “~ BOTTLES SOLD IN ONE MONTH IN ENGLAND.
SALE UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF SAUCES.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
millions of bottles
SOLD ANNUALLY.
d . Sold In Bottles, 6d., i/-, and 2/- eacb.
Propnetors . GOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO , LEEOS,
Tn , nnr s Sole Agents for New South Walest ’
' & CO * and MVKRPOOI, STREETS, SVDNEV.
ENG
THEY CALL IT A MIRACLE!
Doctors give him up!
Hospitals discharge him INCURABE!
A DARK AND GLOOMY PROSPECT!
A RAY OF SUNSHINE and a PERFECT RESTORATION.
(BY OUR SPECIAL REPORTER.)
What is locally
Considered a. Miracle
has lately been performed at Silver Water,
sometimes called “ Ibbettown,” so many
Ibbetts live there, a prettily-situated village
near Auburn, and about 10 miles from
Sydney, on the main suburban line.
News of the perfect restoration of health
to Mr. William lbbett having got abroid,
we dispatched one of our reporters to the
district to institute a searching investigation
into the case, and find out
The Absolute Truth
from Mr. lbbett and the neighbours, who
appear to have made I lie case one of general
interest in the neighbourhood for some time
past, for it has been a daily subject of
conversation amongst the many people
acquainted with the particulars.
The r< porter could not make the people
he questioned understand which member of
the lbbett family he wanted to see till he
Mentioned the Illness
of the man in question, at which the re-
quired house was at once pointed out as that
of the man the doctors
Could not cure, and Hospitals
turned out as Incurable,
but Clemen's Tonic had
Thoroughly Restored.
The reporter was fortunate enough tu
obtain the iu'erview he sought, when h
asked : —“Willyou do me the kindness, Mr
lbbett, to tell me how your complaint first
started, how it progressed, and how you
finally recovered ? ”
“I will,” answered Mr. lbbett. “If
commenced with seveie pains in the head,
and afterwards pains down the neck and
spine came on. d hen all at once I lost my
appetite. I could’nt look at my food, the
very sight of it turned me sick. Mj
digestion went all wrong. What little
I did eat (and I forced myself to eat some-
thing now and then to keep body and soul
together) gave me great pain. I only tool
soft food, but even this would not digest,
but
Turned Sour and Fermented
in my stomach, causing me to suffer terribh
from wind and flatulence. Besides, I could
get no sleep. I did not get, as a rule, more
than an hour’s sleep a night, and that in
disturbt d, uneasy snatches," each of short
duration, which did me no good at all. I
had to
Give up my Billet
at the Auburn Meat Works, and I used to
sit all day long in the chair feeling nerveless
and languid, with no energy or desire to
move. The pains in my back got worse
daily, especially along the spine. I got
most distressingly weak, and strangely
nervous. I have been accustomed to be in
the works with the whirl and crash of
machinery going on all round me, and I
never suffered the least inconvenience, but
now every sound went
Through me like a. Knife,
and would startle and give me such a shock
that I should almost fall to the ground, and
T trembled like a leaf.”
“ Why did’nt you see a doctor ?”
“ I did, and what use was it ? I had
several, and obeyed their orders, and took
their physic. To what end ? I only got
worse and worse. Finally they gave me up.
They said they could do nothing more for
me, and they had done nothing then ; and
one of them told me that he had given me
medicines strong enough to kill a horse.
This, I believe, was a fact, but it evidently
was not the treatment my disease required,
for it entirely failed to relieve me.
“ You must have got pretty low-spirited.”
“Of course. I became very much de-
pressed. Everything ahead
Looked Dark and Gloomy
to me. My friends tried in vain to cheer
me up, but nothing could give me hope, as
every day my disease increased. I got very
thin. I was like a skeleton. I fell away
in a very short time from 10 stone 4 lbs.
to 8 stone 5 lbs., and my face was pale and
colourless.
“ Did you suffer in any other way thal
you’ve not yet mentioned ?”
“ Yes ; my kidneys were affected, and a
dull, dragging pain in the small of the back
was continually distressing me (the doctor
said this was a sign of kidney disease), and
my water was very high coloured, but I
don’t care to go into further particulars as
to my kidney symptoms ; bui I can only
assure you they caused me great distress.
As a last resort, on my wife’s suggestion, I
was taken to the Hospital, Sydney. I
thought that if it was possible to cure me
at all I should have the best chance there.
The doctors gave me a very careful examin-
ation. They sounded me all over and took
my temperature, but they could make
nothing of my case. I believe that they
treated me there
For Kidney Disease.
But none of the treatment I received at the
Hospital relieved me, and the pain in ray
back whilst at the Hospital was agonising.
After being there some weeks I was at last
Discharged as Incurable
The doctors said they could do nothing for
me. My wife and friends were very much
grieved that I had to return home without
relief. As for myself, I fully thought I was
going home to die. I gave up ail hope of
ever getting on my feet again.”
“ What induced you to resort to Clements
Tonic ?”
It wms recommended to me by my cousin.
She s id she had heard of someone in whom,
so far as some of the symptoms went, had
been atllicted as I was and who had been
Entirely Restored to Health
by that remedy. She was so positive that
I got my wife to obtain some Clements Tonic
for me. I had, however, very little hope of
its being of any service, hut you know how
a drowning man
Catches at a Straw.
My wife bought a bottle and I commence 1
to take it regularly.”
“ How did it act in your case ?”
! ‘First, by relieving the awful pains in my
hack Then, as I continued to lake it, I felt
my nervous system gradually get a better
tone. I was not so fretful and irritable, and
I began to sleep much better. I was’soon
glad to find my digestion greatly improve.
Clements Tonic prevented my food going
sour and disagreeing with me, and I was
able to once mere eat solids freely and
without suffering afterwards, as I had been
accustomed to.”
“ And what about your kidney trouble
“ I found a most
Distinct Beneficial Etteo*.
upon my kidneys. It didn’t take long for
Clements Tonic to make those organs work
properly again, and to rid me of all disagree-
able symptoms which had formerly troubled
me.”
“ You, of course, continued Clements
Tonic?”
“Yes, you may be sure I didn’t miss a dose.
I Tom the time of starting I put all other
medicines aside Day by day I got
Stronger and Stronger.
i. was able to look hopefully to the future,
and my depression had vanished as though
it never had been. No longer was I dull
and heavy in the day time, but was bright
and lively Once I started to get better the
ate of my recovery was astonishing. I
Came on hand over hand,
so to speak. Clements Tonic gives you a
great appetite and no mistake, and I ate
splendidly and put on flesh again rapidly.”
“ Your relations and neighbours must
have been surprised at the way in which you
were restored to health ?”
“ I should just say they were—you just
ask them about me and they will tell you
all about it.
Ail my Troubles Vanished
under the influence of Clements Tonic, and
I was able to go to work again, though till
I was completely strong I always took a
bottle with me when I went to work, I
found it so invigorating.”
“ And your health now !”
“ I am now quite cured, and as strong
and well as ever in my life, for which I
thank Clements Tonic. If anyone wants to
know more about my case, they have only
to call on me and I shall be only too pleased
to tell them how Clements Tonic brought
me back to health and strength when the
doctors gave me up and
The Hospital turned me out
as an incurable, and I thought my days were
numbered.”
“ May we publish all you’ve said to me ?”
“ Yes ; you are quite welcome to do so.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, William Ibbett, cf Silverwater, near
Auburn, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of twelve
folios and consecutively' numbered from one to twelve,
and that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish the
same in any way; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an
Act made and passed in the ninth year of the
reign of her present Majesty, intituled “An Act for
the more effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations
taken and made in the various Departments of the
Government of New South Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof and for the suppression
of voluntary and extra judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
kf'Me#'
Declared at Auburn, this 23rd day of June, l?f>S
before me,
TIIOS. TAYi.Oli, •' i'.
Asls: for
WHITE HEATHER
WHISKY.


pears
Soap.
Makes the Hands white and
fair, the Complexion bright
and clear, and the Skin soft
and smooth as velvet.
“ Matchless for the Hands
and Complexion,”
Prof. Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S.
Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons,
England:
PEARS’ SOAP is an article of the
nicest and most careful manufacture,
and one of the most refreshing and
agreeable balms for the skin.”
M.
m
a
mm
m
m
* YMi
J
m
mm
V/s
\m
W//m/My,
'/////////
YM
V
m
m
“ Since using Pears’ Soap
I have discarded all others.”
They Wait on the Wharf in
Black.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Seems to me that honest, hard-working’ men seem to
accumulate the heaviesl'swags of trouble in this world."
—Steelman.
We were coming back from West Australia,
steerage (said Mitchell’s mate, known sometimes
as “{Sympathy Joe) —Mitchell, the Oracle, and
I. I had gone over saloon, with a few pounds in
my pocket. Mitchell said this was a great mis-
take-I should have gone over steerage with no-
thing but the clothes I stood upright in, and come
back saloon with a pile. He said that it was a
very common mistake that men made, but, as far
as his experience went, there always seemed to be
a deep-rooted popular prejudice in favor of going
away from home with a few pounds in ones
pocket and coming back stumped ; at least
amongst, rovers add vagabonds like ourselves—it
wasn't so generally popular or admired at home,
or in the places we came back to, as it was in the
places we went to. Anyway, it went; there wasn’t
the slightest doubt that our nearest and dearest
friends were, as a rule, in favor of our taking
away as little as we could possibly manage with,
and coin ing back with a pile, whether we came back
saloon or no ; and thac. ought to settle the matter
as far as any chap that had the slightest considera-
tion for his friends or family was concerned.
There was a good deal of misery, underneath,
coming home in that steerage. One man had had
his hand crushed and amputated out Coolgardie
way, and the stump had mortified, and he was
being sent to Melbourne by his mates. Some had
lost their money, some a couple of years of their
life, some their souls; but none seemed to have
lost the heart to call up the quiet grin that
southern rovers, vagabonds, travellers for “ graft ”
or fortune, and professional wanderers wear in
front of it all. Except one man—an elderly
eastern digger—he had lost his wife in Sydney
while he was away.
They sent him a wire to the Boulder Soak, or
somewhere out back of White Feather, to say
that his wife was seriously ill; but the wire went
wrong, somehow, after the manner of telegrams
not connected with mining, on the lines of “the
Western.” They sent him a wire to say that his
wife was dead, and that reached him all-right—
only a week late.
I can imagine it. He got the message at dinner-
time, or when they came back to the camp. His
mate wanted him to sit in the shade, or lie in the
tent, while he got the billy boiled. “You must
brace up and pull yourself together, Tom, for the
sake of the youngsters.” And Tom, for long in-
tervals walking up and down, up and down, by
the camp—under the brassy sky or the gloaming
—under the brilliant star-clusters that hung over
the desert plain, but never raising his eyes to them ;
kicking a tuft of grass or a hole in the sand now
and then, and seeming to watch the progress of the
track he is tramping out. The wife of twenty
years was with him—though two-thousand miles
away—till that message came—she died to-day—
just now—an hour agone.
Or Tom sitting with his mates round the billy,
and they talking in quiet, subdued tones about the
track, the departure of coaches, trains and boats—
arranging for Tom’s journey East, and the working
of the claim in his absence. Or Tom lying on his
back in his bunk, with his hands under his head
and his eyes fixed on the calico above—thinking,
thinking, thinking. Thinking, with a touch of
his boyhood’s faith perhaps, or wondering what he
had done in his long, hard-working married life,
that God should do this thing to him now, of all
times.
“You’d best take what money we have in the
camp, Tom ; you’ll want it all ag’in the time you
get back from Sydney, and we can fix it up arter-
wards . . . There’s a couple o’clean shirts o’mine
—you’d best take ’em—you’ll want ’em on the
voyage . . . You might as well take them there
new pants o’ mine, they'll only dry-rot out here—
and the coat, too, if you like —it’s too small for me,
anyway. You won’t have any time in Perth, and
you’ll want some decent togs to land with in
Sydney.”
* • * *
“I wouldn’t ’a’ cared so much if I’d ’a’ seen the
last of her,” he said, in a quiet, patient voice, to
us one night by the rail. “ I would ’a’liked to
have seen the last of her..’’
“Have you been long in the West?’’
“ Over two years. I made up to take a run
across last Xmas, and have a look at ’em. But I
couldn’t very well get away when ‘exemption-
time ’ come. I didn’t like to leave the claim.”
“ Do any good over there ? ”
“ Well, things brightened up a bit the last
month or two. 1 had a hard pull at first ; landed
without a penny, and had to send home every
shilling I could rake up to get tilings straightened
up a bit at home. Then the eldest boy fell ill, and
then the baby. I’d reckoned on bringing ’em over
to Perth or Coolgardie when the cool weather
came, and having them somewheres near me,
where I could go and have a look at ’em now and
then, and look after them.”
“ Going back to the West again ? ”
“ Oh, yes. I must go for the sake of the
youngsters. But I don’t seem to have much
heart in it.” He smoked awhile. “Over2oyears
we struggled along together—the missus and me—
and it seems hard that I couldn’t see the last of
her. It’s rough on a man.”
“ The world is damned rough on a man some-
times,” said Mitchell, “most especially when he
least deserves it.”
The digger crossed his arms on the rail like an
old “ cocky ” at the fence in the cool of the even-
ing, yarning with an old crony.
“ Mor’n 20 year she stuck to me and struggled
along by my side. She never give in. I’ll swear
she was on her feet till the last, with her sleeves
tucked up—bustlin’ round. . . And just when
things was brightening and I saw a chance of
giving her a bit of a rest and comfort for the end
of her life. . . I thought of it all only t’other
week when things was clearing up ahead ; and,
the last ‘order’ I sent over I set to work and
wrote her a long letter putting all the good news
and encouragement I could think of into it. I
thought how that letter would brighten up things
at home, and how she’d read it round. I thought
of lots of things that a man never gets time to
think of while his nose is kept to the grindstone.
And she was dead and in her grave and I never
knowed it.”
Mitchell dug his elbow into my ribs and made
signs for the matches to light his pipe.
“ An’ yer never knowed,” reflected the Oracle.
“But I always had an idea when there was
trouble at home,” the digger went on presently, in
a quiet, patient tone. “I always knowed; I
always had a kind of feeling that way —I felt it—
no matter how far I was away. When the young-
sters was sick I knowed it, and I expected the
letter that come. About a fortnight ago I had a
feeling that way when the wife was ill. The very
stars, out there on the desert by the Boulder Soak,
seemed to say : 4 There’s trouble at home. Go
home. There’s trouble at home.’ But I never
dreamed what that trouble was. One night I did
make up my mind to start in the morning, but
when the morning come I hadn’t an excuse, and
was ashamed to tell my mates the truth. They
might have thought I was going ratty, like a good
many go out there.” Then he broke otf with a
fort of laugh, as if it just struck him that we might
think he was a bit off his head, or that his talk was
getting uncomfortable for us. 14 Curious, ain’t
it ? ” he said.
“ Reminds me of a case I knowed,” commenced
the Oracle, after a pause.
I could have pitched him overboard, but that
was a mistake. He and the old digger sat on the
for’ard hatch half the night yarning, mostly about
queer starts, and rum go’s, and tfurious cases
that the Oracle had knowed, and I think the
Oracle did him a lot of good somehow, for he
seemed more cheerful in the morning.
We were overcrowded in the steerage, but Mit-
chell managed to give up his berth to the old
digger without letting him know it. Most of the
chaps seemed anxious, to make a place at the first
table and pass the first'helpings of the dishes to
the “old covo that had lost his missus.”
They all seemed to forget him as we entered the
Heads ; they had their own troubles to attend to.
They were in the shadow of the shame of coming
back hard-up, and the grins began to grow faint
and sickly. But I didn't forget him. I wished
sometimes that I didn’t take so much notice of
things. ■
There was no mistaking them —the little group
that stood apart near the end of the vvharf,
dressed in cheap black. There was the eldest
single sister —thin, pale, and haggard-looking—
that had had the hard worry in the family till her
temper was spoilt, as you could see by the peevish,
irritable lines in her face—that had to be the
mother of them all now, and had never known,
perhaps, what it was to be a girl or a sweetheart.
She gave a hard, mechanical sort of smile when
she saw her father, and then stood looking at the
boat in a vacant, hopeless sort of way. There
was the baby, that he saw now for the first time,
crowing and jumping at the sight of the boat
coming in ; there was the eldest boy, looking
awkward and out of place in his new slop-suit of
black, shifting round uneasily and looking any-
where but at his father. But the little girl was
the worst, and a pretty little girl she was, too :
she never took her streaming eyes off her father’s
face the whole time. You could see that her little
heart was bursting, and with pity for him. They
were too far apart to speak to each other as yet.
The boat seemed a cruel long time swinging along-
side—l wished they’d hurry up. He’d brought
his traps up early and laid ’em on the deck under
the rail; he stood very quiet with his hands be-
hind him, looking at his children. He had a
strong, square, workman’s face, but I could see
his chin and mouth quivering under the stubbly
iron-grey beard, and the lump working in his
throat, and one strong hand gripped the other
very tight behind, but his eyelids never quivered
—only his eyes seemed to grow more and more sad
and lonesome. These are the sort of long, cruel
moments when a man sits or stands very tight and
quiet and calm-looking, with his whole past life
going whirling through his brain, year after year,
and over and over again. Just as the digger
seemed about to speak to them he met the brim-
ming eyes of his little girl turned up to his face.
He looked at her for a moment, and then turned
suddenly and went below as if pretending to go
down for his things. I noticed that Mitchell—
who hadn’t seemed to be noticing anything in par-
ticular —followed him down. When they came on
deck again we were right alongside.
“’Elio, Nell!’ said the digger to the eldest
daughter.
“ ’Elio, father ! ” she said, with a sort of gasp,
but trying to smile.
“ ’Elio, Jack, how are you getting on ? ”
“ All right, father,” said the boy, brightening up
and seeming greatly relieved.
He looked down at the little girl with a
smile that I can’t describe, but didn’t speak to
her. She still stood with quivering chin and
mouth and great brimming eyes upturned, full of
such pity as I never saw before in a child-face —
pity for him.
“ You can get ashore now,” said Mitchell ;
“see, they’ve got the gangway out aft.”
Presently I saw Mitchell with the portmanteau
in his hand, and the baby on his arm, steering
them away to a quiet corner of the shed at the
top of the wharf. The digger had the little girl
in his arms, and both hers were round his neck,
and her face hidden on his shoulder.
When Mitchell came back, he leant on the rail
for a while by my side, as if it was a boundary
fence out back, and there Was no hurry to break
up camp and make a start.
“ What did you follow him below that time for,
Mitchell ? ” I asked presently, for want of some-
thing better to say.
Mitchell looked at me out of the corners of his
eyes.
“I wanted to score a drink!” he said. “I
thought he wanted one and wouldn’t like to be a
Johnnie Woodser! ”
HENRY LAWSON.
Brisbane (Q.) Telegraph says that the
abolition of garnishee of wages is “ immoral, and
will prove abundantly mischievous.” Britain has
had this “immoral ” law in force since ’7O. There-
fore ?
“ W.W.” : My faith in the man who is
impelled by gratitude to write to the “ vitality-
restoring ” person has been rudely shattered by
my finding exhibited at three restoring-mills a
communication from the same person (address
given in each ease) setting forth that he had been
cured of the same complaint by each of the three/
“ Tite Barnacle ” : Vic. Public Service
Board, specially created to administer the
Public Service Act, and whose three members
draw something like =£4ooo a year among them,
has not had sufficient knowledge of the depart-
ments to recommend a new appointment or an
increase in salary for. the last five years, nor
courage enough to say such are not necessary.
Meantime, a special Reclassification Board has
been appointed, and is wending its way at three-
guineas-a-day through the Service. By the
time it gets to the last department there will be
another batch of anomalies in the first one. The
employes, meanwhile, are like the small boy who
thought he would never get to school, because by
the time he got a new pair of pants his boots were
gone, and when his boots came along his “ weskit
was tore.” The members of the Public Service
Board are all over 60. It takes the two Houses of
Parliament to shift a member, however; so they
always have a life-tenure. And, when they do
die, they only make room for another sexagenarian,
who steps into the vacancy and thus escapes
official execution. Ever since Templeton’s retire-
ment, about ten years *vgo, the Board has been the
haven of fossildom.


YOU MAT ENOW WHAT IT MEANS
TO BE BILIOUS, BUT DO 70V KNOW?
THAT
m BILIOUSNESS.
A WOMAN’S WORD.
STRONG PRAISE FROM A NEWCASTLE LADY.
CURED AFTER THIRTEEN YEARS’ CONTINUAL SUFFERING.
Mbs. Jane Colman, of Beauford-street, Hamilton, Newcastle, says she cannot speak too highly of
Bile Beans. “ For 13 years,” she says, “I was in a delicate state of health, my earliest symptoms
being violent retching and pains in the head ; these were shortly followed by a complete loss of appetite
and restless nights. I had several of the best doctors in Newcastle in attendance on me from time to
time, and tried all kinds of patent medicines, but I could get no real relief; in fact, it became a
common thing for me to have to get out of bed and sit up for an hour or two at a stretch. It
seemed, too, that what little I could eat I could not digest. Dreadful pains would now and again
come in my back and kidneys, and especially under. the shoulder-blade. The pain in the shoulder
seemed to stab me like a knife. To walk merely about the house was hard work for me, and I nearly
always felt sick. My eyes grew dull, everything had a blurred look, and I really felt ‘ like a log of
wood.’ The least exertion prostrated me, I could not stand for ten minutes without becoming
fatigued, my feet getting numb as if pins and needles were being stuck in them.
“Bile Beans for Biliousness were brought under my notice, and just as an experiment I took
some. After a few doses I found an improvement in my condition, so I continued taking them, and
I have steadily improved ever since. I’ve been taking the Beans about eight weeks now, and must
say I never felt better in 20 years. My friends are astounded at my cure, and all say I look remark-
ably well. As for my appetite, well, I’m always ready for my meals, and my daughters are sometimes
astonished at what I can eat. Yes,” concluded Mrs. Colman, in answer to a query, “ I firmly believe
that it was Bile Beans alone that cured me. I have taken nothing in the meanwhile, and they have
done me a wonderful amount of good in every conceivable way ; in fact, I am quite a new woman.”
Mrs. Colman, it may be mentioned, is well known in Hamilton, having been a resident there for
the last six years. She is now 57 years of age, and the mother of 11 children, most of them being
grown-up sons and daughters.
♦ *
BILIOUSNESS.
CAUSE AND CURE.
Biliousness is an ailment caused by a surcharge of bile becoming stagnant in the stomach. It is
generally accompanied by indigestion and constipation, vomiting, and a yellow appearance of the
complexion. Dizziness and violent headaches are usual symptoms. The bile is the natural purgative
of the body, and is secreted by the liver; if it fails to flow in its usual channels, or to perform its
usual duties, the liver is responsible.
A more annoying complaint than Biliousness it is hard to find. It prohibits the sufferer from
doing work of any kind, holding a conversation, or even resting quietly ; not only this, but the nausea
is most disagreeable, and the taste and breath are exceedingly offensive. A remedy should be applied
at once that will act in an efficient manner, and the remedy to take is Bile Beans for Biliousness,
which are compounded expressly for ailments of this sort. They are so prepared that they act directly
on the liver, helping it to help itself, and enabling it to secret enough bile to flush the bowels
thoroughly, and thus clear oft all waste and offensive matter from the system. This remedy is well
known, and is conceded the most effective purgative medicine of the age. It does not afford mere
temporary relief, but an absolute and lasting cure. It sells on its merits alone.
♦
INDIGESTION.
Indigestion is an ailment which may develop into a most severe disease if not properly attended
to. Acute chronic indigestion is by no means a slight affair. Attacks of indigestion in a more or less
mild form are too common to dwell upon for any length of time. As its name implies, this disorder
is an insufficient action of the various digestive organs, which prevents the food being properly dis-
solved. In cases of this kind the effect is twofold : First, the waste part of the food is kept in the
stomach and becomes sour instead of being carried off ; and, secondly, the blood-making or useful part
of the food is kept from performing its offices. The causes of indigestion are many : Insufficient liver
action, over-eating, eating too fast, and partaking of rich and indigestible foods, etc., etc. Constant
worry or mental strain, or lack of regularity, may also cause an attack. The first thing necessary to
cure an indisposition of this sort is a thorough opening of the bowels and a complete clearing out of the
whole digestive organism. Then the liver should be stimulated to action, and regularity observed in
everything. Bile Beans will do the first two of these, the patient must attend to the third. Chronio
indigestion of course needs longer treatment than a temporary attack. It is well to bear in mind that
headaches, face pimples, listlessness, and a host of minor ailments, arise from indigestion, or some
other form of digestive disorder.
ILE
£/\riS
FOf\
ILIOUSHESS
BILE BEANS
are an Undoubted Specific for Biliousness, Sick and Nervous
Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Female Weak-
ness, Pale-faced Girls, Irregularities, Bad Breath, Pimples,
Blotches, Dizziness, all Liver and Kidney Troubles, Dyspep-
sia, Influenza, Colds, Heart Palpitation, Pain in Back and
Side, Fulness after Eating, Lack of Physical Tone, Heartburn,
and that Tired Feeling.
Bile Beans are obtainable from all Chemists and Store-
keepers generally; Australian Depot of the Bile Bean Manu-
facturing Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney ; Victorian agents,
Rocke, Tompsitt, and Co., Flinders-street, Melbourne ; S.A.
agents, F. H. Fauldinsr and Co., King William st., Adelaide;
W.A. agents, F. H. Faulding and Co., Perth ; Queensland
agents, S. Hoffnung and Co., Brisbane.
The Silent Wheelman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From limpid Life’s enshrouded source
To where it joins the sea,
A Silent Wheelman dogs our course
With fell persistency.
He’s near us where we watch in Space
Illusion’s pantomime ;
Or Fortune’s golden-beetles chase
Upon the wheels of Time.
He goes where heroes slay Desire
And only live to serve ;
Where statesmen side-slip in the mire
And “stiffened ” leaders swerve ;
Where quicksand Compromise retards
Reform’s audacious throng;
Where, punctured by Rebellion’s shards,
Fall tyres of Ancient Wrong.
Those who with high-gear principles
Climb quartzy steeps to Right,
As those who coast down Pleasure’s hills
On a brakeless rush to Night,
With occult sense behind them hear
His diamond bearings grate,
His tyres of Sleep, his bell of Fear,
His pedals that are Fate.
Your ripe-lipped queen of the country way,
Or you of the seaside track,
Exploit your empire while you may
With never a side-look back !
Relays of suitors, false and leal,
Escort you as you roam,
But the Suitor on the Silent Wheel
At last will take you home.
Where’er we tour, by sun or star,
Against or with the wind,
When spring horizons beckon far
Or wintry drizzles blind ;
O’er grand savannahs of the Free,
Or with the crowds who fare
On metalled roads of Destiny :
The Silent Wheelman’s there.
He “ pa' e now, the teams of Strife,
Now M ition’s wheel bids stand ;
He runs a ding-dong race with Life
To Matter’s hinterland.
There hangs beneath his handle-bar
An eerie cynosure;
Some say ’tis Hope’s eternal star,
And some a wrecker’s lure.
Y.
Danton.
The ouher day in Brisbane police-court the
issue of certain litigation depended on the date of
a receipt. It was sworn that said receipt was
signed in ’96. A sharp solicitor examined the
document, however, and detected a want of cor-
respondence between date and stamp. An ex-
pert having testified that the stamp was not
printed till the year ’97, the smart solicitor won
in a canter.
On Our Selection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One night after the threshing. Dad lying on the
sofa, thinking ; the rest of us sitting at the table.
Dad spoke to Joe.
“ How much,” he said, “ is 700 bushels of wheat
at six shillings ? ”
Joe, who was looked upon as the brainy one of
our family, took down his slate with a hint of
scholarly ostentation.
“ What did y’ say, Dad —700 bags?"
“ Bushels ! Bushels l ”
“Seven 'un—dered bush—els—of wheat —wheat
was it, Dad ? ”
“Yes, lohcatl ”
“ Wheat—at . , . At what, Dad ? ”
“ Six shillings a bushel.”
“ Six shil—lings—a ... A, Dad ? We’ve not
done any at a ; she’s on’y showed us per ! ”
“ Per bushel, then ! ”
_ “ Per bush—el. That’s 700 bushels of wheat at
six shillin’s per bushel. An’ y’ wants ter know,
Dad ?”
“ How much it’ll be, of course.”
“ In money, Dad, or—er ? ”
“Dammit, yes; money!" Dad raised his
voice.
For a while, Joe thought hard, then set to work
figuring and rubbing out, figuring and rubbing
out. The rest of us eyed him, envious of his
learning.
Joe finished the sum.
“Well?” from Dad.
Joe cleared his throat. We listened.
“Nine thousan’ poun’.”
Dave laughed loud. Dad said “ Pshaw ! ” and
turned his face to the wall. Joe looked at the
slate again.
“ Oh ! I see,” he said, “ I didn’t divide by 12
t* bring t’ pounds,” and laughed himself.
More figuring and rubbing out.
Finally Joe, in loud, decisive tones, announced :
“ Four thousand no ’undered an’ twenty poun’,
fourteen shillin’s an’ ”
“ Bah ! You blockhead ! ” Dad blurted out,
and jumped off the sofa and went to bed.
We all turned in.
• • • •
We were not in bed long when the dog barked
and a horse entered the yard. There was a clink
of girth-buckles ; a saddle thrown down ; then a
thump, as though with a lump of blue-metal, set
the dog yelping lustily. We lay listening till a
voice called out at the door—“ All in bed ?” Then
we knew it was Dan, and Dad and Dave sprang
out in their shirts to let him in. All of us
jumped up to see Dan. This time he had been
away a long while, and when the slush-lamp was
lit and fairly going, how we stared and wondered
at his altered looks I He had grown a long
whisker, and must have stood inches higher than
Dad. Dad was delighted. He put a fire on,
made tea, and he and Dan talked till near day-
break— Dad of the harvest, and the Government
dam that was promised, and the splendid grass
growing in the paddock ; Dan of the great dry
plains, and the shearing-sheds out back, and the
chaps he had met there. And he related in a way
that made Dad’s eyes glisten and Joe’s mouth
open, how, with a knocked-up wrist, he shore
beside Proctor and big Andy Purcell, at Well-
town, and rung the shed by half a sheep.
Dad ardently admired Dan.
* * • *
Dan was only going to stay a short while at
home, he said, then was off West again. Dad
tried to persuade him to change his mind ; he
would have him remain and help to work the
selection. But Dan only shook his head and
laughed.
Dan accompanied Dad to the plough every
morning, and walked cheerfully up and down the
furrows all day, talking to him. Sometimes he
took a turn at the plough, and Dad did the talk-
ing. Dad just loved Dan’s company.
A few days went by. Dan still accompanied
Dad to the plough ; but didn’t walk up and down
with him. He selected a shade close by, and
talked to Dad from there as he passed on his
rounds. Sometimes Dan used to forget to talk at
all—he would be asleep—and Dad would wonder
if he was unwell. Once he advised him to go up
to the house and have a good camp. Dan went.
He stretched himself on the sofa, and smoked and
spat on the floor and played the concertina—an
old one he won in a raffle.
Dan didn’t go near the plough any more. He
stayed inside every day, and drank the yeast, and
provided music for the women. Sometimes he
would leave the sofa, and go to the back-door and
look out, and watch Dad tearing up and down the
paddock after the plough ; then he’d yawn, and
wonder aloud what the diggins it was the old
man saw in a game like that on a hot day ; and
return to the sofa, tired. But every evening when
Dad knocked off and brought the horses to the
barn Dan went out and watched him unharnessing
them.
* * • m
A month passed. Dad wasn’t so fond of Dan
now, and Dan never talked of going away. One
day Anderson’s cows wandered into our yard and
surrounded the hay-stack. Dad saw them from
the paddock and cooeed, and shouted for those at
the house to drive them away. They didn’t hear
him. Dad left the plough and ran up and pelted
Anderson’s cows with stones and glass-bottles, and
pursued them with a pitchfork till, in a mad rush
to get out, half the brutes fell over the fence and
made havoc with the wire. Dad spent an hour
mending it; then went to the verandah and
savagely asked mother if she had lost her ears.
Mother said she hadn’t. “Then why the devil
couldn’t. y’ hear me singin’ out?” Mother
thought it must have been because Dan was play-
ing the concertina. “ Oh ! damn his concer-
tina ! ” Dad squealed, and kicked Joe’s little
kitten that was rubbing itself fondly against his
leg clean through the house.
* * * *
Dan found the selection pretty slow—so he told
mother—and thought he would knock about a bit.
He went to the store and bought a"supply of
ammunition, which he booked to Dad, and started
shooting. He stood at the door and put 20 bullets
into the barn ; then he shot two bears near the
stock-yard with 20 more bullets, and dragged both
bears down to the house and left, them at the
back-door. They stayed at the back-door until
they went very bad ; then Dad hooked himself to
them and dragged them down the gully.
* * * *
Somehow, Dad began to hate Dan ! He scarcely
ever spoke to him now, and at meal-times never
spoke to any of us. Dad was a hard man to
understand. We couldn’t understand him. “And
with Dan at home, too! ” Sal used to whine.
Sal verily idolised Dan. Hero-worship was strong
in Sal.
One night Dad came in for supper rather later
than usual. He’d had a hard day, and was done
up. To make matters worse, when he was taking
the collar off Captain the brute tramped heavily
on his toe, and took the nail off. Supper wasn’t
ready. The dining-room was engaged. Dan was
showing Sal how the Prince of Wales schottische
was danced in the huts Out Back. For music, Sal
was humming, and the two were flying about the
room. Dad stood at the door and looked on, with
blood in Ins eye.
“ Look here !” he thundered suddenly, inter-
rupting Dan—“ I’ve had enough of you!” (the
couple stopped, astonished, and sal cried. “ bad!'
But Dad was hot). “ Out of this ! ” (placing his
hand on Dan, and shoving him). “You’ve leafed
long enough on me ! Off y’ go, t’ th’ devil ! ”
Dan went over to Anderson’s, and Anderson
took him in and kept him a week. Then Dan
took Anderson in :he sold him for 40s. a horse
which had been dead two days, and went away
West, again.
STEEL RUDD.
Mr. Morey, P.M. at Maryborough (Q.), be-
lieving afterwards that he had wrongly adjudged a
case by dismissing it “ with costs,” sent his own
cheque for £2 7s. to complainant, the sum named
being the amount of the costs. Such P.M.’s are
really too good to live, let alone to feed sharks.
In the Omeo district (Vic.), miners are
very grateful for a little rabbit, but are taxed, in
the interests of boss-cockies and “sich,”to keep
’em out. A revolt is brewing. Recent council-
election was fought to some extent on the rabbit
question. Miners regard the impost as a tax on
luxuries.
During the recent N.S. Wales election the
proprietors of the Chinese Australian Herald
received this note from a Bathurst chinkie
Dear Cousins, —I got vote. I tink no good Barton. I
tink no good Reid. Blit I tink no no good good, very
bad Sydney Smith. I tink I vote for Suttor. lie always
smile and say “ Good day." What you tell me ?
Dear Bulletin.— Re the coming Queen
Victoria Hospital in Melbourne, an antagonistic
paragraphist observes: “ The work it does is
already provided for by the Women’s Hospital,
and were the money devoted to the new venture
applied to augment the income of the latter insti-
tution far more genuine charity would result.’’
Is the author of that paragraph a male doctor?
The Q.V. Hospital is an institution for the treat-
ment of female complaints by women practitioners
only. It offers relief to women of the more femi-
nine type, who shrink from the thought of discus-
sing their sexual diseases and troubles with men,
and are, furthermore, of opinion that a pettieoated
expert is better qualified to deal with the case.
The Women’s Hospital, on the other hand, is con-
trolled by a clique of female Tories who have thus-
far refused to include women - doctors in the
medical staff. Its management is a stubborn pro-
test against the principle whereon the younger
hospital is based. “ All modesty abandon ye who
enter here ” is practically inscribed on its portals.
Yet your paragraphist has the impudence to state
that it works on the same lines as the hospital
doctored by Women for Women. — Mary’s Young
Man.
Gentlemen requiring Spring and Summer Un-
derwear and Overwear should call in or drop a line to
Hordern Brothers, Pitt-st., where their requirements will
be studied. We exert all our energies to please our
clients, in town or out of town, and give more for their
cash than most firms. As we pay solid gold down on the
spot for everything we buy, we buy cheapest, conse-
quently sell cheapest ; and, being always on the spot,
we have first pick of the newest European goods. Now
what do you require ? An answer on a penny postcard
will do nicely. Hordern Brothers, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211
Pitt-street (only), Sydney.


AN INVALID FOR FIVE YEARS.
Pale, Emaciated, No Appetite,
COULD NOT WORK.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla Cured Him.
Edward Graham, Col ling wood, Melbourne, Victoria, writes
Gratefully of His Cure.
m
N>
“In 1890 I had a severe attack of typhoid fever, and for nearly five
years after the fever left me was a confirmed invalid. I had no appetite;
became pale and emaciated, and was unable to work. I tried various
remedies but found no relief until I began taking AYER’S SARSAPA-
RILLA. This medicine greatly improved my appetite, restored my liver
and stomach to a healthy condition, and now my food digests perfectly
and I am better than ever I was in my life. For this I am deeply grate-
ful, and take pleasure in making known to others the value of your Sar-
saparilla.”
The wonderful success of the great blood purifier
Sarsaparilla
has led to numerous imitations. The name—Ayer’s Sarsaparilla— is
prominent on the wrapper and is blown in the glass of each bottle. Re-
fuse all substitutes.
Highest Awards at the World’s Great Expositions.
FOR
23 Years
Owbridge’s Lung Tonic
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
mm
U fimalonic
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy , whv-h saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDuE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
in bottles, at I*. l§d., 2*. 9 d., 4 e. «<£.,
la., by all Colonial Chemiits, Store*,
find Pat Ant. Mari mine Vflndow.
Sold
and 11*,.
and latent Medicine Vendor*.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial House*.
cmutn.
SOLD BY THE LAVK'. MANLTACTURING C 0... 31 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
To Colonists and all pom
it may Concern - -
♦♦♦••♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ ttftmttHO
Alf EXTRACT.
“The first night I had slept a little from sheer exhaustion. The
next was terrible. I vomited incessantly; I was chilled to the bone, and
could not warm myself. I suffered horrible pain in the head, and through-
out my whole body. Next day, of course, I was a wreck. They told me I
had been delirious half the night I remember nothing of the day; but
next night I got a couple of hours’ sleep, and was rather better in conse-
quence. But vomiting went on steadily, and the fourth night I was again
delirious. The next day I was as bad as ever; but, thanks to a good
dose of Beecham’s Pills, i had an excellent
night, and I truly believe that they saved my life. I knew well where I
picked up this fever—-in the marshes of Mwenzo, and near Kituta—and the
killing thing was being unable to stop to cure it; the ten days on the lake
especially—often without food for twenty-four hours—nearly finished me.
I felt certain at the time that I was done for; and I very nearly was.” See
“ Three Years in Savage Africa” by Lionel Bede—Methuen & Go., London.
Mr. Lionel Decle covered a distance of over 7000 miles at one
stretch, between Capetown on the South and Mombassa on the East coast of
Africa. It is worth noting that this ** unique journey ” would probably
have been cut short; and, to quote the introduction by Mr. H. M. Stanley,
“ it* vivid record ” would never have been penned had not Mr.
Lionel Decle provided himself with a supply of
BCECHAM’S PILLS.
The Suffield Case.
A 64 p.p. PAMPHLET, giving full evidence in this notorious
case, with Commentary and Plan of Scene of alleged Outrage.
Price - SIXPENCE.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Don’t Delay.
stop tiiat Cougii i
• • • TAKE • • •
irisi miss
The Great Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Asthma, Bron-
chitis. Whooping Cough. Croup, Loss of Voice, Difficulty of
Breathing, Incipient Consumption and Lung Troubles.
In Large and Small Bottles.
Ask for Bonnington’s.
Beware Cheap Substitutes.
BONNINGTON’S PILLS
Will RELIEVE and CURE (in many cases) all Liver Disorders, Biliousness Sick
Headache, Jaundice, Indigestion, Flatulence, Dizziness, Fullness after Eating Consti-
pation, Torpid Liver. Prepared from Purely Vegetable Extracts and Alkaloids.’ Stimu
late, Renovate and Regulate the Bowels to Healthy Action. Do not Gripe.
Is. Bos.


ffi
WET
■LARQEg^
sh flag
Establishes
1847.
HIGH-CLASS
harvesting
Hay-making
MACHINES
Seeding
Cultivating
MASBEY-HARRIS COL. LIMITED
Head Office and Factories - Toronto, Canada.
Australasian Itea dq’rt’r s, 16S-169 'VTiI liam-s t. hie lb.
New South Wales Address S
3S Broadway, George St. West. Sydney
Depots an d A gen ciesulmos re vy whr re.
Illustrated Catalogue lice, r >n app.ic&lion.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
ASS . .
CON Hi ACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
notice.
Readers of The Bulletin, whero-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
Wortl)ii)gtoo P6n>piog Eogio* Conjpaoy.
(Australasian Branch.) SiIHJ3SOII Kl*OtjllL©rS. (Australasian Branch.)
32 Clarence-st.,
a*
REGULAR PATTERN.
oh IHINGI
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies :
Victoria: WELCH, PERRIN & CO., Moray-street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
South Australia: AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO., North Terrace,
ADELAIDE.
Queensland: McLENNAN & CO., Alice-street, BRISBANE.
Western Australia: HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., FREMANTLE.
Tasmania: T. BATEMAN & SON, St. Johns-street, LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand: E. PORTER & CO., Queen-street, AUCKLAND;
J. ANDERSON, Canterbury Foundry, CHRISTCHURCH.
WORTHINGTON Pumps for all Services
Kept in Stools:.
CATALOGUES AND PRICES ON APPLICATION.
53
TE ARS DYEING
FOR THE RADIES,
w_ o- 'fht.xi r?/r foo e & go.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK ST It i<) Ml’, SYDNISY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post t rove aLI the colonies promptly
attended to.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
breakfast supper.
What is Health?
Sciatica,
- - Lumbago, ,(rc.,
Completely cured by Mr. C. /<'.
J\l UKKIi, 145 Victoria Paradß,
FITZROY. Send for Treatise on
these Complaints.
Affidavits, Testimonials, mailed free.
Six penny stamps.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
I-! OLLOW AVS FILLS AND OINTMENT,
fi B There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not jeen
recognised bv of su t'erers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest, directions are supplied for th»ir use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY Til Ed. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nuw Oxford-st., London. ; Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
“OLEfiC”
Discovered by Christopher
Mudd, F.L.S,. Botanist to
H'R.II. the Prince of Wales
Permanent Cure.
ECZEMA
\
Self Applied.
Jars (concentd.), 4/6, post 4/10
DEPOTS;
“OLEftC
Sydney—M. H. Horwitz, 34 Pitt St.
Adelaide-Harris & Kemp, 6 RnmlleSt.
Mrlbourn'e—B'rhd. J E. Phillips, 817 Collins St,
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
THE LAST OF SIX
LUNCHEON, 12.30; DINNER, 6.30.
Superior Accommodation. Moderate Charges.
A Golden Shanty.
PRICE Is per Post, Is. 3d.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., LTD.
i» the Country Milk Trade ; the Factory System
of Butter-making* (which has done so much for
the colony and colonies); the Creamery stem of Butter-making
(which has done more); Refrigeration; Ice-making.
Pioneers
The Company Sells only the Very Best Articles.
SUPPLYING all the PRINCIPAL PLACES
OF SYDNEY with
Milk, Cream, Ice, Butter, Fish,
Game, Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Visit the CITY DEPOTS
ARCADE-for AFTERNOON uia.
these Depots for AFTERNOON TEAS
T)-92 KING STREET and 23 ROYAL
Note.—Arrangements may be made at either of
Private Parties.
The FISH SHOP at 135 KING STREET is ONE OF THE BEST in the WORLD.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
SEND ORDERS TO THE “HEAD OFFICE,” 25 HARBOUR STREET,
THEY WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
H. PATESON, Manager.
The Hefner Rolls.
PARKE &L A CY CO. LTD.
60 Clarence street, Sydney,
MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS OF
MININ (i MACH INERT,
Steam Engines and Boilers.
(All Sizes in Stock.)
Patentees of —Ropp Straight-line Furnace, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mill, Frue Concentrator, “James” Ore
Feeder, Roger Rolls, Dodge Rockbreakers, etc., etc.
Note.—We are now manufacturing in Sydney, for the Associated
Gold Mines of W.A. Ltd., four set* of 36x16 linger Rolls, weighing
twelve tons each, the largest ever made in the colony.
Batho’s
Bakl . n 9 Powder.
*»■ THIS IS WASHING DAY!
HOyLE~SPRINTS»M FASTCOLORS
Arid will not run away on Washing Bay.
If our name is stain;>■d on the piece we guarantee that tin- oolor.wi.il stand boiling. If you can show
any Goods lxnrlnpr. our uauio the colors of which are not fast after washing, your draper will get for
you from us the price of the material, and
W. 3 WI&X,' PAT TltE CO ST OP MAKING UP A NSW DHESS.
Look for our Name on the Piece.
THOMAS HOYLE & SOUS.
Sum met Days are 'coming—You will want a Wash it if/ Dress.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
ENGINEERS & GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
74
Clarence st. f
Sydney.
iJjr j'
C. *
A
-*■ ffi. ytj
435
Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
PRINCIPAL AGENCIES:
Tile G-eo. F. iESlaJtees Co.,
DI-R'fecT ACTING STEAM PUMPS AND PUMPING MACHINERY.
W. 3E*. & John Barnes Co.,
FOOT, HAND, and STEAM POWER MACHINE TOOLS and GENERAL MACHINERY.
B. OF I *. Sturtevant Co.,
PRESSURE BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, PORTABLE FORGES, etc.
Representative in Western Australia —J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Fremantle.
~ New Zealand—J. BURNS & CO., Auckland.
